I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and turn it to the U. versus twenty and twenty one John seventeen. No uh when I reflect on my own family, I um I want I want certain things for our home. I really want there it to be a place of harmony and love with each other, for each other. place of belonging. My desire for my family w and my kids is when they grow up they look back at our home and It is a place that is certainly imperfect. That's definitely going to be the case. They're gonna have memories about that. But um but I also uh it it is a place where they look back with fondness. And that there was a there was peace and joy and love in our home. And I'm very sure that everyone in this room would have the same desires for their families as well. And I will tell you that there have been times where I have, um many times actually, where I've been I've talked with folks who's not who did not have that privilege in their home. Their home was not f have a home of peace and of harmony. Their home did not have the kinds of things that I to some degree can take for granted. I grew up in a home that was certainly not perfect. I can remember that. But also was a home where there was peace and love in our home. And uh one of the things that I I find uh to be very d disconcerting and uh unsettling is when I'm counseling someone or talking with someone who what is happening in their home is is just turmoil and strife. And in some cases it's it's not of the fault of the person I'm talking to. In fact, most of the time it's the person I'm calling me that it's not probably their fault, it's the person that won't talk to me that's the problem. And it is of great concern when I see that. But you know, there is another thing that is very unsettling to me. And that is when I know of a Christian or I talk with a Christian or someone who professes to know Christ who decides that he wants nothing to do with his church. Nothing to do with Christ's church. That is that is sad. Usually this is because of some sort of dissension in the body uh some bad experience that they have had. And instead of saying, no, church is biblical and church is Christ's idea and church It's not something I'm going to turn my back on. They make the decision. They say, well, I'm just going to worship the Lord by myself. I'm going to have my own walk with the Lord, and I'm not really going to be involved in church at all. That is a tragedy. For a Christian. Because God has created us as individuals, and He has designed God's people to live in community with one another. We need each other. There is a need for in an even, I would even go so far as to say an interdependency. And it is always disconcerting, unsettling when you hear of a church that is going through turmoil and there is strife. I'm thankful that God largely over the last four years has protected us from that kind of thing in our church. And I don't take it for granted. But many churches throughout America are struggling and often it is because of their They're not fulfilling their responsibility in order to able to be maintain unity in their church But there is great comfort in the scriptures here because 2,000 years ago, Christ prayed for unity in his church. He prayed for it. In fact, through verse 19, the attention has been on the disciples, but Most of the things that Christ prayed for there do apply to us. We see that in verse 20. He says, John 17, verse 20, Neither pray I for these alone. But for them also that shall believe on me through their words. So so when he says, I'm not just praying for the disciples, I'm praying for everyone, the things that are prior to that do apply to it. We are sanctified the way the disciples are, for example. But now when the attention is turned directly toward us, he's not thinking now about his disciples. Exclusively he wasn't before either, but he's now thinking particularly about people that would come after, all those who ex who would accept him by faith. His first Concern is for oneness or unity. Would you notice that? He says, verse 21: that they all may be what? One, his first concern for his people that would last over 2,000 years, and I think the disciples had absolutely no clue. that the church would ever exist for that length of time. I'm not even sure Christ knew that. You say, how in the world can you say that? Well Christ said there are certain things he didn't know. He didn't know the timing of the coming of the second coming. He says that in script Only the Father knows that. So it's possible that even Christ didn't know that, at least when it was on his earth. However That that's not to mean that that's not to say that he didn't uh he was not omniscient, by the way. I just put he was omniscient when he was on this earth, but he limited himself to certain things. Alright, just to make clarify that. Um however he did pray and his primary concern was unity. Is that our primary concern? When we think about church, when we think about God's people all over this land or all over the world. Do we think in terms of unity? And you know, there are some people that would say, yes, I do think in those terms. But they have a problem. Their problem is that they don't understand what unity really is. And in fact, I think that there is great confusion about what biblical unity in the body of Christ is. What it's not, what it looks like. And so what we're going to do today is we're going to take the entire message and just Unload what Unity is. We're not even going to look at our role primarily. Well there'll be some some application there for sure. But we're going to take the next two this Sunday and next Sunday, and we're going to look at unity. This Sunday we're going to look at what unity is, what Christ intended when he prayed for this. And then we will look at our role in unity next Sunday. Because folks, the biggest problem is probably the fact that we don't know what unity is. We misunderstand it. We do not grasp it, or we assume we un understand what it is without really thinking through it And understanding what God has to say about it. We're going to need His help, aren't we? Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you this morning and we ask that you would help us to understand What unity is today. What true biblical unity is. Lord, by the end of this message, I pray that there will be clarity about unity. There is a lot of misunderstanding of what biblical unity is. There are people that think that they are doing great. uh during your purposes to promote unity in your church, but they they are not because they don't understand it. They don't understand what they're what it's based on. And there are others that are causing dissension in the body of Christ because they are not understanding the importance of unity. And Father, I pray today that you would help us to really grasp this somewhat intangible concept of unity. and that we would derive our thinking on this subject from your word, which is always true And always t stands the test of time and eternity. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. We need to begin by understanding, first of all, that the criteria for unity. What is the criteria in Scripture for biblical unity? And we find that in verse 20. He actually says here, neither pray I for these alone, but for them also which shall believe on me through their word. And from verse 20, we actually find two criteria that are necessary for unity. One is that people are in Christ. That people are genuinely saved, that they know Christ. That's an absolute necessity in order to have unity. In other words, if somebody doesn't know Christ, they can't be unified with God's people. And secondly, we find in that passage that the Word is the basis of our unity. In fact, belief in the Word provides the basis of Christ's prayer for unity. And these two things are absolutely necessary for us to understand. When we think of the ba the criteria for unity, what is necessary for unity, We actually need to understand that sanctification is necessary for unity. Christ has already prayed for our sanctification, that we would be set apart. And it's further explained in Hebrews 2, verse 9. It says, But we see Jesus, who is made a little lower than the angels, for suffering of death, crowned with glory and honor. And he, by the grace of God, should taste death for every man. For both he that sanctifieth and they who are sanctified are all one For which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren. You see, when Christ died to pay the punishment for our sin, We already have noted last Sunday that and the Sunday before that Christ sanctified himself. And by his sanctifying of himself, him setting apart himself for that purpose, we are then set apart. And the fact that he is sanctified and we are sanctified, he is set apart and we are set apart makes us one in Christ. And that oneness causes us to be able to be called his brethren. Now that is quite incredible. That Jesus, who is God, would call us his brothers and sisters. That we are joint heirs with Christ. This is all because of the work that Christ did for us. This is all because He sanctified Himself. And it is because of our own sanctification. And so when Christ praised this, The basis of our unity is that we are truly set apart. And there are some people in our world, if not many people in our world, that think that they know Christ. But they're really not saved. They are not truly believing in the finished work of Christ on the cross to save them. There is some other thing that they are depending on, maybe their own works, maybe their own uh good deeds or something else that they're depending upon rather than the work of Christ. And those people don't know him. And so they're not going to be unified with God's people. The second criteria we see here is belief in the Word. And if you recall from the book of John, nearly every chapter of the Book of John, I just reviewed this and looking at this word. uh in the original language and looking at every occurrence in the book of John in this particular word and realizing that that that belief in the Word of God is in nearly every chapter in John It is of great emphasis. And there is a contrast between belief in other things or belief in God's Word. Even belief in the miracles of Christ. were considered to be by Christ inferior to the belief in the words of Christ. It was the word that is the object of true saving faith And it is the word that is the object of our true saving faith as well. For example, in John chapter 2, verse 22, it says, Therefore when he had risen from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this to them, and they believed the scripture and the word which he had said. In John chapter 4, verse 48, it says, Unless you people see signs and wonders You will by no means believe. Jesus said that to the n to some Jewish people. Then he said in John fifth and two verses later, go your way, your sons' lives. So the man believed the word that Jesus spoke, and he went his way. There was a contrast that Christ was making between believing in signs and wonders and believing in the word. And God's estimation of faith always depends not not on any experience But on the Word of God. It is the thing that is true. It is the thing that is that is that is the objective truth that we must base our faith on. In other words, folks, if we base our faith on our experience rather than the truth of the Word of God, then we have shaky faith. The other implication of this is that we need to understand what true belief is. It says those who believe in our word in the Word. And we need to remind ourselves what belief in God's word really is, particularly belief in the gospel. In Romans chapter 10, it actually explains to us, it says, that thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus. And believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. And so we have really three components of true saving faith. The one is understanding. We must understand to the point of being able to articulate the death of Christ to redeem us from our sin. It doesn't require fancy words. But we've got to understand that Jesus died for our sin and we've got to be able to articulate it. That's what it means to confess with our mouth. It means there's got to be some intellectual understanding of some kind. It does not have to be, we don't need that need to know all we're st isn't it true that when you but you can be saved for 30 years and you still are learning about the gospel? But there has to be this basic understanding. There also must be this basic agreement. You must agree with it. There is an agreement that is necessary, and then there also must be acceptance. When you accept it, that is an act of your will. You are going to choose not only to agree with the truth of God's Word, but to take it as your very own. It is an act of the will. And so we believe with our minds, but we also believe with our wills. We choose that it is the only way of salvation through Christ alone. Now that's important for us to understand. Because that's necessary for saving faith. And you can't have unity unless you have saving faith. But with all of that in mind, then we need to understand that the basis of our unity is the Word of God. And to help us to understand this, we need to understand some implications about it. It really is the truth of the Word of God that we find as the basis of our unity. But there can be some hindrances to biblical unity that occur because we're not really finding our basis in the Word of God, or there is something wrong with how we're doing this. Number one hindrance to biblical unity is subtracting from the Word. Subtracting from the Word. And by way of application, this can occur in different ways. For example, in the gospel, sometimes we f uh uh people will fall into what is called easy believism. Or misunderstanding the character of God, that God is love and tolerant to the exclusion of his justice and his holiness. Or that he is just and holy to the exclusion of his love. That is a misunderstanding of God. And if we have a misunderstanding of God, we are subtracting from his character. And we are subtracting from what the whole mind of God says about God in his word. We can misunderstand certain things. particularly with regard to the gospel. If somebody exalts the truth of heaven to the exclusion of the truth of hell We hear lots about heaven, but we hear very little about the truth of hell. But Christ talked more about hell than he did about heaven. Whether we like it or not, folks, hell is a real place. And we must not compromise simply because it somehow doesn't feel good to us. Candidly, it's not supposed to feel good to us. It's supposed to demonstrate the character of God, that he cannot look on sin. That He is just, He is holy, He is righteous, and we need a Savior to save us from our sin. If God is not holy, you need no Savior. But because God is holy, we need a Savior, and He saves us to rightly be related to Himself. Number two, adding to the Word. Sometimes what we do is we add to the word. And there are two ways that sometimes we do this. One way that we do this is doctrinally. There are certain churches that they would speak of the Trinity and we would agree with them. Or even the deity of Christ, and again we would agree. But when it comes to the grace of God and how we obtain grace through faith alone, we would have to part ways with them because they would believe that adding certain sacraments are necessary. Folks, if adding certain sacrament sacraments are necessary to faith, then you have no faith. It is not truly faith alone. And there are many denominations, there are many churches out there that we cannot unify from with them. In fact, we would separate from them. Why? To preserve our own unity. You cannot be unified with somebody who does not believe the same gospel that you believe And there are many denominations out there. Roman Catholicism, United Methodists, those are those are two examples of sacramentalism where they have added to faith To include works, and there are many others. And so when we are thinking about unity, we must Understand that unity cannot include adding to the Word. There is a practical way that we do this. A practical way that we do this is when we add standards that the Bible doesn't add. Are we ever guilty of saying the Bible of saying of elevating a particular standard? To scriptural statement when the Bible does not state it clearly. We need to be very careful about that. You may have a particular belief or particular practice or particular thought about something, and you may have derived those things from biblical principles. But folks, unity is not based upon my particular application of biblical truth. Unity is based upon the truth of the Word of God itself. And when I try to impose certain standards or certain ways of doing things that are not clearly scriptural, then I have a problem. And so we need to be very careful about that. In fact, there are there are many churches that um that we would consider to be good churches and gospel preaching churches, but folks, they have gone too far. in their approach to standards. And they are making and they are legislating where Scripture never legislates. And we've got to understand that sin is defined by what God says it is. All other things are in the realm of wisdom. Is it wise for me to do certain things? Yes. And is it wise for me to abstain from certain things? Yes. But if the Bible doesn't clearly define it, we ought to be careful about imposing it. We can have concerns, we can express wisdom, but we need to be careful about unifying around things that are adding to Scripture. Thirdly, we need to be careful about improperly prioritizing the Word of God. Do you know that there are things in the Word of God that have higher priority to other things in the Word of God? You say, really? Now let me be clear. The word of God is all truth. Every part of the word of God is truth. But in the way that God has expressed himself in his word, there are certain things that would take higher priority than other things. For example, the gospel. Would that not take highest priority? And we know this because there are certain things in God's Word that are absolutely clear. The clarity of scriptural statement would teach us and tell us that there is great priority to this. And there are other things in the Word of God that I think we're only seeing the tip of the iceberg. God's revealed certain things, and it's as though He has stopped at certain points. And those things that are less clear are things that we should not put in high priority. Those things that are clear we should place in high priority. David Martin Lloyd-Jones, in speaking about this, said this. There are certain great doctrines about which there never has been unity in the Christian church, and I take it there never will be. But I would not separate from any brother or sister on matters like that. If I am not certain, if I am not I am prepared to be charitable I stand for certainties, not for things that are doubtful or uncertain. In things essential, unity. In things doubtful, liberty. In all things, charity. I think that is very, very well said. Folks, we ought not compromise our unity for a misprioritizing of what Scripture has to say. We must Understand that the frequency and clarity of Scripture gives us the priority, and we need to unify around those things and not make small things large things. That will compromise our unity when it comes to the Word of God. So, folks, it's very, very important for us to understand that the basis of our unity is the Word of God. But now we need to move to what unity is. What is unity? For what he says next in verse 21 is that they all may be, and what's the word there? They all may be one. What God is looking for is oneness. My kids often ask me on Saturday uh or s maybe Friday, usually Saturday or Sunday morning. They'll say, Daddy, what are you preaching on tomorrow? And I I actually like when they ask me that. Usually the first thing out of I what I say is Jesus. Right? Isn't that what I usually say, Kayla? I just say Jesus. And then I and then she says, I know daddy, but then what are you going to preach on? And I say, and I explained to her. I said we're preaching on I'm I'm preaching tomorrow on unity. And Caitlin then said to me, um, she said, uh, uh, what is unity? I said, it's oneness. And she went, huh? Like that doesn't make any sense. You got a bunch of people in here. How can you all be one? That's a good question, isn't it? It's a good question to ask. What does it mean when he says that they all may be one? What is oneness as the way God intends? Well, I actually think we need to go over what oneness is not. Number one, oneness is not uniformity. Unity is not uniformity Now what I mean by that is simply it does not mean that we are all the same, that we all have the same background, that we even have all the same thinking, we all have the same exact priorities. Now actually priorities do factor in some, but But it's not uniformity. Not not we we can have different likes and different dislikes, different hobbies Folks, there is a problem in a church where when when the unity is based upon a a certain set of preferences. Or a certain background. No, that is not unity. That's not biblical unity. Biblical unity is not uniformity. Secondly, it's not, we're not talking here about denominational unity. Now that's important for us to understand. There are some people that emphasize denominations. They would say, We're all Baptists and we unify around being a Baptist. But folks, that is not biblical unity. Did you know that there are Baptists that are in hell? And there are Catholics even that may be in heaven, if they don't actually believe what the Catholic Church teaches. Do you understand, folks, that my p my the point I would simply make here is denominational unity is not biblical unity. We do not use We do not unite around a denomination. And folks, there are some people that almost come to the point where they think that you're not saved if you're not part of a certain denomination. And there is no unity if you're not part of a certain denomination. Everything seems to be based upon a per a particular denomination. And let me just tell you that personally and by experience, I am sort of impervious to that Because I grew up in a Bible church. I didn't grow up in a Baptist church. Oh no. We have an imposter. Anyway And there are good Christian brothers and sisters of Christ, and frankly the doctrine is identical over there. And so my point simply is that we need to be very, very careful. about uh uh about thinking that our unity is based upon a denomination. But on the other hand Some of you are saying, okay, well we all need to be one church. We all need to just join the ecumenical movement. No, we're not talking about that either. We're not talking about ecumenical unity either. There are some people, folks, that believe that what we need to do is break down all the denominations and we all sort of need to come together as one one happy family and we need to all be one denomination. Well, then you end up being having denominational unity. You follow what I'm saying there. In other words, unity is not based upon a denomination, and frankly, it's not based upon the lack of denomination. Unity is not based upon those things. And those who are attempting to apply unity, the concept of unity, to ecumenical things don't really understand and to become ecumenical as a result of unity Well, the problem is, folks, is you end up compromising on the word oftentimes. And not always, but sometimes you do. And so you have to be very, very careful about that when it comes to those kinds of things. And you'll understand a little bit more about that, about the danger of ecumenical unity. Let's go to the next one. We're not talking about mechanical unity. So mechanical unity, as soon as you say mechanical unity, think about fixing cars. I'm talking about the idea of just uh administrative unity. of unity based upon some sort of function. Let's let's have an association. Let's have uh those kinds of we we need to be very careful. That is not biblical unity, number four or number five. Unity is not the same thing as harmony. There are they are two things. Now when you have unity, you do have harmony. But I want us to understand that unity, biblically, is not the same thing as harmony. You can have harmony without biblical unity. It is true that biblical unity produces harmony, but you can, it is not the same thing, and we need to understand the difference. Now then you say to yourself, okay, well, what is it then? I mean if it's not all those things, what is it? Would you notice what what John 17, 21 says? We have a very important clue here as to what it is When he says this, as thou Father art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us. He gives here then a comparison to help us understand what unity really is. And he uses his own union with his father to help us to understand this. And really actually Our unity is to be a reflection of the unity of the Trinity. We'll understand that a little bit later as well. So he says that their unity would be Father the same as our unity, that Christ's unity with his Father. It's the same kind of unity. Now we're going to get into that, but I want to mention there are four, and really there are only four different examples of different kinds of unity in the Bible. And I want to mention all four to you very quickly. There is the four uses of the term unity in Scripture is number one, a union between Christian people, among themselves, with one another. So that's actually what we're talking about here. And we find that in other places as well. And we're going to go through these quickly. Number two. Unity in the two natures of the person of Christ. Did you know that Christ is fully God and fully man? Yet He is only one person. Did you get that? Did you understand it? Me neither. He is fully God. And fully man. He is so much God that he isn't man, and he's so much man that he isn't God except he's both. I don't get it. It's okay You just have to believe what God says. And God says that being in the form of God, he thought himself not robbery to be equal or a thing to be grasped to be equal with God. But made of himself of no reputation, and took upon himself the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of man. He was fully God and fully man, and yet one person. And there is, we learn from that, folks, there is a mystery to this unity, isn't there? There is some sense of mystery when it comes to this unity. You can see the effects of it, you can know certain things to be true, but there is a sense in which it is somewhat of a mystery. The Bible talks about unity between the Lord and his people. That's a third kind of unity. And we find this in several passages of Scripture, most perhaps most notably in Colossians chapter 1, verse 27, it says, To them God willed to make known that That are the what are the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles. He actually says it's a mystery here, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. The idea of Christ being in us. And our being in Christ is a unity that the Bible talks about. And then finally, number four, there is a unity that the Lord speaks of, of the unity within the Trinity. And he uses that as a comparison here in this passage. Christ's unity with his Father, and by implication, the Holy Spirit's unity with both the Father and the Son. There is this unity among the three persons of the Trinity. Now, that's it as far as biblical unity. I don't think you're going to find any other kind of biblical unity in Scripture. And here's what we can say about all four of these. The unity that we're talking about here is something that is spiritual. Right? This is a spiritual kind of unity. It's not a unity based upon function. It's not a unity based upon uniformity. It's not a unity based upon denomination. It's not a unity even based upon what you think and what I think. It's based upon something very spiritual. And the only basis is the Word of God. And the fact that we believe it and what it says. That's the only basis of true biblical unity. Now, when we then think about the three persons of the Trinity and Christ's union with his Father, in order to understand the church's unity that it ought to have, we need to take this comparison and understand it. And so let's just explore this idea that Christ is truly in complete and perfect union with his Father. And of course he is. And I want to begin this way. Let's understand, first of all, that Christ's unity with his Father is one of unity in purpose. He says in John 14, 10, Do you not believe that I am in the Father, and the Father in me? The words that I speak to you, I do not speak on my own authority, but the Father who dwells in me does the works. It tells us in this passage that the Father and the Son are so unified that it is you could actually speak of the works of Christ and say that they are the works of his father. In other words, they are absolutely perfect in their purpose. They have a singular oneness of purpose Purpose is a key component to understanding the kind of unity that we find in this passage. Unity of purpose. We also see in Scripture a unity of dependency. A unity of dependency. In John chapter 6, verse 37 through 40, it says All the Father gives me will come to me, and the one who comes to me, I will by no means cast out. For I have come down from the Father, not to do mine own will, but the will of him who sent me. This is the will of the Father who sent me. That of all he has given me, I will lose nothing, but shall raise it up at the last day, as this is the will of him who sent me. That everything who se everyone who sees the Son and believes in him may have everything everlasting life, and I will raise him up in the last day. So we find in this passage that it tells us that the Father gives certain things, including us, to the Son. And he's dependent on the Son to be faithful in these things. But there is this dependency on the will of the Father toward the Son. In other words, there is this interdependency that the Father has with the Son. And yet I need to hasten to say that they are not the same person. They are distinct. The Father and the Son are distinct. In their function, in their role, and in their personality. They are distinct in those things. Christ is not the Father in his person. They are two different persons Christ is God, and that is not something we can understand. But Christ is distinct in the fact that he has a particular role. He is distinct in his personality. He is distinct in his function. The Son prays to the Father, as we see in John 17. The Father commissions and sends the Son. And the Bible even goes so far as to say that the Son obeys the Father. And so we have a distinction in roles and function. Though they are completely unified in purpose and dependency. Now, what I would encourage you all to do is to take all of that information and apply it to the church. How is the church supposed to be unified? Well, it's the same way that God is unified. We are to be unified in purpose. We are to be unified in dependency on one another. And we are to be unified in those two things. But we are distinct in our roles as well, are we not? We are not the same people. We all have are in are individuals. We have different personalities and different the Bible's going to call them gifts, which we'll look at next week. Different spiritual gifts. Now, with all of that in mind, would you take your Bibles then and turn to Ephesians chapter 4, verse 1? Ephesians chapter 4, verse 1. It says, I therefore, the prison of the Lord, beseech you that ye walk worthy of the calling, or with ye are called, with all lowliness and gentleness. By the way, would that disrupt unity? If we are not lowly, if we are not gentle, it will disrupt our unity. That helps our unity when we are gentle with one another. With long-suffering. Are you long-suffering toward your brothers and sisters in Christ? Am I long-suffering? Are we bearing one another in love? You see here, folks, that there is this interdependency on one another. And you can't have that in the body of Christ. If you are not long-suffering, if you're not patient, if you're not caring toward one another, we can't have it if we're not. Endeavoring what? To keep the unity of the what? The spirit in the bond of peace. And we're going to talk about a little bit about the unity of the spirit next week. He says, here's the basis of our union. There is one body and one spirit, just as you are called in one hope of your calling, one Lord, one faith. One baptism, one God and Father of all, who is above all and through all, and in you all. Those are the basis of our unity But to each one of us is uh us grace is given according to the measure of Christ's gift. Would you look at verse eleven? And he himself gave some to be apostles and some prophets and some evangelists and some pastors and teachers for the equipping of the saints. For the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ, why? Till we what? We all come into the unity. There is a sense in which, as the same as it is in sanctification, that there is a positional unity that Christ prays for, but there is this practical unity as well that we need to have. And that practical unity occurs as the leaders of a body guide for the maturing of that body. And we know that we are maturity is happening when we all come into the unity of the faith Which is the basis of our unity. The faith, by the way, is not personal faith. It's the faith, the doctrine of the Word of God, the cop the gospel and of the knowledge of the Son of God to a perfect man, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. One in purpose. Now one and it says and and one in love and dependency. Now I was thinking about this when it comes to love and dependency on one another. Do you know what is love? Love is essentially the giving of oneself to one another. Is that not right? God so loved the world that he what? A husband ought to love his wife as Christ loved the church and what? He what? Okay. So what is supposed to be happening here, folks, is that we are supposed to give to one another why because we e we each other we need it is to meet the needs of each other And unity occurs when there is an interdependence on one another. And folks, that flies in the face of Western cultural ideals. We are so focused on individuality. We are so focused on in independence. Those are like morals within our Western culture. We don't even understand dependence on each other. Unity is oneness in love and dependency. But let's remember this: we are distinct in our roles. We are distinct in our functions. We are distinct in our personalities. In fact, in Ephesians, which talks great a great deal about a unity, unity, you have this Breaking down of the middle wall of partition between the Gentiles and the Jews so that they're all one in Christ, the chapter says. And so there is this unity in diversity, not because of uniformity Now folks, I want to give to just really grasp this, I want to give you two illustrations of this. I think it will really become together by these illustrations. The first illustration I want to give you is one that you all might be able to identify with. Have you ever just been about your business and ran into somebody? And it wasn't long before you just knew that they were Christian. You may not have known what church they went to. You may not have known much about anything about them, but after talking with them for a certain length of time, there was just this sense that you knew that you had this bond that you didn't seem to be able to explain it was just there. That is a real clear that is a real clear example of unity in the body I I think this happens often in the state of Maryland. State of Maryland has five thousand five million people in the state roughly. Most of those people are in this area. You say, I know. Okay. Just drive at four o'clock anywhere. And you know that. But what it affords us is the opportunity to bump into each other a lot, and it isn't long before you bump into Christians in this area that you didn't know. And frankly, it happens a lot. And you just know, you bump into them and you know, you talk with them, it doesn't take very long to know you know you say sometimes you go, I wonder, uh it seems like they may be they know the Lord Or maybe after talking for a few minutes, and you might even ask them, hey, um, de do you know the Lord? And they go, yes, why I do know the Lord. I was thinking maybe you did too. I'll give you another illustration of this. When I went to to Hong Kong, I did not know the culture at all. I could not have been more different than them. You put a little Chinese dude up to me, there is no uniformity. I'm telling you, there's like nothing. There is no there we didn't even know how to talk to each. There's no language. I mean the the language wasn't the same The majority of the people that I rubbed shoulder with, I said nothing to them that they understood. It had to be all done through interpreter. And yet, folks, I will just tell you by experience, and I'm not basing unity on experience, I'm just giving you an example of unity by experience, and there's a difference. That there was great unity. It's amazing to me how I could go on the other side of the world, talk to pastors who didn't look anything like me, who didn't speak the language, who I had nothing in common with, and yet there was this bond in Christ that was undeniable for all of us. In fact, I was teaching through this passage, and I stopped in the middle of it, and I said, by the way, this is an example of unity. That only happens in Christ. Nobody can explain that. Nobody understands that. And let me just say this to you that the way that you increase in your unity, according to this passage, it says in verse 21, it says that they all may be one in us. You see, the way that we become unified in this way is that we are all depending on Christ. This is very likely a reference back to John 15, which tells us to abide in Christ. There is a sense in which if we are all abiding in Christ and not living after the flesh, but living after the Spirit of God, that we will be in unity one with another, and there is that unity is going to be strengthened. This occurs that we are one in Christ. So we are one with another, and we can experience the kind of unity that God is talking about here. But and I'm going to go more over more of that next week. But let me then move quickly to this. How do you know whether you're unified? If a church wants to evaluate its own unity with all that we have gone over, how would you know? That you are unified as a body of believers. And the answer is found in the next phrase. It says that they also may be one in us, what? That the world may believe that thou hast sent me. Isn't it interesting that it tells us previously that if you are practicing your sanctification properly There is a is going to result in an evangelistic purpose. And now it says if you are unified properly, is also going to result in an evangelistic purpose. That is that how do you know? You know that when people come into into your assembly, into our assembly, when people And and I think that you can tell this somewhat with Christians when they come into the assembly as well and they say certain things. They can sense they can there is just a sense of unity. And when you see that, when there is this recognition that this is a body of believers, that Christians recognize that, or more to the point that the world sees it and says Christ has got to be who he says he was because nobody gets unified this way I mean, isn't it true that if you put if you go to any organization, their organization there's a unity around some other kind of cause where there is a uniformity that's causing unity. But in the body of Christ there is to be no uniformity. And if somebody comes into our midst and they look at all and see look at different people, different ages, different backgrounds, different different thoughts, different ideas, all But there there's a unity. There is this how in the world is this possible? It should cause people to marvel and go, maybe what Christ said he did, he really did. And frankly, that is, I'll just tell you the truth, that is what we are working toward as a body. We want to be used as a unified body of believers that our community, our world, would see the unity and it would reflect on Christ. And would validate the claims of Christ in their thought process That means then, folks, that although we have you see, we got some work to do, don't we? We have not arrived. And may we be able to say that we may we be able to understand what the objective is D. A. Carson said it this way. This display is so compelling, so unworldly That their witness as to who Christ is becomes explainable only if Jesus truly is the revealer of whom the Father is sent. That is the unity that we find in the body that is true expression of true biblical unity. Now we can skip that one slide guys just to let you know I just skipped over some things. So let's go to the conclusion and application Number one, we must constantly evaluate and adjust our lives to conform to God's word so that we can unify as God's people. See, what we need to be doing applicationally is to constantly, since the Word of God is the basis of our unity, we need to constantly be comparing ourselves to it. Am I rightly related to the Word? Am I adjusting my life to the Word? Am I prioritizing the way the Word does? Because when we are conforming our lives to the word, it results. When we're all doing that, it results. in true biblical unity. Number two, we must clearly understand that unity is, what unity is, and what it is not. And we must accept, we must not accept any counterfeits. We've got to understand this, what it is and what it is not. And folks, don't accept counterfeits All true biblical unity is based on the Word of God, the gospel of Jesus Christ, the character of God. That is what true unity is. And it results in the world knowing That Christ is who he said he was. Number three, we measure corporate unity by our collective spiritual influence. of people who observe our assembly. Let me say that, let me say that again. We measure corporate unity. By our collective, not individual, our collective spiritual influence on people who observe our assembly. Now let me just mention this. And this should be an encouragement to all of us. And I'm not going to mention any names here or anything, I'm just going to just gener uh speak generally. I have been very, very blessed lately by some of the membership applications that we have been receiving for our membership. I've been blessed because of some of the things that they are saying as reasons. One of the lines is what is your reason for wanting to join Bethel? And um one of the things that is in there is Something that has to do with a recognition that this is a body of believers that desires to please God, something of that effect. And it ha it's happening multiple times The people are coming in, they're observing things, and they're coming, Christians are coming in and they're saying, you know, this is a group of people that want to please the Lord. And they may say it different ways. But you know that is a real blessing. And we all go, boy, that's a little convicting, right? Because we all know our lives and we all know uh that uh we all got a lot of work to do in pleasing the Lord, don't we? And so in no s no way is it sort of us for us to go like this. Really what it is is to just testify to the God to God's working in our midst. And I want to express it to you that way because I want you to be, I want us to be two things, both encouraged and challenged. I want us to be encouraged because God is doing great things in our midst. And God is using us to influence the lives of each other. And I get to see it a little more than some of you probably do. But it is happening. But we need to be challenged because we've got a lot farther to go, don't we? I mean I don't I I I I look forward to the day. where this body of believers are really influencing our community and and our unsaved people more effectively. For the work of Christ, for the for the sake of Christ. And I'm not at all saying that you're not doing this individually. I think I'm hearing of times when you are doing this, although we can do it more, can't we? But collectively as a body of believers, my prayer and our prayer should be that we continue to progress in our unity. so that God can use us as a clear, tangible demonstration to the world that Christ is who he said he was. We are collectively the body of Christ. Think about what that means. Christ is not bodily here on this earth. Instead, we collectively are his representation, and we join in with the whole body of Christ universally throughout the world. Of those who genuinely name the name of Christ based upon the word of God and faith in Christ, that the world may know That we that Christ is who He said He was and did what He said He was going to do. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you, and we thank you, Lord, for your word. It sets us straight. It is so easy to get off in various distractions. or to get off in our thinking, and yet the Bible sets the priorities right. It defines things correctly as only it can. And Father, we look at the unity that you have with your own Son, a perfect unity. And the fact that Christ makes that comparison, we're in awe How on earth could we ever be as unified as that? And the truth is we can't We'll never be as unified as that unless we are really unified in Christ. Abiding in Christ. And I pray, Lord, that you would help us as a local body of believers to be an accurate representation of the unity That we see in this passage that Christ prayed for. But I pray, Lord, also, that we would be unified with other brothers and sisters in Christ. That we would have a and realize the unity and bond that we have. Not denominational unity or ecumenical unity or associational unity, but unity in Christ alone. And I pray, Lord, that you would use that to cause the world who right now looks at the church and they scoff May they look at the may may they be somehow able to know the true church from the pseudo-church And the unity that we have. And may they be able to know that the claims of Christ are true, that He is Who he said he was, and that you did send him to be the Savior of the world. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Blessed be the tie that binds.