Good to have you this morning and uh people wonder why the Summers show up, Mr. and Mrs. Summersorf, so often. I'd like to go ahead and say it's because of you, but it's really not Has everything to do with grandchildren. We've gotten to enjoy you along the way, don't take that wrong, but uh uh we have uh three of our seven grandchildren here And uh we love to come in and see him when I get a little break from the ministry. And uh and along the way we like to minister as well. So thank you, Pastor, very much for the uh invitation to speak. And I hope indeed we can be a blessing. Before I go any further, does everybody have the handout and the notes? I would encourage you to take notes. I will only say this, that uh uh what I'm gonna teach this morning will help you for the rest of your Christian life. has revolutionized my prayer life and I want to gift it to you as well. And so if you need one, just raise your hand real quickly. We have a couple extras here. Everybody have a handout? All right. Of course, Brother Josh, give him two Amen. Take your Bibles, go to Matthew chapter seven this morning. Matthew chapter 7. Once you find your place, if you're able to stand comfortably, stand with me and I'll know you have it. Matthew chapter 7, a very familiar portion of scripture. And I want to begin reading in verse 7. Matthew 7, verse 7. Our Savior is speaking about prayer. In Matthew 7 and verse 7, we read the following. He says this, ask and it shall be given you. Seek and ye shall find. Knock, and it shall be opened unto you, for everyone that asketh receiveth. And he that seeketh findeth. And to him that knocketh it shall be opened. You ever had this moment in prayer? In your Christian life, you've said to yourself, as you thought about praying, you've said, maybe something like this: I don't want to pray. Or maybe you've said, I don't even know how to pray about this. Therefore, I'm not going to. Or maybe you've said something I've said for many years of my Christian life. I've said, I just feel like it's a waste of time praying. You'll be honest, you've said that. In the years you've been saved, and frankly, if you'll be equally realistic, you'll be tempted to say it again sometime in the future. The thought I have for you is for that moment. In your Christian life, where you feel like it's a waste of time to take a knee and to come to your God and lift your heart up to him. I've entitled our little thought, Christ in the School of Prayer. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you this morning for the privilege we have to call you our Father. Thank you for the blood of Calvary. The wonderful sacrifice of your Son. Lord, as we come to you this morning, we again petition and ask of thee to bless our time together. Thank you for the songs we've sung. Thank you, Lord, for the fellowship we've already enjoyed. Now, Lord, as we turn our direction and our hearts towards your word, again we ask you would bless it. You'd use it in our hearts and in our homes And Father, I pray this morning you would challenge us in this preoccupied and busy day to be people of prayer. Help us to learn, Father, to come to you early and come to you often. Lord, help us today as we hear these thoughts, not to be hearers only, deceiving ourselves. But by your grace, may we be doers of thy word. We ask and we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. Christ in the school of prayer. This morning, if you look at our handout, we're going to consider three thoughts. The first thought I want to consider is the call to prayer Those things in and around us that beckon us to pray. Second of all, I want to consider the practice of prayer. What does it mean to pray In just a very practical sense. But then thirdly, I want to close with the real point I want to get to. But as I told your pastor this morning, the first two points have great value as well. But it's the certainty that you can find in prayer. Look at our first point this morning, the call to prayer. Christian, I think it's good this morning that we be reminded there are many things in our life that beckon us to pray. There are many things in our life that prompt us and nudge us to go spend time with our Father. I noted the first one, point A. The word of the Father is a call to prayer. Write that in there. The word of the Father, that would be your Bible, is a call to pra to prayer. All through the Bible we find commands to pray. I listed some of those moments in Scripture. Matthew 7:7. We read it today. He says ask In Matthew 9. 38, he gives a command, pray ye. In Luke 18. 1, he said, men ought always to pray. In Matthew 26, 41, he says, pray that you enter not into temptation. We read in Matthew 6. 6, enter in thy closet and pray. 1 Thessalonians 5. 17, we find the command, pray without ceasing In 1 Timothy 6. 8 he says, I will therefore that men pray. In Ephesians 6. 8, he says, praying with all always with all prayer. Listen this morning. Your Bible is saturated with calls to pray. You cannot read your Bible this morning without being prompted to pray. Which tells me if you do not read your Bible, you will lose a prompting to pray. The word of the Father is a call to prayer. Point B. Not only your Bible calls you to pray and prompts you to pray, but the example of the Son is a call to prayer. Write that in there. Point B, the example of the Son is a call to prayer. Let's consider the life of our Savior as we see him in Scripture in His relationship to prayer. Number one, while on earth. Write that in there. While on earth, when did Jesus Christ pray? In his earthly ministry. I noted some of those moments. As you read through your Bible, you'll see him praying at his baptism. You'll find your Savior praying before sending the disciples. We see him praying at the grave of Lazarus. We find him praying for Peter's faith. We see him praying on the Mount of Transfiguration. We find him praying at the Last Supper. And in the Garden of Gethsemane, one of his final actions in his earthly ministry, hanging on Calvary, he is praying for his enemies from the very cross that he is he is hanging on. And you and I need to recognize when we look at our Savior, we see a praying Savior. And if Christ, well then how much more, you and I? Amen? The example of our Savior prompts us and beckons us. To go pray. But not only well on earth, look at this, I just write at number two, well in heaven. While in heaven. Go to Hebrews chapter 7 very quickly with me. In Hebrews chapter 7, when we think of our Savior, we often think of his prayer life as simply being in this earthly ministry that he had before Calvary and throughout Calvary. Up until his ascension, but you and I need to realize Jesus Christ's prayer life didn't end with his earthly ministry. In Hebrews chapter 7 and verse 25, look what said here Hebrews 7. 25 says, Wherefore he, and the he there is our Savior, Jesus Christ, is able also to save them to the uttermost that come unto God by him. Notice, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them. You know, if you visit heaven this morning, you know what you're going to find up there? You're going to find a praying Savior. Even now he's interceding between you and I and our Heavenly Father. And the example of that Savior ought to prompt us to pray. as well. Amen? The word of the Father is a call to prayer. The example of the Son is a call to prayer. But look at the third thing that moves us to pray, point C, the urging of the Spirit. Is a call to prayer. Write that in there. The urging of the Spirit is a call to prayer. We don't need to turn there, but Romans 8 tells us of the ministry of the Holy Spirit that resides in every one of us that's a believer. And it is this, the Spirit itself maketh intercession for us. The Holy Spirit of God inside of you right now nudges you and pushes you to get closer to God, not get further away from him, and to go to him in prayer. Point D, write this one in. The needs of our life are a call to prayer. Point D, the needs of our life are a call to prayer. You know this morning every one of us came in here with needs. Some of us came in with emotional needs. Some of us came in with physical needs. Some of us came in with financial needs. Some of you came this morning with spiritual needs. And all those needs beckon and call you to do something. You know what they tell you to do? Go spend some time with an all-powerful God. Who's there to meet needs? The psalmist said in Psalm 72, 12, for he shall deliver the needy when he crieth. Not when he schemes, not when he worries, not when he frets, not when he labors. He shall deliver the needy when he prides. Yes. Those needs of your life this morning, they're not a reason to run away from God. They're a reason to run to God. Amen. Point E, the next point. Look at this. Point E. Top of the next page. Something else that I have found beckons me to pray and urges me and nudges me to go to my God, the anxiety of our hearts. The anxiety of our hearts is a call to prayer. Point E. Philippians 4-6, don't go there. We'll visit that a little later, but in Philippians 4. 6, we read the following. He says, be careful for nothing. What does the word careful mean? I enjoyed our brother's Sunday school lesson. He asked questions. I like to ask questions. But what does the word careful mean? Just what does it what does it mean? Anybody? Anxious. Anxious I asked that one time and somebody said to be full of care. I thought, well, that's profound. But in the sense to be anxious, fretful, or worry. I've met some people though I think honestly they like to worry. You ever met that personality that uh sometimes they don't say it, but they almost say it, which is, you know, but I I like to worry and if I don't have Something to worry about, I get worried. I haven't meant that. Well if that's you And you feel called to worry, God gives you the worry assignment in Philippians 4. 6. He says, here's what I want you to worry about. Nothing. And then he flips the coin and he says, Instead, in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known unto God. The songwriter has it right. Are you weary? Are you heavy-hearted? Go tell it to Jesus. Those things that rob you of your sleep that you cannot control, those things that bother you, those things that you cannot change from the past, the concerns about tomorrow, they're not a reason to run away from God. They're a reason to draw closer to your God. God, the anxiety and worries of your heart, they beckon you to pray. But there's something else. Finally, point F, I just jotted this down. The temptations of the flesh, oh this is true, are a call to prayer. Our Savior said this in Matthew 26. He said, watch and pray. Why? That ye enter not into temptation. Those sins that so easily beset you. That thought life that oftentimes turns the wrong way, those habits you have that you just promise you'll get the victory and then they shame you once again. They are those even those sins, they beckon you to go to someone bigger than you to have victory over them. And notice the calls to prayer are ubiquitous. The word of the Father, the example of the Son, the urging of the Spirit within me, the needs of my life that surround me, the anxiety and worries of my heart, and the temptations and weaknesses of my my flesh, they swirl around me, and you know what they collectively cry out? Go pray. Yet we're a prayerless people, aren't we? I get to travel our nation, and I get the cross-section of country church Churches, city churches, rich churches, poor churches, the carney workers down in Florida with the tattoos all over their bodies and the big corporate machines. I'm going to tell you something we walked away from A long time ago, we walked away from prayer. We're preoccupied and prayerless people, paddling around in our own strength. and getting frustrated with the results of even self. Of all the topics I could have preached this morning. I got a hundred and a million different topics. This one's on my heart today. I hear Luke 18 when Jesus said, When the Son of Man returns, we'll even find faith. on the earth and is in total reference to prayer. He says, Well I even find my people praying. Listen, the calls to prayer are overwhelming this morning. Christian, every one of those topics that I just tapped, every one of those reasons that prompt us in your heart, your heart, if you're saved, you you echo and go, yes, that is, that's exactly That's where I am, and those are things that prompt me to pray. And you may be even be here this morning and you say, okay, preacher, you made your point. I haven't been about this thing called prayer. But I want to be. So how do I get this thing started? Look at our second point, the practice of prayer, and go back to Matthew 7. And this is where all prayer begins in Matthew 7, in verse number 7. All prayer begins with a single word. In Matthew 7, verse 7, that word, if you could circle it, maybe you want to underline it, is simply this. He says, ask. Do you know this morning that all prayer begins by asking? In fact, the word pray literally means to ask. Now if that's true and it is, I'm going to make a bold statement. And after I make the statement, a bunch of you out there without saying a word and without moving a muscle are going to do this in your heart. You're going to cross your arms And you're going to say, Preacher, you are off your rocker. And then after I explain it, you're going to pull your arms apart in your heart and you're going to go, oh man, he's not wrong. He's right. my statement. Every one of you, before you came to church today, spent time in prayer See, some of you are thinking, oh, if this was Old Testament economy of time, and you were a self-proclaimed prophet, why you would you'd be under a rock pile right now because I didn't pray, man. It was one of them mornings. Yes, you did. For every one of you, at least once, if not many times, turn to somebody and ask them for something. Some of you turn to your wife, looking in the fridge, you ask the silly question, where did you say this was? Hon, could you help me find this? And she walks over, because we look like men, you know, we just And she walks over and loses one item. Oh, there it is. You know, I mean some of us asked our spouse for help today. Some of us asked our children for something. Some of you younger people asked your parents for something. Some of you came and asked your pastor for something. Some of you asked a fellow church member for something. Here's the deal that you need to understand. When you did that, you prayed. But unfortunately, most of our praying and asking life is horizontal, not vertical. And there's the rub. I shared this once and a young college student came running up to me afterwards. He said, Oh preacher. That was so profound. Now listen, when a young generation tells an old gray head like me something's profound, I'll use their vernacular. That's pretty cool. And I said, What? And she said that that horizontal vertical thing. I said, Really? Well what what caught you? She said, Here's the deal, she said, in the study of mathematics? She said, when you study powers and activity level of slope, she said, do you know what the power and activity level is of a horizontal slope? I said, what? She said, zero. She said, but do you know what the power and activity level is of a vertical slope? I said, what? She says, infinite. immeasurable. The little figurate turned on its side, unable to even fathom the power. I thought, there it is. Oh, we've got the prayer life nailed down. We know how to petition politicians. We know how to petition relatives. We know how to petition bosses. We ask horizontally all the time. We pray continually this way. And then when people with limited resources cannot come through with our request, we get disillusioned. We get embittered and we spend very little time petitioning a God who said, All power is given unto me in heaven and earth. Our vertical life is missing. And you know what the takeaway could be? Because this is what it did for me. Maybe your takeaway could be this. You see, all this information doesn't do us any good unless we do something with it. I mean, if you walk out of here this morning and you say, Well, I learned the difference between horizontal and vertical slopes. But don't change anything, then I say to you, whoop-dee doo. It's not orthodoxy where we fail. It's orthopraxy, which is living it. And here's what I say. Here's a practical thing. This is a great place to just start. Maybe your prayer request in relationship to this. would be, Lord, help me to raise the angle of inclination in my asking life Lord help me to begin to ask you more often than anyone else. Isn't that practical? That's not saying I'm going to be a prayer warrior overnight, but what it is is it's it's taking this thought that you and I know this is where we live today. This is exactly our Achilles heel in American Christianity. We don't petition vertically very often at all. But we all could change the angle and begin to petition God more often. Amen? That good I was in a black church right now, them hanky's would be out. Woo, honey, you stalking. They do that. And then they look at their husband. You know. It's where we're living. I I'm just this practical guy. And I've learned in my Christianity it's not what I know that gets me in trouble. In fact, that really does in some ways because it makes me so accountable. It's how I live. This is what God is looking for. And we could all get a little closer, amen. None of you is glowing, and I'm not either. We could get a little closer. to our Savior. All prayer begins by asking. That's simply what prayer means. I wrote three words to describe the asking life. Number one, I believe the Lord wants us to be instant in our asking. Just write that little word in there. That means you don't have to formally always go to the prayer closet, but you should have this awareness of God's presence. And even driving down the road, be lifting your heart and praying and come to him first. Quit coming to everybody else first. Come to God first. Number two, be constant in your asking. Write that one in there. I think that's a good asking adjective or description of our asking life 1 Thessalonians 5. 17 he says, pray without ceasing. And then thirdly, write this one in. You and I should learn to be complete in our asking. He says in everything, Philippians 4, 6. You know this morning, Christian, there is nothing so huge that comes in your life. That takes your breath away. You know that sinking feeling. You know what I'm saying? That fear that just goes up through you. There's nothing like that that ever causes that in God's life. There's nothing so big that he's intimidated by it, but there's equally so nothing so small and insignificant that he shoes you away for bothering him. with it. It's all a reason to pray. And I wrote this down. Look in the notes. I don't want you to miss this before we go to that third and final point. Oftentimes there is a giving by God That only comes when you ask. I'm going to say that again. Oftentimes, according to Scripture, there is a giving by God. It's like a little magic lever. That only comes when you pause to ask. Do we have an example? We do. Go back to Isaiah chapter 37 with me. very quickly. Then I want to, after this, move to our third and final point. We're considering the practice of prayer, and prayer in its simplest sense just means to ask. And oftentimes in this arena, in this area of our life, there's a giving by God that only will come when you pause to ask. In Isaiah 37, the setting here is King Hezekiah is on the throne. And Hezekiah in Jerusalem has his, Jerusalem is surrounded by Sennacherib, the Assyrian general I have a message I've preached over the years, my son Kevin had to hear it a hundred times, called Hezekiah's Prayer for the Adults. I entitled it, What are you going to do when the bad news comes? Sennacherib sends a letter to Hezekiah, and Hezekiah gets it, and he goes to the house of God and he spreads it before the Lord and he cries out to God. When I preach that message to teens, I call it you got mail. They like the newer title But it's all the same. You don't ever get through life without having bad news. It's just how life is. I mean if you think this is heaven, you're going to be greatly mistaken And there's no politicians going to make it heaven, amen. One of the cutest signs you ever saw. If you're disappointed in the donkey and the and the uh and the elephant, try following the lamb, you know I mean, that's good advice today in the silly season we're in. Our kingdom is not this earth. Our kingdom's coming. Amen. But here Hezekiah gets the letter from Sennacherib, and basically the letter says, I'm going to wipe you out. I've never been beat. You're the next one. And Hezekiah looks out and he is outnumbered. And so he prepares the battle. And along the way, though, he goes up to the house of God, he spreads the letter before the Lord, and he just cries out to God and asks him for deliverance. The prophet Isaiah is dispatched to give Hezekiah the answer in Isaiah 37. Watch this, verse 21. Then Isaiah the son of Amos sent unto Hezekiah, saying, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, whereas thou hast prayed to me, You know what he saved? Because you prayed? To me against Sennacherib, king of Assyria, verse 22, this is what I'm going to do for you. You look at my Bible, you see the words underlined, whereas thou hast prayed. You know what he was saying? Because you prayed, here's what I'm going to do for you. You know, you stop for a moment and think about this. This is a very profound moment. It's very applicable to us today. My thought immediately was this. What if Hezekiah hadn't prayed? I mean, what if he just didn't pause and I just call it take a knee and just ask God for doing what if he hadn't prayed? The prophet Isaiah just as easily could have been dispatched to say, because you didn't pray? Here's what you missed. He could have easily done that. And then I got to thinking, Pastor, in my Christian life. I wonder what I missed. You see, prayer seemed to be that moment that God was waiting for in Hezekiah's life. And you stop and think about a battle, there's a lot a king has to do to prepare for that He's got to take care of supplies. He's got to go ahead and encourage the troops. He's got to get the armament ready. He's got to go ahead and make sure the food's there. Divert a water course, whatever. But it wasn't until he took the knee and just cried out to God that God said, Ah, that's what I'm looking for. And poof, he pulled the lever and said, Now I'll deliver you. And I thought, how much? In 35 years of being saved, I wonder what I've missed in my Christian life. Because I just didn't stop to ask. I mean that's a legitimate question. How much have you missed? But then here was the better question, I thought. Well why didn't I ask? It's not hard to ask. Our children understand that principle well. You don't need a college degree to ask. You don't need money in your bank account to ask. You don't need to be over fifty to ask. And then I thought, why didn't I ask? I think there were times I was I was just too busy to ask. Overwhelmed with everything. Y'all with me? I mean just busy. I view prayer as just something extra on a busy schedule. I think there were times I was too busy. I think there were times, can anybody identify with me here? I'm going to read you when I say this. I was too angry. Desk. Hmm? Oh, here's another one. I think there were times I was just Too proud to ask. I know how to solve this. I've been here before. My wife and I, we were in Michigan a few years back ministering and following the four-day conference, we were putting the ministry table up and all that is involved there. People coming by, that last night's always a busier night, and you're you're just spending time with the people. And an elderly German lady, probably in her mid-upper sixties, came by. She began to talk to my wife. I'm of German heritage. Along the way, my wife came to find out in the course of the conversation she'd been married, she'd been married for 35 years. And ten years earlier, she'd gotten a divorce. And since then, her husband had remarried. Just for that moment, I was standing there listening. My wife turned to her and she said this. She said, How can you be married for 35 years? And then get a divorce. And this is what that lady said. She said there was a rock in our path, and neither one of us would stoop. to take it out of the way. Well that's pride. Something easily solved by either party, but letting the other person make the move You know. And then she started crying. She said, I wish they'd taken it out of the way. He was the love of my life. He was the love of my life. Pride costs us so dearly. And oftentimes it costs us in that approach. To our God, we're just too proud to admit we need help. Regardless of the reason, we miss it so often. The simple act of a child just coming and asking. But I want to close with this this morning. And it's meant to be an incredible source of encouragement to you, Christian, as it has literally revolutionized my prayer life. Somewhere along the way, I missed this little point. That's helped me immeasurably. And it's the certainty we find in prayer. Go back to our text in Matthew 7 and listen to what's said here. In Matthew chapter 7, notice with me in verse number 7, he says, ask and it shall be given you. Seek and ye shall find, knock, and it shall be opened unto you. Now watch the certainty found in verse 8 concerning prayer. For everyone that asketh receiveth. Notice in my notes, I want to just kind of draw this out just a little bit. Notice he does not say, everyone that asketh receiveth what he asks for. Did you notice that? Our Savior seems to be very cautious about completely saying that statement. He simply says, everyone that asketh, receive it. You say, well, how is that encouraging in my prayer life? I want to get what I asked for. No, you don't. You do not want to get everything you ask for. I watched our little grandchildren here the last couple of days and you know, you ever see grandchildren when they go into a candy store? Well, children. Just you know, allow me. I mean the store is theirs. I mean if they had the power to get and eat whatever they wanted, we are calling the EMTN. I'm telling you, because they just there's no way that stuff is wrong. It just tastes too good. You know. And good is well, we need to make that better and then better and becomes best and we just need the whole store. Now, as grandpa, I understand they get a little more from me than my kids did. You know, children children have always wondered how grandparents and grandchildren have this wonderful relationship. It's easy to understand. We have a mutual enemy. You want soda pop for breakfast, sweetheart? No problem. Don't worry, mommy's not here. That's not a great family series to work from, but anyhow. You can ask Kevin. We don't quite operate that way. But I will guarantee you this, our grandchildren, they get more than our children did. We got a little more now than we did back then when we were scraping and scratching and clawing. Nonetheless, you don't want everything, God to give you everything you ask for. He's wise enough to know that's not right. And that's not going to be helpful. She say, Well, what's the encouragement to go to him in prayer even when I don't want to? Why should I go to him when I don't feel like it What's the certainty that would cause me to want to come more? It's this. Get your pens ready. Everyone, point at everyone that asketh receiveth. You ready? Something. Something. Christian, do you understand this morning? You will never waste your time coming to your Father. He'll always give you something for showing up. He rewards you for coming, and in that reward, you know what he does? It automatically encourages you to come back again. He'll always give you something. And notice point B, the top, everyone that asketh receiveth righteousness in good things. Write that in there. Good things. The something he gives you when you come to him is good, not bad. And people say to me, well, why does God give good things to his children and not bad things? Are you ready for the deep theological truth? I mean if you're getting ready to go to Bible college, this will save you a whole semester right here. I can chop 4,000, 5,000 right off your bill with his theological answer. Because he's a good father, not a bad father Simply that. And notice in Matthew 7, he he literally uses us physical dads to give us the contrast. Look what's said in Matthew 7. And in verse number 9, he says, Or what man is there of you whom if his son has bread, will he give him a stone? Or if he ask a fish, will he give him a serpent? Look at verse 10 with me, or verse 11. He says, if ye then, physical dads If ye then being evil know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your Father which is in heaven give good things to them that ask him? You know what he's saying there? If you evil dads, if you impatient dads If you quickly tempered and angered dads, if you limited resource dads can figure out how to be a blessing to your children when they come to you then how much more me? I'm not an evil dad. I'm a righteous and good dad. I'm not a bad dad. I'm a good dad. I'm not a wicked dad. I'm a Sinless dad And if you can figure out how to be a blessing to your children, then how much more me? My default setting is nothing but good. And somewhere along the course of our busy Christian life, we think there's someone or something better to approach and spend time with than a dad whose default setting is good I want to make a bold statement. I don't think he's the issue today. I don't think he's the one who has problems. I think we do. Somewhere along the line, we have made him to be us. We've recreated him in our image, and maybe a life experience that was bad with a dad who was less than than seven. Stellar. And we've decided he's not worth coming to because he's not a giver of good things. We know best. It's to our shame we say this. You all with me? I mean, it's where we are. How sad We would walk away from a father like that in prayer. He'll always give us something. The something he gives us Will be good, not bad. What are some of the good things? Let's just fill this in and complete it and just Give you some things to ruminate here and to encourage you. What are some of the good things? I found by experience. Number one, he gives light and understanding. He gives light and understanding. The life verse of the man who mentored me in ministry, Dr. Gary Prisk, was Jeremiah 33, 3, one of the greatest gentle servant leaders I ever met in my life. He said, Call unto me and I will answer thee. And show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. You know, one of the things that your father will give you when you come to him in prayer, whether you're even looking for it or not, he'll give you light, discernment, and understanding with the situation of life. Number two, write this one in. He'll give you peace. He'll give you peace. Go to Philippians 4 with me. Go there. We'll visit this as we're winding the thoughts down today. In Philippians chapter 4. In Philippians chapter 4, we'll visit that a third time at this time as I read it. You follow along. Philippians 4 and verse number 6. Says this. It says, be careful for nothing. But, and I add interject the word instead. In everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known unto God. Notice that everything and all that prayer, what's we're talking about here. Now watch verse 7. And he goes on to say this. The word of God says, and the peace of God which passeth all understanding shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. Verse 6, it's not talking about asking for the peace of God. Verse 6 is just sharing your heart and asking and spending time with a good father, not a bad father. And notice the byproduct in verse 7 of communing with that good father is a peace that passes all understanding. Wow. A while ago while I was putting this message together, I had the following experience. We were in northern Idaho near Court d'Alane. I was ministering in a church up there. And Uh Sunday night after the services were over as I was walking through the motorhome, I walked past our refrigerator and kind of had an ammonia smell. It smelled like fish going bad. And so I Turned to my wife and said, Hey hun, I think uh I think we got something going bad in that nor cold fridge in our R V. You might want to get to that tomorrow. I said, No problem. So the next day she cleaned it up following the Monday night service. I wouldn't remember walking by. It smelled worse. I thought, hun, did you clean? I said, Hun, did you clean the fridge? I cleaned the fridge. I said, what is going on? I began to troubleshoot it. Found out the fridge was going out Those North fridges and RVs, they have an ammonia-based coolant. Ammonia is the primary, and you spring a leak, that's what you start smelling, you know. And so I began to troubleshoot and research it and found out I was gonna have to get A complete rebuild kit for the fridge. Not just an eight-hour job with a maintenance man, but 1,900 And it was either $62 or $26. I don't know. The $1900 floored me. I didn't hear the balance. I couldn't believe it I bet people say, well, why didn't you just go to Sears, you know, and buy a $700 fridge, brand new, you know, because this is all we're just rebuilding what we had. The problem is you can't travel around America with a 3,000-mile power cord You have to have the propane option because you're not plugged in, you know. So they had me So I'll never forget that Friday I got in the other uniform. I'm a farm boy from Minnesota, beef operation. This is not what I wore. Just weddings and funerals when I was a kid. Blue jeans, bald cap, tool belt. I'm gonna go troubleshoot this, or I'm gonna go help put this thing in. And so we pulled the fridge up, me and the maintenance man, we lay her down on her face, and for eight hours, we got her, we put a whole new whole new package into her. I mean, we literally whipped that thing down to parade rest. And when I got done dropping almost 2,000, oh, it it still bothers me today, I thought, it's like 2,000 to keep my food cold When I got done dropping that kind of coin in there, Brother Josh, I'm telling you, I I put the fridge up there, I sealed it, and when I dropped that kind of coin on an appliance, I talked to it I did. Pastor, I I'm looking at that thing and I said, I don't want to hear another peep out of you. For ten to fifteen years. I mean it totally blew my emergency fund sky high. I mean it was like ah Two and a half months later, we get down to Tampa for the holidays Parked outside a church in Tampa, plugged in for the night, 2. 30 in the morning, I'm woken up to this beep, beep, beep, and then what? And I thought the alarm was going off. You know, one of those in the middle of 2. 30. What? And I followed the source of the sound. It's my fridge. It's talking to me No power. No power. So we kicked the breaker. So I flip it to LP. Boom! No power. Beep, beep. But AC. Beep beep. LP. I remember just shutting the thing off. And I said, I'll see you in the morning. Now believe this. So next morning, as I got my day going, coffee, breakfast, whatever, devotional, whatever, reading, get my reading all that I said, I gotta get to this fridge for the freezer starts thawing. So I got the blue jeans on, tool belt, and I went outside to start troubleshooting it. And as I'm standing there, the Holy Spirit of God says to me. Why don't you pray and ask God to help you I don't know what kind of personalities reside in this church family. But let me tell you who I am. And you can ask Kevin, he'll tell you who dad is. Stupid things really bother me. I am O C D. And that's not even right, because if you're gonna be right about it, it's C D O. At least alphabetize the thing. And sometimes things are people. I I mean, and I am there and I am torqued My devotional has not done much for me that morning because all I'm thinking of is too grand, and this thing's still broken, and I don't have much to deal with. And so I'm standing there, my blue jeans, my ball cap, my two-o-belt, and I'm right in the middle of this study. I'm putting the final touches because it's something that I'm thinking is gonna help me, you know. And the Spirit of God says you ought to pray. I said, I don't want to pray. This is stupid. I do not feel like praying. I'm not I'm not in an attitude of prayer. And then he seemed to say to me, but you know, you are going to be teaching this, you know, you might want to, you might want to, you know, to be consistent and non- not as hypocritical as you could be, you might want to be actually trying this. And I'll never forget In chess we call that a pin move. I took my hat off. It's literally how I did it, Pastor. I took it off and this was my prayer, Lord. I don't know why this stupid thing isn't working. Could you help me fix it? And Lord, help it to be cheap and help it to be quick. In Jesus' name, amen. Very honest prayer. And when I pray for cheap and quick, brother, here's what my heart was. Show me the fuse that went out. Y'all with me? I got a little electronics background. Show me And I got into the thinking it wasn't cheap and it wasn't quick. It was a $350 special order factory order board that was on the outside that had shorted out for some reason. Somebody says, oh, you know, there you are. You have this father that owns a cattle on a thousand hills. And he's got all power. And when you come to him, he's good. He'll always give you things that are good, not bad. And you just ask him for teensy weensy, cheap and quick. And he blows it, he doesn't deliver that. No, he didn't. But he gave me something money couldn't buy. He gave me a peace that passed all understanding. I mean it was literally, if you could put it to tune, whistle well you work out. You know. My wife, she's looking out there like, where'd my husband go? Because I'm not like that in those moments in my personality set in my strength. I'm the guy who's working and my wife will poke her head under. Do you need anything, hon? If I needed something, I'd ask. Now you've made me stop to deal with your question and if I don't do it just right, now I've got another maintenance factor. He gave me a peace that passed all understanding. I forced myself to come to him in my time of need and just cry out and ask. And he didn't let me walk away from him empty-handed. He gave me something. Just for coming. And the something he gave me I found to be good, not bad. And I asked way down here, and he said, I'm going to give you something way up here. Because you came to me. Here's my Peace. I'm trying to get you to see, it's not a waste of time to go to him. I don't care how angry you are, I don't care how how perplexed you are, it's never a waste of time to just go to him. You're never gonna leave him empty handed. I'm proving this over and over and over. He'll always give you something, and the something he gives is good. It's not bad. He'll give light. He'll give peace. And then thirdly, I just write this in. We're not going to go to the verse. He'll give the Holy Spirit. to those who ask him. He'll give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him. You said, but whoa, whoa, whoa, preacher, I I thought that that that when I got saved, I thought You know, I got all the Holy Spirit. I'm in complete in Jesus. You are. But he did not get all of you And I believe the filling of the Holy Spirit is not a measure of how much of him you have. It's oftentimes a measure of how much of you he has. And someone asks inevitably, how can one tell if somebody's filled with the Holy Spirit of God? Here's my old Minnesota farm boy reverse. It's easy. You can tell when they're not You can tell when they're not. He'll always give us something, the something he gives is good, not bad. And then finally, point C. Everyone that asketh receiveth the very thing he or she needs. Go to Matthew 6. Look what it's said here. The Lord is reminding us not to be vain in repetitive prayer, but to be thoughtful. You know, Matthew 6, as we close, listen to what's said in verse 8. He says, Be not ye therefore like unto them, just vain, repetitive, mindless prayers. Don't be like those vain repetitions, for your father knoweth what things ye have need of before ye ask him. You know, our Father will always give us what we need in prayer, whether we understand what that need is or not. And so go back where we started, Matthew 7, verse 7. I'll read these two verses and we'll be done He says, Ask and it shall be given you. Seek and ye shall find. Knock and it shall be opened unto you for everyone that asketh. receiveth. Christian, Christian, this moment's going to come again. Well you're going to be tempted to just discard prayer as even an option because of your anger, because of your pride, because of your preoccupation. But don't do that. When you're tempted to say, I don't want to even pray, remember this. It's never a waste of time to go to God in prayer. He'll always give you something. And the something he gives will be good, not bad, because he's a good father, not a bad one. And the good thing he gives you will meet a need that you have, whether you're even aware of that need or not It's never a waste of time to pray. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you for this little thought. my attitude and my approach to you. Lord, thank you for all of those times now that you meet me, you give me something And I've always found it to be good. And it met a need I have that I was even unaware of. Lord, I pray for your people this morning. I pray for that dad, busy in life, that dismisses prayer as even a habit that ought to be developed. I pray that you would help him raise the angle of inclination in his asking life I pray for the mother this morning, busy with children, busy trying to meet the needs of the family. I pray that you would, Lord, provoke her conscience and thoughts. To see you for who you really are, a good father. You'll never allow your children to leave empty-handed. You'll always give her something for coming. Lord help her to make prayer her habit. Lord, for every single young person here in a day of visual, tangible, Lord, help them to recognize you're more real than anything here on earth And may they seek your face early and often. Lord, help us as a people to be a prayerful people. And we ask and pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.