Take your Bibles if you would and turn to Matthew chapter one. Matthew chapter one There was no way to lead uh no way to follow Enrique on that song from behind. That wasn't working very very well. Uh you know, we are really often guilty of placing God in a box. In fact, I think one of the most common problems in our world today is when people have a particular conception of God in their mind, and then God somehow works outside of what they think he ought to of how he they think he ought to work. Whether we know him as our Savior or whether we don't, that can be a common problem where something in our lives sort of rocks our world, if you will. And we don't understand how God is working and what he is doing. And it's hard to understand sometimes what he does. And the reality is, it is because, as Isaiah says in 55, 8, for my thoughts are not your thoughts, and my ways not your ways. He says in that passage that my thoughts are much higher than your thoughts, and my ways are much higher than your ways. And what we're going to learn from the narrative of the nativity, the narrative of the announcement of the birth of Christ in Matthew's gospel this time. We looked at Luke's gospel last week. is we're going to learn that God fulfills his promises. He does what he says he will do, but he always doesn't always do it the way we think he's going to do it. It's different sometimes in the way that we think. And that ought not trip us up. It ought to cause us to worship Him. When we realize how much greater he is than us, it's not even a relative comparison And so we are going to be able to look at that today as we look at this passage. I today is Christmas, and so I did not want to give Kim the Christmas present of reading through these genealogies in the verses one through seven. I thought, you know, if it was April Fools, maybe I'd do that, uh but not on Christmas Day. And uh but we I I am going to cover them. I I thought, you know, I don't want it to be, you know, decades down the road before before I it the tendency is if you hear most messages Christmas messages the the tendency is to actually sort of skip the first seventeen verses and go to the eighteenth verse and read the narrative and preach from that. Have you ever heard a message on the genealogies? Now, before you get overly concerned, it is not going to be a thorough exegesis of each of these words as we go through this, so don't get too concerned yet. You know, if we get to end up here at two o'clock in the afternoon, then you can get concerned. But I don't think we will because you won't, and neither will I. But uh I do want to go ahead and I want to read through these genealogies because it is going to there are some extremely profound things. You know, the reality is All of God's word is profitable, Scripture says, for doctrine and for reproof and for correction and for instruction in righteousness. Every word is. And that includes the first 17 verses of this gospel. If you look at the other gospels, John starts off with this sort of magnificent and profound statement, in the beginning was the Word. Luke begins by telling his uh his audience, particularly one man named Theophilus, that I want to set in order the things that are here and you're going to be able to see with certainty what happened. Mark gets right into the life of Christ. But Matthew, he starts off the book of the generations of Jesus Christ. The son of David, the son of Abraham, and he begins these genealogies. And you sort of think to yourself, well, what are you doing, Matthew? Why'd you start that way? Well, he has a very, very important reason for doing so. We're going to get into that, but let's let's first go to the Lord in prayer and ask his help with this. Father, we do come to you and we pray that you would help us As we look at your word this morning, that that it would we would see the greatness of who you are. And I ask, Lord, that you would realize You work differently than um than we sometimes think you're going to. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Alright, so let's get started here. The book of the generation of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham. Before I go any further, I want to mention this. Seeing the significance of this passage of Scripture, you're going to have to look at what's different from other genealogies. So keep that in mind as we go through this. Verse 2. Abraham begat Isaac, and Isaac begat Jacob, and Jacob begat Judah and his brethren, and Judas begat Ferris. And Zarah of Tamar, and Ferris begat Estram, and Estram begat Aram, and Aram begat Abinadab, and Aminadab begat Nasan, and Nasan begat Salman, and Salomon begat Boaz of Rachab. And Boaz begat O Obed of Ruth, and Obad begat Jesse. And Jesse begat David, the king, and David the king begat Solomon of her that had been the wife of Urias And Solomon begat Rehoboam. And Rehoboam begat Abiah, and Abiah begat Asah, and Asa begat Josaphat, and Josaphat begat Joram, and Joram begat Osias. And Osias begat Jotham, and Jotham begat Akaz, and Akaz begat Ezekius, and Ezekius begat Manassas, and Manassas begat Amon, and Amon begat Josiah, and Josiah begat Jekonias, and his Brethren about the time they were carried away to Babylon. And after they were brought to Babylon, Jechanias begat Zalithiel, and Zalithiel begat Zerubabel, and Zerebal begat Abiod, and Abiad begat Ili. Ela Elaakim, and Eliakim begat Azor, and Azor begat Sadok, Sadok begat Akim, and Akim begat Iliad, and Iliad begat Ebenezer Abizer And uh no, Elie Eliezer. And Eliezer begat Mathen, and Mathen begat Jacob, and Jacob begat Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ So all the generations from Abraham to David are fourteen generations, and from David unto the carrying away into Babylon. And are fourteen generations. And from the carrying away into Babylon unto Christ are fourteen generations. Now, in order to understand the significance of what we just read, we need to begin to look and see some of the differences that are in this passage. One of the things that we'll note in the very beginning of this is that this is not a complete genealogy. You have uh Batthew specifically selecting people out of a more complete genealogy to emphasize particular per facts for a particular purpose. That's important for us to understand. Then you'll notice in verse 17 we have a very explicit description that Matthew gives to us of what he's doing with these genealogies, and we need to look at that. He says, so all the generations from Abraham to David, okay, there's those two men were in the in the genealogy, right? From Abraham to David are 14 generations. And from David unto the carrying away unto Babylon, okay, something else significant there, are fourteen generations. And from the carrying away into Babylon unto Christ are fourteen generations. There's the symmetry of the fourteen generations that Matthew uses to point out that the most significant events in this genealogy are Abraham. He doesn't start with Adam or Noah. He starts with Abraham for a purpose. We see David as another prominent figure in this genealogy. And then we have this carrying away into Babylon, this deportation of Babylon that we see in the passage. And John and Matthew says that these three These three things within these genealogy are particularly important. They are, if you will, markers to understanding the significance. Now, if you have ever studied Matthew before, you would discover That he his desire is for um Christ to be upheld as king That he is the rightful king of the nation of Israel, and that he will fulfill all of the kingly promises that are in the Old Testament for the nation of Israel. And we begin, and we're talking, of course, here about in the context of the nation of Israel. And so first of all, we understand something about about what is going on here by noting that the genealogies demonstrate that God does keep his promises. Christ is the fulfillment of many of the Old Testament promises and certainly of the most important ones. Perhaps the most important promise in the Old Testament is found in Genesis 12, verse 1. A precursor to that would be Genesis 3. 15. But Genesis chapter 12, verse 1 says this. Now the Lord had said to Abram, get out of your country from your family and from your father's house. To a land I will show you, and I will make you a great nation, and I will bless you and make your name great, and you shall be a blessing. And I will bless those that bless you, and I will curse him who curses you, and in you all families of the earth shall be blessed. God was going to use Abraham in a particularly unique way to develop a nation, and through that nation, all nations, all ethnic groups, all families would be blessed by the nation of Israel. That was God's plan. And of course, we know that the fulfillment of that plan is in Christ. That's important for us to understand. The second marker that we find in this passage, according to Matthew, is we have this man, David. And we know if you look at the life of David that David was a king that was particularly selected by God In 2 Samuel chapter 7, verse 16, we have what is called the Davidic Covenant, where he says in that passage that David, that uh David will always have a descendant of his Sitting on the throne. Chapter 7, verse 16, it says that. And so there will always be a descendant of David sitting on the throne, because if you'll recall, David honored him by wanting to build a temple. So we have that as a fulfillment, he says, basically, with the genealogies in Christ. In other words, we find from those two markers that God says What God says he will do, he will do. He may not do it on our timetable. He may not do it in the way that we expect him to, but he will do it. Something else that you see in this passage is another significant marker, according to verse 17, is this Babylonian captivity. This carrying away of a nation of Israel into Babylon, that is another significant marker in this gene in this genealogy Now, of course, if you know your Old Testament, you recognize the significance of those 70 years where God decided to discipline the nation of Israel for their rebellion against himself. for their idolatry, for their turning their hearts away from him. Deuteronomy 28 verse 58 goes into detail about that. And we find in that passage that he says, if you do not follow after me, I will discipline you, essentially. And we find that the Babylonian captivity is an example of that discipline for the nation of Israel. God will say, do what he says he will do, whether it's something that's good or whether it's something that in in at least on a human level, would be something that would not be uh as desirable. God will do what he says he will do. Now ultimately what we find Is that through this Babylonian captivity, God is going to use even what would be undesirable at that time for the people. God would use this to bring everyone to himself, or to at least offer himself to everyone. And we see that in this passage as well, because Christ is the fulfillment of this as well. So we see at the very outset of this, by just reading through these genealogies and noticing the markers that Matthew says We know that God does what? Well, he fulfills his promises. He does what he says he will do But I want you to notice then if you look at the passage, something else that would stand out on that third marker, the Babylonian captivity. Would you notice here what it says That would be somewhat interesting. Verse 11. And Josiah begat who? It's Jekonias or Jekoniah. And his brethren about the time they were carried away into Babylon. And after they were brought into Babylon, what's the name there? Same name. You ever seen that before in the genealogy? Why would that name be mentioned twice? So you have to be a little detailed in order to catch that, but everyone else is so-and-so begat so-and-so is a different person. You catch that, you see that there, and you've got the same person mentioned twice Once prior to the Babylonian captivity and once after the Babylonian captivity. Now we need to understand this, and actually, when we do, we will understand more of how God works to really compensate for what for what he is doing or for what man's man's failures actually. And I want you to notice if you could Uh you might want to take your Bibles and turn to Jeremiah if you would choose to, Jeremiah 22, or you could just sort of follow along as I mentioned some of these things about this man, Jekonias. If we're going to see the significance of this guy, we're going to have to look back and see what he did and what he didn't. Jechanias was a king of Judah for a very brief time, probably only three plus months. A very short amount of time. He was also known as Koniah and Jehoiakim in Scripture. He is the son of Jehoiakim. That's kind of confusing. Believe me, I understand the confusion of having a similar name to your father. It gets strange when the mail comes. But um but that's what you have going on here. You have Joick Jehoiaken We have Okoniah or Jekaniah, same person here in this in this in this passage. Now, apparently we don't know a lot about this man. But what we do know is that he was not following after God. He was a man who was disobedient to the will of God. Chapter 22, verse 21 says this, I spake unto thee in thy prosperity. Apparently he was a prosperous king for the three months that he was king. But thou didst I will not hear. Thou hast been my thy manner from thy youth, and thou obeyest not my voice. He said, from a very young age, Jekanias, you've not obeyed me. You've not been an obedient person to me. And God says there is going to be a curse on him for that. We find in the same passage in verse 30 the curse that is described. Thus saith the Lord, Write ye this man childless, a man that shall not prosper in his ways. For no man of his, what's the next word there? Of his seed shall prosper. No man of his seed shall prosper and won't sit on the throne of David But if he did, it shall not have been from the kingly line of David and ruling anymore in Judah. Now that actually tells us why Jekanias is mentioned twice in Matthew. What Matthew wanted to get across. is that Jekonias was king, the Babylonians can't came, and Zekias was under the Babylonian rule, he was no longer king. He was no longer under that, under, he never, he wasn't sitting, in other words, he was not at that point sitting on the throne of David. And do you know what? No one sat on the throne of David until the time of Christ. Of course, after the Assyrians came in and took over, then you have uh the Medo-Persian Empire and the Roman Empire uh Greek Empire and the Roman Empire. You have You have one taking over after another, and there's really no one. There might be puppet kings in there, there's vassal kings, other things going on, but you don't have anybody really ruling on the throne of David From the time that they go into Babylonian captivity until Christ comes on the scene. Now, in that time when Jekonias is told no one's sitting on the throne Uh none of your descendants are sitting on the throne, that would be a problem. I mean, if God says That David's descendants are to sit on the throne, and Jekonias is in that line. What is God going to do to compensate for this? I mean, this is a problem. But you know what? God's ways are way higher than our ways. God's thoughts are way higher than our thoughts Don't think for a moment, if you're in a problem situation or a problem a thing that you can't solve, don't think God can't solve it Because God can solve it. Because he is way smarter than you. I mean it's not even a comparison, right? He's omniscient. And so God solves the problem of cursing Jekonias but promising David something. How are these things going to work together? They're going to work together because the Babylonians are coming come back in and no one's sitting on the throne of David. Until Christ comes and is and is born. And really, even now, no one's sitting on the throne of David, Christ will one day come again and mediate his kingdom on earth where he will establish his kingdom. Christ is the fulfillment of the Davidic covenant, just as it was He was is the Abrahamic covenant. It's like the nation of Israel at this time, 400 years of darkness, they don't know what's going on And how in the wor when is the Abrahamic covenant, the divid how when are all these things going to be fulfilled? The answer is Christ And we see that in this passage. God is able to do things despite, to fulfill his promises despite unexpected obstacles. And we see that from this passage. Do you have an obstacle in your life that's unexpected and you say, I don't know how God is going to deal with this? I can't see a way out of this. I can't figure this out. What in the world is going on? Listen, God's ways are way higher than yours. And you know that the truth of the matter is what we need to start doing is not stop trying to figure him out and just submit to his will. But that's not the only thing we see in this great genealogy. We find something else that is quite interesting in this genealogy. Would you notice in verse 3 we find It says, and Judas begat Ferris and Zerah of what? Of Tamar The King James has an H there, some of your new your modern translations wouldn't. It will that is we're talking here about Tamar of the Old Testament Not only that, you find later on, in verse 5, you have Rahab, and verse 5 again, you have Ruth, then you have verse 6, Bathsheba, and verse 16, you have Mary. Do you know what is really unusual about having all of these people in a genealogy? They're all women. That did not happen during that time. The Jewish man would wake up every morning, this is no lie, would wake up every morning and say, I thank my God I am not a Gentile, and I thank my God I am not a woman. Every morning they wake up that way. It was in the rabbinical writings. In fact, I've seen them for myself. I went up to I had a friend who was Jewish. I went into a shul up in uh up in Pikesville with him. And uh and I first thing I opened uh up to in their rabbinical writings was, I thank my God I am not a Gentile. I said, Oh, I am. And I thank my God I am not a woman. I said I leaned over to the side to the the the my friend and I said, What are the women? They were they had a partition that uh and the women are on the other side and I said, What do the women have on their side? And it says, I thank my God for the will of uh I thank my God for his will in my life. They changed it So there is now what does God do? God uses women in his genealogies. That is very unusual for this time period. And you know why God does that? Why does Matthew do this? Matthew does this because he wants us to see the diversity. of who the gospel includes. It includes women, imagine that. Now that is so foreign to us in our culture, right? I mean We know that women, biblically, women are equal to men as far as in their essence and their value. And of course they have different roles in scripture as far as husband and wife, but as far as value, they're absolutely equal. But back then they were not treated that way. Christ makes it clear in the New Testament that they are equal. Now, something else that's interesting about these women and about other people within this group, they're not very Savory, they're kind of unsavory characters, aren't they? I mean Tamar. Tamar was a Canaanite woman who posed as a prostitute to seduce Judah, her her father-in-law. How about Rahab? Rahab was also a known prostitute, according to Joshua chapter 2, verse 1. And God used Rahab in a great way to help deliver Joshua and the spies. How about Ruth? Ruth was a Moabitus. She was an idolater. She did not believe, she was not, did not grow up as a Jew, and she was not, she was a Gentile. A Gentile is in the line of Christ. A woman? A gentile? An idolater? How about Bathsheba? She's not mentioned by name here. Why should she mention by name? It is because Matthew wants to really identify that this was sin. This was he's not sugarcoating it. This in other words folks, this is not this tidy, nice Christmas story genealogy that everything is nice and tidy and all all no, this is messy. These are real people with real sin problems. And what you find is God is using all these situations. Why? To demonstrate his grace. God's grace is unmerited, unmerited favor It's not because of what background we have or what our behavior is. It has nothing to do with that. God's grace is bestowed on someone who will simply accept it by faith. And what we have here is a messy group of people that God uses to bring forth the Messiah. Are you not glad about that? Take some time to look at your own life. I look at my life and I say, you know what, it's not as tidy as I'd like it to be. It's not wrapped up in a bow, you know, in a nice package in a bow the way you know my life was it has a lot of ups and downs. It's a little messy. This uh past week I decided to save some money by wrapping my own presence this year. Let me tell you. Gift bags are the way to go. I don't care if you're going to pay quadruple the amount. Caitlin had this bright idea that uh we'll we'll we'll do it together and Uh that was the blind leading the blind, but she's she'll work w she'll work on that. And we had a fun I we did have a fun time, it was hilarious. I mean I d uh honestly, you know, ask me to put an alternator in your car, I can do it. If you ask me to diagram Greek sentences, I probably I you know, not too not too Wrapping a gift is really difficult. And I I I'm doing this thing and I'm like putting it all together and I'm I I got the whole thing together and and um Uh it was looking really good until the end, like the very last end. Like, what do I do with all this extra stuff? And I said to Caitlin, I said, what do I do with all this? She goes, I don't know. So I took a scissor, I lopped the whole thing off. And uh I stuck I stuck it together and there's still this stuff sticking out after I get it all in there and tape it all in there. Like this is absolutely this is not and you know And then I then I had this I bought my dad uh one of the little things I bought him was this hat, uh just a simple snow cap kind of thing. And tried to wrap it How do you wrap that? Like I r so I I just took it and I stuck it in the thing and I used it looks like a Tootsie roll anyway. Um What a mess. And I you know, I I sort of sat back and I thought, you know what, it really doesn't matter, does it? Does it really matter uh ladies, look I'm not I'm not downgrading your ability to be able to have these nice Perfect presence. I don't don't I'm not I'm I hope I'm not insulting you. But at the end of the day, does it really matter? I mean the present is the present. It's isn't it the thought that counts I I guarantee you I went a whole lot more effort than some of you ladies did to write my presence and did not get nearly as good a result. But aren't you glad? Are you not glad? That God uses messy people. He uses real people. It's not all wrapped tidy in a bow and and just that it no, that is not. That is not what God uses. You see this in this passage. It's undeniable. Everywhere through this passage, you have sinners and you have people that the nation of Israel would have called deplorable. I mean, you have all kinds of people like this in this passage, all the way through this. That's the kind of people God uses. You know why? Because God says He uses the weak things of the world to confound the wise. You know why? Because his grace pursues the things that are humble. God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. And that's what you find in this passage. This should not really surprise us, actually. Who was Matthew? Matthew was a tax collector and nobody likes them. Even in our day they don't like them. Nobody says, man, I you know what? I gotta I see my taxes. I bet I can't wait to call the IRS. I can't stand calling. Sorry, Brad. Anyway. We got somebody who works for the for the comptroller in Maryland here now. Anyway. And back then they had a really bad connotation to them. They were really considered to be turncoats. They were Jewish people who turned on their own people to collect taxes for money These were very, very, these people were considered in the same category as a harlot. No wonder Matthew When he's when he emphasizes that genealogy recognizes the messy people that God uses, Matthew's one of them. And so are we. Every one of us. All of us have fallen short of the glory of God. God created us for his glory, Isaiah 47 tells us. But we've fallen short of that glory. I wrote down just five things that we can learn from these genealogies, from just observing the people. Number one, God deals with actual people, not with ideal people. God used all of the messy stuff to accomplish his purpose. God does not operate on our timetable. Number four, the family line of Jesus contained some who were moral outcasts. And the family line of Jesus was ethnically diverse. See, there's a whole lot more in these genealogies than you thought when the first time you read this, isn't there? A lot about the grace of God and who God uses and how he works. And do you know what? When we come down to it, we get down to Joseph and his time here and we see now that Joseph is going to have this announcement to him. Because Joseph hears about his his uh his wife, his legal wife He hears about the fact that she is expecting a child. Now, in those days, there was a marriage That occurred and then there was a one-year time period before it was physically con consummated. There was a legal betrothal period. It was much more serious than an engagement. It was legal. So they were legally married, Joseph and and um and Mary were. And when she gets wind of this How does Joseph respond? You know, this response is God's grace. This is a humble response. Do you notice what he does here, verse 16? And really this tells us how to respond to God's ways. Verse 18. Now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise. When as his mother Mary was espoused to Joseph before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Ghost. Then Joseph, her husband, being a just man, and not willing to make her a public example, was minded to put her away privily. Joseph hears about this. He hears about what he thinks is a betrayal of his own wife. He sits back and instead of reacting, he realizes for himself, you know what, I need to do the right thing here. It says he's a just man. Now, according to the Old Testament law, he had the ability to do far more legally. He could have made a public example of her. That would have been within his legal right to do that. She would have had had to be sent away from her family permanently and be set in its in its own place. There was a lot legally that he could have done. But Joseph was a man of humility. We see that there. He was a man who was a just man. He was not a man that wanted retribution against his wife because of what he thought she did. He was a just man and decided to put her away privily, he said. And while he was thinking on those things, we find in the passage that That someone appears to him in a dream, Gabriel. And Gabriel appears to Joseph, and he says, Listen, what is happening is of the Lord. And we find in this passage here a lot of things here, but if you'll just look down at verse 22, you'll see the scriptural basis for this. Now all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken of the Lord by the prophet, saying, Behold, a virgin shall conceive shall bear with be with child, and shall bring forth a son. And they shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted as God with us. In Isaiah 7, verse 14, we have this prophecy. Most people don't understand the significance of this prophecy in that passage. This was, in order to understand this, we need to understand a couple of things about this prophecy and the context that it comes. In that time, there were three, or there were four characters in this context that are important to understand. Number one, you had the Assyrian king Tiglath Pelezer III. You had the Syrian king Rezan. You had Ephraim king Pikah. And you had the Judah king Ahaz. Can you put that up there, Caleb? It should be up there. Yeah. Just going through all four of those up there. Now, what you see here And here's what's going on. Now you can verify all of this if you want to write these passages down. 2 Kings 16, 2 Kings Chronicles, 2 Chronicles 28, and 1st and Isaiah 7. um and eight, but I just gonna run through this very quickly. The um the Syrian king Syria and Ephraim made an alliance with each other. And that made the Judan king, uh Ahaz, very nervous. Because now the balance of power was not going to go his way. So Ahaz has the idea that he needs to reach out to Tiglath Pelezer, the Assyrian king, and he needs to make an alli alliance with him in order to balance the power out. We have this kind of thing going on in the Middle East today. But God sends Isaiah to him and says, Look, don't do that. Don't join an alliance with him because I'm going to protect you, number one. And secondly, if you haven't made an alliance with him, he will turn on you. Isaiah says this to him. And Isaiah says to this man Ahaz, you can ask for any sign you want to demonstrate that God is with you. And you know what Ahaz does? Ahaz is so rebellious and so idolatrous, he wants nothing to do with it. He basically just rejects Isaiah out of hand. But God, in his wisdom and his providence, chooses to create his own sign. That sign was going to be that there would be a young woman. And in Isaiah 7. 14, it doesn't, we we find in the English there is this term virgin. But in the Hebrew, it just means young woman. It's not until the the New Testament the word virgin really means virgin. In the Old Testament, it just means young woman. And what we find in that passage then is that this there is a prophecy that there's going to be a young woman that gives birth, and when he after she gives birth, by the time he is able to know right from wrong God is going to demonstrate that this alliance between Ephraim and Syria is going to get broken up. God's going to do this regardless of the actions of Ahaz, this is going to happen. And so Isaiah in chapter 8, he's married and he has his second child. The name of that child is quite interesting. It's Maher Salal Hash Baz. And this child does. It grows up to a certain age, and when when by the time that child is able to know right from wrong Tilath Pleaser goes in and takes over and conquers that uh conquers that area and separates that that uh that dangerous alliance But Tiglav Falizer doesn't stop there. This really makes the hotbed, this really establishes later on the groundwork for the Babylonian captivity. Now, why do I mention all of this? Why is this, we say this is a uh is this a history lesson? Why are we why are we going through all of this? By the time this all so what we find in Isaiah 8 is a fulfillment of the prophecy of Isaiah 7. It's already fulfilled, it's done. There is no reason by the time Joseph is on the scene here and this is all said, there's no reason that Joseph should think that this needs to be fulfilled. It's already been fulfilled. But in a second way, in a second, there's going to be a further, greater fulfillment of this prophecy, and we find in this passage the word virgin actually is virgin. And he's going to it demonstrates, it's the signal, it's the sign that this man is the one who's going to be the Savior Christ. To demonstrate to all the nation of Israel, to the whole world, that this man is unique. He is unlike any other man. He is the Son of God. And when Joseph hears this and he understands this, he immediately believes. He responds in belief. Would you notice what it says in Matthew? Verse 24. Then Joseph, being raised from sleep, did as the angel of the Lord had bidden him, and took unto him his wife. And knew her not till he had brought forth her firstborn son, and he called his name Jesus. Joseph says, I'm going to follow up exactly what I'm supposed to do. I'm not going to know my wife until Jesus is born. I'm going to just follow and I'm going to obey. I'm going to submit to the will of God. I'm going to understand that this is a fulfillment of prophecy. And he just chooses to do what God wants him to do. There is this overall submission to the plan of God. A lot of confusing things about it. A lot of unusual things. God's never worked this way before. It's way outside the box of what the nation of Israel would understand. This is way beyond what anybody would would grasp. And yet you have Mary and Joseph both They just respond in obedience and submission and worship. And folks, that's exactly how we need to respond to God. You know, in this world, there is another kind of thing that is very prominent in our world. Of how you get related to God, how you have a connection or relationship with God. And that is that you need to be good enough to do it. That you need to have your package wrapped right. That if you have everything just so, then you will be able to stand before God one day, or then you'll be able to have a relationship. With God. And we find in this passage, and we find in many other passages of Scripture, that's not the case. You don't come to God with a nice wrapped package. You come to God a mess, and you let God make you what He wants you to be. Some people just have it wrong. It's not God's way. It's man's way. Man says, if I'm just, if I get a little better, or if my good outweighs my bad, or if I do the right things. Then I will be able to present myself before God and he'll accept me. And the Bible tells us, not by works of righteousness we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us. It's the grace of God that saves us. It's because of the sacrifice of Christ on the cross that saves us. That's why we can come to God humbly before him and say, take this mess and do something with it. Because the key to receiving God's grace is to realize I can't do anything myself. I am powerless to save myself. I'm powerless to have a relationship with God. It only comes through the death of Christ for me. You see, sin is the problem, and Jesus Christ died to pay the punishment for our sin, which is death. The Bible says we're separated from God, but when Jesus Christ died and separated himself from God, he became the substitute for us. And if we'll simply believe on him by faith, he doesn't force himself on us, if we simply believe him by faith, then we can have eternal life. But that means coming to God on His terms, which is really, Lord, just do what you want to with me. And you know what the reality is? God can do a whole lot more with you than you can ever do with yourself. The Bible says in John 1:12, but as many, anyone who receive him, to them gave he the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. And I would just say to you this, if you are unsure of your relationship with the Lord, please, I'd love to come and see you. I'd love you to come and see me after the service. I will take the time. It's alright. It's Christmas, it's no problem. And I'd be glad to take a Bible and just show you some things about how you can know for sure that you have this relationship with God, not based on anything you've done. But based on what Christ has done for you, and dying to pay the punishment for your sin. Let us worship God for His ability To use unexpected obstacles. Let's worship God because of his ability to do that. Let's worship God for his ability to use unexpected kinds of people. And let's worship God by submitting to His will in our lives. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you just for the privilege of coming to you and looking at your word and worshiping together. It is an incredible narrative. What you did, the the the great detail and thoughtfulness and It's an amazing story and history of all culminating in Christ's coming to earth. We admit before you that we too often put you in a box. We're too quick to think that you can't work outside our own thoughts. We're too ready to think that either you don't exist or that you are something different than what is right Or we make you in our image, as it says in Romans 1. And Lord, I pray that you would help us this Christmas to see this Magnificent work that Christ pierced this darkness of this world to come down to be one of us To die for us. And Lord, may we worship you this morning. May we simply say before you in a submissive way, Lord, do what you want to with me. And may we respond with a worshipful, a grateful, worshipful attitude on this day. And we thank you in Christ's name. Amen.