Instructions as we begin our service tonight. It would require it's green. I've got it's green. Um so uh we do want to welcome everyone tonight that is here tonight for the Candlelight service. We think it will be a and we pray, or really our prayer is that this will be a blessing to all of us as we really consider a lot of scripture and a lot of uh music and uh um and things that will help our hearts and minds to reflect on the message uh behind this time of year. I do have a couple of instructions before we begin. This is a candlelight service, and at one point we will be lighting the candles. The way that will work is number one, you need to be nine years old or older to have your own candle. And so if you're below the age of nine, please do not light a candle uh in here. Um I think that's just a I just the pre parents please police that as well. We just really need you to do that for us. Um it you'll know when the candle we're not gonna light them at the beginning. Um You'll know there's going to be a screen up here that will actually tell you get your light, get your candles prepared. When we do, we'll have the ushers, they'll come up, they'll take the candles from here. They'll go up go to the outsides and they'll light the first one on each row and then you'll pass it along. They won't pass the whole candle. They'll pass one to the and you guys will pass them along until they're all lit during that one song So that's how we'll do that. Let's go ahead and let me I'll give I'll give you one other bit of instruction. This is basically you have we have a lot of uh we have scripture reading and narrative and then we'll sing various songs. Some of them are Christmas songs and some of them some of them are not Christmas songs. But in each case we've selected particular verses of each song. So in most cases, it's not the first verse of the song that we're going to sing. So you do have to really pay attention to the verse of the song that's on the screen to know which verses to sing. You'll be familiar with every song, I think. But you'll need to pay special attention to the verses that we're singing. Each verse will is has been selected for the material that we'll be reciting to you. Alright, with all of that, I think that's enough instruction. Let's go to the Lord in prayer and ask his blessing on our time together. Father, as we come to you today tonight, we are grateful to be here together. We're thankful, Lord, that Christ did come to earth, that he who is God, who was before the beginning of time, who is the eternal God, became man. He condescended to us and humbled himself to become a man so that we could have eternal life. And Lord, as we consider your wisdom and your sovereignty, as we consider your plan throughout the ages, That is so clearly revealed in your word. I pray that it would cause us, as we looked at this morning, it would cause us really to well up with joy and rejoicing. That we would be able to worship you and respond in like manner as Mary did. That we would understand just the great impact that Christ made on the world and made through us and that we would have that kind of impact on the lives of those around us. Lord, we pray that if there's anybody here this evening, That doesn't that it has not yet had that light of Christ shine and sh shone in their own hearts. I pray that tonight they might see the light. That Christ is the light of the world and desires for us to follow that light. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Let there be light. Some of the first words ever recorded. Words that were spoken by God, the Father of light, one who is and will always be pure light. These four simple words, let there be light, immediately filled the earth with light. Soon to follow were the first people to walk the earth. They lived in a world of light where they could walk and talk openly with their Creator. perfectly reflecting that light for God's pleasure. And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness, and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle. And over every and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God created he him. Male and female created he them. For I have created him for my glory, I have formed him, yea, I have made him What a sonnishing mercy and honor with his pleasure and will. He created each planet, each floor, every galaxy might grow beneath. He suspended this planet in space to the praise of his glory. To the praise of his glory, to the praise of his glory long before the All creation began. He foreneogles, he ransom in Christ long before time's gone up. Our glass ran He ordained the supreme sacrifice in the cross he removed our prace to the praise of his glory to the praise of his glory To the praise of his glory. And they heard the voice of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and Adam and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God amongst the trees of the garden. For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth. and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. And it repented the Lord that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him at his heart. And the Lord said, I will destroy man whom I have created from the face of the earth, both man and beast and creeping thing and the fowls of the air, for it repenteth me that I have made them. Into this perfectly created world of light, there entered a challenger. Darkness created by man's first sin. This darkness sought to corrupt man's relationship with his creator. and distort their ability to reflect his light. Like a poison, it latched on to man and sought to consume him with darkness and sin separating him from his Creator, who is light and only light. The years that followed continued to plunge mankind further into darkness. Over time, the darkness had become so consuming on the earth that man's actions and thoughts were only evil, without a close relationship with their Creator, the one who is light. Man was powerless to stop the spread of darkness. Holy, holy, holy The darkness I be, only I of sinful man thy glory may not see. We thou art holy, there is on beside thee perfect. And you're ready. Now the Lord God had said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country and from thy kindred, and from thy father's house, unto a land that I will show thee. And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great, and thou shalt be a blessing And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse him that curseth thee. And in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed. As the light watched darkness grip the world, seeking to chain man forever to separation and suffering, it made a choice. The light chose to act. From heaven, a beacon of light pierced the darkness. This flash of light came in the form of a message sent to earth, a promise to restore light to mankind. beginning with one man, through one people, and blessing the entire world. By faith our fathers grown the earth, the power of his promise. In their hearts of a holy city built by God's own hand, a place where peace and justice reign. We will stand at As children of the promise, we will fix our eyes on him, our soul's reward, till the race is finished and the work is done. You'll walk by feet and not myself In those days there was no king in Israel, but every man did that which was right in his own eyes. As the years passed, mankind began, once again, to move away from the light and into the darkness. until they had eventually lost light, and their own hearts plunged them into darkness once again And as since the time that commanded judges to be over my people Israel, and have caused thee to rest from all thine enemies, also the Lord telleth thee that he will make thee in house. And when thy days be fulfilled, and thou shalt sleep with thy fathers, I will set up thy seed after thee, which shall proceed out of thy boughs, and I will establish his kingdom He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. The people that have walked in darkness have seen a great light They that dwell in the land of the shadow of death, upon them hath the light shined. For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder And his name shall be called Wonderful, Counselor, the Mighty God, the Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and peace there shall be no end. Upon the throne of David, and upon his kingdom to order it and to establish it, with judgment and with justice from henceforth even forever The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this. But thou betrah Bethlehem, Ethreta, though thou be little among the thousands of Judah, Yet out of these shall come forth unto me that is to be ruler in Israel, whose goings forth have been from of old, from everlasting And he shall stand and feed in the strength of the Lord, in the majesty of the name of the Lord his God, and they shall abide for now. Uh shall he be great unto the ends of the earth, and men shall be the pe and and man shall be the peace, and when the Assyrians shall come into our land Seeing that mankind had fallen away from the light once again, God sent a second beacon of light, and with this beacon God made a mysterious promise about the future. God foretold of the brightest light that would penetrate the darkness. A light Send from heaven to live among men, a light that would shine brightly in a world consumed with shadows and sin A light that would allow God to once again have a close relationship with those he had created. Through the years, many wondered at these prophecies Would they ever come true? If so, how would God send light down to earth? Oh, come, all come in. And ransom captiv that mourns in lonely exile here. Until the son of dog me, A new well shall come to thee all is right. Oh come thou day spring comment Our spirits by thy advantage is first of me clouds of And desar shadows go to fly. Rejoice, rejoice em. Israel. Oh come thou key of day. And open wide our headly home makes safe always. On high and show the path that brings us night. Rejoice, rejoice. Emmanuel shall come to the To a virgin espoused to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David, and the virgin's name was Mary. And the angel came unto her and said, Hail, thou that art highly favored. The Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou among women. And when she saw him, she was troubled at his saying, and cast in her mind what manner of salutation this should be. And the angel said unto her, Fear not, Mary, for thou hast found favor with God. And behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb, and bring forth a son, and shalt call his name Jesus. He shall be great. and shall be called the Son of the Highest, and the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father David, and he shall reign of the house of Jacob forever, and his kingdom there shall be no end. After four hundred years of waiting for the reign of darkness to be ended by the light promised so long ago. the light himself prepared to come to earth and live among man in the body of a baby boy. A young woman was preparing for what she thought was the biggest event of her lifetime her wedding. While she was eagerly awaiting her marriage, a messenger of light shocked her with unbelievable news. She had been chosen by the God of light to give birth to his son. Imagine being told that you will give birth to the Son of God. You've never had a child. You're not even married. And yet you have been chosen by God. Why me? She must have thought. I am unworthy to be part of God's plan. What will others think when they see that I am pregnant before I am married? What will my fiance think? Will people believe me when I tell them that the tiny life inside of me is God's answer to the darkness that surrounds his people and the world. That I am carrying the light of God Will my fiance still love me, even though I am not carrying his child? husband, being a just man and not willing to make her public example, was minded to put her away privily. But while he thought on these things, behold, the angel of the Lord appeared unto him In a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take unto thee Mary, thy wife, for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Ghost. Soon, God sent another message. This one was given to a young man who was about to be married. This message explained that his bride was carrying the light of God, who had been sent from heaven to bring the light to a dark world. Could you imagine being this young man who has planned and waited for the right young lady to marry? You've imagined the future of your family and carefully prepared for their provision Suddenly, all of your plans, hopes, and dreams are dramatically changed and become rather insignificant compared to God's plans. Your fiance is carrying the light of God The prophecies that have been passed down to the generations are about to be fulfilled through your life All this was now Bethlehem, how still we see the Lord. Above my deep and dreamless sweet a sigh then stars go by yet in thy dark street shine. everlasting lies thoughts and fears of all the years are met in. And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night. And lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them, and they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them, Fear not. For behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. And this shall be a sign unto you. Ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of heavenly hosts. Praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth, peace, goodwill toward men. And behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon. And the same man, just and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Ghost was upon him. And it was revealed unto him by the Holy Ghost that he should not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ And he came by spirit into the temple, and when the parents brought in the child Jesus to do for him after the custom of the law Then took he him up in his arms, and blessed God, and said, Lord, now lettest thou thy servant depart in peace according to thy word, for mine eyes have seen thy salvation. Which thou hast prepared before the face of all people, a light to lighten the Gentiles, and the glory of thy people, Israel. Out on the mountains gathered a humble group of shepherds, when suddenly an angel appeared, heralding the news of God's gift to mankind. The dark night was filled with bright light, angels praising God, shouting, Glory to God in the highest. These humble shepherds immediately went in search of the newborn baby, sent From heaven to bring light and redemption to mankind. For those who had studied the prophecies and were looking for the light, it was a great day of celebration. In the years that followed, there were many more that searched for and rejoiced because of the coming of Christ. Some had been waiting for God's earlier promises to be fulfilled. Others had been diligently looking for signs of Christ's birth. As God had promised so long ago, light had come to earth as it never had before, and the world rejoiced. Glorious love. Might see the dawn of salvation, angels in blight fill the skies with their wondrous song, awakening earth with news of his birth. When the hymn of the highest heavens, glory to God in the highest, peace to men honour. Come and behold him with wonder Christ, God of heaven, enter And thou child shalt be called the prophet of the highest, for thou shalt go before the face of the Lord to prepare his ways, to give knowledge of salvation unto his people, by the remission of their sins. Through the tender mercy of our God, whereby the dayspring from on high hath visited us, to give light to them that sit in darkness, and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace. Then spake Jesus again unto them, saying, I am the light of the world. He that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. I am come a light into the world, and whosoever believeth on me shall not abide in darkness. As Christ grew, he began to speak the message of light to a world that was plagued by the darkness of sin. Christ's message asked mankind to realize that they were unable to resist the darkness on their own, and that they needed to repent and put their trust in Him. Christ offered forgiveness for sins and freedom from the darkness that living in sin brings. The light that was sent to earth began to accomplish his purpose. He directed those in darkness to look up at the God of light. He began to explain to mankind how to live a life in God's light. No The whole world was lost in the darkness of sin. The light of the world is us like sunshine and At noonday his glory shone in the light of the world is Jesus come to the light. Is shining for thee sweetly, the light has dawned upon me. Once I was blind, but now I can. And see my speech us. Ye dwellers in darkness with blind dead eyes, the light of no world is Jesus, no water. Man is bidding and light will arise, the light of the world is Jesus come to the light. Sweetly the light has dawned upon me once I was blind, but now I I can see no line of And this is the condemnation that light is coming to the world, and men loved darkness rather than light because their deeds were evil. For every one that doeth evil hateth the light, neither cometh to the light, lest his deeds should be reproved. As the message of light began to spread, the darkness once again sought to separate man from the light and the relationship it offered Mankind had to choose between the convicting message of God's light or the convenient temptation of sin's darkness. Many times man chose sin and darkness. Thou cameest, O Lord, with a living word that should set thy people free, both with moffing scorn and with Crown of thorn may bore thee to call me. Oh come to my heart, Lord Jesus, there is room in my heart. Now from the sixth hour there was darkness over all the land unto the ninth hour. And about the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, Eli, Eli, Lama Shabakhanai. That is to say, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? The darkness convinced many people that they did not need the light. That the light was wrong and needed to be removed. The darkness thought it had won when this great light that came from heaven was sentenced to death by the very same people he came to rescue from darkness. Excitedly, the darkness watched as man, seeking to destroy the life itself, put Christ on a cross and watched him die. Oh, to see the dawn on the darkest day. Christ on the road to Callory Tried by sinful men torn and beaten nailed To a cross of wood. This the part of the cross Christ begins in For us, so the blame for the wrath least and forgiven at the cross. Now the daylight leaves, now the ground beneath quakes as its maker bows his head. Court and torn into dead or raised to life. Finn is the victory cross. This the power Of the cross Christ became sin for us, took the blame for the Right we stand forgiven out the cross. For I delivered unto you first of all that which I have also received, that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures. And that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures, and that he was seen of Cephas, then of the twelve. For three days the darkness rejoiced as the light seemed to be defeated. For three days those who loved the light waited. On the third day, the light shattered the strength of the darkness. On the third day, the light rose from death to shine with a blinding light, powerful and glorious. The light had kept his promises. God had made a way for man to live in the light once again There in the ground his body lay. Light of the world high darkness slain, then bursting forth in glorious day, up from the grave he rose again, and As he stands in victory, since first has lost his grip on me, for I am his and he is mine, but with a precious Who is he that? From the grave comes to heal and help and save Who is he that from his throne grows through all the world alone? The Lord all wondrous glory, 'tis the Lord, the King of Glory. At his faith we humbly fall. Crown him, crown him. For God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness Hath shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ but ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, and holy nation, a peculiar people, that ye should show forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Again, a new commandment I write to you, which thing is true in him and in you, because the darkness is past, and the true light now shineth And the city had no need for the sun, neither the moon, to shine in it, for the glory of God did lighten it, and the lamb is the light thereof. And the nations of them which are saved shall walk in the light of it, and the kings of the earth do bring their glory and honor into it. Jesus, the light of the world, returned into heaven. But he did not leave the world in darkness. He continues to call to his servants, arming them with his light to reflect to the world. Even now, men can see God's light. Even now, men can have a relationship with God. Now and forevermore, the light of Christ. Will shine. The wider is Jesus, the lamb is the wider city of God. The light of the world is Jesus. Come to the light is shining for thee. Sweetly the light has dawned upon. On me once I was blind, but now I guess the light of no more distance. I want to take just a few moments and really talk with you personally about the message that you have heard. As we have reviewed various scripture readings throughout the Old Testament and the New Testament, and have heard of narrations that center around Christ who Pierce the darkness, the darkness which of course is brought about by sin. And the Bible tells us in Genesis chapter one and well through ver through through chapter three that Adam and Eve, when they uh the first man and woman, they fell. They disobeyed God, and darkness did come into the earth, it came into the world. And the Bible does say that men love darkness rather than light. You might wonder why would anyone not accept Christ? as their personal Lord and Savior. It is because, according to the Bible, they would rather not. They don't want to. You see, in the world, people like the idea of religion. They like the idea that they can go to church sometimes, they can be a good person, they can do good things, they can have their rituals. They like those things. Because it makes them feel that they are absolved in their conscience of the darkness that is within their souls But the Bible tells us that there is only one thing that can turn the darkness into light, that light can come into a person. And remove the darkness. And that is Christ. Sometimes people think that they can do it through religion. Other people think that they can do it just by being a good person or a spiritual person. The Bible tells us though in Titus 3. 5, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us by the washing of regeneration and the renewing of the Holy Spirit. So God tells us in His Word that self-effort or doing good things or following riches is not enough to be able to have the light of Christ. It's interesting in some of what we read this evening. Jesus said of himself that we must follow the light. He says, I am the light, and we must follow it. And it also says in the same same chapter that we need to believe in it The reality is there are a lot of people that would say, well, I believe in Jesus. I know that he was a good person. And he was a good teacher. And he was he was born a baby in Bethlehem, and I understand those facts But we didn't want to just give you those the the the the general nativity scene story. We wanted to express to you tonight The message behind the story, really the person behind the story, and that is Jesus Christ. Because the reality is You and I need a Savior. We don't not just need empty religion or to pray a prayer or to have some sort of spiritual experience. We need Christ. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. You may say, well, what's the difference between belief that would is not in fact the Bible actually tells us in one particular passage that Jesus says that uh they didn't even he didn't even accept the belief of some people. He didn't he rejected their belief because he knew it was not the quality of belief that they really needed In order to genuinely trust Christ, there is a kind of belief that is not accepted by God. But there is a kind of belief that is accepted by God. A full faith and dependence on Christ alone. The Bible tells us, if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. God desires that we understand some things. We need to understand that God is holy and that sin separates us from God. And that Jesus Christ died so that we could have our sin removed. He died in our place. We deserve spiritual death. But Jesus Christ died for us so that we could have, He could trade His eternal life for our death. We give Him our death, and He gives us eternal life. It's that great exchange. And then if we will simply depend upon that alone, that transaction alone, we can be a child of God. We can have that light. The Bible tells us in John chapter 1, verse 12: But as many as received him, to them gave he the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. You might know people that know God. You might like the idea of knowing God. And in some cases, you may even feel as though you know God yourself. But the Bible says that the only way to know God, the only way to have a relationship with God is through Christ. You must depend upon Christ alone to pay the punishment for your sin, so that you can have your sins forgiven And you can be have eternal life with God. It takes full dependence and trust in Christ. And the resurrection demonstrates The Christ's death gave him the ability to remove our sins from us. And if you have any question, I just want to encourage you this way. If you have any questions about that, if you are unsure of whether or not you know the Lord, and you say, well, you know, I don't think anybody can really know for sure. The Bible says 1 John 5 These things are written that ye may know that ye have eternal life. So the Bible says it's written that ye may know. So if you want to know for sure how you can have eternal life and a relationship with God, you want to know more about that, you're really unsure about some things, or perhaps you have questions. You know, I would be glad to, after the service, just take a Bible and show you how you can really know God. And maybe maybe tonight you're saying I'm not really I don't know you very well. That's fine. Talk with somebody that you know knows God, that you can see in their life. You can see that light in their life And ask them of the reason of the hope that is in them, and they'll be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you can have eternal life and a relationship with God. We are going to sing a final hymn together. It is Joy to the World. It's a hymn, uh a wonderful hymn that That reviews the first coming of Christ, but we get to look forward to the second coming of Christ, and that's in this hymn as well. So, Enric, come and lead us at this time. Joy to the world. Let's all stand together as we sing. Joy to the world the Lord. Is calm, let her receive her king, let every heart prepare him room and have an ending. And nature sing, and heaven and nature sing, and heaven and heaven and nature sing, joy to the earth a savior. Let men their songs employ while fields and floors, rocks, hills and plains, repeat the sounding joy. Repeat the sounding joy, repeat, repeat the sounding joy. No more lessons and sorrows grow. Thorns in best or brown, he comes to make his blessings flow, far as the curse is fall, far as the curse is fall. Curse is found for us, for us, a curse is from. He rules the world with truth and grace and makes the name The glories of his righteousness and wonders of his love and wonders of his love. And wonders, wanders, all is law. Well that's going to conclude for us our candlelight service tonight. Thank you all for coming out. Singing tonight. I really enjoyed I guess I hear we hear the best of it from up here we get to hear everybody. But uh thank you for singing s singing out so night uh so well tonight and I hope that this has been a blessing for you. It's been a blessing for for me even as we went through this. And we c let's just continue to pray for each other this coming week. This is a big week, right? Kids, you all excited about Christmas? I know my kids are jumping up and down and they can't wait for Christmas and We're saying it'll come, you know. But uh but at this point I think we we could we should all get ex excited about Christmas. It's a few days away here. And uh I do want to wish you all a Merry Christmas. I've been I'll be praying for you. I know you'll be praying for me as well, that we would have a blessed time with our families and friends uh during this holidays holiday season. So I just want to say Merry Christmas to you all. Have a great week and Lord willing, don't be come back if you want to come back on Wednesday you can, but I think you'll kind of be by yourself So you might want to mark your calendars and unless you want alone time here, you might want to might want to uh stay home with your families on this Wednesday night and Thursday night as well and have a great Christmas. What's that? Oh yes. Ah, thank you. That's why I have other people around me that know things better than I do. Uh we don't forget about the f the uh fellowship that we have in the back. There's plenty of cookies and hot chocolate and coffee and all of that kind of thing. So, you know, make sure the calories don't count on Sundays and you you actually lose weight with calories when it's right before Christmas. And if you believe listen, that was all a bunch of hooey. Everything we s I said before that point was truth. This is this is baloney. Actually it's cookies. All right. Why don't we go ahead and uh and pray for those things? Um Dick, would you just close us with a word of prayer? Thank the Lord for the refreshments and fellowship that we're about to have. And you all are dismissed to head on to the to the fellowship hall, uh, for some