If you would, and turn to Second Ephesians. Second Ephesians. Which is found in Revelations chapter two. Revelations chapter two And the reason I'm saying that, for those of you who didn't get that, is that Revelation chapter 2 is talking to the church of Ephesus. And we have already gone through the whole book of Ephesians, and you didn't know that there was a 2 Ephesians, but you found out today. It's just found in Revelation chapter 2, verses 1 through 7. Uh I have been praying a lot about the next series to preach, and I thought it was John, and it probably will be eventually. some year or sometime down the road I plan to preach the book of John. But um I've been praying a lot just about our church and the direction that That Christ would have us to go. And I've really one of the things I've been praying about is just asking the Lord. Are we are are we accepted acceptable to Christ and how we are doing what we're doing and the kind of church we are? We know God's word tells us that Christ will build his church and the gates of hell will not prevail against it. And we know from the book of Ephesians that the emphasis in that book is really on the universal church primarily. And there's some certainly applications and direct even references to the local church, but it really is dealing a lot with the universal church, God's Christ's one church, his bride. But the Bible does have a lot of very specific, pointed things to say to local churches And of the most pointed and specific things, you find these two chapters in Revelation that talk specifically to seven local churches. And it is important for us to understand that though God values the His church, His one body, that we will one day all be together in heaven. God has set it up that the universal church is made up of local churches. And he has a lot of things to say about what he what Christ's criteria is For a local church, whether one honors him or whether one does not. And so we can determine Christ's own evaluation of a local church By Revelation 2 and 3. I think that this is a path this these two chapters of Scripture are not nearly preached enough. We have, I have Dozens, literally dozens of books on my shelf that have to do with how the church is to be run and and different different approaches to to the church. But very few of those books They hardly mention Revelations 2 and 3. I have a couple of them. There was one by the name of uh the author is John Stott, who wrote it back uh uh quite a while back. And and he offered uh a book that it's just I think it's just titled Christ's view of his church, something like that. And there's a couple other ones, but as a whole, throughout history, it's sort of interesting that there has not been a lot on this subject with dealing with Revelation chapter 2 and 3 as it as it pertains to the local church, and yet this is just rich. full, talks full of important instruction about Christ's perspective on his church And you know, I the the more that I study this subject, the more I think about it, the more I look at God's what God's words say about it, and really even the more I pray about it I really think that it's it's not so much about denominationalism or what circle you're in or what what camp you're in. And the reason that that's not so important is because if you know Christ as your Savior, you genuinely know him, you are in the church, the universal church, the universal. Value believers. But you know, the reason that I'm a Baptist is is the same if there's a reason for it, it's because it would be the same reason as one missionary said He looked around in the different denominations and he realized that the Baptists follow the Bible most closely. I'm not sure you can always say that about every Baptist church now, to be honest with you. There are some out west that definitely are not following the Bible very closely, to be very honest with you. So it's not so much about that It is far more about are we Christ's church? And upon Christ's evaluation, where do we, how do we measure? And of course, when we look at all of that, the reality is any local church is only good as the sum of its parts. So there is going to be direct individual applications in each one of these churches. Very, really very convicting. I personally sense a great deal of conviction in my own heart as I studied this passage this past week. And so I I'm praying and hoping we're going to do a series in in chapters two and three of the book of Revelation. I'm praying and hoping that this will really help us to make sure that, you know, it really doesn't, I'll tell you the truth, you can have all kinds of programs in a church and and they're helpful But what's more important is that we just do what God wants us to do, according to God's word, the Bible, and according to what Christ sets as the priority. And we want to make sure that our priority is Christ's priority. And I personally think that there is probably no better passages of Scripture in the entire New Testament. to help us with that as a local body, as a local assembly, then these two chapters, uh, and I pray that you will you will see what I mean as we go along here We do need to ask the Lord's help as we get into this great study. And so we'll go to Him in prayer now. Father, as we come to you today, we thank you for who you are. And we thank you for your word. We pray, Lord, that as it is revealed to us today, that we would see it exactly the way you want us to see it. And that we would make evaluations to our own lives based upon what you have to say And I pray, Lord, that we would take it with the weight that it is intended in this passage as well Lord, we admit before you that so oftentimes we look to peripheral things and things that really do not matter, or at least to the importance of the things that do matter. We are so we so easily focus on we make mountains out of molehills, we make small things into big things and I thank you, Lord, that as far as I can tell, as a whole, Lord, we're a church that does desire to follow after you. As a whole, certainly none of us including myself, are anywhere close to perfect in this area, but we do desire to please Christ that he would evaluate us and find us to be a faithful local New Testament church. And so I pray today, Lord, that we would evaluate our own lives as we go through this entire series. But particularly with this message, I pray that we would understand your word and that we would apply it appropriately. And we thank you in Christ's name. Amen. Well, as we're looking at Ephesians or Ro Romans, or I'm sorry, not in either one of those books. Revelation, I I'll I'll just admit to you today that I'm a little tired. Um I walked in today and somebody said you do not have the energy that you usually have. Um and they were they're right. But God will give us the strength, just like we pr I preached last Sunday, right? So I get to apply last Sunday's message to this Sunday and I believe the Lord will have us uh I'm sure he will he will give me this give us all the strength hopefully the strength for you all to listen and the strength for me to be able to preach uh his word faithfully But in Revelation, before we're able to interpret chapter 2 correctly, we really have to look at chapter 1 Chapter 1 is going to give us some very important clues as we interpret this passage of Scripture in Revelation 2, verses 1 through 7, and really all both of these chapters, chapters 2 and 3. And we find in chapter 1, verse 1, the subject matter of the book. It says, The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave unto him to show unto his servants things which must shortly come to pass. And he sent and signified it by his angel unto his servant John. And so we have in the first chapter that this is Christ's revelation. Through the Apostle John, and he to signify these certain things that would shortly come to pass. So we have a subject matter there We have the recipients of these two of this whole book of Revelation in the following two in verses chapter 1, verse 4, and chapter 11, and verse 11. Chapter 1 verse 4 says, John to the s to the seven churches which are in Asia, Grace be unto you, and peace from him which is and which was and which is to come. And from the seven spirits which are before his throne. And look over at verse 11. Verse 11 says Saying, I am Alpha and Omega, Christ here speaking, the first and the last, and what thou seest, write in a book. And send it unto seven churches which are in Asia, unto Ephesus, and unto Smyrna, and unto Pergamos, and unto Thyatira, and unto Sardaus, and unto Philadelphia, and unto Laodicea. So folks, what we have here is a book that is written by the Apostle John with a lot of apocalyptic literature and future end-time events But folks, let's not forget who this book was originally written to. It was written to seven local churches with very specific Messages to these churches. And then you find in verse 19 some very important interpretive keys. It says, Write the things which thou hast seen. So we have the past things, the things which are, and the things which shall be hereafter. The things that thou hast seen, you can find essentially in chapter 1. What we have here is a basic outline of the book. In chapter two and three you have the things which are and you have seven present local churches and that will be our primary study for this particular series will be on those seven churches. And then after, beginning in chapter four, verse one, you have the things which shall be there after. You really essentially have a general outline of the book right then right there in that verse. And so what we're going to be looking at in the next several weeks is the things which are the local churches as they stood as Christ evaluated them toward the end of the first century. And what you have here, folks, is for about 60 years now, the church was inaugurated in Acts chapter 2, and you have about, it's now about 60 years old. And so you have a changeover of at least one generation and probably more, probably two or three generations. In the book of Ephesians, specifically, it's been 30 years or so Since the book of Ephesians has been written. And so when we look at the the the Church of Ephesus specifically in this first chapter, you could think of about thirty years, or at least one generation has passed on, and really several pastors have passed on, which we'll see. which we'll see in the uh as we get into this. In verse 20, we're then going to find some more important clues here to how to interpret the rest of the book. It says the mystery of the seven stars. So you see stars there, right? Which thou sawest in my right hand, and seven golden candlesticks. The seven stars are the angels of the seven what? Seven churches. Now let's keep in mind that this word angel Is the term messenger? It can be translated angel, or it could just be translated messenger. So they're the seven angels of the seven churches. And what are the candlesticks? The candlesticks are what? They are the churches themselves. So you have the stars that are the angels of the churches, and the candlesticks are are the churches themselves. Now, at this point you might be thinking to yourself, well why in the world does this even I mean why does God choose to write these things this way? So you actually have to have to um to to figure this out, figure the symbolism out in the passage. One pr perhaps one reason, folks, is that he really wants us to dig. He wants us to have to really actually think about these things. And God often does that. That's why we have four Gospels, not just one. Because we actually to get the whole picture we have to look at all four Gospels and see the different facets to see the whole picture of Christ And you find in different, you have parables in the New Testament. You have different ways of writing so that we can, our attention can be grabbed, because the reality is we value what we work for. And so, when it comes to these kinds of things, God makes us work to study His Word. And in this particular case, we find that that is the case. So the candlesticks are the churches. And the angels are these messengers. Whatever kind they are, they are messengers. And we're looking at what they are in a few moments. Now, with this in mind, we are now ready to go to chapter 2, verse 1, where it says, unto the what? The messenger of the church of Ephesus, right? And we want to begin by looking at this first church of Ephesus. The Church of Ephesus, as you might remember from a while back, quite a while back, as we look at the the church in in um as we introduce the book of ephesians which we just went through you you might remember that the church of ephesus was a metropolis It was very heavily densely populated. In fact, it was the fourth largest city in all of Asia Minor. It was known as the most cosmopolitan city of any of the cities of Asia Minor. It it care it held, if there it in a sense it held the World Bank It was considered to be a financial center of that entire area. And it was a center of commerce. It was really a massive city. You could almost think of of our East Coast, the largest city in the East Coast being New York. And and because it had the World Bank you might think of New York being more like New York. Or since it was the fourth largest city, you would have to go down the East Coast and you would go maybe next to Boston Maybe that would be the next largest city and then to probably to Philadelphia would be the next largest city. And then where do you have the next largest city? Alright, so we have the Baltimore, Washington metropolitan area, which is on the East Coast, the fourth largest area. Actually, if you put the whole Baltimore, Washington metropolitan area, we actually are larger than Philadelphia or probably even Boston But the bottom line is, or if you just include Baltimore, we're we're gonna be on the smaller side. If you include these anyway, you gotta put it all together. We're all we all know it's a it's a mess down here. Um that's the bottom line. Everybody says amen. You know, you've got the traffic and everything to deal with. But folks, isn't it wonderful to know that you have churches in big cities? Now there are many people that would much rather live out in the rural areas. And there are much it would just be much calmer and much more peaceful. John Newton was one who pastored at first in in a town called Olney. Nice little quiet town and he wrote hymns with his best friend and it was just a great a great place to pastor until God called him to London And he moved to London and he hated it until he chose to like it. Because he realized that that was where God had called him to a place where there were far more people. And like many of us, you know, sometimes you just don't like people. And John doesn't always like pe or um sorry John Newton didn't always like people, but he was called, you know, if you're called to pastor, you're called to pastor people There's an old joke in the ministry. You know, the ministry would be great if it weren't for people. But the ministry would be non-existent if it weren't for people as well. Actually, I really don't feel that way about you all. I really enjoy most of the time But uh I really actually enjoy you all most of the time and uh and enjoy pastoring here. Now, with all of that said, folks, the one thing we also need to include is that the city of Ephesus was full of idolatry. In fact, it was known for having the Temple of Diana Which was a temple that was that was known as one of the seven wonders of the world. That was an Ephesus, and you can find actually remnants of that even today. And so you had all kinds of idolatry and false teaching and false doctrine, and you're going to find that this is a church in the church of Ephesus that stayed faithful to the true doctrines of God's Word. And the true doctrine of the original apostles. And they're going to be commended for this. But we also find the passage in chapter 2, verse 1, this angel that has been written to Now, there is to some degree some debate over what the angel is. Some would argue that because God uh in other places in the in the book of Revelation, the term angel just means angel, as we would think of it That really was talking about is an angel. And that a that it would they would surmise then that each church has sort of its own guardian angel The problem with that interpretation is that it actually says that this epistle is, or this part of this book is written to the angel, or this part portion is written to the angel. And so then you would have a bit of a problem there because is the angel, did the angel actually Stay doctrinally faithful. And did the angel lose its first let leave its first love as we're going to learn? I mean, is that really the things that apply to the angel? So more than likely this, whatever this angel is, is part of the church because the entire thing is written to this church. And probably, folks, the best interpretation is that this angel would be the pastor of the Church of Ephesus. And I would not necessarily be dogmatic on it, but I think that it's probably the best approach to take, that the messenger, God's messenger to this particular book of Ephesus, is the angel in this passage. Now if you think, I was just, I sort of thought back and if you think of the various pastors that this church has had. It had a man by the name of Apollos, which was probably its first pastor. And Apollos was known, he was known for being very articulate. He was a great speaker. Paul came next, and Paul was not known for being a great speaker like Apollos was, but Paul had a keen intellect and was very educated. Paul was, of course, as we read the epistles of Paul, Peter said they're really hard to understand sometimes. And that's because Paul had a very, he was a very deep thinker, very intellectual. very well educated. And then you have after Paul was Timothy. Timy Timothy was not necessarily known for his great speaking ability. or his great ability, a great keen intellect, although I'm sure he could speak fine fine and and he was probably intelligent as well He wasn't known for those things. And yet Timothy was a man probably who was a bit timid according to Scripture, but he probably had a great deal of compassion for people There seems to be an indication of that as you read Paul's writings to Timothy in 1 and 2 Timothy. And by the way, he was pastoring the Church of Ephesus during that time. We also know from church history that Tychicus ends up being the pastor, no, actually I think it was John after Timothy. The apostle John, who actually writes this book, pastors this church of Ephesus. And John is a man who just had, was really close to Christ. He was just a man who just had a great fellowship with God. He was closest, probably closest of all the apostles to Christ himself when Christ lived on this earth Then after John was Ticus. We don't know much about Ticekus, but if you'll remember, we do know something about him from Ephesians. Do you remember that? Tychicus was a man who traveled and delivered Paul's letters to different places, including Ephesus. And so Tychagus was certainly a faithful servant and had a relationship with Ephesus, and so out of that relationship with Ephesus, that connection, he eventually became the pastor. And then you come to Revelation chapter 2. Antichicus is no longer the pastor of this church. Who is the pastor according to chapter 2, verse 1? And I just want you to notice it doesn't say. Because it really doesn't matter. What does matter is what he says about this pastor. Unto the angel of the church of Ephesus, right, these things saith he that holdeth the seven stars in his what? In his right hand, who walketh in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks. These stars are the angels, which we are now saying is are the pastors of these seven churches. And what it says of these pastors is that they are held, there's this right hand held of them. In other words, folks, this pastor had God's blessing, Christ's blessing, and had Christ's presence. And really, that was all that really mattered. Isn't it wonderful to know that God uses different men, different ways to do his work? They can all have different kinds of gifts and all different kinds of abilities. But if they have God's hand on them, they are blessed in that sense of Christ's blessing and Christ's presence. then God can use them despite their different ways of being ability. Now they have to all be able to rightly divide God's word. There are certain qualifications that are necessary. They've got to be apt to teach. They've got to be able to rightly divide God's Word. They've got to have character qualities in 1 Timothy chapter 3. There's got to be some things that are always the case or they are not qualified to be pastors. But folks, isn't it wonderful to know that if God's hand is on them They can do what God wants them to do and be what God wants them to be. And for me personally as a pastor, there's some great comfort about that That I don't have to be like somebody else. I can just be myself. I can use the gifts that God has given me. But there is also some great weight of responsibility to that. And a desire for God's blessing, and a desire for Christ's presence in my life. When I really read these things, I ask myself the question, is this true of me? Because I know good and well that I cannot pastor God's people without his divine help. I desperately need it. And I often think to myself, what am I doing? But by God's grace, and only by his grace, and his presence, and his blessing, and his help, that is the only way that I can ever hope to be God's messenger to his people. Doesn't really matter, folks, the name of this pastor, but it we do find here that what does matter is God's blessing And God's presence is this man's life. And I just would, by way of application, I would ask for you to ask God for that for me Hope that made sense. I would ask that you ask for me that God would God I would have I would have God's blessing Now I would be able to maintain it in my own walk with the Lord. You think you're the only one that struggles with your walk with the Lord? But also that I would have Christ's presence in my life. And by way of application, while you're praying for me, maybe you should pray those things for yourself. That we all need those things. And very frankly, if we're going to be the kind of church that God wants us to be, we need that. We need Christ's blessing, and we need Christ's presence. Well, Christ is going to speak very directly now, and he is going to say in chapter 2, verse 2, I know thy works. Isn't that amazing? That Christ knows what his local churches are doing. He knows their activity. He knows their works. You know, I'll just be honest with you. Sometimes I think we forget that Christ knows these things. He knows what we're doing. We become so occupied with the next thing in our activity that we forget that Christ knows these things. He intimately knows what we're doing, and frankly, he knows not only what we're doing on the outside, he knows the intents of our hearts. He knows what we're doing on the inside. He knows what we are thinking. He knows our motives. He knows why we are doing what we are doing. Christ knows these things not only about this church of Ephesus, but he knows these things about us. And by the way, the knowledge that he has here of this church indicates that he really cares. We have studied in Ephesians the great work of Christ and his look in his universal body, but let us not think that Christ does not care about what happens in his local church. In his local churches. And what we've got to do is do our dead level best to be what Christ wants us to be because he sees us and knows what we're doing and has the ability to evaluate us. And we can, by way of application, see that he does so. I know thy works. And he says here, and thy labor. There are three things that we see about this church. That Christ's commends. And very candidly, oftentimes when we go through this portion of Scripture, perhaps you've heard messages on it, we skip past the great commendation of this church. There, before he gets to a condemnation of his church, he first commends this church. He commends this church. For its steadfastness in various ways. He says, I know your labors. This word labor is a word that means toil or to work to the point of exhaustion. To get to the place where you are beat down because you are working. You ever feel that way? I mean I mean, I don't know if this is I mean I didn't honestly I did not choose that word based upon the fact that we had a very busy week this past week But folks, it is true that as far as ministry goes, and I don't mean to be exclusive excluding those who weren't involved in VBS this past week by by any means Don't want to do that at all. You all are laboring in various ways in different capacities. But as a whole, probably last week is the most intensive week for our church of labor in the entire year. And many of us are have toiled to the point of exhaustion. Aren't you glad God knows that? And for a church to be what God wants it to be, there are going to have to be times where we do toil to the point of exhaustion for the cause of Christ. I am not in any way trying to give a guilt trip to anyone for the kind of minute that you need to get busy doing ministry, you need to do more ministry, and that's all the sum total of your of your pleasing God is your minute. No, I don't want to do that at all. But folks, there is a sense in which There are times where God asks us to toil, to go beyond what we think we have the strength for. And folks, when we do that and we depend upon the work of God and the strength of God in our lives, we see him work in ways that we otherwise would not be able to see him work. And I will just say this, there are some of you that worked long hours last week and then commuted long distances to get here. And commuted long distances back and then got up early in the morning, day after day after day. And aren't can't you see and I and I was knitting One person I was talking to about this, and they just said, you know, it's amazing that God gives you the strength and the energy that you need to do what God calls you to do And very candidly, you see God's faithfulness through that. And there are times where God may ask of you to do things beyond what you think you have the strength to bear. And if God asks you, He will give you the strength as long as you depend on Him. And these people were commended for their labor and their toil. And I just want to say to you, church, you are to be. commended. I mean that. We so far do not have a church Where 20% of the people are doing 80% of the work. We don't have a church like that. I pray we never have a church like that, but right now we don't. I don't know what the percentage would be, but it's far higher than that on the amount of people doing the work. And you are to be commended. And I just want to say, as a pastor, I just look back and I just I'm thankful. I mean you are some of you are an example to me. of the kind of an I'm like, how do you have that kind of energy? Um it is it is one it is just a blessing and I just want you to to know how much I appreciate And more importantly, it really doesn't matter that much what I think, but God does commend you for your toil and your labor and your faithfulness to his work. He says, I know thy works And thy patience, and how that thou canst not bear them which are evil, and thou hast tried them which I said which say they are apostles and are not, and hast found them liars. And hast borne and has patience for my namesake, hast labored. He mentions it again, and has not Fainted. And we learned last week. What does it mean oftentimes in the New Testament when we see this word fainted? It means to lose heart. And this church hasn't done that. This church has labored and not fainted and has held strong. This church, in fact, is commended for their endurance. This church has endured. This church is is roughly, I mean it's a it's probably close to 60 years old at this point. And yet this church has endured. There you know the life you know the average life expectancy of a local church? It's about sixty years. And I don't know if you knew that or not, but that's the average statistically, 60 to 70 years is the average life expectancy of a local church. But you know, some churches are more faithful and can continue if they will stay true to doing what God wants them to do and having the kind of heart that God wants them to have. And this is the church that has toiled and labored and has and has endured all of the various temptations and conflicts and problems and idolatry in the land, and they have held true, and they have held firm to clear, sound doctrine. their their doctrine, their faithful doctrine is something else that is been is commended. In fact, you find an example of this in verse 6. After he's gonna he's gonna have a Christ has a problem here with this church, and we're gonna see what that is. But in verse 6, just to recap his his own commendation of them, he says, But this thou hast, that thou hast the deeds, thou hatest the deeds of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate Now the Nicolaitians were folks, it's hard, it's really actually a bit a bit debatable, but you can put that third point up there, or a bit debatable as to what the Nicolaitans were doing. The Nicolaitans were people probably who certainly were people involved in false doctrine and probably believed that immorality was permissible Some suggest that it goes all the way back back to a first deacon in Acts chapter 6 that defected. And and created his own group of people. I'm not positive about that. There's it's it's debatable. But anyway, whatever these people were were It says that these Ephesian Christians held strong. This church held strong against false doctrine, and they hated evil. And Christ says they hated the same thing Christ hates. And they were commended for this. Would to God that we would be a church that would always have these three things, that we would toil and we would endure, and that we would be doctrinally faithful. But folks, just because we hate the same thing Christ hates does not mean we have the kind of love that Christ has. Because what we're going to find next in the passage is a particular condemnation of this church, or probably a better word is judgment or indictment of this church. We find in verse 4 it says, Nevertheless, I have somewhat against thee, because thou hast left thy first love. What is he talking about here when he says that? That these people had left their first love. Do you remember back in the Old Testament, just by way of illustration, when Jacob had to labor for Rachel And he ended up getting Leah. Do you remember that? Back in that text, there is a place where it says that his his labor of seven years, just seemed for seven years, just seemed for a moment. Why? Because he loved Rachel. I mean, he was able to endure great toil For seven years. And in fact, come to find out, fourteen years went by rather quickly because he loved Rachel so much. He labored hard, but it seemed so short because of his love. And there is sense, there is, folks, a sense in which the kind of love that is really enduring. That really will last is the kind of love that is this first kind of love. And really what what the church at Ephesus was about to experience if they would not continue, if they did not return to this first love was actually burnout. They had toiled, they had endured They had labored. They had hated these Nicolaithans. They had been faithful to the doctrines of God's Word. They had done these kinds of things, but they had left their first love. Now the question is, what is this first love? This word first can be translated or taken two different ways in the New Testament. It can be taken to mean first as in priority, or it can be taken as first chronologically. Which one is it here? Well, he's going to say in the next verse there that they need to remember and return back. So that would indicate that he's talking about a chronological love. But I'm going to argue here that he's actually talking about both. That it's both priority And chronologically, that when they that years had gone by and there was a first kind of love, which was the priority kind of love that they had, that they had begun to leave. Or they they had left actually, according to the word scripture says. So what is that? To find that, would you take your Bibles and turn to Matthew chapter 22? Matthew 22. We're going to find this term first here, but in this context, we're going to find it to mean clearly priority. Matthew 22, it's also in uh, I believe it's in all three Gospels in different varying ways, but we'll find this in this passage. It says, Master, verse 36. The question is asked of him, Master, which is the what? The great commandment in the law. It's the same word. Actually, no, I'm sorry, that's a different word, but it's it's going to mean the same thing. You'll see this in a minute. Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart. And with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the what? First, that's the same word, and what? Great commandment More than likely, folks, in fact I'm I'm very sure that what he's talking about here is the priority of love being a supreme love for God You say, well, I love God. Are you sure? Because the kind of love that God is talking about in this passage is a love that is comparable In other passages, in fact, it must be greater than the love for a child It must be greater than a love for your child or your spouse or your father or mother What we find in this text is the supreme kind of love that we must have for God must it must surpass our love for family. It must surpass our love for any pursuit. It must be a surpassing kind of love. Do you have that kind of love for God And you and all I were f if we're really honest with ourselves, we have to admit that we struggle. It's so easy for us to say that we love God, but not to love Him supremely. To do what we do for someone other than God. To have someone else come in the way of the supremacy of the love that we ought to have for God alone. And it's easy for us to do. I mean you can see and hold your child. You can do the same with your spouse or your parents. You can't physically do that with God right now anyway. But God says that is the kind of love that is a great and first love. Doesn't certainly does not mean that you don't love your kids and your spouse and your pants. parents. But if we're going to have the supreme kind of love that God is talking about here, there must be a kind of love that that that surpasses all those others. Do you love God that way? And I would suspect that all of us can get diverted, can't we? It's easy for us for that to happen. And what God is asking us to do, what Christ was asking the Church of Ephesus to do, was to return to that first love. Well, when someone does that, when they return to the first love, what would that look like? You know we don't have to guess at this. Would you take your Bibles and turn to Acts chapter 20? The reason I'm having you turn here is because this is a chapter where Paul is addressing the elders of Ephesus again. We find the same church that pops up in this chapter, and he is going to give some admonition to these people in this chapter. And we'll pick up here in verse 23 where he says, save that the Holy Ghost witnesseth in every city. Sayeth, the bonds and afflictions abide me. He tells these elders of this church, he says to them, I'm about to go into bonds and afflictions, and I know I'm going to. He asks them to I think he asks them in the passage to pray for him. Certainly it's implied there. And he identifies that this is the reality for him, that he's going to be going in and there's going to be he he senses, he he anticipates persecution In chapter 20, verse 28, we see here that he admonishes these leaders of the Church of Ephesus to take heed therefore unto yourselves. And to all the flock over which the Holy Ghost hath made you what? Overseers, so we're talking here about pastors, to feed the church of God, which He hath purchased with His own blood. He says, if you're going to be faithful in doing what God wants you to do, you've got to feed God's church. And you've got to do it faithfully, and you've got to watch out for them because there's all kinds of false doctrine around that. You've got to be vigilant about, and you've got to you've got to you've got to stay faithful. And we see, folks, that as a whole, the Church of Ephesus did that. But that's not all Paul admonishes them to do. Look at verse 28 Take heed therefore unto yourselves, and to all the flock over which the Holy Ghost has made you. I'm sorry. Look at verse 35. Verse 35. He says, I have showed you all things, how that so laboring ye ought to support the what, the who. The weak. And to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he said, it is what? It is more blessed to give Than to receive. The kind of love, folks, that God is talking about in Ephesians And in Matthew and now in the book of Acts is the kind of love that gives. In fact, that really could almost be the definition or could be the definition of love to give of oneself, just as Christ did on the cross. He tells husbands to love their wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself for it. God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son Folks, the kind of love, the God kind of love in this passage is a love that gives of himself. But let me know, let me let me just point this out. Who are the weak? It says that we are to support the weak. Who are the weak? Very hard to know who exactly we're talking about, but I will at least say this: the weak are those who have no ability to give back. No ability to give back to you. And if you have the kind of supreme love that God is talking about It is the kind of love where you give with no expectation to receive. That is the first priority kind of love. And folks, isn't it true that we struggle with that sometimes? We give and we anticipate a thank you. Or we anticipate some kind of gesture of a reception of the gift that we're giving. We give and we hope that there's somehow that there's going to be it's going to be returned to us. And folks, if we're giving with that kind of thing in mind, we do not have the kind of priority, kind of love that God is talking about in this passage. And in various passages in the New Testament. The kind of love that God is talking about is to give with no ability to receive. But here's the issue. Did you know that when you give with no ability to receive, you often receive? The Bible says that whatsoever man sows, that shall he also reap. And what happens is that when you give, you will almost always receive more than you give. It may not be the same kind necessarily, but in one way or another, you are always blessed when you give. And there is a sense in which we ought to be grateful and enjoy the blessings of giving But folks, let's not get let's not get that twisted where we're giving to be blessed. It's very easy to do that, isn't it? We give and we see God give to us. We give more and we see God give to us in various ways. But folks, what we've got to do is we've got to remember that we ought not give in order to receive We're on the wrong side of it if we're doing that. So, folks, what we're talking here about in this passage in Revelation chapter 2 is the kind of love that does these kinds of things. Now With that in mind, what I'd like you to do is turn back to Revelation chapter 2. And Christ now is going to give us the remedy for these things. How is it that we can return back to that first priority kind of love? He says, chapter 2, verse 5, remember. Remember, therefore, from whence thou art fallen. The first thing God says, you need to remember. Do you know that one of the indications or the prime indication that you are genuinely a Christian is that God you have a God-given kind of love? It's indicated in Matthew chapter 7 that way. And so, if you have that kind of love, you are one who gives. And when you trust Christ as Savior, oftentimes you see that in someone who is genuinely converted there is a desire to give with no desire to receive. They just want to give But it doesn't take long for one reason or another. We are distracted and diverted from that supreme kind of love. And God says you need to look back at your Christian life and remember. Look back at the time, and there ought to be a time Look back at the time when you gave with no anticipation to receive anything. And that's the time that you need to go back to to remember so that you can, secondly, you can repent. Repent. The reason remembering first is you've got to understand what we're talking about here before you can actually turn, because the word repent means to turn. Means to change of mind that results of the change of action. It means to return. So we need to repent. We need to remember and then we need to repent. And then it says here, look at what it says here. Do the first what? The first works. You know, when we think of love as only a feeling, we have a false concept of love. Love is primarily a giving of self, which includes action. You know, oftentimes the emotion doesn't happen until you choose to love. Until you choose to give of yourself and you actually do it, the emotion oftentimes afterwards, we're waiting for the emotion first, too oftentimes. Well, I don't feel like doing it. Well, just do it because you're you that's what love is, is to do it, to give of yourself. And then the reac and the response comes later. The emotional response is involved as well. Or else he says, he gives this warning, folks, and we've got to pay attention to this. Or else I will come unto thee quickly, and will remove thy candlestick out of his place, except thou repent. What is he saying here? He says he will remove the candlestick. Well folks, what do we remember about the candlestick? What is the candlestick? It's the actual church. Now let me ask you a question. Does that mean that God is going to remove the building? Does it necessarily mean that he's going to remove all the people of the church that literally there will be no people in the chairs? Is that what that means? Well, let me just suggest to you something here with regard to this and what he's talking about here. And I would just if this really is more is is a suggestion. I wouldn't necessarily say this. What we know about the Church of Ephesus is that they did they did respond to this initially according to uh Ignatius. They they did go they did um repent for a while But once they got in and and then for years they contend they moved on, they continued. So that was a wonderful thing. But eventually they did they did um revert back What is this candlestick? Why would God use this term candlestick to describe a church? I want to suggest to you that nearly every time this term is used in the New Testament It is talking about something. For example, in Matthew chapter 5, verse 15, we have this used. Neither do men light a candle and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick. And it giveth light unto all that is in the house. Even in the book of Revelation, we find that it's used in conjunction with the two witnesses. And they are witnessing to the world. What we find, folks, that this in this concept of a candlestick, I'm going to suggest to you, has to do with the influence of this church. It will lose its influence. It will cease to be Christ's local church. And it will lose its influence. John Stott said this. The church has no light without love. Only when it when its uh love burns can its light shine. Many churches are all over the world today, have ceased truly to exist. Their buildings remain intact Their ministers minister and their congregations congregate, but their lampstand has been removed. The church is plunged into darkness No glimmer of light radiates from it. It has not light because it has no love. This is a stern warning for a local church. Let me just point this out That Christ says that he will preserve his church, the church, but there is no promise that he will preserve a local body. And we need to be just mindful of this. John Stott said this: He said: no church has a secure or permanent place in the world. It is continuously on trial. And we find that to be true. Christ knows what we're doing, He knows our heart, He knows our actions, and there is no guarantee that any local church will have the kind of influence that only God can give to that church. Unless they will follow the criteria that Christ sets in these verses. And that, folks, is why this is so essential That we ask ourselves the question, do we have in this local assembly this kind of supreme love for God? And let me say to you that if my discernment all is all is it all right, I know some of uh it really just would seem to me, and I can't I can't judge hearts, but uh it would seem to me that some of you just express it so well A love that just gives with no intention to receive. I've seen it. I've been a recipient of that kind of love from some of you. And you're and and that's wonderful. And and if you have that supreme kind of love for God, just don't lose it. But folks, there might be others today that are struggling, we might be struggling with this, and the reality is You know, one of the questions I had in my mind was, well, at what point would Christ choose to remove the candlestick from a church that doesn't have this kind of love? Is it when You know, is it when 50% or less have this kind of love? Is it when only, you know, only I mean went where is the percentage? Of course the Bible doesn't say here But at some point, God will remove the influence of a body of believers if they lose if they leave their priority love. supreme love for God. And so it is incumbent upon us as individuals to ask ourselves the question do we have this kind You know the wonderful thing about it is this that we have the perfect example. The perfect example is Christ. He came and he gave completely of himself in the death of the cross for us. The Bible says we love him because he first loved us. And if we are going to return to the kind of love that God wants us to return to, we need to look no further than the cross. I do wonder if one of the reasons why God left for us a ordinance Was for us to be able to remember the great love that Christ has for us, that sacrificial highest supreme kind of love that we can only have because of Christ. And so it's very fitting for us, isn't it, that we are going to go and enter into a time of communion. A time where we remember the shed blood of Christ, a time where we remember the broken body of Christ, a time where Christ did display his great love for you and for me. This is a time where we demonstrate as a body, a local assembly, that we are a body of believers. Because there are probably I'm sure there are people in our midst today that aren't members of our church, um, but know you know the Lord as their Savior, you are welcome to partake with us if you know the Lord and you've been baptized by immersion. You're certainly welcome to partake with us as the body of Christ. We encourage you to do that. But I'd like to give you just a few moments to do to do some time just to have some time focusing on Christ. And I would just say this. That essentially the communion table is not essentially, it is not essentially a confessional Our focus ought to be on Christ. But when we are focused on the supreme kind of love that Christ has, and we look at ourselves and we realize we lost it, there probably does need to be some confession. And so I encourage you to do that at this time, if it applies. But ultimately the goal here is to be able to then focus our minds. with purity and in an undistracted manner, in a reverent manner, to be able to focus on the death of Christ and what he did for us and sacrificing himself. So I'd like it like you to have uh take a few moments just in the quietness of your own heart before the Lord. No we'll we'll have no Well just just be quiet before the Lord and pray it to yourself and then we will come together and we will partake together