You're a parent or whether you're a grandparent or whether you are a teacher in our church, but really there are some principles here that you know when they s when it we're gonna l look at some things when it talks about kids, different responses that what what happens to a child if they don't receive the gospel on a consistent basis. And the truth of the matter is, it happens to all of us if we don't receive the gospel on a consistent basis. We're going to read about complacent Charlie, for instance. And we're all complacent Charlie if we don't if we're not confronted with the gospel on a consistent basis. And so there's going to be application for everyone here. I guarantee there will be. And so we're going to do that. I'm going to start, and this is from, these are primarily excerpts from the book Show Them Jesus. I finally got around to reading it. I had several people that suggested I do that. I finally did now I will I will admit that I have not read all of it. I read the first five chapters, four chapters, four anyway it's it's broken up into two parts the book is The first part is the philosophy, the second part is how to do it. And so I read the first I'm I I read the first part and working on that. And then Carol, after I come up After I'm finished, she's going to teach us how to implement this particularly in our children's ministries, or particularly in in in junior church. And um I will tell you this that a few years when I started here um in trying and and and in developing different curriculum and how we would do things I um I immediately just sort of went to what I knew, which was regular Baptist Press and just kind of set up classes based upon that and a few other things. And I I it wasn't really until the last couple of years that I really realized, you know, I need to have a real philosoph a real biblical approach to this. What are we trying to accomplish with our kids? And really is what we're our curriculum doing is it accomplishing that and and thinking through some of that. And I discovered as I started reading and thinking through what our philosophy should be in teaching children, I discovered that the m the our th there's not a lot of thinking on good thinking on this, particularly in our circles. And in fact, some of it is problematic to the point that this is symptomatic of the problem. This isn't the problem, but it's symptomatic of the problem. That studies show that more than half of American church kids will drop out before age 30 should uh that uh he says that should wake us up. That's the reality. We are losing our kids. Uh and and they're not seeing the value of uh of church in the American church because of a uh in part, there's actually multiple reasons for that, but in part because of one particular problem. He says here, today a frightening number of kids are growing up in children in churches and Christian homes without ever being captured by the gospel of Jesus. As children and teenagers, they may seem to be believers, but then they reach their college and young adult years and quit. They quit church and any growing commitment to Jesus. He goes on and says this. These kids actually have good reasons to quit. They look back and realize that they learned much about Christian behavior and churchy experiences experiences, but whatever they learned about Jesus didn't really change them. They never saw him so strikingly that he became their one overriding hope and their greatest love. They were never convinced that Jesus is better, a zillion times better, than anything and everything else. That is quite a statement, isn't it? And I think and and what he does then is he now he then explains why this has taken place and it is it is excellent to understand this. He he he begins by admitting that he has done this in the wrong way himself. He loves to teach children I uh uh he he must be part, I think, part of a large, larger children's ministry and probably the director of it in a larger church. Um and he admitted that he had done this wrong for years himself in teaching children. He said this. My lessons had a point too. They built to a climactic moment that taught about living for God. I led discussions about applying it to daily life. Kids left with practical instruction that they could put to work in the coming week. He says this was wrong. It was wrong to do it that way. It was wrong to identify a, to take a lesson from Scripture, to find some practical truth. And to say, okay, well this is what you need to now practice this this week. He he is essentially suggesting that this is a wrong approach. Now, he's not saying that there can't be practical truth in your lessons, but but there ought to be something else far that's far more important in the lessons He explains that that there was a particular man named Joe who who he went to listen to teach on uh uh about Samuel. You remember the story of Samuel and Eli where Sam Eli was uh uh there was somebody calling uh Samuel when he was sleeping and Eli, he thought it was Eli, so he kept going to Eli, and it actually wasn't Eli, was the Lord, you remember that story. So he was teaching on the story, and this is what he says about it. Job's lesson was about Samuel, who was a still bo uh who was still a boy, who was still a boy when God called him to be a prophet. I recognized it as a an ideal lesson for any storyteller. It's about a child, so kids can relate, and the story builds to a nice climax God calls repeatedly to Samuel at night. Samuel trots off each time to uh to Eli the priest, whom he thinks must be the one calling. Eli eventually figures out what's happening and tells Samuel to respond and listen to God. Joe was excited at how after all, and so he's expecting this to be Joe's point. Joe has a different point. He says, Joe's excited at how after all that waiting, remember he waited, God's voice of justice came gently, personally, and human-like to a child And then he asks this question: what does that tell us about God? To show how his answer to show how God still speaks personally and humanly. And then he read from Hebrews 1, verses 1 through 2: Long ago, at many times and in many places, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets, but in these last days he has spoken to us by who? By his Son. Totally different approach than what this man was going to take. Approach that on one hand Uh he thought, well, we'll give practical advice. Listen to uh what's the what's the moral of the story? Well you need to listen up closely if God speaks to you. That's not the point that's not actually the point of that story at all He says, rather, the point of the story is what do we learn about God in that story? Well, that God does still speak. Well, how does God speak today? Through his son. And he returns to you. See the difference? Big difference between the two. The Word of God reveals who God is through the person of Jesus Christ. That's the point of the Word of God. It isn't, every passage is not to give us a list of things to do. And so teaching God's Word that way is something that is very important for us to understand. Scripture says it this way, and I, brethren, when I came to you, did not come with excellent speech of wisdom, declaring to you the testimony of God For I determined not to know anything among you except Jesus Christ and Him crucified For Jews request a sign, and Greeks seek after wisdom. But we preach Christ crucified, the Jews a stumbling block, and to the Greeks foolishness But of those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God, and the wisdom of God. Now, what book of the Bible is Paul saying this in? First Corinthians, right? How many of you all can remember some of the things that are in First Corinthians? By the way, we church out small things. Okay. Well it is. There are all kinds of things discussed in First Corinthians. And yet Christ, and yet Paul says, I came to know nothing among you except Jesus and preach something except Jesus Christ and crucified. Well, is there a discrepancy here? No, the point is this. Every area of life, there was all kinds of sin in the Church of Corinth. There were corporate sin going on. There were individual sin going on. Every area of life, the answer is Christ. And so he Paul points that out in the beginning of his book. What does preaching the cross mean? I really encourage you to think through this. What is preaching? That's what God wants us to do when we are teaching God's Word. We ought to be teaching the cross. What does that mean? Number one, the content of the message matters. It must be about Jesus. Every lesson ought to be about Jesus in some way or another. Now, I want to pause here and say that the Old Testament, and I don't know that the author would agree with me on this. But the Old Testament does not clearly depict Christ in every passage. But it does reveal God in every passage. And the Old Testament also leaves us with this want to know Christ. Or to that there's a something missing that needs to be there's an answer that needs to be uh filled so that by the time we get to the New Testament the an we know the answer is Christ. But the content matters of the message matters. It must be about Jesus. The cross of Christ applied is applies to the entire Christian life, which we learned this morning. This is not actually I don't orchestrate things that well, but God does. Okay, so this morning's message and this just God put it together because it really does go together, doesn't it? The whole Christian life, the cross applies to all of it. And we we mu we run the mistake of saying, okay, well I I um uh I trusted Christ as my Lord and Savior. Now I need to follow I need to do this, I need to do that, I need to do that, I need to follow all these pro Foll follow all these things and all these lessons. I need to be like David. We're taking a moralistic approach to scripture instead of a theistic approach. where we're seeing what God says about who He is. So this is very important for us to remember. And number three, faith in this message comes from God. So as the message is being taught of Christ, that's how faith comes, which we also have to learn this morning, so we don't have to go over it again. Uh although it wouldn't hurt us, but for time we won't, for the sake of time. He says this. Let's face it, Christianity is often packaged this way. Live a good life, and things will go well for you. Find the right spiritual resources and you'll be blessed. Ask Jesus into your heart and you'll be saved. This is why many people say all religions are the same. In some sense, they're right. You follow that? Just think about it for a minute. Sometimes the way we teach We're not really saying that Christ is the answer. We're really saying that if you do this, then you'll be blessed. Well, you know, you can go to the Lutheran church down the street and hear that Or the Methodist, United Methodist Church, or the Catholic Church. I mean, you can hear that there ought to be a difference in what we're teaching from a mainline denomination church that really isn't teaching the gospel anymore. And so we wanna we want to remember that. Fellow teachers, he says, our challenge is to proclaim the goodness of Jesus so clearly and consistently that no kid of ours will ever place him in a category that with typical religious leaders. He uh we'll we'll skip that one because we kind of already discussed that. And we'll I'm I I I've got a lot to go over, so and Carol does too, so I'll move a little bit here. He says this, kids who only hear the good news a little tend to but become kids who only love and trust Jesus a little. That's a little sobering, isn't it? Okay, so now the question becomes How does this, this is all kind of up here and biblical, which is all which is important. But when we get into the practical, how does this affect kids? And particularly think in two terms of two groups, unsaved kids and kids. Now no one here would question that the gospel is necessary for the unsaved child. We would all we wouldn't question that. And I think as we're learning in Galatians, none of us really question the gospel is necessary for the saved child either. But I think we need to understand why it's so important for the saved child. And he explains this. He really does a good job of explaining this. Let's start with the unsaved child. He says, remember this about children in church? We must not tr trust churchy behavior, the the the churchy behavior formula, oh they must be saved because they know how to act in church. And we wouldn't say that, but sometimes we think it. Oh, that that child must know the Lord because he knows how to act in church. Number two, we must not trust the good family formula. Well, he comes from a good family. He must know the Lord. Don't trust that. Okay? The gospel needs to be preached to all of our kids, whether they come from good families or not. And number three, we must not trust to say a prayer formula. And I've talked a lot about that in the past. We'll we'll move on from that. Don't trust the say a prayer for Oh, he said a prayer, he must be saved. Be be really careful about that Now, I'm moving quickly from the unsaved child to the saved child because it's- I think I think the application of the gospel for the unsaved child is obvious. So what's the importance of the save of the application for the save child? How does this work? And he actually suggests that the application for the saved child, it's more, the gospel is more important for the saved child than the unsaved child. And he's going to explain why that is. But before he does, he's going to give us three different kinds of kids that may know the Lord. But because of the way we've been teaching our children, I'm not saying we as in Bethel Baptist or you particularly, but the way we tend to teach our children. Bible stories, we actually are producing a a kind of child that is that is um not not what we're looking for. First of all, anxious Alice. Now, you're going to see yourself in some of these too, by the way. So get ready. Alice doesn't have a deep sense of her total forgiveness and acceptance in Christ. She says she trusts Jesus, but she actually bases her sense her sense of God's love for her on how well she manages to obey at the moment. She's constantly insecure and her sins nag at her. She's convinced God is often disappointed with her and might not be save uh might not be saving her. Anxious Alice is not able to love God. How could she? She harbors a suspicion that he might he may actually be bent on sending her to hell, or at least is often annoyed with her. Since she's trying to impress God, she comes to resent him. When she says she loves him, she's only faking it, and she knows it. Now, do you think that there are children that grow up in churches and teenagers that come and over time this becomes the mentality in their lives? Have you ever have you maybe even seen it? Maybe you've seen it your own life a little bit. Let's go to the next one. Smug Sarah. Sarah doesn't have a deep sense of her sinfulness, so she's presumptuous and ungrateful. Even if she admits that she sometimes sins, she's convinced herself that she's not that bad. And she keeps up a good image to convince others as well. Smug Sarah II is not able to love God She has no reason to. She's never come to grips with how much she mocks God and how much Jesus has done for her in spite of that. Besides, since she hardly sees her sin, she hardly feels any need to repent. She's not becoming a stronger Christian because she won't admit that she needs to. Now we're talking here about children that may know Christ, but because of the way that we're teaching, this might be happening. This happens when the preaching is this way. If the preaching of God's word every week is you need to do this, you need to do that, you don't need to do this, you don't need to do that, if that's all you're getting You're seeing God's holiness and you're seeing your sin and there's nothing else like Christ. uh then you're gonna end up you could end up being a smug Sarah or a what was the other one? Anxious anxious Alice too Complacent Kyle is the next one. Kyle doesn't sense the full scope of his of the salvation God gives him. He doesn't see how Christ in him is the power of God to conquer sin and change him in thrilling ways. Now and then he may try to use his Christianity to become a better person. But he's not interested in fostering an all-out reliance on God that produces genuine holiness. Complacent Kyle, like the others, is not able to love God. Why would he when there's no thrill in the relationship? He may he may try to concoct some excitement by finding ministry with a snazzy praise band, not in our church, and a fun uh and a fun leader or by joining in some church project, but he's actually bored with Jesus. You think that there are children that grow up that way and they get to their teenage years years and they're that way. Are there adults that way? Alright. So there's three possibilities. He says, now here's the kicker. Many church kids I know struggle with all three of these at the same time. When I show these sketches to Christian teens and ask that ask which they're most like, very few try to say none. Most have a hard time picking just one. It seems puzzling that a kid can be both smug and anxious. But that's the sort of confusion that results when the good news isn't at the top of our minds Only the good news fights both smugness and insecurity, declaring both that we're horribly sinful, yet more loved by God than we could dare imagine. It also tells us that through the power of God's working in us, we can change. There's a lot there, and I do need to move on. But he makes really important points here. We make a mistake if we think kids are saved by hearing the good news and trusting Jesus, but then grow as Christians in some other way. Paul tells the Colossians to continue in the faith that they first had, not shifting from the hope of the gospel that you heard. The good news that we're forgiven, adopted, and forever. I need to move on. There's lots of good stuff here. Read the book, okay? That would be your that would uh this should incline you to read the book, but I do need to move on. Let let me let me let's look at this passage though. This is this is Titus 2, 11 through 15. And I really want to drive this point home as we already have this morning, but I want to drive it home again at night. If we let's read through this passage, and what I want us to try to do is to try to separate the good news of the gospel from good behavior. Let's try to s let's see if we can separate them. For the grace of God that brings salvation has appeared to all men, teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lusts We should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present in the present age, looking for the blessed hope and the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ. Who gave himself for us that he might redeem us from every lawless deed and purify for himself his own special people, zealous for good works. Speak these things, exhort, and rebuke with all authority, let no one despise you. Could you do it? You can't do it. To try to separate the good news from good behavior, they go together. You will never have good behavior if you are not applying the good news of the gospel. If you are, you're going to be doing it in your own strength, in your own self, in your own flesh. So we have to learn to apply the gospel to good behavior. Um this this then he okay so how does this work? He says this. The court we're gonna ask the question, how does Christian growth stall? He said, think of a kid who is a new Christian at once start uh starting to see God's light. As he learns the beam of light in his life. It shows him two things, God's holy demands and his sin, and that he falls short from it. So you see here, God's holiness this way, and he sees his own sinfulness this way. Okay? And because he has just come to Christ, what does he see most prominently between the two? Christ. That Christ bridges the gap. between God's holiness and his sinfulness, that because of Christ, he can be right before God. He has right standing before God. But if we start from there, start teaching only on these two points that God he sees God's holiness And he sees in sinfulness. So we start teaching on hey you need to have this behavior. You've got to have this behavior, you've got to have this behavior, this guy and God is holy and he has he this is this is this is how he's holy, this is what he does, and he's just and We start teaching on the character of God and we start teaching on the hu uh on on, okay, and you need to do this, then here's what happens. There's a gap problem that occurs. You notice that the light is coming. That's like the teaching. And we're teaching about the holiness of God and we're teaching about sinfulness. And Christ, the cross is is not as prominent. It's not close. And so there's like gaps between the two. In other words, the child began or the adult for that matter begins to say, Well, I see God's holiness here and I see my sin, but I don't see how I'm supposed what I don't see uh he becomes frustrated almost because he doesn't see how Christ is the answer for that or how Christ is the is is the the the solution for the problem, the gap between our sin and his holiness. Look There is always a gap between our sinfulness and God's holiness, which is why we have to constantly have Christ so prominent in our lives. He says it this way, the kid becomes an anxious Alice. Think about this. So, this is how this happens. He's aware that his good deeds aren't good enough and that his feelings for God aren't strong enough. He knows that. He knows he's a hypocrite and is secretly haunted by guilt. He becomes a pretender, constantly scheming to make himself, his friends, and his parents believe the situation isn't so bad He tries working harder to do better, but with no success. So, he also acts like complacent Kyle He fills the gap between the cross and God's holiness by pretending that God's demands aren't really so extreme. Whatever little obedience he can muster up, he tells himself must be okay. The same kid acts like a smug Sarah too. He fills the gap between the cross and and sin by pretending his sin actually isn't so horrible. He stops repenting. Instead to keep up a Christian image, he will lie, get defensive when corrected. tear what other uh tear others down and do churchy things or obey his parents only to look good. This is really revealing, is it not? And and I think all of us who grew up in churches can identify with that kind these kinds of tendencies in our own lives until we get a hold until the cr until we really have the gospel prominent our view. And so what you see here in this this illustration is you have What what we tend to do if we just focus on God's standards and we focus on our our sin and our need to adjust to God's standards without Christ. If we keep doing this, then we we begin to try to lower God's standards. Or we tend to tend to try to raise our, hide our sin, because we're trying to bridge the gap there. Instead of understanding that in every single area of our lives and in everything we learn, whether it's on with with with regard to God's character or our our state The answer is always Christ. He bridges the gap because he is both completely holy and he loves us and he's paid the price for us. In short, the kid's Christian ghost stalls. Learning more about God's greatness can't help him because he can't handle it. Telling him to sin less and obey more can't help either. Because he fights back, tunes out, or both For a church kid, this stall can happen very soon after becoming a Christian because he already knows so much about God and sin. I mean you're all you know kids learn all kind they they they absorb a lot and they're learning a lot a lot about God and learning about a lot about sin. And if they don't if a Christian child doesn't understand that Christ his role in all of this, uh, then this can easily happen. Uh this is what should be happening. He knows he's forgiven and accepted as God dearly as God's dearly loved child. He has an assurance a security, a settled assurance of that. He just he knows that to be the case. That's the goal of a uh uh of A Christian, God's goal for a Christian is that he has a settledness about his position in Christ and who he is in Christ. And once he's settled about that, then he can learn more about the holiness of God. And he can learn more about his own sinfulness, and he understands that Christ is the answer still And every single thing he's learning about his sinfulness. If you know, it's true. Is it true, folks, as you grow in cr as you learn more as you as as you learn more and you you continue in the faith Uh you learn more about yourself. It's there's sometimes in the Christian life you almost feel like you're going the wrong way because you're learning more and more about your sin. You ever feel that way? You realize God's how holy God is, and you realize how sinful you are. Actually, it's not that you're sinning more, it's that you just know you know more about your sin. And the answer we have to when we understand that we have to find what our answer is in Christ. So the better way here is to show them Jesus. And I don't have time to I could go into a whole lot more here. And we may need to have future lessons about this. to to do this practically. But what we want to do now is well let me ask you any questions about this? Any uh I'll ask a few questions now, but we do have more to go over here. But um any questions about the overall approach here? Or objections. Well, you say that might be boring to teach about Jesus every single Sunday. Nobody would actually say that. Kevin? I would think that. with this idea of keeping Jesus in each lesson specifically to the point so the children aren't insecure about their relationship with God. I would think there might be a tendency to over And over overemphasize Jesus show lesson in each lesson, but we're paranoid about not focusing on that every lesson. I would think there's a little balance and a little um Like some some lessons that might be as simple, aren't you so glad that Jesus loves you and that he is willing to forgive your sin and you spent a couple minutes and it's not like you can spend uh 60% of your lesson reteaching the doctrine Okay, let me let me sort of address that. When we're approaching any kind of lesson or story What should what is our the question is what is what's our going to be our main goal? Kevin, what do you think? What's going to be our goal? God's identity, the real Christ to them. And and the revealing of that to create the knowledge they need him and the knowledge that he wants Okay. So as long as that's our goal, our goal is to reveal Christ to them, then um I I don't think I think that reviewing I I I I think you make a good point in the sense that this is not a matter of let's review the gospel, the let's go through the plan of sal the exact plan of salvation for six sixty percent of the time every single time. I think that's what you're what you're saying. However, um The gospel is so much more than the 15-minute plant presentation of the of of the gospel. The fifth a 15-minute, twenty-minute presentation of the gospel is is the bare minimum you need to be able to come to Christ. But the gospel involves this whole book. I mean, this is the revealing of the gospel. That's what it is. And so I think it's important for us to understand that every passage in some way has some connection to the gospel and it's our responsibility to find what that connection is. Instead of saying, well this this teaches a pra a practical story about how my my kids cannot lie. There's something else, there's more going on there in every passage. Does that make sense? Yeah. Would it be a matter of like making sure the kids know where the power to do right something. In some cases that's probably exactly what it is, yeah. Like rather than just say don't lie, then price is truth, price always tells the truth, and he could help us tell the truth. Yeah, I I think if let's let's say we're talking about God being an all an all a truthful God. That He is always He is always um true. Okay. And we're saying you need to be always truthful. W we need to uh uh yeah, we need to uh uh help them under understand that our that we will not be able to do that. Um yes you need to, but no you can't, and that's why you need Christ. Does that make sense? Um and so and so I think that's a that's and and and and then also this. We need to ask ourselves the question, why, okay, and I think really this is helpful. Why do why do we need to be truthful to God. Well why do we need to have that? Well because I have a relationship with Christ. I want to please him. I want to please God. It's not because I'm trying to satisfy some overarching demand It's because I love him and I want to please him because he first loved me. It's it's a different it's a it's a different approach. It's a personal relational approach rather than here's a here's something you need to do. Does that make sense? Okay. Yeah. So we really want to especially in in Christian children, we want to create a appreciation and a security of Jesus and in God. Yeah. how we do we're our goal is to is to foster a relationship with Christ. We we want our kids to love Jesus and to and to and that Um and that we the reason they do right is because they love Christ, and the reason they love Christ is because Christ loves them. I mean that's Does that make sense? I think I think that's the goal rather than we we need to be careful about, well you just need to do this, you need to obey your parents. Well why? It's not because you just should. It's because you love w it's to please the Lord because we love him. That's why we so we're and it's not always about Saying just saying that, it's about demonstrating the greatness of who Christ is. Demonstrating how much He loves us, those kinds of things. Okay. And that he meet meets those just demands that God has. We don't diminish the holiness of God. We simply say that, and we don't diminish the fact that we can't reach the holiness of God. we emphasize the fact that Christ is the only one who can. So good good good points. Alright, let's um Let's go ahead and I'm gonna have Carol come up and she's what she's gonna do then is she's going to show you how this is gonna we're gonna implement this particularly in junior church. And then we're gonna have questions and answers about everything afterwards as well. So Carol, if you if you don't mind coming on on up and if I need to lower this, I will. Okay. And this is the clicker, so you can. You can point it anywhere actually, but but but that's said so this button right here you can just push that and it'll move. Okay. Okay. Okay. All right. Well I want to have a lot of people. Oh. I need to give you this probably. Sorry. Um well this is you know what, maybe if I just hold it. Maybe if I just put it here or something. I can if that We're doing it for the recording more than what you can just read or read a little bit. I think it's good. Is it good? What I want to do is I want to talk to you about About our specific curriculum, which is generations of grace. And um it Helps us teach this way. That's basically why we chose this curriculum. It helps us teach this way. But in that, um it's In the beginning it's a little more difficult because it's not regular Baptist press. It's it's not the moralistic story that you could do off the cuff, that you know and So it requires more time. It requires more preparation. It's actually designed, and this is really cool. It is a much better way to teach. It's designed to deepen your own study and your own understanding of God's Word. And the lesson flows from that. Now, it's a three-year program that covers the narrative of God's redemptive plan. And we know that starts in the beginning of the Bible and carries through. And it has a gospel spotlight that shows throughout the Old Testament how God preserved Christ's line and pointed to his coming. It has that gospel spot tie we I I assume that this is much clearer when we get to the New Testament. We're still in Book 2, so we're still in our Old Testament stories. But it gives us that link. It shows us where w how to connect the gospel with the story. It also has a coordinating family devotional. And I will say this, it's good, but it's not perfect. It's written by men So if you see something that's not quite right, because I know that some of you have in different lessons that might not line up with um you know our the way we think about secondary doctrines and such, just either shoot an email you shoot an email to Pastor Jim, for sure. You're welcome. So I just want to show you, as as we look into the book, it's divided into two color-coded sets of instructions. Blue, which is your study of the lesson, and then green, which is your teaching tools So I want to go, I want to look at these a little bit so that you can kind of understand how they work. And we'll start with the specifics of your own personal study. And that is back to the blue. Okay, so and I've taken pictures out of my book. I apologize, they're not beautiful, they have shadows and stuff, but um it's You all have your books and you know if you teach from it. The central truth identifies the theme and the focal point of your lesson and it focuses on who God is and what God does. Even more so, more so than characters. I flip through the book and every central truth in my book begins with the word God. So um As we go on, then we see that we also have supporting truths and objectives. And you have a key verse, which you may or may not incorporate in the lesson, but it's the heart of the lesson. And then you have supporting truths. They're specifics about what God's doing. that teach toward the central truth and objectives that help explain the what and the how and the why of what God's doing and what he desires from us. Now we also have the lesson summary that identifies the Bible passage and summarizes it in its context. And then we have that very important spotlight on the gospel. And this connects each lesson to the gospel. This is your personal like nuts and bolts for putting lesson together. And this is what you come back to. All of these working parts are what you come back to when you put your personal outline together Then you have this wonderful lesson commentary. And this is designed to give you in-depth personal understanding. of the passage. Now you are not to read this in class. Um this is oh although this curriculum is designed for three to twelve year olds. This is probably a little deep for three to for twelve year olds even, but our class is younger. Our class is uh made up of three to seven year olds with parental discretion on that older end. And um so what you want to do with um this lesson commentary is read through it. Read through it at least a couple times. For me, myself, because I'm older and I have trouble retaining, I start earlier in the week. Um I start prayerfully and I start early. And um I will read this a couple times. maybe with a day or two in between so I can digest it and think about it. And then also in different um translations I will read the scripture passage several times. And um so I might read it on Monday and then again on Wednesday, the week before the Sunday or Tuesday and Thursday. But I figure since my teaching commitment is only once every other month to put a good week into studying this is not a bad thing So um we really want to take time learning what we're teaching And then probably for me, again, because I have a hard time remembering, on Saturday is usually when I put my lesson outline together. So um did I skip one? Okay. Less than that one. Okay. In your book, um there are At least two, and I thought there used to be three, but I know there are at least two, different sets of outline points for three to five year olds and six to eleven year olds. What I usually find is the three to five year old outline. is not enough and the 6 to 11 is way too much. So I wind up putting my own outline together. And like I said, for me this is usually happening on Saturday afternoon And um I pray through it. I pray through what I've been studying and I ask God to show me um what He wants me to teach And so I start on my computer with an outline. Then I go to the lesson questions and I want to make sure that I'm going to answer the lesson questions and again depending on what portions of the outline you've put together depend on what questions you're going to use and answer Then we oh also you can use that uh you can use your lesson questions as a review at the end or you can use them at a game because what I'm coming to next, the lesson activities. You definitely want to use some of to make this interactive because I don't care how wonderful of a storyteller you are. Kids are not just going to sit and listen to a story for 30, 40 minutes. It's not gonna happen. So we want to get them engaged. We want it to be interactive. And we have Introduce, Illustrate, and Apply. And you can pick and choose this. to insert in your lesson to make it interactive with the kids because when it's We just know that children learn better that way. When they can take part, they learn better. So you prayerfully craft your teaching outline using the green stuff And this, what I have up here, is you do not, I'm not saying this is the only way to do it, but this is how I do my sample lesson. Sorry. And it's just A front and a back. It's kind of my roadmap on where I want to go. I do it on a landscape page that can fold in half that I can have a front and back of because that way it fits right in my Bible and I have my Bible and then I have my outline that I'm going to teach from. It's my notes to self. And the other thing that I also put on this is the class time structure. And because we rotate teachers, it's very important so the kids can have consistency that we all keep the same class structure. We start by everybody should be taking attendance in the beginning. We move on to rules of respect that we should cover every single time they come in because they need to know what is expected of them. Um and we start with respect for God, of course. But they need to know what's expected. And this is preventive discipline because if you let them know what's expected, they hopefully will remember. And also when you need to redirect and you need to correct, you can come right back to something you've said 10, 15, 20 minutes ago, and it's easier for them to remember than something they learned a month ago. Then we actually go to your Bible lesson outline, you presenting with the interactive tools that you've been given, and then some kind of a review or closing. So that's the structure that all of our junior church classes should have. And with that, does anybody have any questions? Miranda. Um for the interactive session, sometimes the book will like show a picture of a little graph You can find this material in a book that I can't find. Where where do we find the is like a trap book or something? Do we have that? Or you're the one who orders the material. I know I know we have coloring sheets over the um I think we often not buy a craft book interest in in that one. Well it's it's a mat I don't I guess it's not there. If that's something that teachers that you think you should use, just let Carol know. And she can email her on that. And uh and uh we'll get the we'll get the uh Okay, another question. Does anybody who has been teaching from the curriculum have anything they want to add? Okay. Okay. Um sometimes and I don't know if I've noticed it so much in this principle that I haven't got it. Um they'll jump over whether it's fit in the three years or whatever, but they'll skip over lessons or stories in the Bible that are typically taught. I think it does that. When you come to you or a pastor and say I remember it happening with another curriculum where they Almost all of Daniel. There was like one story and there's a lot of good story maker on Daniel. I mean So how often are you finding that to be the case? Um well But I know that I know it it happened in other curriculums. I think it's happened in this one. I think we've also had all have time for a lesson it's like, whoa, how do we make this inappropriate? Um not that they're inappropriate, but like that they're just not they're more historical I can't I think that there was like one about entering the land or something and there was a lot of historical captivity stuff. And so I if there's something that we think maybe it's is missing or that should like maybe we could just move on through this. Can we go with somebody or who we go through or are we just gonna go with what we have? Do you set the schedule I do, and I'm getting ready to set one right now. And we had who who was it with? We I'm looking around. I'm not seeing. We we had one where actually something was skipped and it was very easy enough to to pull it back in and that's what we did. We looked at it together and And that's what we did. And it was a familiar enough story that it was something that they knew. So it was it was easy to hit the facts, but you kind of needed it to get from A to B. Yeah. Um they do give you um where'd it go? They do give you this what they did last week and you do have the book too, so you can you can look back. But last week, this week and next week, so you kind of know where your lesson is in the context of things too. I I would definitely say email Email us and let us know. That's the biggest problem with We included it in the lesson as a brief mention to get them from A to B, the thing that was scaled. And it works fine. Yeah, and that that might be the best way to do it. If you if you let us know, it is possible that we could factor that in for the next schedule if it's you know there would be advantage to doing that. Um but uh for the next time But it's gonna be years, basically. So um but you know letting us know it wouldn't hurt Any other questions for me or for Carol? Any of this, whether it's we're talking about the philosophy of an approach or teaching this particular material. I I'm thinking particularly of newer teachers, teachers that haven't taught before. We do we're missing some newer teachers But this is n this is different than teaching taking a Bible story and teaching it. Um Uh it's so so they ask the questions now, basically. I mean it if you have any questions the and And I I would also say that if you're if you're still if you look at a lesson, like look ahead but one of the advantages of doing this is you can see that it's pretty involved. It's not insurmountable. But it it's someone involved. So if you start early and you run into a problem and you say, Hey, you know, I'm really not sure how to put this together, if you started two weeks early, then you can go and and talk to Carol and say, Hey, I've started this And talk to her, not me. But I I actually don't um I can tell you about this how about the the the text but I don't I've never taught from this before. She has, so it's better better for you. So but if you w start early enough then you can you can say hey Carol can you help me with this? And I can offer Carol's health care. And then when I don't know what to do, I can point you back to best of Jim's. That's usually things do when we play ping pong with people. Well, it's mainly things like uh a sequence of of how a c you know or um I'll give you an example. Um when it's said that able uh I think is one that somebody came to me with. Um when it said that was that was it. I couldn't think of it. She couldn't think of it either actually this morning. So so Abel uh it's the the t the the the curriculum said It was because Abel obeyed um call obeyed the had the blood sacrifice, I think, is what they were saying. But actually the Old Testament never actually says that The reason that Abel's sacrifice was accepted was not because it was a blood sacrifice. It's because he did it by faith. That's clear in Hebrews chapter eleven. So our teacher taught caught it. They said, you know, the way that this is put, it's really but it is kinda I mean some people it it It's not exactly I mean it could be debatable a little bit. It's not like if somebody teaches that they're teaching heresy. It's a common assumption you hear other places. So they a they came to say. Yeah, this is not what do you think? And I said, Yeah, actually Hebrews eleven is really clear on why Abraham or why Abel's uh sacrifice was accepted. So yeah, teach it teach it away you're Yeah. We've gone through this product, right? Not all of it. Well, I don't think it's I I haven't seen anything that is a major document. Oh I b oh we've looked through it and I haven't seen yeah. Yeah, I haven't seen anything that's it's it's good material it's by it's by John MacArthur's group and Matthew Semmer. But so good question though. Alright, any other questions about this material? Or about anything with Okay. Hopefully hopefully this was helpful. uh and in in and also each each of you have a partner so so asking your partner for help and hey how do you do this that would be also a really good thing to do uh as well and um and work together on on this. It's really a good thing because it will child you know when you teach and you teach the Bible the way it's intended to be taught, you will learn The best way to look to teach to learn scripture, uh I mean one of the m is to teach. When when you teach, you're probably only teaching, you should be, only teaching probably twenty percent of what you've actually learned. That you're we should be teaching from an overflow. And uh and this material allows for that. It's all in one place, and it's a lot of material, and you can sift through it, and then you can teach you could teach from a a a body of knowledge rather than a rather than a um uh just okay here's a here's a story and and going from there. Okay. Alright. And and it don't don't be intimidated by it. You'll you'll get it. Some of you might be intimidated right now. Don't don't be intimidated by it. Okay, uh we're going to close in prayer, I think, at this point. I I