Let there be light. Some of the first words ever recorded. Words that were spoken by God, the Father of light. One who is and will always be pure light. Into this perfect world, God created man. Not only did God create man, but he also sought to have a close friendship with mankind. Then God said, Let us make man in our image, according to our likeness. Let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the air, and over the cattle, and over the all the earth And over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. So God created man in his own image. The image of God created him. Male and female, he created them. For I have created him for my glory. I have formed him, yea, I have made him. For the word of God the Father, from before the world began, every star and every planet has been fashioned by your hand. All creation holds together by the power of your voice. Let the skies declare your glory, let the land and seas rejoice. The author of creation, you're the Lord of every man, and your cry of love rings out across the lands. Now the serpent was more cunning than any beast of the field which the Lord God had made. And he said to the woman, Has God indeed said ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden? And the woman said to the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden, but of the fruit of the tree in the midst of the garden, God has said, You shall not eat it, nor shall you touch it lest you die Then the serpent said to the woman, You shall not surely die, for God knows that in the day you eat of it, your eyes will be opened and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree desirable to make one wise, he took of its fruit and ate She also gave to her husband with her, and he ate. Then the eyes of both of them were opened, and they knew that they were naked, and they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves coverings. And they heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day. And Adam and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord among the trees of the garden. For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. For a time mankind enjoyed a pure and close relationship with With their creator in the Garden of Eden. But one day there entered an enemy of God. This enemy sought to corrupt man's relationship with God. Like a poison, it latched on to man and sought to consume him with darkness and sin, separating him from his savior. Nothing between my soul and the Savior. Not on this foring I have renounced for single pleasure is a sin There's nothing between nothing between my soul and the Savior so that his blessings If they make the seam, nothing preventing police of his favor Eat all weakly let not be And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. And it repented the Lord that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him at his heart. And the Lord said, I will destroy man whom I have created from the face of the earth. both man and beast and creeping thing and the fowl of the air, for it repenteth me that I have made them. But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. The years that followed man's first sin only grew worse. Once sin had come between man and God, mankind only became darker. Instead of fervently seeking the light they once enjoyed, they dove deeper into darkness and wickedness Over time, that darkness had become so consuming on the earth that man's actions and thoughts were only evil. Without a close relationship with their creator, the one who is light Man was powerless to stop the spread of darkness. With on him I surely fail. If on him I would be drifting. Like a shit Jesus, oh Jesus, do you know? With out him I would be dying. With thought him I'd ensure I'm not sure. But with Jesus and God I saved. Jesus, oh Jesus, do you know him today? Do not turn him away, oh J. Jesus or Jesus with him how lost I would be. Times when life seems gentle and blessings flood my ways I turn my ears. Gaze away from you and still forget to pray, but when the sky grows darker And current returns to hear my angel voice cries outward. With words you long to hear, Lord I I need you when the sea of life is come, O Lord, I need you when the wheel of In this blow being strong, where you're more cease. Leave me always on my knees for my As God watched man fall deeper into sin and the suffering that it brings, he chose to send a message to a man named Abraham. This message contained a promise, a promise of incredible blessing, a promise that Abraham would be used to bless the entire world and bring it out of darkness God only asked Abraham to have faith. Now the Lord God had said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country and from thy kindred. and from thy father's house, unto a land that I will show thee, and I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and I will make thy name great, and thou shalt be a blessing. And I will bless them that blesseth thee, and curse him that curseth thee. And in thee all families of the earth shall be blessed. By faith our fathers roam the earth with the power of his promise in their hearts of a holy City built by God's own hand, a place where peace and justice reign. We will stand as children of the promise. We will fix our eyes on him, our soul's reward, till the race is finished in the world. Work is on will walk by things and not by sight. By faith Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out to a place which he would not would receive as an inheritance. He went out not knowing where he was going. By faith he dwelt in a land of promise, as in a foreign country, dwelling in tents with Isaac and Jacob, and heirs with him of the same promise. For he waited for a city whose foundations, whose builder and maker is God. By faith Sarah herself also received strength to conceive seed. And she bore a child when she was past the age, because she judged him faithful who had promised Therefore, from one man, and him as good as dead, were born as many as the stars of the sky in multitude, innumerable as the sand which is by the seashore Though Abraham was not a perfect man, he did demonstrate great faith in God. He obeyed God's commands and began a journey away from everything he knew. For his obedience and faith, God greatly blessed Abraham and his family. But as Abraham grew old, his children did not value serving God as he did And slowly Abraham's family drifted away from God. They thought less and less of serving God, who had blessed them. Slowly their faith in God dwindled away. It wasn't long before most of Abraham's family was once again in darkness. They had forgotten their God and the promise they had received. O great God of highest health, arguify my holy heart, O need all and reign supreme, conquer every rest. Beble far, let no wise forcing remain that resist your only war You have loved and purchased me. Make me yours forever. In those days there was no king in Israel, but every man did that which was right in his own eyes. For many, many years, the nation of Israel faithfully served God and enjoyed immense blessings from a close relationship One sinful thought at a time, they drifted away from God. Israel forgot the promise they had made so long ago to love and obey God. Here I raise mine ever easier, hither by thy help I'm called. And I hold by thy good pleasure saving to arrive at home. Jesus won me when a stranger wandering from the full of gone. He to rescue me from danger, interposed his precious love. Oh to grace, how great a debtor daily I constrain to be. Let thy goodness like a feather find my wandering heart to thee Prone to wonder Lord, I feel it. Prone to leave our God I love. Here's my heart old take and seal it, seal it for thy courts of ar For years, mankind struggled to live a life that was pleasing to God. Even the best of men found themselves sinning and falling so very short of God who cannot allow sin. Many men chose not to care about serving God. They happily embraced a life of sin, and they either ignored or even denied that God existed. But some men remembered when mankind had been close to God, and they longingly looked for a time when man would once again be close to their Creator. To these men, there came whispers of hope. Slowly, God gave mankind a glimpse of his next promise. Since the time that I commanded judges to be over my people Israel, and have caused you to rest from all your enemies, also the Lord tells you that He will make you a house. When your days are fulfilled and your rest with your fathers, I will set up your seed after you, who will come from your body, and I will establish his kingdom. And he shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. The people that walked in darkness have seen a great light They that dwell in the land of the shadow of death, upon them have the light shined. For unto us a child is born Unto us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counselor, the Mighty God, the everlasting Father. the Prince of Peace, of the increase of his government, and peace there shall be no end. Upon the throne of David And upon his kingdom to order it and to establish it with judgment and justice from henceforth even forever. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this. Oh calm, oh, call me manual, and ransom captives right. That morning exile yeah Until the Son of God rejoice, rejoice in my. Shall come to be always right Hundreds of years passed, and God's mysterious promise of salvation still had not come. God's incredible promise had been passed down, and some were still looking, waiting, believing God would keep his promise Their faith would soon be rewarded, for God was preparing to keep his promise in the most incredible way. While she was eagerly awaiting her marriage, a messenger of light, and the other thing, and the other thing that we've got to do, and the other thing that we've got to do, and the other thing that we're doing, and the other thing that we're doing, and the other thing that we're doing, and the other thing that we're doing, and the other thing that we're gonna do, and the other thing that we're gonna do, and the other thing that we're gonna do, and the other thing that we're gonna do, and the other thing that we're gonna do, and the other thing that we're gonna do, and the other thing that we're gonna do, and the other thing that we're gonna do, and the other thing that we're gonna do, and the other thing that we're gonna do, and the other thing that we're gonna do, and the other thing that we're gonna do, and the other thing that we're gonna do, and the other thing that we're gonna do, and the other thing that we're gonna do, and the other thing that we're gonna do, and the other th She had been chosen by God to be used in his Plan to save the entire world from the sin in which they lived. She had been chosen to bear the Son of God. Soon God sent a second message. This one was given to the young man who was about to be married. The message explained that his bride was carrying God's son, who had been sent from heaven to bring a light Light to a dark world. To a virgin espoused to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David, and the virgin's name was Mary. And the angel came in unto her and said, Hail, thou art highly favored. The Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou among women. And when she saw him, she was troubled at his saying, and cast in her mind what manner of salutation this should be. And the angel said unto her, Fear not, Mary, for thou hast found favor with God And behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb, and bring forth a son, and shall call his name Jesus. He shall be great, and shall be called the Son of the Highest, and the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father David. And he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever, and his kingdom there shall be no end. Then Joseph, her husband, being a just man and not willing to make her a public example, was minded to put her away privily. But while he thought on these things, behold, the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a dream, saying Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take unto thee Mary, thy wife, for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Ghost And she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sin. Now all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken of the Lord by the prophet, saying, Behold, a virgin shall be with child. and shall bring forth a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is God with us. Then Joseph, being raised from sleep, did as the angel of the Lord had bidden him, and took unto him his wife And knew her not till she had brought forth her firstborn son, and he called his name Jesus. Oh the full town of Bethlehem, how still we see thee life above thy dependent. Seamlessly the silence stars go far, yelling like Street shiny everlasting light, though hopes and fears, all over years. Or met in me too. What child is this to lay to rest on merely sleep? Angels read with handsome sweet of the This is Christ not king sharp and angel seek. He says to bring him lay the sun of And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night. And lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone around about them, and they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them Fear not, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord And he shall be a sign unto you. He shall find the babe, wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of heavenly hosts praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, goodwill toward men. And it came to pass as the angels were gone away from them into heaven. The shepherds said one to another, Let us now go even unto Bethlehem, and see this thing which has come to pass, which the Lord hath made known unto us. The news of God's coming to earth spread quickly. Out on the mountains, a group of humble shepherds watched their sheep When suddenly the quiet night was interrupted by a host of angels praising God and sharing the news of His coming. Eagerly, these angels waited to watch God keep his promise of salvation to mankind. For those who had studied the prophecies and were looking for the light, it was a great day of celebration. In the years that followed, there were many more that searched for and rejoiced because of the coming of Christ. Some have been waiting for God's earlier promises to be fulfilled. Others have been diligently looking for signs of Christ's birth. As God had promised so many years before, light had come to earth, as it never had before, and the world rejoiced. Angels from the realms of glory wing your flight o'er all the earth, Jesus sang creation story now brought. Messiah's birth calm and worship, calm and worship, worship Christ the newborn King Shepherds in the The fields abiding, watching o'er your flocks by night. God with man is now residing, yonder shines the infant. Line calm and worship, calm and worship, worship Christ the newborn King. Know the word of God into sea can save the law. And they stay the joy of heaven for the anguish of a cross. With a prayer you fed the hungry, with a word you call the seed. Yet how sight. Violently you suffered that the guilty may go free You're the author of creation, you're the Lord of every man, and you're cry of love Brings us across the land Then spake Jesus again unto them, saying, I am the light of the world. He that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. I am come a light into the world, and whosoever believeth on me shall not abide in darkness. And this is the condemnation. That the light has come into the world, and men love darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil. For everyone practicing evil hates the light and does not come to the light, lest his deeds be exposed. As Jesus grew, he began to shine the message of light to a world that was plagued by the darkness of sin. Christ's message asked mankind to realize that they were unable to fight sin on their own. They needed to repent and to put their trust in Him. Christ offered forgiveness for sins and freedom Freedom from the darkness that living in sin will bring. As God's message of forgiveness began to spread, sin once again sought to separate man from God. Some eagerly embraced and followed God's Son, trusting that he would fulfill God's earlier promise Others rejected God's Son and chose to live a life of their own choices and sinful desires. The whole world was lost in the darkness of sin. The light of the world is Jesus, like some day. For each journey, the wine of the world is being caught unto the white shining for me. We live away and dawn up on me. Once I was wine, but now I can be The light of the world is Jesus. He dwellers in darkness with spin blinded eyes. The light of the What and his feet and light will arise, the light of the world is Jesus. Unto the light is shining for me. Sweetly the light has dawned upon me once I was. Fine, but now I can speak for my humble world is Thou cameest over with the beauty. Words that let my people dream But with buggy scorn and with ground of sport they born in All comes in my heart for thee, Jesus. There is woman in my heart for thee. Now from the sixth hour there was darkness over all the land under the ninth hour. And about the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, Eli, Eli, Lama Sabokhani That is to say, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Finally, the time had come for God to fulfill his promise to save man from their sin. God's message of salvation, of forgiveness, was received happily by some, but to those who rejected God's Son, his message only convicted them further of their sin. Their hearts were so unwilling to listen to God that they devised a plan that they thought would silence God's message for good. Jesus was arrested and charged with crimes he had not committed. He was tried and found to be innocent, but those who hated his message still demanded to have him killed. Jesus was mocked, beaten, and stabbed Nails were driven through his body, impaling him to a cross, where he was lifted up to slowly die, while mankind watched, laughed, and even cheered at his death. The very people he had come to save were unwilling to listen and believe. With one word, with one thought, Jesus could have stopped his pain. He could have freed himself and proven that he was God. But he didn't. There was something more important to Jesus than avoiding pain or proving his innocence Jesus was keeping a promise given hundreds of years before, and God always keeps his promises. With one final cry to God as Father, Jesus died that night. Those who had rejected Jesus celebrated his death. Those who had believed and followed Jesus took him down from the cross and buried him. Confused and sad, they waited It is night death to die, to leave this weary road and join us. To find their home with God It is nice there too long I see and wake in joy for your thoughts from our years for tears. Your friends the Lord has passed. Save all words talking you will in your mercy eyes that is not there. It is not death to me, as thy dis And rise be strong and all means to live among the doors Is he is not there to need Ye I lock the door that sets us free from all years to pray to evermore. Will in your mercy fight that is not For three days Satan celebrated, convinced that he had beaten God, that he had stopped God from keeping his promise to man. But God had promised to save mankind, to provide a way to defeat sin, and God always keeps his promise Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preach to you, which also you received, and in which you stand. by which also you are saved, if ye hold fast the word which I preach to you, unless you believed in vain. For I delivered to you first of all that which I also received, that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures. And that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. And that he was seen as Cephas, then by the twelve. After that he was seen by over five hundred brethren at once. of whom the greater part remain to the present, but some have fallen asleep. After that he had seen by James, then by all the apostles, For God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, has shined in our hearts, to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people, that ye should bring forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness. And in to his marvelous light. Again, a new commandment I write unto you, which saying is true in him and in you, because the darkness is past. And the true light now shineth. With a shout you rose victorious, wrestling victory from the grave, and ascended into heaven, leading past. Now you stand before the Father, interceding for your home, from each tribe and song and nation, you are leading sin. You're the author of creation, you're the Lord of every man, and your cry of love rings out across the land. Christ the Lord is risen today. Alleluia, sons of man and angels say. Hallelujah. Raise your joys and cry on eye. Alleluia. Sing in heaven or three. Why alleluya, love's revealing work is done, all The fight of battle war. Set him pain for his. For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men, teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in the present age Looking for the blessed hope and the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ, who gave Himself for us. That he might redeem us from every lawless deed, and purify for himself his own special people, zealous of good works. Hundreds of years have passed since Christ came and died on the cross, willingly paying for the sins of the world. Now, some are ready to see the God they love and serve. Long ago they trusted in Jesus to forgive them of their sin, and they haven't been enjoying a life close to the Savior and Creator. Others have trusted in Jesus, but since that decision, they have forgotten the God they once realized they desperately need it. They have become distracted from the one they once loved. Still, others have heard of God's promise to forgive their sin, but they have either ignored God or completely rejected His message of forgiveness. Now one of God's promises remains to be fulfilled. God has promised to return and take his own to heaven to be with him. And God always keeps his promises. What will you do with these ours? Even we need your soul. What will you do with Jesus? You can make you hold our biggest Savior of no glory, what will you do with Jesus? He wants to set you free. What will you do with Jesus? He who became your Savy with Jesus He who can cleanse with is giver almighty eternal. Victor of Hellman, what will you do with peace lost? So the question is, what will you do with Jesus? As we have read through the scripture passages and as we have sung songs. We've listened to narration. All of this is centered around one person, the God who became man, who dwelt among us, who died to pay the punishment for our sin. So that we could have eternal life and a relationship with God. So the question is, what will you do with Jesus? The Bible tells us, neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved. The only way that we can have a relationship with God, that we can be rescued from our sin is if we will accept the free gift of Christ. Who condescended to us to come down, who pierced the darkness of the sin of this world, and who died to pay the punishment for our sin so that we could be rightly related to him. The Bible tells us in John 1, verse 12: But as many as received him, to them gave he the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. The Bible tells us that if we will receive him, he will give us the ability to be able to accept him as our Lord and Savior. Also, for those of us who have accepted him as our Lord and Savior, the question still remains: what will you do with Jesus? It is a question that we ought to ask every day of our lives. The gospel is not something that we just accept and then we go on and live our lives as we choose. The gospel is such that God wants us to live every day asking ourselves the question. What will you do with Jesus? The Bible tells us that Jesus calls us to follow him. And so the question for us as well is: what will we do with him? Will we worship him the way that he desires to be worshipped? Will we serve him and live for him? Will we live out of gratefulness for who he is and what he has done for us? I would just say this, that if there is somebody here today that you would say, you know, I'm really not sure if I have the kind of relationship with God that that you're talking about. I I I never thought of myself as rejecting God. I never thought of myself as anti-Jesus. But I really have not accepted him, embraced him for my very own Savior, the way that you're talking about now, and the way the Bible clearly explains throughout Scripture. Never really done that before. Um well there are a lot of people in the world that think that they know the Lord. They would even name the name of the Lord. But they really don't know him. Because the Bible tells us, as we have already heard, that men love darkness rather than light because their deeds are evil. Our deeds are evil. Every one of us has sinned. Every one of us is separated from God. We're born that way because of our sin. And we don't like the light But Jesus Christ came and died to pay the punishment for our sin. If we will accept the light of the gospel, then we will be saved from our sin and have a relationship with Him The question really is, what will we do with Jesus? And so if there is somebody here that you would say to yourself, I'm just really not sure where I stand with Jesus, where my relationship is. is let me encourage you to do this. After the service, I'd encourage you to come and talk with me or with somebody else that you're comfortable with. And we'll take a Bible and we'll show you how you can, not from what Jim says or from somebody else's opinion. But what from God's Word the Bible says about how you can know for sure that you can have a relationship with God and spend eternity in heaven? So come and talk with me after the service. We're going to have a cookie fellowship. All are invited to that. We have cookies and hot chocolate in the back. Everybody's invited to come to that. But take me aside, I will immediately, if you say, hey, I want to know what to do with Jesus, will you help me? I will immediately stop whatever I am doing. And I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you. Or one of these people up here that that presented Any of us will be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you have truly a genuine, sincere relationship with God. the Lord. He is the only way. There is not a name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. Let's sing our final song, if you would, Enrique, come up and we'll sing Joy of the World. We are anticipating as those who know Christ our Savior. The coming of Christ. He's coming back, and he will receive us, and we can look forward to his coming. And really the joy of the world is a Christmas song, but it tells of the coming of Christ. For our final song, let's stand together as we sing Joy to the World. Joy to the world, the Lord is confident. receive her king let every heart repair him and heaven ending her sing and heaven ending her sing and heaven heaven Heaven and nature seek joy to the earth the Savior reigns Let men their songs employ while fields and fossils are still. Repeat, repeat the sounding joy, no more lessons and sorrow. North horns impress the ground He comes to May His blessing dawn For as the curse is found For as the curse is found For as, for as the curse is come, He rules the world with truth and grace, And makes the nation. Of his light just yes, and wonders of his love, and wonders of his love, and wonders, wonders of his love.