Bodies, buildings, and bucks. It seems it it almost seems as though we are just drawn that way. But what in God's mind, in Christ's heart, when he looks, let's just picture him looking down on all the churches that are meeting today? What would he say is a healthy church? And I would like to strongly urge you to think in terms of unity. Christ's concern for his church primarily in its first in his first prayer For the church at large is for unity in the body. And I can tell you, as I've been studying this, both in this m for last Sunday's message as well as this Sunday's message today, I have been very much just awakened by the reality that Satan will do anything To disrupt unity in the body. He does not want it to happen. He will stop at nothing. And he will use whatever means is necessary at his disposal because he knows full well that if there is unity in the body The influence is is in the world is not something that can even be measured It is very dangerous for us to compare from one church to another whether a church in our present day is one is healthier than another. But it is probably helpful for us to look at church history and to notice churches of the past that have come, have lived a full life. And seeing how healthy they may be. And there is one such church I want to mention this morning. From church history. One of my favorite people in church history actually is a man by the name of John Newton. John Newton is fairly well known. He is the one who wrote Amazing Grace. Many of you, when you hear his name, will think of a former tr slave trader who was amazingly brought to Christ. realized his own sinful state and realized God's amazing grace and his life. And he penned down the words, Amazing Grace, that have stood the test of time and transcended Into one generation after another until our present day. It's incredible that a slave owner wrote a hymn that has done what it has done. But what you might not know is really the context in which that hymn was written. John Newton, after he came to Christ For several years after, actually continued to be a slave owner until the Lord worked in his heart to cause him to realize that his actual vocation was sinful. And he gave it up. He took a job in a little town called Liverpool, and he began to study the Word of God intensely. And he began to have friends that helped him to study the Word of God as well. There were these peculiar people called the Baptists. and Presbyterians and Methodists that he began to talk with and they seemed to be really focused on the gospel and preservation of the gospel and centering on the gospel somewhat differently than the Anglican church that he was familiar with Well, during that time it was pretty much pretty difficult to be a pastor unless you were part of the Anglican Church. He, of course, was in England, and he applied to the Anglican Church actually seven different times, six times Uh he was turned down by various archbishops. He applied to be a pastor of those churches and uh the uh of uh uh of the church of uh the Anglican church and he was turned down that many times But finally, and and the and the issue was the controversy with the with the friends that he had. Uh the higher-ups in the Anglican Church did not like these evangelicals. They didn't like these people that were that were emphasizing the gospel and diminishing the authority of the Anglican Church and uh and exalting the authority of the word of God. They were not happy about that, and so they they that's why they turned him down so many times. But ultimately the seventh time that he applied, they accepted it. And he was given a church in a little town called Olni. It was about 2,000 residents strong in that little town. And he went to that little town and he began to really study the Word of God and faithfully preach the Word of God in that little town for several, for many years. Uh that little he began to preach the word and the and the word of just faithfully did that and it wasn't long before the people grew and they began to have prayer meetings in his own house He would hold prayer meetings during the week and there would be about seventy people, various people from the church that would come to these prayer meetings. And during these prayer meetings, they would he along with a man by the name of William uh William Cooper um they would write hymns for the for each for these meetings. And um and they wrote these hymns And it they never really intended them to be much more than just what they were. And that's where you have this hymn, Amazing Grace. among six other hymns that are in our commonly in our hymnals today. This was a healthy church. At that point it was not a church that influenced the great area of uh you know the the country of England. It wasn't as though Uh he was in London, for example, where there were many, many people. He later did end up going to London, but for many years he was in this town preaching to these people And and he we find he enjoyed every minute of it. In fact, he wrote to a friend over in Liverpool where he was and he said this. He said, and this was in nineteen sixty n uh seven, I'm sorry, nineteen not nineteen sixty 1769. We are quiet and happy at only. We don't know anything about disputes and divisions. If you pass a flock of sheep and a pasture toward evening, you may observe them all busy and feeding. Perhaps here and there one may look up to observe. He's using an illustration here to describe his own church. But will directly return to feeding. We care not who makes the noise, as long as we get the grass If they like talk talking, they may talk on. We'd rather eat. What he was saying there, he was referring to all the controversy that was a occurring in the a church Church of England, the Anglican Church, among the evangelicals and all the different people that were fighting over various issues, and he just decided to bear down and to preach and to feed his people faithfully and allow his people to feed on his word. And I thought it was really quite interesting how he did this. He didn't uh he didn't say they he didn't say to them, they were feeding. He said, we are feeding. You see, he understood that he was feeding on the Word of God along with everyone else. And they were a joyful church. They were a healthy church. They were a unified church that was unified around what? The Word of God. Not around any other thing. Simply unified around God's word. And I look at that, I look at that and I say, you know, that ought to be our goal. To simply unify around the Word of God. Christ said in this passage that the basis of our unity is the Word. It's not various opinions. It's not backgrounds. It's not a particular ministry. It's not a particular program. It's not a particular building. It's not a particular person It it is the word And the health of a church has to find its basis in unity, and that unity has to find its basis in the Word of God. And I'm thankful for examples in church history of a church like that who just simply said, let everybody else talk, we'd rather eat. Can we say that about us? Would we rather just feed on the Word of God and find our source of unity in that Well, Jesus here in John 17 is speaking. He's praying to his Father. And he says, Neither pray I for these alone, but for them also which shall believe on me, through their word. That they all may be one, as thou Father art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us, that the world may believe. that thou hast sent me. And then he says this in verse 22 And the glory which thou gavest me I have given them that they may be one. Even as we are one. He says that he has given us something in order that we may be able to be one. Even as he is one with his own father. The extent of that sentence, the extent of that fellowship is incredible. That we could have the kind of unity that he has with his father. On earth by the Word of God. But what is the glory here? What glory has He given us? We're going to find out after we go to the Lord in prayer. Lord, I pray that you would help us this morning. The earnest prayer of my heart and I believe your people as well, is that we would be unified around your word. I pray today, Lord, as we look at our role in this, at your provision, but at our role, I pray that you would help us. You would teach us. You would guide us. So that we would understand that we cannot muster up unity. We have a role to play, but we're going to have to draw on your strength. And I pray that you would help us to understand that. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. So what is the glory that he is talking about in verse 22? The glory that somehow because we have it We ought to be able to be unified the way that Christ is unified with his Father. Well, let's begin by just asking ourselves and reminding ourselves of what glory is. Glory is the manifestation of God's nature or his identity. It is the showing of God's nature, his identity. Do you remember when Moses said Show me thy glory. And God said to him, I can't show you everything. I can only show you my backside. That's all I can show you. You do not have the ability to be able to see all my glory. I'll show you what I can, essentially. But then we find in this book, in John chapter 1, it says, In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. Verse 14, the same in the beginning was with God. The word was made flesh and dwelt among us, and we did what? We beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. It says that Christ is the living word. He is the word. And because he came to earth, the disciples were able to see his glory, particularly at the Mount of Transfiguration, as you recall like over a year ago, as we looked at that passage. So when we're talking here about God's glory being given, we at first need to understand that when Christ came. He was able to, on some level, reveal that glory to his disciples, and it's penned down in John 1 that way. Then we see in this passage here that this particular glory is given by the Father to his Son. There is some sort of glory given to him that he is now going to pass on to us. I want you to notice something else about this passage. I'd like you to notice in verse 23 the result of this. It says, I in them, and thou in me. That they may be made perfect in one. In other words, whatever this glory is, is going to result in Christ being in us and us in Christ. So let me ask you a question. How is it that Christ can be in us? Now, with that question, I'd like you to take your Bibles and just go a few verses, a few chapters back. And would you notice what it says in John 16? Just one, actually one chapter back. John 16, verse 13. He says, Nevertheless, I tell you the truth, it is expedient for you that I go away. For if I go not away, the comforter will not come unto you. But if I depart, I will send him unto you. Would you look notice verse thirteen? How be it, when he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he will what does he say there? He will guide you into all truth, for he shall not speak of himself, but whatsoever he shall hear, he shall that he shall speak, and he shall show you things to come. He shall what Oh. Does that shed a little light on what he has given us? He shall glorify me, for he shall receive of mine and shall show it unto you. He shall receive of mine, and shall show it unto you. All things of the Father hath are mine. Therefore said I that he shall take of mine and shall show it Unto you. Folks, what is the glory he's speaking of here? It is the Spirit of God. That is, when Christ left, the Spirit of God came and dwells in us. and causes Christ to be in us and us in Christ, and so we can continue to see God's glory, at least in a veiled sense. Now there is a sense in which we will never be able to see God's glory to its fullest extent extent this side of heaven, right? But there is a sense in which we can see the nature of God and the character of God with two things. One, the Word of God, right? The Word of God is the revealer of God's character. But secondly, the Spirit of God. It is the Spirit of God that works inside of us to show us the significance of the truth of the Word of God, that we can see the nature of God. And that we can all unify around that. Now, with that in mind, then I'd like you to also turn to Ephesians chapter 4, if you would. Keep your finger in John 17. We're going to be back there, but Turn to Ephesians chapter 4. And while you're turning to Ephesians chapter 4, I'll verify that interpretation of the glory being the Spirit of God by reading to you first or just citing First Peter four fourteen, which actually names the Spirit of God as the Spirit of Glory. First Peter four fourteen. You might want to pen that down. 1 Peter 4. 14 says that the Holy Spirit is the Spirit of Glory. Now, in Ephesians chapter 4, verse 1, we have the prime passage on unity If you want to think of any book in the Bible that really expresses the unity of believers and the unity of the church more than any better than any other book, it is Ephesians chapter 4. Uh Ephesians as a whole, actually, but Ephesians chapter four. And it says this I therefore the prisoner of the Lord beseech you that ye walk worthy of the vocation wherewith ye are called with all lowliness and meekness with long suffering for bearing one another in love. Doing what? Endeavoring to what? To keep the unity of the Spirit. The unity of the what Right? Of the Spirit. It's the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. We noted last week this is a spiritual unity. It's not denominational, it's not mechanical, it's not administrative, it's not ecumenical, it is a spiritual unity, and in fact, it is maintained by the Spirit of God The Spirit of God, and in fact, the Spirit of God is what places us into unity when we come to Christ. That's called the baptism of the Spirit. 1 Corinthians 12, verse 13 tells us this, that we are all baptized into one body by his Spirit. Would you notice then also? It says verse 4: There is one body and one spirit, even as ye are called in one hope of your calling. Now, I want us to notice something about this passage as well. So it identifies clearly the connection of the spirit. I tell you what I need you to do. Keep your would you keep a marker in that passage and go back to your John 17 passage Okay, so we're gonna f go back and forth a little bit. We're gonna come back to John Ephesians 4. I'm I'm hopefully this is be will be okay. John seventeen, we're back there, and it says this. I in them and thou in me, notice what it says, that they may be what? Made perfect or let's put it this way, made complete in one of the Now, here's what's interesting about that phrase. It says that they may be made perfect in one. In other words, it tells us that Christ prayed for unity and the Spirit gives unity, but there is this potential but not yet happened kind of unity. This is in for you grammarians out there, this is in the perfect tense in the Greek. And it actually is in the per- I think it's in the perfect tense in the English, actually. But it's definitely in the perfect tense in the Greek. Now what that means is simply that when it has that when the Greek uses that tense, it basically is telling us that there is a past action with continuing results into the future. In other words, there or present action, it's a once-in-time action. There is this positional action. With continuing results into the future from that action. And what it's saying here is that Christ, the Spirit of God, when we come to Christ, establishes positionally a certain kind of unity. That we are positionally unified in Christ because we're all baptized or all identified into one body according to 1 Corinthians 12. And so you have this idea here. We're established positionally in unity. But there is also an idea, if you will, of a progressive unity. Or a practical unity. Do you remember when we talked about sanctification? We saw the same thing. There is a positional sanctification. Christ sets us apart when we come to Christ. But there is this progressive sanctification. And did you know it's the same thing with our unity? There is the our our progressive sanctification, or I'm sorry, is based upon an action that the Spirit of God did in our lives when we came to Him. There is a positional unity, but there's also a progressive unity. That means, folks, then, that there is a role for us to play, isn't there? In fact, we know that to be the case very clearly in Ephesians 4 because it says, endeavoring to keep the spirit of unity in the bond of peace. We've got a role to play. He says, walk worthy of the Vocation. Walk where the calling wherewith you're called. How? Be unified. First thing he says. It is the primary role of the Christian in his life to be unified with other believers. It is not a secondary role, it's a primary role. He says you must be unified if you're going to fulfill your own calling. You've got to be unified. Now, if you are not already there, would you turn now back to Ephesians chapter 4? We understand then that there is this this present there is this this established positional unity But let's recall in this progressive unity that there are two ways that we progress in unity. Number one, in unity of purpose. Do you remember that from last week? That Christ was singular in his purpose with his Father, and we ought to be singular in our purpose with each other based upon that purpose, based upon their unity. And also in codependency, or we'll we'll say it this way, in love. We ought to be codependent on each other, in love for one another, and we ought to grow in our unity that way. So those are the two ways. When you have un when you think of progressive unity, you always think in terms of purpose and dependency, or purpose and love. Are we growing together in our purpose to glorify God? And are we growing together in our purpose to love each other and express that love? Now, with that in mind, if you're in Ephesians chapter 4 here, then I want you to notice something that's going to be helpful for us to understand. Verse 2, there are a couple of there are four different things he says there, with all lowliness and gentleness, with long-suffering, forbearing one another. Now, I want you to notice about something about these. Just stop for a minute, pause for a minute, and notice these things. Lowliness, that's humility, gentleness. Long suffering, bearing one another in love. Now just take those. Would you suppose if you are doing those things completely, you will have unity with your brothers and sisters in Christ? I mean just think about them. You say, but I don't agree. Will that matter? I mean you have to agree in the gospel, you've got to agree in Christ, you've got to agree in the Word, but will that matter? How about long suffering? Are we long-suffering? Are we bearing one another in love? Are we gentle with each other? Say, I'm a man, I don't need to be gentle. I gotta tell ya. Sometimes I'm not as general as I ought to be. Maybe a lot of times I'm not as general as I ought to be. The rest of them I'm going, yeah, I you know, uh long suffering I I can put up with a lot and which I carefully say that carefully. Lord's going to test me on that this week, probably. But gentleness. Now, I want you to notice about something about those. Where else would you find those? Does your mind go back to Galatians chapter 5? These are fruits of the Spirit Gentleness and long-suffering and love. Love's the first one. Love, joy, peace, gentleness, patience, long-suffering. I mean, those are in those are fruits of the Spirit Now, that means you and I ain't going to be able to do that on our own strength, will we? You and I will not be able to be always long-suffering with each other in our own strength. We will not be able to be gentle. We will not be able to bear with one another in love. We will not, in our own strength, be able to do that. Why? We're not supposed to. It's a fruit of the Spirit. Now, would you just then go one chapter over to Ephesians chapter 5 then? Now, and remember, it's the same book, it's all the same context. How then are we going to be able to have these things in our lives? Ephesians chapter 5. And would you pick up here in verse 18? It says, Do not be drunk with wine, or don't be under the influence of wine, wherein is excess, but be what? Be filled with the Spirit. That should not surprise us, shouldn't it? He said, walk worthy of the vocation wherewith you are called. Have long suffering, patience, gentlemen, everybody's all we ought to be going, I can't do that. We get to j to uh Genesis, Ephesians chapter 5, and it's no surprise that after that he says, wives submit to your husbands, and husbands love your wives. We can't do that either. All this stuff we can't do. But the Spirit of God can in our lives, can't he? And we see here it says, be not drunk with wine wherein is excess, but be filled with the Spirit. It means, folks, when it says filling, this is something that comes and goes. The indwelling of God does not. The indwelling of the Holy Spirit is there and there to stay. The baptism of the Spirit is there and there to stay. But the filling of the Spirit comes and goes. The filling of the Spirit means to be under the influence of the Spirit of God. And he says here that that's what this is a command. It's an imperative of a command in this passage. But I want you to notice something else about it. It's passive voice. It says, be filled with the Spirit. That's not, it doesn't say fill yourself with the Spirit. That's active. It says, be filled. Who is the doer of the action? The Spirit is. But you're supposed to be filled. Well, we'll get to that in a minute. Just keep that in your mind. But I want you to notice then you say, how do I know whether or not I am really being under the influence of the Spirit of God? And you know, I don't know about you, but sometimes when I evaluate the fruits of the Spirit in my life, sometimes it gets a little shaky as to whether or not I am. I think that we have a list here of three different things of of results. These are results of being under the influence of the Spirit that might be a little easier to measure in your own heart. Would you notice what it says, speaking, number one, speaking to yourself in Psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord. The first one is worship. When you are under the influence of the Spirit of God, number one, you are going to be able to worship God. Can I ask you a question this morning? When you sung those hymns. Were you genuinely, sincerely worshiping God? Or was your mind so preoccupied with everything else? I I I dare say that if that is the case, you're not under the influence of the Spirit of God Those who are under the influence of the Spirit of God, when they see the truths of the Word of God in Him form, for example, as those were this morning. Our hearts are resound with a praise to God. There is this worship that occurs from being under the influence of God's Spirit. Number two, a thankful heart, giving thanks always for all things unto God and the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. You know, we really struggle with gratefulness, do we not? I mean, just take a moment and look at your heart and ask yourself the question, are you really grateful? Is there truly a gratefulness for all that God has given you? Or are you just inclined to just have more and want more? We are our flesh is just so prone to pursue more. We want more and more and more. It's like a bottomless pit of a teenager. Who never can get enough to eat. I remember those days. And then we get over those days, we stop growing this way, and we grow this. But our flesh can be that way, where we never get enough. Look, if you're under the influence of the Spirit of God, you're saying, I got more than I need, or more than I deserve. A gratefulness, number three, a submissive heart. Look at what it says, verse twenty-one. Submitting yourselves one to another. That's everything that is just generally a submissive spirit toward each other. And I want you to not forget this phrase. It says in the what? In the fear of God. You know, when somebody is not submissive to each when we're not submissive to each other, it demonstrates we have lost our fear of God. This past week I was aware of a situation in another church and a won't get into any details at all, but Uh the church was caught was experiencing a lot of dissension and problems and and my mind went to this verse. Where it just it says I I just thought to myself, there's just a a total lack of a submissive spirit. Everybody wants their own way, they want to do their own thing, uh they they think they're right. They're not following the leadership. They're I mean, lots of problems like that And I looked at this and I said, uh, I thought to myself, there there's just a lack of submission in the body. Or maybe there's lack of submission in the leadership, or maybe there's both. There's this not lack of ability to submit ourselves one to another. And I thought about that, I said I I thought about that with a with regard to a local church and I thought to myself, you know If s if if if somebody is so brazen in their own thinking when it comes to thinking that just wanting what they want, thinking they're right, and not being willing willing to listen, those kinds of things It demonstrates there's a lack of fear of God. If a collective body of believers, if there is a lack of fear of God, maybe there's fear of man. The fear of man is a reproach and a snare, the Bible says. And these things work against each other. If you fear God, then you won't fear, then you won't need to fear man. But if you fear man, your fear of God will leave. And so and so, how do you know whether you're under this influence of the Spirit of God? You know whether or not you're under the influence of the Spirit of God if you have a heart of worship, if you are grateful in your heart, and if you are If you are submissive in your spirit, and then it says verse 22, wives submit yourselves unto your unhusbands. That's going to take God's spirit, isn't it, wives? Because we're sometimes we are lunkheads. Us men. Why would you ever want to submit to that? Because it's the Spirit of God that wants you to submit and hopefully we'll come around when we're being stubborn. Now, with all of that in mind then I want us to ask this question. What's our role? So far, we've seen a command, but what do we do? Would you take your Bibles then and turn to Colossians chapter 3? And while you're turning there, and I've done that, we've been through this before, this is not new, but in Colossians chapter 3 we have a sister book here, and I'll remind you that two-thirds of the content in Ephesians is also in Colossians. And in this book, you're going to find something that is absolutely necessary and important. It says here Let the word actually we'll start in verse twelve fifteen and let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which also you're called in what? In one body, and be thankful. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly with all wisdom. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. And I want you to notice we got the same results. Teaching and modching one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. So that's worship, isn't it? And whatsoever you do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father. That's thanksgiving, isn't it? And then we have wise submit to yourself. That's submission. Isn't that same three results? Here though, we have an active command. What are you and I supposed to do? We must have the Word of Christ dwelling in us richly. Now, here's another question. How do we know we're doing that? I mean, obviously this is more than just a cursory reading of God's Word. Would we not say that? To allow the Word of Christ to dwell in us reachly, to penetrate deeply. We're not talking about just a cursory reading. We're not talking about just a quick reading of God's Word. There is more There is more that God has in mind in this passage. Would we not all agree about that? So what is it? Well, how does the Word of God work? It works, first of all, through our minds. Is that not true? We need to understand the Word. If you don't rightly understand the word, you're not going to be able to rightly do anything else. You've got to be able to rightly understand the word. Rightly divide the word of God, the Bible says it that way. So that's first. We need to understand it. Is that enough? If you really understand the Word of God, it are you then, is it penetrating deep? As this passage is saying. And I would like to suggest to you, it is not. Just because you understand the word does not mean it's really penetrating as deeply as it ought to. It's got to go past your mind. It's got to, it doesn't go I don't mean past it as in pass bypass it. I mean it's got to go through it and it's got to go deeper than it Now, with that in mind, I'd like you to take your Bibles to turn now to Galatians chapter five. And I want you to notice then in Galatians chapter five. The need for the Spirit of God in this passage. He's going to say walk in the Spirit when we get to verse 16. But before we get he gets there, look at verse 14, it says, For the law is fulfilled in one word, even this, thou shalt love. Thy neighbor is thyself. How are we supposed to unify? Unity of purpose and unity of love, right? He says, here love, thy neighbor as thyself. And he contrasts it with this, verse 15, but if ye bite and devour one another, If ye bite and devour one another, take heed that ye be not consumed one of another. So we just got a dog. Kind of a lot of the other things. And this dog in the morning is is a is a is a is is a tool in gu in my life to teach me long suffering Because this dog will not stop making noise. And so I get up at about five fifteen usually in the morning and I want to have devotions. before anybody else gets up and I want to spend some quiet time with the Lord because Lord knows I need it. And I get up and I hear this yelping dog. Now, God's using in my life, girls, don't worry, we're not getting rid of the dog. Okay. So So um I th I remember the first day I was taking up trying to take him out. I th uh no I didn't want I di I first I wasn't taking him out and it woke the whole family up so I didn't know I took the dog out. I took the dog out. And for some crazy reason afterwards he comes in uh and I take him downstairs into my in into my study where I'm gonna do my devotions and the dog will not leave me alone. He's he is just nipping at me. He's biting me, he's like Like not not biting biting, but biting to play. It's driving me crazy. And I'm trying to focus and he's biting at me the whole time. And I'm saying, get out, leave me alone. You know, I'm trying to have devotions here and I'm getting frustrated. Uh you know, it it doesn't work too well when something's biting at you. Now that my little dog ain't devouring anything. But if ye bite and devour one another, take heed, yes, be c ye be consumed of one another. If you keep biting each other and you keep trying to devour each other, don't be surprised if you end up swallowing something. He says then with that in mind as a contract, if you want to avoid doing that, he then says, This I say then what? Walk in the Spirit. Why? So that ye will not fulfill the lusts of the flesh You'll not f Did you see what he just said? He said, if ye bite and devour one another, take heed that ye consume one another. He's saying, if you want to know whether or not you're fulfilling the lusts of the flesh, see if you're biting and devouring each other. And if you're doing that, you're fulfilling the lust of the flesh. And the only way you're going to stop from doing that when you're constantly bumping into each other every week. Just like in a family, you're bumping into each other every day, hopefully. This I say, then walk in the spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. Now I want you to notice then something what it says here. It says in verse 17 The flesh, and we're going to use the word desire here, the flesh desires against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh, and these are contrary one to another, so that ye cannot do that ye would. He says this, you've got from you two sources of desire. You've got your flesh that desires one way, and you've got your spirit that desires another way. And there are two sources of desire. And one, and he says, walk in the spirit, and they are contrary to one another. You can't follow them both at the same time It's like making a whole it's like making a cake. How many eggs does it does how many rot rotten eggs does it take to make the whole thing rotten? One egg. You are not following after the Spirit of God. We're not following after the Spirit of God if we have one rotten egg in our lives. And he says here, for the flesh lusteth against the Spirit, the spirit of against the flesh. So how is it that the Word of God is penetrating us? Where do we it we it it happens when we it penetrate Just it goes past the mind and it goes into our hearts, or let's put it this way, our wills, our desires. Our desires, our wills When the Word of God hits our desires and it cultivates our desires and changes our desires. And it's not done yet until we yield to those desires That's why Romans chapter 6 says, you gotta know it, you've got to reckon it to be so, and you gotta yield. It takes all three. That's when you know. that the word of Christ is dwelling in you richly. It has penetrated your will. And let's make no mistake about it. Until it has penetrated your will, you are not walking in the Spirit of God. You're not under his influence. Did you know that you can have an academic reading to the Word of God and be totally in the flesh? You might even get it right. You may even understand it. But it will not really it will not penetrate your will as long as you're in the they're it they're they're contrary to each other. You gotta follow after the desires of the Spirit of God in your life. And if you want to know the difference You say, well, I have, you know, I'm not sure I can really do that much introspection. How do I know? How do I know what good desire Well the Bible lists them for us. Would you notice what it says here? Now the works of the flesh are manifest. In other words, you have these inward desires and they're going to come out, and this is what they're going to look like if you're following after the things of the flesh. Adultery. Fornication. You say, oh, I'm clear so far. I'll go. Uncleanness, oh that's a little bit lasciviousness. I don't think I'm lascivious. Idolatry, oh maybe so. Idolatry is really putting anything above the Lord. Witchcraft. Oh, I'm not into witchcraft. Hate hatred. Oh. Hatred's just anger. Did you know they're interchangeable in scripture? Hatred and anger are translated with the same word. In the Greek. Hatred, variance, emulations, wrath, strife. Wrath. Oh, I do get angry. Strife. Oh, I've got strife. Well, that's not as bad as adultery or fornication, seditions, heresies, envying. Oh I'm not Oh yeah, I am pretty jealous. Murders, drunkenness, reveling. Do you see the the do you see the I mean they go it goes from fornication to envy? Well I'm not a bad person. I just you know would like a few more stuff. A lot you know, more things. I that guy's got a lot more than I am. I like his car. I want it. I mean, do we see do we see folks here that this is a list that will help us and we ought to we ought to look through this and we ought to say, oh my desire, oh I got a problem here. But the other, let's contrast that. We've got desires, right desires, that will come out this way. It will come out as love. Verse 22. Joy, peace, long-suffering, we saw that before. Gentleness, we saw that before. Goodness, faith, meekness. temperance, that's even temperedness. Against such there is no law. And they that are d Christ have crucified the flesh with the affections and lusts If we live in the Spirit, let us walk in the Spirit. Let us not be desirous of vainglory, provoking one another, envying one another. Now, do you see here from all of these passages, folks, that what God says we need clearly in this passage In order to have unity, is we've got to be under the influence of the Spirit of God. And that means the Word of God is going to have to penetrate our wills, and we're going to have to follow that. That is the only way that a body of Christ can truly be unified. Now he then says this in John chapter 17, and I tell you what we're going to do. I'm not done, but we have tonight, and I'll finish it tonight. So you've got to come back tonight, and I will finish the rest of this passage tonight. Maybe I'll ask a few questions as well. And let's go ahead and you know what we do need I'll tell you what we do need to do. I'd like every head bowed and every I'd like us all to close just close our eyes for a few minutes. I think there's enough material here for us to do at least some self-examination. And folks, can I just tell you this goes for me as much as anybody else I I am a sheep feeding on the word with you. I'm just the lead sheep trying to give you what you need. And I just encourage you in the quietness of your own heart before the Lord. And I'm not asking for any hands or anything, but just in the quietness of your own heart before the Lord. Has the Lord convicted you? Just work, just I want to take a few moments in silence before the Lord. And and just to give you time to do to do whatever you need to do as far as praying to the Lord in response to the preaching of his word. Father, we do come to you. And we thank you that you have given us everything we need to live and the life and godliness. But we've got a role to play. And Lord, there is so much potential with what you can do with your people If we really will allow your word to penetrate our hearts deeply. Father, I pray, Lord, that you would help us in this. And we ask, Lord, that as we um we just express our dependency on you. We are so prone to wander. We feel it. We are so prone to leave the God we love. I pray, Lord, that you would take your word and do what you want to with it. And that you would, you have already done the work of positionally unifying your people. Now, Lord, would you unify us practically? Would you make us useful for your purposes? In this community and around the world, in your time, we may never see it. It may be hymns we write or some other thing that we don't see for years to come. Father, may we just be able to say As the people did, and as was expressed by John Newton, we'd rather eat. I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.