All right. So we were let me do a little bit of review just to kind of get get our Thinking back into what we were talking about. Actually, you know what I'm gonna do? I'm gonna ask some questions. We'll we'll review that way. And uh sorry, I after I sing I had All right. So um let's let's kind of let's let's do this by I'll just ask a few questions just by way of review as we as we're working our way through this. portion. We're in John 17 and particularly today we were looking at verse 21 which says that they may be one As thou Father art in me, well that was last week, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us, that the world may believe that thou hast sent me. And then verse 22, and the glory which thou gavest me, I have given them that they may be one, even as we are one. So what did we say based upon uh what the glory is, it is the manifestation of God's character and nature. Uh how are t we s supposed to see God's glory today? What what what did God give us? Or what is Christ giving us? Kim. The Holy Spirit. And we noted that even in First Peter it says that he is the Spirit of Gory. And so that drew us over to Ephesians chapter 4, where we saw that it's actually what we're supposed to be doing is keeping the endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit. You remember that? And part of the unity of the Spirit in keeping that is that we do it in long-suffering and gentleness and love. If you remember that from Ephesians chapter 4, verse 2, there, I believe. And so we see that those, and I reminded us that those are actually fruits of the Spirit that were over in Galatians chapter 4. I'm sorry, Galatians chapter 5. We also looked at uh Ephesians chapter five, which talked about the filling of the Holy Spirit. And the filling of the Holy Spirit is being under the influence of the Spirit of God, right? He contrasts it there with being under the influence of of wine. Don't be drunk with wine. That's really supposed to be an explanation to help us understand what it means to be filled with the Spirit, but be under the influence of the Spirit of God. Now, how do we know that whether or not we're under the influence of the Holy Spirit of God based upon that passage? How do we know what what results are there in our lives? Somebody name one for me. Worship is one, good. Thankfulness, thankfulness in all things it says, good. That's the one that everybody wants every Submission. Is there two? Yeah, submission. Submission is the other one. Okay. Those are the three that are in there. We see those as results. Now then what we did was we said, well, what is our role? And that's in Colossians chapter 3. And what is our role in the command to be filled with a Spirit? What's our role? To let to let the right to let the word of Christ dwell in us richly. And we see the same three results there. How do you know you're under the influence of the Spirit of God? Well, you've got to let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly. And when you do that, you'll be thankful, you'll be worshiping, and you'll be submissive. It's the same three results that we found in Ephesians. Which is really a sister book of Colossians and Ephesians, the really sister books. Then what we did was we asked the question How do you know when the word has penetrated you to the point that you could say it is dwelling within me richly? We know it's not just a cursory reading of Scripture. We know it's not just um uh sort of a a passive kind of approach or just a easy reading. It's far more than that, but it's even more than just understanding. We need to understand it. We'll never be able to get any further if we don't really clearly understand the text. It's very, very important, but we can academically understand it without really having it go deep enough. And it doesn't it's not until it penetrates the will that that it actually we could say, all right, we are it's penetrated far enough Not only does it penetrate the will, it actually shapes the will. It shapes the desires of our heart. And then we yield to those desires. And what book is that found, what chapter is that found in? Galatians chapter 5. So that's where we were. Would you take your Bibles and turn back there then to Galatians chapter 5? And we'll also recover the fact that it says that there are two sources of desire in Galatians chapter 5. The desire for The desire of the flesh. And there are so there are desires in our flesh that are certain kind of desires, and there are desires from the Spirit of God that energizes our spirit. And it's incredibly important that we understand where our desires are coming from. If we are allowing the Word of Christ to dwell in us richly, then our desires are going to be those desires that are formed by the Word of God and the Spirit of God, and we're going to pursue those desires. If there are desires that are after the things of the flesh, then that's something that we we need to identify. Now, another question, how do we identify it? Do you ever find it hard to discern things in your own heart? Let me put it this way. Do you ever find it as though you feel like you're under the influence of the Holy Spirit, but maybe you're not? Let me put it another way. Can you trust your emotions on this stuff? Have you ever felt as though maybe you're not under the influence of the Spirit? But maybe you are. You can't trust your emotions. Sometimes you may feel very sanctified. And yet you're not under the influence of the Spirit of God. Other times you may not feel sanctified at all. Now I don't mean that you're living in sin and you are or something, but it sometimes you just feel bad or sad or struggling, but you still may be very well be or mourning. The Bible says, blessed are they that mourn, for they shall see God. Now, with that in mind, then we can't trust our emotions on this. We can't say, well, I feel like I'm being led. So I'm being let. I feel like I'm walking in the spirit, so I'm you can't trust your emotions. What do you got to trust? Well, what you trust is the fruit. You look at the fruit of your life and you say, well, based upon How I'm yielding, I based it upon how my how I what my fruit is, then I know whether or not I'm walking in the Spirit. And we notice this in this passage. It says in verse verse 19, now the works uh of the flesh are manifest Adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variants, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies, envyings, murders, drunkenness, revelings, and such like And you see you see a real range of things here. Everything from being envious of someone else or being angry Or striving against someone to fornication and adultery. You have that kind of the same things come from the same source. It's the flesh. And we've got to be able to look at ourselves and say, you know what? I am not walking after the things of the Spirit of God. And I know I'm not. Why? Because what's coming from me, what's f the fruit that's coming from me, is not those things that are after the Spirit of God in my life. Those are not But we also have a contrast, don't we? And the fruit of the Spirit is something different. It's love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. So when we look at those things, and this is absolutely key, Those fruits of the Spirit are not there for us to pursue. Okay, today I'm going to work on love. Tomorrow I'll work on joy. The next day I'll work on peace. The next day I'll work on gentleness. The next day I'll work on goodness. And you come to the day of goodness and you say, Well, this is my goodness day, I don't ha need to have joy. Or this is my this is my my um my gentleness day, but man, I am not being going to be patient with you. Now, that's not at all it. We're not really supposed to be pursuing these fruit. These fruit are to tell us whether or not we're pursuing the Spirit of God, the Word of God. You have a question? Yeah. Yeah. I mean the individual things tell us what we're doing. It we should di we should end examine them individually in our lives, but when it comes to Pursuing them, we don't pursue them, we pursue the Spirit of God, and those come out of it. Their results. Make sense. Now What we then need to do is when we see when we see these things in our lives, it ought to trigger something in us. Either good or bad. If I see that there is anger welling up within me, it ought to trigger something I am not letting the Word of Christ dwell in me richly. I'm not being filled with the Spirit, and I'm not walking in the Spirit. If I am envious towards someone else, if there is strivings going on. And by the way, would you notice it says And such like why do you suppose it says that? This is an incomplete list. These are just examples. Don't think that if you get through this list, you're like, okay, man, I don't have any of those. I'm I'm clear. Now, these are the kinds of things that emanate from someone who is following after the things of the Spirit, of the flesh. And the fruit of the Spirit are those other kinds of things as well. Now that is absolute so verse 25 says this if we live in the Spirit, and really for anybody who knows Christ as Savior, we do live in the Spirit. But do we walk in it? That's the question. Let us also walk in the Spirit. Let us not be desirous of vainglory. provoking one another, envying one another. This is how do we how do we how are we unified the body of Christ? How are we not going how we avoid provoking one another? How are we going to keep from envying one another? How are we going to stop from j being jealous toward each other or wanting what somebody doesn't have? Strifing striving with each other, or those kinds of things, we've got to follow after the s after the Spirit. We've got to walk in the Spirit. And that's how, because it is the unity of the Spirit that we're pursuing. Now, with all of that in mind, then we need to turn back to John 17. And we're going to see something here. And I want to remind us of this as well When we're talking about the progressive unity, remember we made this connection this morning about sanctification and unity. And sanctification has a positional truth and a progressive truth. We learned that a couple weeks ago. But so does unity. Unity has a positional truth. The Spirit of God has placed all of us into one body when we came to Christ. But there is this progressive truth that we need to be aware of. And there are two particular things that we must unify in. Do you remember what those are? One is love and the other is purpose. That's what cr and if you're we have to go back to actually last Sunday Sunday to to I I explained all that last Sunday. But purpose and love are the two things that are going to unify us. That is what we are unifying in. Purpose, to glorify God, to be sent from Christ, and love, codependency kind of love, in fact, as the as Christ is with his own Father. And the only way we can have that kind of love for each other, wouldn't you agree with me that the only way you can have that kind of love for each other is if you are going to get that from God. That you're going to be walking in the Spirit so much so that when when your brother or sister in Christ annoys the stuffing out of you, you love them. Right? You can't do it on your own. We're going to have to have love for one another in order to be able to do that. And when we have this kind of divine love and we are expressing this divine love toward each other, there is a particular thing that God says it will show the world. And I want you to see this in John 17, and this is absolutely incredible Many of you are already aware of this, but I do I do not want to the reason I did not want to stop I wanted to stop where I did this morning is because I want us to take time with this. I don't want to rush this. It is incredibly important. He says in seventeenth uh chapter 17 verse 23, I am them and thou in me, that thou they may be made perfect in one, that the world may know That thou hast sent me. That's the purpose, right? The world may have, but something else. And what? Hath loved them how much. How much As thou hast loved me. That is the love that He has for us. If you were to tell me that the Father Did you know that God loves you as much as he loves his own son? I would have thought you're no way. Except it says it here in this passage. Now, we get we almost get used to that idea. But I want you to notice the next verse and how this plays into this. Father, I will that they also whom thou hast given me be with me where I am. That they may behold thy glory. And we're going to get back to that in a minute. Which thou hast given me, for thou lovest me before the foundation of the world. Now think about it. Who was there before the foundation of the world? The Father, the Son, and the Spirit of God. Were you there? Was I there? We weren't there. And Christ makes this connection. How much did the Father love his own son? Before the foundation of the world in eternity past, the father's always loved his own son. There's never been a time, because they're outside of time, that the father ever didn't love his own son. How on earth could the Father love us that much? It's incredible. Until you actually think about it and I thought about it this way until you actually think about the cross. I mean just think about the cross. What did the Father do? He sent His Son there In order for to be able to send his son to the cross, be separated from him, he had to love us as much as his own son. If you want to know the love of Christ, look no further, the love of the Father toward us, look no further than the cross. The cross demonstrates that he loves us as he loves his own son. And that is absolutely incredible. Now, we have looked at cr the fact that we are sanctified for a particular reason to be sent out. Looked at that a couple of weeks ago. But I want you to notice then the main result of us being sanctified. What what in other words, what is ultimate? What is the ultimate reason? And before we look at this, I want us to remind us of something. You remember that I mentioned this morning that Moses went to God and said, Show me your glory, and God said, I can't, essentially. It's not that God it was impossible for God, but there was no way that Moses was not going to be able to see the glory of God without being consumed. Now I want you to remember I want you to see what what Christ says here. Just read it again with that in mind. Father, I will that they also whom thou hast given me Be with me where I am, why? Why does he want us to to to be with him? So that we can have a great mansion. So that we can have a nice place to live up in heaven, and everything can be easy, and there can be just, you know, whatever, whatever you want. It's there for you. That's why He doesn't say that. That they may be where I am, why, that they may what? They may behold my glory. Now, let me just put this in perspective. He's not talking about the glory he had while he was on earth. The glory that he had while he was on earth, according to Philippians chapter 2, is a limited glory. He limited himself to come to earth. The glory that he's talking about here is a glory that is unveiled. This is later on when he's in heaven before his father. Remember in the beginning of the chapter, he says to the father, I'm looking forward to full to to coming back to you and experiencing the glory that we had before the foundation of the world. And now he's saying And I'm looking forward to one day they whom I'm dying for are going to now be equipped to see my full glory. What Moses could not do, because of what Christ did in being the Word, the manifestation of who Christ is. The manifestation of God, the glory of God, because of what Christ did, one day we will be with him and we will see what Moses could not see. We will see the full glory of Christ unveiled. That is incredible. And that what was afforded to us only because of the sacrifice that Christ made on the cross. And what it says here in this passage is that God wants Christ is looking forward to this time where this will happen. And he notes this. Notice what he says in 25. He says, O righteous father. Why does he say that? He identifies righteous father because that's what we're missing. That's the glory. The glory is absolute purity. It's total righteousness. There's nothing unveiled. There's nothing contaminated about it. And we get to see the full glory of God someday because he is righteous and Christ died on the cross and he is able to place his righteousness on us. Now we get so used to this. We have m many of you and my myself included have grown in the grown up in the Christian homes and we know the story of Christ and his death on the cross for us and he paid the punishment for our sin. Folks, there is something absolutely amazing about this that we can't lose. It is so prominent in the passage here that it is the very thing that God wants us to unify around. And verse 26 says this, I have declared unto them thy name, and I will declare it. that the love wherewith thou hast loved me may be in them, and I in them. And no doubt when Christ says this, he is reflecting back on John 13, verses 34 through 35 Where it says, This display is uh I'm sorry, where it says, A new commandment I give unto you, that ye love one another as I have loved you, that ye also love one another. By this Shall all men know that ye are my disciples if ye have loved love one for another That's what caused this love, this awesome, incomprehensible love that the Father has toward us, is the kind of love that drove Paul to write these words. That he would grant you, according to the riches of the glory, to be strengthened with might by his inner man, by the by his spirit in the inner man. That Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith, that ye being rooted and grounded in love, may be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and depth and height, and to know the love of Christ which passeth knowledge. That ye might be filled with all the fullness of God. Now, unto him that is able to do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think. According to the power that worketh in us. Unto him be glory in the church. By Christ Jesus throughout all ages, world without end. That's Ephesians chapter 3 at the end of the chapter. And the and that is what we see in this passage. And so folks, what we've got to do is kind of come to this conclusion. We first of all need to understand that Christ unifies his church by revealing himself through the Spirit and the Word. And and we've got to s we've got to keep the main thing the main thing. That's what he does. It is by his spirit and by the word. It's not by any other means. It's not it's not because I I my personality meshes with yours. It's not because I agree with you. It's because we agree on the Word of God And the Spirit of God. And we've got to remember that as we are living life and desiring to unify as a body of believers. Number two We are to progress in our unity of uh in our unity of believers. Uh in order to do that, we must all um Allow the Word of God to penetrate our desires. We must yield to those desires and resist the desire of the flesh. This results in a love for each other. And then finally we've got to be filled with God's Spirit. It it it causes us to know and show the extent of God's amazing love. When we are filled with the Spirit of God, when we are under the influence of the Spirit of God, the the ultimate result in that is we know the love of God and we can show the love of God. And when we show the love of God to those of us who know to each other, it is a display to the world of the great love that God has. I would also mention this. Do you think when do you think that the world will know in its fullest extent? That the Father has the same kind of love that He has for us as He does for Christ. Does the world know that now? I think and I I this is uh this is just an opinion, but I think that there is a fuller fulfillment of this Um when Christ comes back for his own and he sets up his kingdom. I think at that point the world will know Now let me ask you this let me let me do this. We have gone now through all of John 17, and I wanted to just take a few moments then and ask, are there any questions?