All right. Um Revel Revelation chapter two, and uh we are looking at the seven churches that Christ assesses at the end of the first century in this in this book of Revelation. And I don't know about you, but for me particularly it has been a very challenging study. It has challenged me on many levels. And this particular church that we're going to be looking at today is certainly no different. Let me just ask you a question. Actually, I want to begin by with a statement. A true believer, a Christian, does not just automatically decline In other words, he doesn't wake up one morning and just decide he's going to compromise in in an area, whether doctrinally or morally. Agree about that, folks, that that that that is not what happens, that just somebody goes from a perfect relationship with the Lord, a fellowship with the Lord, and then just suddenly decides one morning, I think I'm gonna compromise today. That is As far as I know, not at least not usually how it works. But the next so I have a question with that statement in mind, I had then have a question for you. And the question Is how do Christians and churches decline into compromise? How does that happen? It's a very important question. Question for all of us to ask, isn't it? Paul was concerned about this in the first century. And very very candidly, if if there's a potential for the Apostle Paul The camp compromise, there is a potential for all of us as Christians to decline in the compromise. And what we have here is a church who has declined in a particular area in compromise. And what we're going to find in this passage, in a very short passage We're going to find not just how they compromised, but but look we're going to be able to see how they exactly declined in their compromising. In other words, we'll see the It's going to be a very, very important study for this just simple reason that we as a local church don't ever want to slide and decline On this form, then we won't compromise. If we have this doctrinal statement, then we won't compromise. But let me just ask you a question: Do you know what God's Word says about how compromise happens And we're going to find this passage exactly how it happens. This is something that is going to be very applicable to every one of us individually. Certainly to a body of believers as well. And so far, if you just think about this, and I I want us to remind ourselves of what we've learned already about these churches We looked first at the church of Ephesus, and we learned what Christ did in his assessment with this church. And I want us to think about this. He corrected, I wouldn't say necessarily loveless, the best way I knew how to phrase it, but he corrected loveless orthodoxy Now it wasn't as though they had no love, but they the Bible says there they had left their first love. And so they had a problem with their love. They had a problem with how with their with the And so they were they were very, very meticulous in their doctrinal positions. They were hardworking, they were laborists, they were pat They had the kind of character that that would exit would be exhibited in a mature body of believers, however, they had lost their first they had left their first love. Last week about the suffering faithful church. And for that particular church, Christ didn't correct them at all. Christ in his assessment, he comforted them. And so we saw how Christ is a comforter to those who are in need and to those who are really suffering. And because he is man He can empathize us because he knows. He knows like nobody else knows. And when you think nobody else knows what you're going through, you can be assured that Christ knows what you're going through. Because he died and rose. Emotionally, socially, physically, he was separated with a And when you go through suffering, you are there's a sense in which, particularly if it's for righteousness' sake, you are partaking in the suffering of God. Of Christ, and there ought to be great encouragement there and comfort there for you and I. But when we come to this church of Pergamous, we don't have we have correction, but in a stronger sense. sense. We don't have comfort, folks. What we have here is Christ is going to have to come he's going to have to confront this church. He confronts Compromised testimony. That's what Christ does here. Kim read the passage already. But we, if we're going to have the right kind of approach to who Christ is, we've got to see him certainly as one who corrects wrong. And one Who comforts those who are suffering and are faithful. But we ought not have a warped view of Christ to the point where we think that He will not confront sin and compromise. Christ does this in this passage, and he really does it rather sharply. Because you'll see here in in if in um in Revelation chapter two here You're going to see picking up in verse twelve how he does this in his own description. He says, And to the angel, we've said that this is likely past the pastor. And the angel of the church at in Pergamos write These things saith he which hath a sharp sword with two edges He is now going to confront this church. And we're going to see how he does this. We're going to see exactly what the compromise is. And we're going to see how this church declined in the compromise. And there's going to be Very, very clear applications for all of us. Let's pray. Father, we come to you and this we pray, Lord, that you would give us the grace and the heart and the mentality to receive your truth from your word. We like Hearing about Christ's comfort. We don't even mind being reminded that we need to love you supremely. But it's not exactly comfortable for us to think of Christ directly confronting compromise. And yet he does that not only in this church, but he does it in our lives as well. Pray, Lord, that you would help us to rightly divide your word today. I pray that you would help us to see exactly what this passage is saying and may it prevent us from compromising in areas that we would otherwise potentially compromise in. I ask, Lord, that your spirit would be with us today. That you would convict where it is needed. That we would have a submissive heart enough to be corrected where our thinking might not be right. To be reminded of things that we have let go, and that we would think right, so that we would behave right So that we would be pleasing to Christ, who loved us so much, He died for us. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, the Church of Pergamos was a church that was located in a city like the other churches that we have looked at. We found that with Ephesus And with Smyrna, they were in budding metropolises with high economic wealth. And though Pergamos was not a poor city, it didn't quite quite have the cosmopolitan wealth that these other cities did have. But Pergamos was a a well-to-d overall well-to-do city, but it had had some distinctiveness about it. It was a busy city, but not as busy as Ephesus. It was a busy city but not as cosmopolitan as Smyrna. And it wasn't quite as economically prosperous as these two, but but but per Pergamus did have its own distinctiveness. Pergamos was the city, as far as we can tell, there seems to be indications that this was a city that first developed papyrus or paper uh historically and so it was a city who had a vast library over 250,000 volumes in this particular city. Now that might not seem much by today's standards, but remember, this is before the printing press. This is before I mean this is w everything's written down by hand at this point. And they had 250,000 volumes. It was probably only second to Alexandria, Egypt, which was probably the most scholarly city in that time. This was a city that had that was actually the capital of the area, essentially. It had it care it carried the political power. of the area as well. So we have here a city that is not that different than Washington, D. C. I mean if you really think about it, Washington, D. C. is a center of of research. You have the Library of Congress in W Washington DC, which boasts the greatest library uh in in all of the world. It may only rival one in Moscow, apparently. There's there they all always say that each one says that they're that they have the most uh volumes in their library. But if you've ever been to the Library of Congress, I mean we're talking about several major buildings, massive buildings in these these libraries You have Georgetown University, you have other significant universities in in DC, and of course you have the political power in DC as well. And so when you think of pergramists, it might help for help just to think of maybe Washington, DC D. C. And folks, like Washington, D. C. as well, you had a lot of sin in programmas And you had a lot of immorality and evil and strange ways of thinking in Pergamous. And so this is a city that that was inclined Toward the possibility of persecution, as was Smyrna. You remember Smyrna, they worshipped the emperor, and they had a they actually had a temple built for the emperor. But this particular city was a city that that um that had the political power, but there was a sense in which they they worshiped the emperor as well. And so if you spoke against polit the political s system of the day which which really did i idolize the emperor, there was a potential for martyrdom. And in fact when you see in the passage there was one that was martyred, Antipas. Uh he was Martyred in the first century, and Christ identifies the fact that he was in this church of Pergamos. And so you have some of that going on. This is the kind of city that this church finds It is a city of great possibility for influencing wrongly. Some locations where you could very well be eas more easily influenced to go the wrong direction based upon the location. I mean you just have less people, which means you have less opinions, which means you have less wrong views. I mean the the chances are if you're in a rural area you're gonna have less likelihood of having I mean it it it very frankly you have other problems in rural areas uh that you deal with uh usually it has to do with um gossip. And those kinds of things in rural areas. But uh they have a different kind of a problem in rural areas. And I know because I lived in one for a while. So it's not something I don't know what I'm talking about here. I I lived in it in an area that That had its own challenges. But usually the challenges were not strange philosophies that were going that were popping up. But that's what you have in Pergamus and Certainly in this area in our Baltimore, Washington metropolitan area, you have that potential as well. And it's interesting how Christ deals with this and identifies this. But before we get into that, you're going to see how Christ identifies this. But I want you to notice first that you see this is the Church of Pergamos. But You see how he describes himself, Christ does. He says, he which hath a sharp sword with two edges. Now, contrast that for a minute with with me with the other two churches. He said of the church of Ephesus, who walk he says, this is he who walks in the midst of you. Sort of a benign kind of a statement towards Ephesus, except that he he was with them and he knew them. He says, he I'm speaking, who is the eternal God and the empathy. Man who knows what you're going through. That's how Christ identifies himself. But he doesn't identify himself this way. With these, he identifies himself entirely different. He says, I am the one with a sharp Two-edged sword. Now, you some may draw their minds, might draw over to Hebrews where it says that the word of God is sharper than any two-edged sword. And perhaps there is an illusion there, but it doesn't necessarily have to be that way. And I would suggest that the primary thing that Christ is getting across here is not so much Not so much that he is going to b about to speak the Word of God, though he is, but the nature in which he is about to assess this church, it is going to be sharp It's going to be pointed, it's going to be precise, and it's going to deal with them on something that is very important to deal with. He's going to deal or or he's going to And he's going to do it in no uncertain terms. Now, with all of that in mind, we are then ready to look at Christ's assessment. And he says in verse 13, I know thy works. He has said that about every other church so far, and he's going to say that about the churches that are going to come after this church. He says, I know you. This is a this is Christ is saying that I know I can judge rightly. I know what you're going through. notice this what he says next he says and where you dwell he says I know where you are I know where you dwell I know distinctive And he says this, even where Satan's seat is. Now when you think of someone being seated in a And Pergamos, as I've already mentioned, was the seat of authority or political power of the area. And so Christ is saying, I know where Satan's seat Romans 13, they're ordained by God. However, because they are ministers of God, they are under greater influence of Satan. That's really the implication here. They are under greater influence. And folks, that is why righteousness exalteth a nation, but sin is a reproach to any people. Because if you have ungodly leaders, they are going to be controlled by who? The only way that you're going to have leaders political leaders that are not controlled by Satan is if they are godly and follow righteousness and truth and scripture. Now that's a As far as I can go politically, particularly in this particular time, but if you uh just think about things when it comes to our political mindset and and just thinking about the future think, folks, we need somebody in there godly We need somebody in there who is trustworthy. We need somebody in there who walks the walk, not just talks the talk. That's all I'm I'm gonna say about that. Um you can em take you can infer from my implication anything you want to, and you might be right, you might be wrong. Um but I would just encourage you to think in terms of biblical when we are When we are considering our future leaders. Now, with all of that in mind, folks, we find here he Christ, there's a sense in which he is empathetic. toward where they're living. He says to them, I know where you're living, I know the influence, I know the potential of being confused I understand what you are going through, and I'm factoring that in. Before he is going to give his almost scathing confrontation He does say, I know the challenge that you are in in the particular location you are in. And isn't it true, folks, that there are churches in different Different areas that have various challenges, and not all challenges are equal. Some churches might be in an area that is not that particularly challenging. going to perhaps look differently and thrive in a different way. And there are other churches and other areas that are much more challenging. And God, I'm thankful that Christ knows all that. And I will just tell you that, in my opinion, we are in a challenging area. Between Baltimore and DC, you have all kind you have everything from soup to nuts in this area. You have the diversity, and I like the diversity, frank frankly, in this area. But folks, you have every kind of thought and every kind of influence and every kind of philosophy. You have everything bombard bombarding you from every side in this area. That's just the reality of it Christ knows that. Now, with that in mind, then what he does here, he identifies the the dangerous, the dangerous And by the way, let me just say this. He says the area in Pergamous is dangerous. But he doesn't say, well, you need to escape and go elsewhere. He doesn't say, well, you just need to to move on because that area is too dangerous. No, he God sovereignly, he providentially gives to areas like pergamous churches That's a wonderful concept, isn't it? Isn't it wonderful to know that God knows what he's doing in providing even areas as difficult as Pergamous local churches Now, what he then is going to say is this: He says, I understand even the fact that some of you in your midst, particularly a man named Antipas, was martyred because he's faithful. I understand Understand the challenge that is there with that. Who was slain among you, where Satan dwelleth, he he reminds them of this. The point Here that he's going to make is that there is a great temptation for compromise in this area in Pergamus. They've seen what happens to people that stand up for what is They see what happens to faithful people, they're martyred. And so there is a sense in which how much can we get away with and still maintain true? Folks, that's the mentality of the Church of Pergamus. They're sort of like, let's, we've got to remain doctrinally true. We've got to make make sure that we're we're true to the gospel, but how much can we get away with We see that from the next verse. Do you see this? But I have a few things against thee, because thou hast there them that held the doctrine. Now, let me just identify a couple things before we get into that. In verse 13, what is he commending the church for? He says, and hast not denied my faith. Even in those days wherein Antibus was my faithful man. He says, he says, you've not denied my thing, you've held up my name. You have not denied the faith. You have remained doctrinally sound in terms of the gospel. This is a church that is not. We're not talking about heresy in this church. This is not a church that has denied the Bible. This is not a church that deny the deity of Christ or the virgin birth or or the sac the substitutionary atonement of Christ. They have held the name of Christ and they have stayed faithful to God's name, and they're actually commended for that part. Let me just pause and say this. Isn't it amazing that Christ can can commend a church for one thing and confront them in another in the same breath almost. We are so I'm going to use a word that I don't use very often. we almost we we often if we're not careful we say well that church is all bad or that church is all good and even a church that has seriously compromised. Christ doesn't do that. Christ commends them where they ought to be commended. And very candidly, there are churches all over this nation that they are true to the gospel And there is really a movement that says we've really got to make sure that we're true to the gospel. And folks, that's a good movement. But let me just say this it's not the only thing that matters. Because what we find in this church is that he says to them, you have There are people that are in your church that hold to the doctrine of Balaam. Now, let's just think about that for a minute. Minute. These people have held to the doctrine of Balaam. Now, you just think about Balaam, the Old Testament Balaam. We're going to turn there in a minute. Before you turn there, just think about him for a minute. Do you recall any doctrine that he propagated? Do you recall anywhere he said, this is a doctrine? Now I would just say to you, I can't recall any of that. There's nowhere that he proclaimed doctrine in what he said. And yet he says here, the doctrine of Balaam. So what does Christ mean here when he says to these people that you their People in your midst that have held that are holding to the doctrine of Balaam. Will you take your Bibles and turn now to Numbers 22? Numbers 22. And we're going to look at this man Balaam for a few moments here. Numbers chapter 22. What we find here in this passage, we're going to look here, and we're not going to be able to go through every single verse of this passage for the sake of time. But we're going to reclaim some of the basic narrative here so that we're going to be able to see exactly what this what this man is doing with Balaam. In Numbers 22, here we're going to pick up here in verse 1 just to get the setting. It says this: the children of Israel set forward and pitched Remember that that that where they at? They're going to be pitching in the plains of where? In Moab, on the side of Jordan by Jericho. And Balak, this is a very prominent figure, and Balak, who by the way probably heard of the of the exploits of this Israel and was very fearful of of them. In fact, we're going to be clearly he's afraid of them. He's desperate, in fact, we're going to see in the in the text. And Balak, the son of Zippor, saw all of Israel and uh had done to the Amorites. And Moab was sore afraid of the people, because they were many. And Moab was distressed because of the children of Israel. And Moab said unto the children of Israel Of Midian. Now shall this company lick up all that are round about us, as the ox licketh licketh up the grass of the field, and Balak, the son of Zippor, the king of Moab the Moabites, at that time He sent messengers therefore unto Balaam. So now he says, you know, I've got to get smart about this. I'm going to send some messenger messengers to a prophet of Israel. Because I've heard about this prophet, I've heard that anything he pronounces So Balak is a man who is an idolater, and he's a man who is very super stitch sticky. judgment and cursing against Israel, then I can that's my best bet to to protect myself from this nation that has many, many people that's going through and and just just uh conquering everyone. So verse five he sent messengers therefore unto Balaam, and saw of Baor, uh the son of Baor, to Pethor, which is the river of the land of the children of his So, folks, what happens here basically is this: These messengers go to Balaam. And Balaam essentially says to them, Hey, there's nothing I can do for you. Balak offers Balaam wealth and honor and all kinds of things. Balaam says, There's nothing I can do for you. The only thing I can do is pronounce what God gives me. That's all I can do. So the messengers go back to Balak, express explain this, and Balak says, that's not good enough. I I gotta have this guy. And so he sends more messengers of higher higher ranking to So that Balaam knows he's really, really serious about this. And so Balaam says basically the same thing again and says, look, I can't help you except to just to pronounce whatever God gives me. And they say, and they but he's but you but something's going on because he said, why don't you stay overnight? Maybe God will give me something different So the people stay overnight. And uh he uh eventually what happens here is that over time and I'm kind of skipping some things, but basically Basically, what happens is finally God comes to Balaam and says, You can go. Okay, you can go over there. Now, Balaam has said several times, I can't say Anything except what God tells me. But in verse 20, if you'll pick up here in verse 20, you're going to see this, and God came to Balaam at night and said unto him, If the men come to call thee, rise up and go with them But yet the word which I shall say unto thee, that thou shalt do. So God says, look, you've got to say my words, but you can go with them. Now look at verse twenty one. And Balaam rose up in the morning and saddled his ass and went with the princes of Moab. And God's and now so he goes. Now let me just Pause and ask you a question. What did Balaam do wrong? God says you can go, and he goes. But apparently God's extremely upset at him because in verse 22 it says, And God's anger was kindled because he was And the anger and the angel of the Lord stood in the way for an adversary against him. Now he was riding upon an ass and he and his two servants. Worried about the donk the talking donkey, and that's what you have here. Basically, David or uh Balaam can't see the angel Lord sitting standing right in front of him. The donkey can see it, and they have this conversation My question for you is this, why was God so angry? I mean God said you can go, and Balaam goes. What was God so angry about? And let me just suggest this to you. We're going to see in the story exactly what he's angry about in a minute, but let me just suggest this to you that it wasn't so much what Balaam did. Folks, if if nothing in the text is mentioned About what Balaam did that angered God. What then could you assume? It's about something internal. It's about Balaam's heart. And we're We're going to see that to be the case in a few moments. So Balaam, really, folks, what we're talking about here is a wrong motivation in Balaam's life. Why did it seem from the text, what you do see is that Balaam wants to go. Why does Balaam want to go? Because Balaam wants the materials and the honor and all of that that Balaam. Wants to give them. Balaam has wrong motives. That's what God's angry about. Now, with that in mind, let's pick up here and see What all comes of this. And what we're going to do is actually, I'm just going to tell you the story a little bit here. Balaam prophesies and blesses Israel to Balak's great discouragement. Balaak says, I told you, I'm just going to paraphrase here, I told you, Balaam, that what are you doing? I wanted you to curse him and you're busting. Balaam said, I told you I can only say what God says. This happens three times. He says, well, go to another area and let's try this. And this happens three times. Balak is so desperate that Balaam would s pronounce some sort of curse That three times Balak asks Balaam to go to a different place to pronounce some cursing on Israel. And every time, what does Balaam do? He pronounces blessing on Israel. But there is something that happens. Would you look at chapter 23 and look at verse 14? And he brought him into the field of Zophem to the top of Pisgah and built seven altars Uh and offered a bullock and ram okay, it's not it's not there, let's see. And he said unto Balak, Stand here by my burnt offering. It's actually later in the text. There is a place essentially where it says, and I didn't have I didn't write that on the right the verse, but basically there's a time where it says that Balak, Balaam is going to he is going, folks, to advise Balak on But in the text it doesn't say what he's going to advise him. Now all of you are going to be searching for that, I can tell, but you're going to miss an important I'm not saying just trust me, don't, but it's in the text. Okay. Now, Balaam, but listen carefully, listen, folks. Balaam then says What's not listed there is exactly what he advises. He pronounces a final blessing, and then picking up in Numbers 23, notice what happens here. Alright, I'm sorry, I've got my chapters wrong. It's not twenty-three. It is chapter twenty-five. five maybe. Basically he fought they fall in a dog. Yeah, chapter twenty-five, verse one. And Israel abode in Shiddam. And the people began to commit whoredom with the daughters of Moab. joined himself unto Baal Peor, the anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel. So folks, what happened? Israel ends up falling. They end up committing whoredom. They end up fornicating with Moab. And they end up in idolatry and joining up with these people. Now, let me ask you a question. What sort of advice do you suppose Balaam says to this man, to Balak? What he does, folks, is he advises him. He advises him. And in fact, we find this in chapter 3116. Go on over to 3116. This is what he advises him. Behold, these cause the children of Israel through counsel of Balaam to what? To commit trespass against the Lord in the matter of Peor. And there was a plague among the congregation of the Lord. So, folks, what did Balaam do? Balaam went and he said, Look, I can't say anything that God doesn't give me. But if you want to overthrow Israel, here's how you do it. You go and you get your people to fornicate with those people, and you'll destroy them. I mean you'll conquer them. Now of course God in his sovereignty doesn't he he does that does happen, but God in his sovereignty sends a plague to the nation of Israel to purify them so that ultimately that doesn't that they're not compromised. Ultimately, although they are compromised in the short term. So God takes care of this. But let me just ask you a question. What's the problem with Balaam? Well, we know that Balaam has a real wrong heart problem, doesn't he? And we're going to identify that problem when we get into the New Testament by by the time we get to 2 Peter 2, verse 16. Would you turn there now? 2 Peter chapter 2 Verse sixteen is going to tell us the problem with Balaam. Says Verse fifteen, which has have forsaken the right way and are gone astray following the way of Balaam, the son of Bozar, who love the wages of unrighteousness Folks, what was the root problem with Balaam? He loved what? He loved money. He loved the wages of unrighteousness. righteousness and he was willing to get right riches at the expense of the nation the whole nation of Israel Now, let me just ask you this question. Did Balaam do anything wrong? Did he violate any commandment himself? I can't find anywhere where he has. He didn't violate the commandment by prophesying something that God didn't give him. He didn't violate a commandment by talking to this guy. Balak. In fact, God said you can go and talk to him. Balaam didn't violate any commandment. He didn't violate anything. But folks, what did Balaam do? He caused others to sin. If you were to codify this into a doctrine, it would look something like this. Culpability and guilt only rests in the precise violation of a divine decree. Regardless of whether or not our words and actions cause others to sin. And so basically, folks Folks, what you have is you have a guy who knows how to tow the line and keep the right doctrine, but his heart is corrupt and he wants the wrong thing, and he doesn't mat and he's not thinking in terms of how his actions affect others. He's just thinking in terms of how his actions are making sure they toe the line so he's not violating anything. The doctrine of Balaam. Now, if you would take your Bibles and turn back to Revelation, there are two areas that what we find here, there are two areas in this chapter. That that people are caused to compromise because of these folks who are essentially believing Even what they're what Christ calls the doctrine of Balaam, which is essentially I can do what I want as long as I don't I toe the line on what the Bible explicitly says Look at Revelation chapter two. And picking up here in verse fifteen But I have a few things against thee because thou hast they There, them that hold the doctrine of Balaam, who taught Balak to cast what? A stumbling block before the children of Israel. Israel. That was Balaam's sin. He towed the line. You can't find anywhere he did anything wrong, except he cast a stumbling block. That's folks why you find in the New Testament. Christ says in Matthew 18, if you cause a little one, an immature Christian to stumble, it's better that a millstone being wrapped around your neck and thrown to the depths of the sea. Christ deals with us very sharply. He says, don't cause your brother to sin. Now we have a precept on it. And there's an area here, there's two areas actually that they caught that That this they caused stumbling blocks in. The result, number one, is to eat things sacrificed unto idols. Now, you might You might be thinking to yourself, I didn't know that was actually sin. Paul has a has an extended discussion on this in 1 Corinthians chapters 8 eight through ten. He discusses this whole issue of eating meat offered idols. We don't have time to go through all of this today, but here's what what I want to do. I want to eat I can basically help you understand the issue by answering four questions. Number one, question number one. Alright, go ahead and get up on the screen if you would Question number one. Is eating meat offered to idols inherently sinful? And the answer, according to 1 Corinthians 8, verses 4 through 6, is no. As concerning, therefore, the eating of those things that are offered to sacrifice into idols, we know that an idol is nothing in the world, and that there is none other God but one. For for though there be that are called gods, whether in heaven or in earth, as there be gods many and lords many, but to us there is but one God, the Father of when are all things and And we in him and one God, one Lord, Jesus Christ, by whom all things we by him. There's no validity in idol in in in these idols. that these people are worshiping. And so eating meat is not inherently wrong, and the idols mean nothing. So the answer to question number one is no, but be careful. Question number two, how should we treat those that find this to be sinful? And the answer is found in chapter 8, verse 13. It says, Howbeit there is not in every man the knowledge, for some with conscience of do idle unto these this hour eat. Eat it as a thing offered unto an idol, and their conscience being weak is defiled. Wherefore, verse thirteen, wherefore if meat make my brother to offend, now let me just pause and define offend. for you. Offend doesn't mean I got my feelings hurt. That's not what offend means in the Bible. Somebody says I'm offended, a lot of times we think, well, they got their feelings hurt. Offend means to sin here. Means I'm sinning by doing this. Wherefore, if meat make my brother to sin, to offend I will eat no flesh while the world standeth, lest I make my brother to offend. He says, I'm not going to partake of meat. He's going to repeat this over in 1 Corinthians chapter 9 and verse He's gonna again say, I'm not eating the meat. I'm not gonna do it. It might not be inherently wrong, but I'm not gonna do it because I did I do not want to cause somebody to stumble Now let me just ask you this question. What is the main issue here? And the main issue is Christianity. Christian liberty. We know that from 1 Corinthians chapter 8, verse 9. But take heed lest by any means this liberty of yours become a stumbling block to them that are weak. We have here, folks, a problem with people misap-applying Christian liberty. That's the issue here. Question for you that's not up there. Do believers have liberty in Christ? Yes, but folks, the issue is why? Why does a Christian have liberty in Christ? And you're going to find that the answer to that is in Galatians chapter 5, verse 1, which says, Stand therefore in the liberty with Christ hath made us free, and be not entangled again in the yoke of bondage. Christ has set us free so we're not in bondage, enslaved anymore. Aren't you glad about that? But he's going to say in verse 13 He's going to say, For brethren, ye have been called unto liberty. Only use not liberty as an occasion to the flesh. But by what? By love, serve one another. Do you know what God intended liberty to be? He attempted to free us so that we can love him and others with purity. He wanted us to not be constantly consumed with the oppressive nature of the six hundred and eleven commandments of the Old Testament, but it wasn't so that we could just be lawless, it was so that we can Truly love others. If we take liberty and we use it for our own flesh and we flaunt it, we're violating what Scripture says. And that's the mistake that these people did There were groups of people that said, you know what, I'm following the line. You can't show me anywhere in scripture where I'm violating anything. And so I'm fine. And it really doesn't matter whatever what the wake that I leave behind me when calling causing other people to stumble. Now the question then becomes with this eat eat meat offered to idols. Well, is there a guilt by association with And what he's going to say later on in cloud in 1 Corinthians 10, verse 20. But I say that the things which Gentiles sacrifice, they sacrifice to devils and not to God And I would not that ye should have fellowship with devils. He says one thing you've got to factor in here is are you cooperating with demons when you do this kind of thing? Folks, the conclusion of the matter is basically this. And you can find one. I'm not going to take time to read this, but 1 Corinthians 10 verses 28 through 33. The conclusion is yes, you've got liberty, but you must learn how to limit it. That's the conclusion. There is no way of getting around it. You read all three of those chapters, and there is no way That somebody can come to the conclusion of that and read everything and say, and say, okay, I've got liberty and I can do what I want. It's liberty so that I don't have this yoke of bondage. That's liberty. That's true liberty. If the Son will therefore make you Free, you'll be free indeed. But because I love others, I've got to be careful what I do. If I truly love others, I've got to be careful and I've got to know how to limit my liberty. Folks, there are all kinds of things that if you find a loophole in Scripture, you can find it to be permissible. But sometimes the question is not whether it's permissible, but whether it's wise. The Bible actually tells us, Christ uh Paul said, All things are lawful unto me. That's not the issue. All things are not helpful. All things are lawful, but I will not be brought under the power of anything. What Paul was advocating in these passages is that We have got to be wise about these things because we want to be very careful that we do not cause other people to sin. And so I'm going to let to limit my liberty not because I want to go back under bondage. Not because I want to become legalistic. Not because I'm afraid of what everybody else is necessarily going to think of me. But I don't want to cause somebody else to stumble. I don't want to cause somebody else to sin. I love them too much. That's got to be our attitude. That's got to be our motivation. That's got to be And folks, when you have the motivation of love for God, love for other for others, then it's not it's not a restriction That you're placing upon yourself because you have to. You're doing it because you love others and you're choosing to. And that is exactly God's mind of the matter Now, I want you to look here then at Revelation again. And notice what it says. Verse 15: so hast thou also then them Christ is not done, he says this. Actually he says there's a there's a second thing. Before we get to that, there's a second thing. He says this kind of approach is leading people to commit fornication. Now it's really hard to know whether or not these people are actually they're actually tolerating fornication or or they're actually advocating it or saying it's okay, I it's hard to imagine. Or if that what they are doing is leading people to fornication. But either way, folks, they're compromising in a And Christ is scathing about this. That's why Paul says in Ephesians. He says, let it not be once named among you. And folks, in our culture, we're living in a day where fornication is commonplace. It's completely acceptable. But God still says shacking up is wrong. It's still sin, apart from being married. It's still sin to live with somebody first before you're married. It's still sin to say I'm committed, but I'm not married and be living with it's all it's still sin. It might be entirely acceptable in our culture, but it's sin. And Christ says, He says, I hate it. You see the passage? Look at what it says. So hast thou also them that hold the doctrine of Nicolaitans, which thing I hate. Now let me just ask you a question. Is that in your theology? Does it seem uncharacteristic of Christ to hate something? And I would just dare say to you that that is actually the root reason that people compromise, because they do not have an accurate view of Christ. Yes, Christ is love. Yes, he loved the world supremely. He sacrificed everything for us. But that doesn't mean that Christ Christ doesn't hate sin. Christ is God, and it says about God that He he is angry at the wicked every day I was in um seminary at one time, uh one particular class a and a professor said of mine m kind of my favorite professor, he said, uh, you know, we have all these bumper stickers that say God loves you. He said, What it really should say is that God loves you and hates you at the same time And that's true. Now you and I can't do that very well, by the way. In fact, I'm not sure we have at all the capability of doing that. We can hate sin and love the sinner. Folks, we have to know and really the emphasis here is in this passage is that Christ Christ hates this sin. He doesn't hate this church. He doesn't hate these people in this church, but folks, he does hate this sin. And we ought never have a view of Christ that is just Embracing him as entirely tolerant of sin. Because if we have that view, then we'll be entirely tolerant of sin and we'll compromise. And what is Christ's approach to all of this? Verse 16. He says you need to repent. Repent means to turn. From your ways. That is in this church's, this is the only option for this church to survive as Christ's church. If they will not return, turn, he's going to remove his candle. Stick and he's going to take his blessing off of the church. It's no longer be Christ's local church. He says, You must repent. You've got to turn from your ways. All fornication, all sexual immorality apart from the marriage bed is sin. And he says, you've got to turn from your ways in this. Maybe there's somebody out here who is involved in fornication. You say, oh no, not in our church. Maybe somebody is in one way or another. This is a very general term here. Your response to this has got to be to repent. He says, Repent, or else I will come unto thee quickly, and I will fight against thee. With the sword of my mouth, he says, I will, I'm gonna fight you if you don't repent. It indicates for us, folks, that there is, God is benevolent, he's patient. But there is a point where he says, enough is enough. You and I, there is, folks, there is something healthy about the fear of God it is the beginning of wisdom. God says in Hebrews, whom the Lord loves, he chasteneth He said, I will fight against them with the sword of my mouth. He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches. To him that overcometh, he gives this. He says, I will give him e I will or will I give him to eat of the hidden manna? He says, I'm going to provide for you in heavenly ways. And I will give him a white stone. That's exoneration. He said, You get to heaven, you fa you stay faithful in this earth, you overcome this earth, when you get to heaven, you're going to be exonerated, you're going to be acquitted of all things. And the stone a new name written, which no man knoweth saving he that receiveth. work and all those kinds of things in this life. We're going to struggle with sin. We're going to have to constantly check ourselves. We're going to have to be careful. And there's no, folks, you you've got to keep doing it in this life If you ever get to the place where you're comfortable with yourself, you're probably in the wrong. There will be a one day, folks, where we look ahead to heaven and we look ahead to Christ, and all will be past. Sin will be gone. The presence of sin will be gone. gone. The fight will be no more. The struggle will not be what there. And what has and faith will become sight. What is declared righteous in us will be righteous all the way from practice to declaration And that is the day we look toward. But until then, God desires for us to be faithful and to not compromise in these areas. I would just ask you this question. Are you, number one, have you applied Christian liberty incorrectly? Are you so dead set uh on pushing your liberty, folks, that you that you're you're not loving people, you're not withholding and limiting your liberty for the sake of of the brethren you're causing in your and your re and what you're doing potentially to cause harm to people, to cause them to sin If you think that's okay, you have fallen into the doctrine of Balaam. Are you aware that your behavior can cause others to stumble? Are you just aware of that? And do you have a view of Christ that includes love but not hate? These are probing questions, folks. If we're going to be the kind of church that's Christ's church, and we're going to be the kind of people that are truly followers of Christ, then we can't compromise. Now I'll just tell you this that you you go through these things and they are convicting. It is not easy to figure out and to navigate what is sin and what is liberty and those things are hard to navigate. But we've got to We need to be very clear in our minds that what we do is out of love for God and love for others. That is the supreme commandment. Let's pray. Father, we admit before you that we We are so weak in these kinds of things, and our flesh and our heart will will draw us away from what is right, and it has It seems as though it has an innumerable ways to do this. These this church declined into compromise. Because individuals in the church chose to compromise in certain areas. Father, I pray, Lord, that we would choose to be faithful. And if there is compromise in our midst, I pray that all of us, myself, include that all of us would repent. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.