All right, welcome everyone. Merry Christmas to everybody. This is way too loud. Um and uh we want to prepare our Christmas Eve candlelight service just as soon as we uh just a few minutes here. Do you want to welcome everyone and wish everyone a Merry Christmas. I'm glad that you're here and I think there'll be maybe a few others coming in. There are all kinds of music of the season that is planned here. And we have a chance just to to think about the real meaning of Christmas. tonight and that is and that is uh as we celebrate God becoming man in the person of Jesus Christ And that is uh a a blessed thing that we can do tonight. Let's go ahead and open with a word of prayer, ask the Lord's blessing our time together. Father, as we come here tonight, we pray that you would um be pleased with our gathering. We pray that you would help us to um have our mind focused on the things that we like and that there would be a grand appreciation for the sacrifice that Christ made in in humbling himself to become a man and to live a perfect life so that he could die to pay the punishment for our sin. And I pray, Lord, that as perhaps people are still coming and that you would bring people out that need to know of this good news. And Lord, I pray that tonight we would be able to celebrate this good news that all, that you're not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. And so we pray that you bless our time together, and we pray that you would be kind of good. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. For our first song tonight, we'll be singing number 131. It'll be in the song book in front of you there, the green song book. Angels from the Realm of Glory. Calling the angels, the shepherds, the sages. endless things to come and worship. Come and worship Christ, the newborn King. And stand together as we sing. We are warm, sweetly, we have seen all the blood and glory. Joy more than joy on the old God is all and suffer. Oh non soy soeur Thanks for seeing all the prize for reasonable. For this happy morning, sees us to be the old room. Okay. Today we were born in a major army, how good they were holding her. For our next song, you'll be singing number one hundred thirty-nine in your songbook, I Wonder As I Wonder. You may be seated as we sing And as we are singing, have your candles ready because we are going to be lighting your candles as we sing this. When we crawl with pleasure, we flee the star in the sky all our For all of us we will be had to sing, be your leader, I see what we're doing. I'm inside the city. And there were things, three, things, things. Telo Because there's those boom boom boom bing that they threaten. I think that's a good idea. First word, First, Fir First World, French World, Ford. So the uh the word uh And you know what is it? Okay. Take your Bibles with you, Lou, and turn to Psalm 2 if you have your Bibles with you, certainly if you don't, but no Bible at all. I'd like to begin by reading the Christian story. in Luke chapter 2. But before I do, I want to ask this question that we'd like us to ponder as we're reading this. And that is, what is the attitude of Christmas? There are all kinds of things that we think of when we come to this time of year, and even when we think of the major scene, we think of the time of Christ's birth, there are all kinds of things that we We consider uh we often think of the twenty-fifth as the day that Jesus was born, and when in fact it was unlikely that it was that date. Probably more likely it was between April and September, because the uh shepherds were not out in the field at night during before April. um with the sheep. And yet that's certainly no problem for us to choose any time of the year to celebrate the incarnation of Christ. Some of the we're certainly pleased with if we do it And certainly you have heard before um different ideas and sometimes when we think of the manger scene we might think of Uh the wise men being there. So of course the wise men weren't happy with your scene, were they? They were there two years later. The president's two years old at least. are roughly around that. And so um when we think of this time of year, the question I think is probably most helpful for us to ask is instead of all the details of of the shepherds and the wise men and the major and the time of year and everything. What is the attitude of this time of year? Or rather what is the attitude of Christ first? But you would ponder that question as we read this and see if you can see a connection in some of the in the theme of this chapter or this verse with this idea of asking the question, what is the attitude? Verse 1 says, and it came to pass in those days that there was a decree from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be taxed. And this taxing was first made when Cyreneus was governor of Syria, and all went to be taxed, everyone into his own city. And Joseph also went up from Galilee out of the city of Nazareth into Judea, unto the city of David, which is called Bethlehem. Because he was of the house and laying into David. To be taxed with Mary, he was a spoused wife and brave child And so it was that while they were there the days were accomplished that she should be delivered, and she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swathering clothes, and laid him in a manger. Because there was no room for them in the end. And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch of their flock by night And lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them, and they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them, Fear not, for behold I bring you good tidings of great joy which shall be all people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. And this shall be a sign unto you. Ye shall find the babe, wrapping squalling clothes lying in a manger And suddenly there was with the angels a multitude of heavenly hosts, praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth, peace, good will toward men In order to really understand the attitude of Christmas, the attitude of the birth of Christ and what and the attitude of Christ as he came, it's important for us to look at the sort of the background of what the plan was. For Christ's coming. And we see a general view of that in Psalm two. And in Psalm 2 it says, why do the heath rage, the people imagine the main thing? The kings of earth set themselves as rulers, they counsel together against the Lord, against his anointed, saying, Let us break their bands asunder and cast away their cords from us. He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh. The Lord shall have them in derision. And then we stand here in a passage in verse 7 it says, and I will declare I will declare the decree, the Lord has said unto me, Thou art my son. This day have I forgot uh have I begotten thee. So there was a decree and there was a plan when God sent forth his son to be begotten. to be born. Verse 8 tells us, Ask of me, and I shall give thee the heathen for inheritance, for thy inheritance, and the uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession. Thou shalt break them with a rod of iron, and shalt dash them in pieces like a father's vessel. Be wise now therefore, O ye kings. He instructed ye judges the earth, serve the Lord with fear and rejoice with trembling, kiss the son, lest he be angry, and he perish from the way. When his wrath is kindled but a little. Blessed are all they that put their trust in him. Here David gives this psalm and it reveals that God has this plan for this For Jesus to come and to be born. But he is to be born to to one day be to be king. When we think of kings, when we think of royalty, when we think of um conquerors, God says in this passage he's going to give the heathen as an inheritance to him. When we think of these things, we would not all expect for Christ to come the way he did. It was not anticipated by the nation of Israel. It was not anticipated by the people that were surrept that were in the in the context of when he came. They would not have anticipated any of this, that he would have come and been born from a family in Nazareth and born in a stable in a trough This was very foreign to the idea of somebody being born as a king. Normally kings were born into from kings. That is why I think it's accurate to say that the attitude of Christ and the attitude of his coming the first time here is an attitude of humility. And we know that to be true from Philippians chapter 2. The Apostle Paul, commenting on how Christ came in great detail, talks about in this passage Exactly exactly how he's to come, he how he came, and what it took for him to come. In verse 1 of chapter 2 it tells us If there be therefore any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any bows and mercies, fulfill ye my joy that ye be like-minded Having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory, but in lowliness of mind, that each esteem other better than themselves Look not every man in his own things, but every man also on the things of others. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. who being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God. That is, Ms. Tax was talking about is he did not think it to be grasped, to be equal with God. In other words, Jesus was equal to God. He is God. And being God, the Bible says He came and made himself of no reputation. What that means is there was no comeliness about him, says over the book of Isaiah, that there was no manner of comliness about him. He came And when he came and he when he rubs shoulders with people, it wasn't as though they saw in him kingliness. Now he put away all his glory. He limited that And he came as a poor carpenter. He came humbly for you and I. And he came, the Bible says here, for our example. It's interesting that Christ came in this way. He came in humility, and he died in humility. And then he was rose from the grave victorious, over sin and death And when he did that, the Bible says that he was set at the right hand of the throne of God. And the next passage tells him the way that Christ came And limited his own glory, his the splendor of his majesty, he limited all that and became and humbled himself. It says in this passage Verse 8, and being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even to the death of the cross. Wherefore God hath highly exalted him. And given them a name which is above every name. But at the name of Jesus, every knee should bow of things in heaven and things in earth and things under the earth. That every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord for the glory of God the Father. He came humbly. The Bible says that God exalted him Interesting came that way as an example to us. It's interesting because in order for you and I to place our full dependence on him For what we cannot do for ourselves, we also must come humbly. The Bible tells us that without faith it is impossible to please Him For he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a reward of them that diligently seek him. So faith is required to come. But in order to have faith, we must have humility. We must understand that there is nothing in of ourselves that we can do to muster up good works or to, in our own self-effort, be good enough. To to gain God's acceptance. If we think that there we can be good enough to gain God's acceptance There is an element of pride to us where we think we can do it ourselves. No, the Bible tells us that we've got to come humbly. We've got to follow Christ's example. Who came humbly. And we come humbly, realizing that there is the not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy, he saved us How did Christ save us? Well he came, he who is God became man and lived a perfect life. And then Jesus died. But he didn't die just the way everybody else dies. He died with a purpose of taking on our sin on himself. The Bible says who his own self bear our sin in his own body on tree. So God took upon himself our sin. So that we could have Christ did that, so that we could have his righteousness placed on us This salvation the Bible talks about, this eternal life that God talks about is not free. It's free to you and it's free to me, but it wasn't free for Christ. Christ emptied himself of everything. He even was separated from his own father for all for time. In order for you and I to come to a place in humility and say, no, I can't, my good is never going to outweigh my bad. Your standard is too high, God God's standard is perfection, is holiness, is justice. But Jesus died so that he could place his righteousness on our behalf. So that when God looks on us, he doesn't see our sin, he sees his son, the righteousness of God in Him. That is the glory of the birth of Christ. But let us remember that it came through humility. The reality is, even after we come to know Christ as our Savior, the key to spiritual growth is still humility, which leads to faith and dependence on Him. which leads to growth in our lives spiritually. So it isn't as though we become we we we humble ourselves to trust Christ as our Savior And then we fill ourselves with all of our own abilities to do what we want to do or do things in our own strength. No, God still says that we still have got to remain humble before Him And when we do, our behavior and our actions and our lifestyle become more and more conform with our position. We are positionally righteous because of Christ. But as we live this life, the key to living life in a way that pleases the Lord is to humble ourselves and depend on Him so that we can have His grace, which allows us to adjust to Him. And God, when we do that, we will have a very similar, in a sense, a very similar destiny to Christ's. Because the Bible says that we are joint heirs with Him. The Bible says in Romans 8, that we will be like him, that we will be conformed to his image. What an incredible thought! How does that come? The same way that God exalted Christ, it comes through humility Maybe you've always thought to yourself, you know, I just really gotta pull my myself up by my own bootstraps. And I've got to be good enough to either trust Christ as my Savior and Lord, to be in right standing with Him, or to live for Him. May we just look at the work of Christ and look at what he did and the humility with which he came. And look at all of that and just simply say, Lord help me to have Christ-like humility. As Paul said, let this mind be in you which also to Christ Jesus. If you are here today and you have you are unsure of where you stand with God Maybe you've been a good person, but of course you and I both know you're not perfect because you're alive. Maybe you've done good things and you are pretty sure that your good outweighs your bad. But God's standard is perfection. That's what he is. He's perfect. And if that's the case, then what you've got to do is come to God humbly. And depend on the death of Christ for what you cannot do for yourself. And God will give you, as you depend on that, God will give you a desire to please him. You could even say your own heart to the Lord, Lord, I am, I know I'm a sinner, that my lifestyle does not match up with your standard of perfection. But Jesus died the day to take the punishment for my sin, and I'm choosing him as my substitute for my sin. Maybe today would be a day that you would choose to trust Christ as your Savior. You can do that on your own, but I would just really encourage you to talk to somebody, whether it's myself or somebody else you're comfortable with. Help me with this. I would be glad after the service to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you have eternal life and a right standing with God It would be a joyous Christmas for you and for all those around you. Let's pray. Father, we do come and recognize that the attitude Of the incarnation is humility Lord, we pray that you would help us to have the same mind that you have in this area. There is someone here that doesn't know you as their Savior. There's someone here that doesn't have a right standing with you. Lord, would you cause them to realize that it is a way of humility that brings them to a place? They can trust for the death of Christ to pay the punishment for their sin. Lord, I pray that you would help all of us to live a life of humility, knowing that you will exalt us one day And we will be like Christ. We look forward to that day. Where we will rule and reign with Christ, where we will have all of the benefits of our inheritance in Christ. Where we will be free from the presence of sin, where we look forward to that then. And we thank you. That until then, you and your presence is with us. And we pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen. Ah, gonna be a big thing. Troll again As we join the soul, we will require. I still pray. I saw you. Next song we'll be singing is 138. Can you tell the look in front of you there? Total on the nuts at 138. We have on the mountain that we used Christ is called down in the nature of the Well this concludes our our Christmas Eve service, but we do want to encourage you to uh right after this miss here, head on to the back. There's cookies. Uh enjoy having fellowship with each other and uh wish everybody a Merry Christ Christmas uh that that's here tonight. Um it's been great to I thank you all for all of your work and different uh playing and seeing and everything, place of the work for all that. And uh so let's thank the Lord tonight um and um pray that the Lord blessed our fellowship together. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you so much just for um Well we uh we thank you for Christ. No matter what we're going through, no matter what difficulties or complications or struggles or sin We thank you that we can simply follow Christ. There's such a simplicity of that. And I pray, Lord, that we would absolve Christ in our thinking, in our speech. We certainly do have something to go and tell on the mountain. Well we thank you for that. So we pray, Lord, that you bless our fellowship and um and that you would um Uh that we enjoy the cookies and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. I was trying to decide whether I was gonna like Nourish our bodies. I wasn't sure about 50 nourishment. So enjoying work. Alright, your dismiss sounds as best. Oh.