Please take your Bibles and turn to the book of Acts this morning, Acts chapter 2. We should be finishing up Peter's first sermon in the book of Acts, and it's actually the first sermon in the book of Acts. uh today as Peter has been preaching to thousands of Jews in Jerusalem that have met for Pentecost. And of course Prior to their meeting, prior to Peter's preaching, they had the Holy Spirit that came down and inaugurated the church. uh by his baptism of of those people that were there. And now what we want to do is just in by way of scripture reading, I want to look Pick up here in verse 22, and we'll read verses 22 through 36, and then we'll pray together and we'll begin our message. Acts chapter 2, verse 22. It says Men of Israel hear these words, Jesus of Nazareth, a man attested by God to you by miracles, wonders, and signs, which God did through him in your midst. as you yourselves also know. Him being delivered by the determined purpose and foreknowledge of God You have taken by lawless hands, have crucified and put to death, whom God raised up, having loosed the pains of death, because it was not possible that he should be held by it For David saying concerning him, I foresaw the Lord always before my face, for he is at my right hand, that I may be not be shaken. Therefore my heart rejoiced, and my tongue was glad. Moreover, my flesh also will rest in hope, for you will not leave my soul in Hades, nor will you allow your holy one to see corruption. You have made known to me the ways of life. You will make me full of joy in your presence. Men and brethren, let me speak freely to you of the Patriarch David. that he is both dead and buried, and his tomb is with us to this day. Therefore, being a prophet and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him that the fruit of his body, according to to the flesh He would raise up the Christ to sit on his throne. He, foreseeing this, spoke concerning the resurrection of the Christ. His soul was not left in Hades, nor did the flesh see corruption. This Jesus God raised up, of him uh of which we are all witnesses. Therefore, being exalted to the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he poured out this which he now see which you now see and hear Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we do come to you, and as we have read this passage, and we see that Peter is now going to proclaim and has been proclaiming to this Jewish audience. The fact that m Jesus is fulfilling prop prop prophecy and did fulfill prophecy and coming and living a perfect life and dying to pay the punishment for the sins of the world and rising again three days later And all of that was in your plan. And as Peter explains all of this to these Jewish people, and they begin to consider and to think about what they are hearing, We are thrilled to know that they will accept you. Many of them will accept you as their Lord and Savior. And today, Lord, as we look through this message, I pray that if there is anybody today that doesn't know you as their Lord and Savior, today would you work in their hearts to realize, help them to realize your holy standard But also your love for them. Help them to realize their sin. Help them to realize that their sin separates them from God. But that Jesus died to pay the punishment for their sins so they could be rightly related to you. And Father, all of this I pray that it would also encourage us and challenge us and strengthen us. As we see Peter's account of the fulfilled prophecy of the Old Testament, may it strengthen our faith to see how you have done that in your word, fulfilled prophecy. And may we be encouraged and strengthened by it. We pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. You know, I was doing a little bit of research on skin this week. You say, that's kind of gross. Well, I don't know, I look up all kinds of things. You know, got the way God made skin is quite incredible. There are many, many different layers. There are three major layers, and of course I've got medical professionals in the room which make me always nervous when I talk about these kind of things. But from my understanding, there's three different layers. You have the epidermis, you have the dermis, and you have the subcutaneous layer. Did I get that right, guys? You medical people up there? And there's actually layers within those layers, from what I understand as well. You know, sometimes the layers of skin are a good example of what happens with our face. It gets wounded. And there are different depths at which our faith gets wounded in life. We have faith wounds, if you will. Have you ever gone through something in your life that that causes you to struggle in your trust of God? To struggle in whether or not God is really in control. To struggle in your faith. All of us, I think, if we are honest, there are times in our lives where our faith is wounded. And the first level of a wounded faith is usually as a result of Circumstances in our lives. Sometimes it's a particular catastrophic circumstance or a crisis in our life that just really sorts sort of shakes us in our faith. Sometimes it's sustained difficulty in life that seems like it's never going to change, never going to go away And that causes us to lose space, and that's sort of a surface-level wound. But sometimes the wound goes in a little deeper It goes past that epidermal level in deeper, and that deeper level of hurt is that if you begin to question the validity of the Word of God. You begin to ask the question, okay, well, is the God of the Bible really the true and living God? And that is extremely deep, a deep wound that must be healed. Some people here, some of you here may not really have saving faith at all yet. It may be that you don't know the Lord as your Savior. You're not absolutely sure where you will spend eternity. And then some of you here, some of us might might might really occasionally from time to time struggle in our trust of God and what he is doing. Have you ever Really said to yourself, Lord, what are you doing? I don't understand what you're doing, and begin to sort of question that. I'm here to tell you that there is a particular way that God's God's method of strengthening our faith that we need to know. We need to be aware of It's found in Romans chapter 10, actually. Whether it's giving of faith or the strengthening of faith, it's found in Romans chapter 10, verses 17 and 18. It says, so faith comes by what? It comes by hearing and hearing by the Word of God. It's talking there, folks, about the preaching of the Word But verse 18 says, But I say, have they not heard? Yes, indeed, their sound has gone out to all the earth, and their words to the ends of the world. And it says later in that passage, how can they know if they've not heard? And how can they hear without a preacher? There is this method, this plan in which God has created this thing called preaching of the word. That causes our strate to be strengthened when we see what God has done, when we see what the Word of God says. Our faith is strengthened in who God is and what he has done. The Apostle Peter is writing this or is preaching a sermon in our text. He's preaching a sermon, and his desire is that the people of the Jewish people would come to faith. And what he is doing in this passage is he is going to demonstrate how Old Testament prophecy was fulfilled by Jesus Christ. The reason that God is set up that the Word of God is established was established and written over 4,000 in a span of 4,000 years instead of all at one sitting. By 40 different men instead of what just one man is to demonstrate its own veracity. That is, to help us to understand That what was written in the first century was was a fulfillment of what was written millennia before And there is this self-authenticating work when we see the Word of God as it is laid out. We see prophecies in the Old Testament that are fulfilled in the New Testament. And let me just, by way of it's a little bit of a digression, but not too much, let me just mention this. As you are reading the Word of God, don't shy away from these prophecies. Don't say, well, you know, that's just too deep, or that's I just really can't grasp all of that. Folks, these are the kinds of things that really strengthen our faith. It is only God that can fulfill the prophecies with the kind of specificity that we find in the New Testament. It's only God that can do that. And in times where you're struggling with your circumstances, in times where you don't understand why God is doing what he is doing or allowing what he is allowing, when you're really confused about your own circumstances, Go to the Word of God and see the prophecies of the Old Testament fulfilled in unique ways in the New Testament. But one of the things you'll notice also as you look at various prophecies, as we looked at last week, is that God will often fulfill them in a different way than the people of God expect. And that is the case in our passage today. Remember, Peter is preaching to a large group of Jewish people. There are two different major groups within that large group of Jewish people. Some have pilgrimaged from all kinds of different areas of the region. They have been dispersed by different governments, the Roman government and previous governments before that, they have been dispersed uh to for basically crowd control purposes essentially. And now but they come back and they pilgrim pilgrimage three times a year. back to Jerusalem. One of the times and the the most prolific time that they come is at Pentecost during uh the milder season of the middle of June, beginning or middle of June. And so all these people have gathered, plus the people that are already there in Jerusalem. And all the Jewish people are waiting for fulfilled prophecy. They are waiting for the Messiah. Now, you and I know that the Messiah is Jesus Christ. He has already come, but rem but understand that these Jewish people thought that he was still yet to come. What they were looking for, the key test that they were looking for, was that they were looking for someone who would overthrow the tyranny of the Romans. and would set up a kingdom for them, that person they would know would be the Messiah. And until somebody were to come and to do that, they didn't see them as being the Messiah. In the case of Christ, Christ came and he died. Was buried in a grave. Of course, they had probably heard that he had risen from the grave. But what Jesus didn't do was overthrow the Roman government. What Jesus didn't do was was to free the Jewish people and to allow them to have their own their own state again, their own na nation Which all of them desperately wanted. They had been p tossed from one group of one empire to another, four different empires, uh actually, and they had been gone gone from one to another to another until they uh have been here under the Roman Empire. Peter's job is to demonstrate that that the key element that they need to identify To demonstrate that the Messiah has come is not overthrowing the government, but it is the miracle of the resurrection. He wants them to look at this thing called the resurrection that has happened, that they are all the apostles are witnesses of. And he wants them to say to realize that the Old Testament prophesied that the Messiah would come, but the Messiah would die, but the Messiah would then rise from the grave. Now with all of that in mind, let's get into the text and see how Peter preaches this sermon. By the way, before we do that, I'll also mention this. You realize that just remember that Peter and the other apostles, as well as the 120 that were in the upper room, had been trained by Jesus for 40 days before he ascended. Then there were ten days in between before Pentecost. Realize that probably my guess is that what Peter taught here was really likely relay by Jesus during those 40 days. We have indications of what Jesus taught By the story of the disciples on the road to Emmaus in the Gospel of Luke, the writer of the book of Acts, found in chapter 24, verses 43 through 45. And in that passage, it actually says this, Jesus had already risen from the grave, he meets these disciples, doesn't disclose immediately his identity, but eventually he does. He eats in their presence for an obvious reason, because it demonstrates that there was a bodily resurrection. And then in verse 44 it says, these are the words of Which I spoke to you while I was still with you, that all things must be fulfilled which were written in the law of Moses and the prophets and the Psalms concerning me. And what you're going to find, and it says, and they open and he opened their understanding and that they might comprehend the scriptures. And what you're going to find in this passage is that's exactly what Peter does. Peter is going to cite a couple of different psalms, and he's going to attempt to open their understanding so that they could see the scriptures. And they can be convinced that Jesus is who he says he was, that he is truly the Messiah, and in fact Lord of all. And I want to mention this as well. That really is the difference between teaching and preaching. If you want to know the difference, all good preaching has teaching in it. But preaching has a always has an intent to persuade something. There is this desire to persuade people to the truth of what Scripture says. And that is essentially what Peter does. Peter wants to persuade them. What is the persuasion? What does he want to persuade? What is the argument? Jesus is the Messiah, and you know this because of the bodily resurrection of Christ. So with all that in mind, let's get into the text, and we'll pick up here in verse 22. Verse 22 says, Men of Israel, hear these words. Jesus of Nazareth, a man attested by God to you by miracles. wonders and signs which God did through him in your midst as you yourself also know In this pat this verse, Jesus is talking to them and he is pointing out something. He says that what God did when Jesus came to earth What God did was He Jesus came to earth and and there were these miracles and signs and wonders that God did, and the point that Jesus did And the point was to authenticate that Jesus is who he says he was. And what does that mean? The word means to to accredit Or to get or to certify. It's like a university that's that that's desiring accreditation, for example. What is the point of a college or university being accredited? Well, it's an outside organization that identifies that that university is credible, that they will, they're doing what they're say that what they say they're doing, and that it is actually a credible degree that they are conferring. Or you can think of the term certify, like if you're a mechanic and you have you're a certified mechanic or a certified inspector. That's the idea here. And what Peter points out is he said, look, think of all of the miracles and the signs and the wonders that Jesus did on this earth. And he says to them in very pointed terms, you know this is true. You know this to be the case. In fact, we find from extra-biblical writings like Josephus, who said that Jesus' miracles were numbered so greatly that everyone in the land knew of the miracles that he had done. And the book of John, John says this at the end of his uh at the end of his book that the that that paper could not contain all of what Jesus did when he was on this earth. His the signs and the wonders and miracles must have been very, very prolific. And everybody would have known that this is the kind of thing that Jesus did that could not be something that a human being, a mere human being, could do. And he is recalling to these, he's recalling this for these Jewish people. Then he says this in verse 23. He says, him being determined by the determined purpose, or delivered rather, by the determined purpose and foreknowledge of God. You have taken by lawless hands and have crucified and put to death. Now, this is quite interesting. He We have talked a lot in the last few weeks about God's sovereign plan. Sometimes when preachers talk about God's sovereign plan, they're they're reading something into the text that's not there. But I want you to notice how clearly this is there. Peter is pointing out, he says, by the determined plan of God. And the foreknowledge of God. Very clearly in the text, he wants them to know that what took place It was exactly in God's plan. This is as God designed it to occur. This was not by accident. This is not just some man who decided to do something heroic. This was planned by God before the foundations of the world, in fact, we learn from Ephesians chapter 1. But certainly we find many prophecies in the Old Testament, some of which we'll look at this morning. And he says to them that you know these things to be the case, and he says, and then he says this in verse 20 uh well uh yeah verse 20 um 24. Whom God, oh by the way, I just can't I want to mention this. He's very direct with them here in this verse 23. He says, which you have taken by lawless hands. Did you see that? Peter in his preaching says, look, the reason that Jesus has put to death, it's God's plan, and you're the one who did it. Now how would you feel if if that if you were called out like that in a service, in a preaching message, and you were said, hey, it's you, you're the one. Well, what Peter is referencing is the Jewish leaders. The Jewish leaders are the ones that thought it was in their plan to put Jesus to death. They were the masterminds. But that's not at all the case. God was the mastermind. And all these Jewish leaders were pawns in God's hand. To do what God intended to happen. And Jesus died on the cross because God planned it that way. But he says, you're the ones who, by lawless hands, the lawless hands are referenced to the Roman Roman Empire. By lawless hands, in other words The the Jewish people didn't have uh they they could have actually the Romans would have allowed them to execute themselves, to execute people themselves. They didn't have to go to the Roman guard to do this. In fact, there was a lot of back and forth, you remember all the trials, because they they were trying to the Jewish leaders were trying to get the Roman Roman leaders to do it, and the Roman leaders saying, no, this is actually your affair, you remember all that Well, it ended up being that the Jewish leaders punted, essentially, and they were and Christ was put to death by the Roman by the Roman Empire. And yet He clearly Peter puts this all together and realizes essentially it's your fault that you used the Roman guard to do it But ultimately, God is sovereign. He's the one. It was all in his plan. Does that make sense? And so that's important for us to understand as we as we move into this. Now, this is such an incredible verse next when we see what has taken place as God has raised up Jesus from the dead. We can see what happens here in verse 24. Whom God raised up. Notice how it's worded here. Having loosed the pains of death, because it was not possible that he should be held by it. That is, that when Jesus Christ rose from the grave, he was victorious over sin and death. He they it loosed the pains of death. Death could not hold Jesus. Now, this is a little different than the other times that we have seen that, for example, Enoch in the Old Testament that that was translated rather than died. Or in the New Testament, when Lazarus was ripped rose from the grave by the power of Jesus Christ, Lazarus again died later on, of course. But do you realize, I mean just think of it. I I did a little bit of calculation and I not not calculation, that's not even fair. I Googled uh this and And and I and a and by what I Googled, approximately s a hundred billion people have lived on the earth so far. Now, that may be totally wrong. I it could be half of that. Let's say it's half of that, but just by for con conservative estimates. Fifty billion people have lived on the earth approximately, and not one has has has been had victor victory over death. Not one except for Christ. He is the only one. And what Peter is trying to describe to the Jewish people is just how momentous this miracle is. This miracle surpasses all other miracles. Jesus has conquered death. That, folks, is the hallmark Key to the Christian experience and faith. It is the resurrection of faith. Everything else depends upon that, the resurrection of Christ. You could look at any other religion, you can look at any other faith, and their leaders have all died. But we serve a risen Savior, and He conquered death. And there were literally thousands of witnesses to what Christ did in the resurrection. And we need to understand, you know, we are we are so used to we celebrate the resurresurrection every Easter, we come together every Sunday to to worship over the resurrection. And we are so used to understanding this. We've got to get a hold of the victory that we have in Christ because of the resurrection. For just a few moments, I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 15. Why should the victory of the resurrection be such an encouragement for the believer? First Corinthians chapter 15, I want you to turn all the way to the verse to verse 50. Verse 50. It says this. Now this I say, brethren, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, nor does corruption inherit incorruption. Behold, I tell you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet, for the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed. For this corruption must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality. Keep those words, that corruption word in mind here. It's going to come in handy later on as we go through this. Verse 54. So when this corruptible has put on incorruption, and this mortal has put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written: Death is swallowed up in victory. O death, where is your sting? O Hades, where is your victory? The sting of death is sin. And the strength of sin is the law But thanks be to God who giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, my notice where it says, Therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast. Immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. Do you ever feel like giving up? You ever feel like throwing in the towel? You ever feel like what you are doing for Christ is just not really worth anything? Moms, you ever feel like you're spinning your wheels? Dad, do you ever feel like you're just going in circles? Do we ever feel like when we are serving the Lord that it were just it were, you know, it's like nothing's actually really happening? Understand that because of the resurrection, we never have to feel that way. The encouragement is because of the resurrection, that what we do is not in vain in the Lord. Maybe something like this will help us to understand the hopelessness without the resurrection. A man by the name of the turn of the turn of the century poet by the name of Charles Swinburn wrote these words. He says, From too much love of living, from hope and fear set free. We thank with brief thanksgiving, whatever God's may be, that no life lives forever, that dead men rise up never. That even weariest even the weariest river winds somewhere safe to see. What a bleak poem He is looking at death and he's saying that's the great release of life, that that is at least that will have relief from life in death. Well, that is depressing. That is basically the philosophy of many of the poets, actually, is life is hard and then you die. But for the Christian, it's not that way. Life is hard, and then you get to die and be with Christ. And so you can keep living, and you can keep serving, and you can keep being faithful, knowing that there is going to be a day where you're going to be victorious over sin and death. Because Christ was victorious over sin and death. And this ought to be the greatest encouragement for the Christian to persevere To be, to live in victory. Why? Because what we do on this earth is not the end, it's just the beginning. It totally changes our perspective. And God says in Colossians chapter 3: set your affections on things above, not on the things of this world. How do you do that? The resurrection is our link. It's our link between the temporal and the eternal. It's our link between those things that are on earth and those things that are in heaven. Christ Is death is swallowed up in victory, and that's because of Jesus Christ. And the next time that you're getting that you get discouraged, the next time that you struggle, With keeping on doing what God wants you to do, wondering if you're just spinning your wheels. Remember that you're gonna spin some wheels in this life. But we are living for the next life. We're not living for this life. And when we have that kind of perspective, we can do what Paul says to do in 1 Corinthians 15: be steadfast. Unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. This next section then is going to help us with understanding just how wonderful God's plan was and how it fulfilled prophecy. Would you notice with me, verse 25? The Apostle Peter again is speaking here to these Jewish people, and he cites an Old Testament passage from Psalm 16, verses 8 through 11. And he and and he we see what this is as we as we go through it. He says in Verse 25 of Acts chapter 2. I foresaw the Lord always before me. Now this is David's, this is the quote of David's Psalm. I foresaw the Lord always before my face And he is at my right hand that I may not be shaken. Why is it that David in the Old Testament was not shaken or didn't have to be shaken? He says, verse 26, Therefore my heart rejoiced and my tongue was glad. Moreover, my flesh also will rest in hope. Whatever this prophecy says, whatever David is saying here, it is causing him to be able to rest in hope. It is causing him to be able to rejoice and to be glad. It is causing him to be able to be in the presence of God and to stand there and to not be shaken. So, what is this? Well, notice what it says in verse 27. For you will not leave my soul in Hades, nor will you allow your holy one to see corruption. Maybe the translation you have says, will not leave my soul in hell. So, what is that verse talking about? He's going to say it again later on in the passage as well. What is that verse talking about when it says that I will not leave my soul in hell? Well, first of all, we at the or in Hades, we know that this is a talking about Jesus Christ. The fulfillment is not directly going to be David's life But it is going to be it is going to be in Jesus Christ that this is fulfilled. But there is a lot of controversy as to what this exactly means. Now, I want to just give you three different views of what this is talking about. The first view is that this is actually a reference to hell. to a a place, a sep a place of separation from God, a place of hell. And this is this is brought on primarily because of a particular translation of the Apostles' Creed. And I say a translation of the Apostles' Creed because there have been several translations of the Apostles' Creed throughout church history. It's interesting to note that that the first translation that used that cited the term as hell was actually not until the 300s. And even after that it wasn't it didn't really most of them most of the time it wasn't translated that way until it picked up it picked up momentum in the six hundreds And after that became the standardized way that the Apostle Creed was translated, and primarily by the Roman Catholic Church. Now, I want us to, this is important to understand. Let me just say this by just by way of when you're looking at doctrines that are developed during that time period, be cautious. During the medieval time period was a time of much superstition and the hiding of God's Word. Be very careful when there is some sort of doctrine developed Not all the doctrine needs to come from Scripture, but some sort of doctrine is developed during that time period because they were not particularly concerned about sticking very close to Scripture. And I'm going to cite four different problems with that view. Perhaps you've heard that view. Perhaps you've thought that that's what this means. I'm going to cite four different problems to the idea that was after Christ died, he went to hell, and then God brought him from that place. Number one. Christ says that he will be with the thief in paradise in Luke 23, 43. Remember that? He says, today you will be with me in paradise. That's number one. Number two. That's Luke 2343. Number two, Jesus says, it is finished. That strongly implies that his suffering was finished on the cross, that he didn't have any suffering, or he didn't go to hell after that. Strongly implies that that is where the suffering ended. John chapter 19, verse 30 says that. Number three Jesus immediately commended his spirit to the Father. He said, Into thy hands I commit my spirit. We have no reason to believe that God did not answer that prayer. That immediately the Spirit did not go to the Father from Christ after he died. That's in Luke chapter 23, verse 46. And finally, Jesus is the progenitor of the resurrection. He is not the only one that's going to rise from the grave. Folks, who else is going to rise from the grave? Everyone who knows Christ as their Savior will rise from the grave. You and I will one day rise from the grave. And the Bible actually says in 1 Corinthians 15 that Jesus is the first fruits of all of those who sleep. That he is, the method in which he rose from the grave is is a is a prototype, if you will, of how we will rise from the grave. This causes major problems with the idea that this is actually talking about hell. And by the way, let me just say that this does not have to at all be talking about hell. The Greek word Hades is in this passage. And some of your translations just leave it nondescript, which is probably wise. Just leaves it as Hades, which is the way it's Greek transliterated that way. The reason that this is the case is that most of the time, not all the time, but most of the time, this is translated the grave. Hades is translated as the grave. And there are many examples of that which we won't take the time to go into now. But realize that this is not not unusual to translate it that way. Number two, second view. Is that this is a reference to the pain of hell. Jesus didn't actually go into hell, but it's a reference to the pain of hell. And there are different people that believe that. Although that's more believable than the first view, it's not the one that I would suggest. The view that I would suggest to your folks, and that seems to fit the context the best, is the view that this is really talking about the grave That what it's saying in the passage is that Jesus did not, that the Father did not leave Christ's soul in the grave, in the ground, but instead delivered it. And this, I would give you three reasons for this. Number one, it fits the context. The entire context of this passage is talking about the resurrection. So it just makes sense that this passage As a fulfillment of the resurrection, is saying that he would not leave his soul in the grave. That this is the resurrection that is talking about is a prophecy of that. Number two You have this inclusion of the corrupt the flesh seeing corruption. Obviously, that is a connection to the physical flesh. This is saying essentially that Christ's flesh would not see corruption. Why is that? Because he rose from the grave before corruption was allowed was able to be able to take place. And obviously the body is gone. It's not it's It's it would it was never it never saw corruption. And so you see that. Number three, Peter's explanation will begin immediately Uh with a focus on David's tomb. You're going to see that in a minute. Where he now talks about the fact that David died and is in a tomb now In other words, folks, the entire context seems to be pointing to this being talking about the grave, not talking about anything else. And so the way to take this is simply this. That Christ, that the resurrection is a fulfillment of this, that Christ was not left in the grave. Instead, he rose from the grave, and the Holy One, Jesus Christ, never saw Now you might say, well, there's other passages like 1 Peter 3 and uh Ephesians chapter 4, and we don't have the time to go into all of those different passages, and I'll just say that there is an explanation for every one of those passages to demonstrate. But Christ never actually went into hell, that all he did was go into the grave, and then he rose from the grave from there And so um I don't have the time to go into all those, but that is that is the case uh as you go through those. The the hardest one is 1 Peter 3. Uh I think three or four. First Peter three or four. Now, with all of that in mind, that was highly technical, but the reason that I wanted to go through all that is because it is quite a bit of confusion in this passage when people come to it. A lot of people misinterpret this passage. And so I wanted to be clear about what this passage is saying. We want to be very we want to understand that this, the fulfillment of this, is the resurrection that that Thousands of years before Christ ever rose from the grave, God moved David to pen these words down. As a prophecy of what would happen. And it did indeed occur that way. Then you're going to notice in verses 29 through 32 that the Apostle Peter is now going to give arguments For why this is the right interpretation? That why is it that Jesus is the fulfillment of this prophecy rather than David? Would you notice what it says in verse 29? Men and brethren, let me speak freely to you for the patriarch of the patriarch David, that he is both dead and buried, and his tomb is with us to this day. Notice what he says there. He just simply says, look, this passage can't be talking about David. David is died years ago, and we still have his tomb. He's buried, he's there. There was this superstitious idea that that that somehow David's body, even though it was still there in the tomb, never actually saw corruption that was that was that was propagated by some of the uh some of the religious leaders of the day to try to fulfill that passage when it hadn't been fulfilled yet. But we see here that this passage is clearly uh he he says David is the that this tomb is is definitely um Is definitely still here, and so this can't be talking about David. Number two, argument number two, verse 30, David was a prophet who knew that this was to be be promised. Notice what it says in verse 30. Therefore, being a prophet and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him that the fruit of his body, according to the flesh, he would raise up the Christ to sit on his throne. So it says here that David is a prophet. In fact, this is the only time you find in the Bible that actually says that David is actually a prophet. However, we know that David is a prophet. He wrote the wrote most of the Psalms, and many of the Psalms are predictions. He then is a prophet in the most formal sense of the term. And so he says, because David is a prophet, this then allows him to write something down that would be fulfilled later. There also is a sense in which this is a fulfillment of David himself, because who is Jesus? What lineage did Jesus come from? Well he came from David. David is was the descendant of, or Jesus is the descendant of David And we find this promised in 2 Samuel seven verse twelve. It says, When your days are fulfilled and rest with your fathers, I will set up your seed after you. Who will come from your body, and I will establish his kingdom. He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. Psalm 132, verse 11 says, The Lord has sworn in truth to David, He will not turn from it. I will set up your throne to the fruit of his body. Then we see we see finally in verses 33 through 36 that the result of the resurrection is that Jesus is is exalted to a very high place of lordship. Verse 33 He, foreseeing this, spoke concerning the resurrection of the Christ, that his soul was not left in Hades nor did his flesh see corruption. This Jesus, God, has raised up of which we are all witnesses. Now notice what it says here. There's this there's this economy that he begins to talk about. Verse 33, therefore being exalted to the right hand of God, so where is Jesus now? Okay, he's the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of who? Of the Holy Spirit, he poured out this which you now see and hear. Now what is he saying here? Jesus is where? He's where, folks. He's at the right hand of the Father. And what does it say about the Spirit of God? That Jesus poured him out. We know this is true also from John chapter 3. Remember it says John the Baptist, remember from last week that John the Baptist said that there was going to be some who would baptize with the Holy Spirit. Who baptizes with the Holy Spirit, folks? Christ does. Christ baptizes with the Holy Spirit. So, folks, what you have here then is you have Jesus, who is sitting at the right hand of the Father. He's on his throne, and what is he doing? He is, he is, can we say it this way, he is spiritually mediating his throne through the Holy Spirit. That means this, folks. It means that the kingdom of God is is Though it is physically in the future, it is spiritually now. Did you catch that? Now this is important. That the kingdom of God, Christ's rule, will happen physically in the future when he comes for his own, he'll set up a millennial kingdom. But right now, it is spiritually being mediated, if you will. And the reason that's important then, folks, is it tells us exactly how we are supposed to relate to Christ. Christ for us is to be our Lord. Christ is our master. Christ is our Messiah. And Christ is our God. And what he is saying then to the Jewish people that are there, that are listening, and remember the Jewish have not people have not accepted him as Messiah. They certainly have haven't accepted him as Lord. They now realize who Jesus is. That the resurrection demonstrates not only that Jesus is the Messiah. But the resurrection demonstrates that Jesus is Lord and master over all. There is lots of debate in our world over whether or not you need, in order to come to Christ, you need to have God or make Christ be Lord of your life. Lots of debates over this. How many have ever heard or debate or read or something over that issue? Well, let me say this: that you can't make Jesus anything, but that Jesus is Lord. Realize, number one, that that's the case. He is Lord. God has set him up that way. Now, I am not saying that Jesus isn't is physically on the throne now in the sense that he's he's mediating his throne now. He's not doing that. But he is spiritually ruling. Now just understand this folks then. If you and I are going to be rightly related to Jesus, is it not true that we are going to have to accept him as Lord? Is it not true that you know this is this is almost preposterous to think that you can't that you can accept Jesus as Savior, but you can't accept, but you don't need to accept him as Lord? And the reason that is preposterous, it's almost like not knowing who you're marrying, or trying to get to know somebody who you don't really know, or don't really accept who they really are. We live in a society where marriage and marriage is just marriage is just happening less and less. You ever realize you know that? I think you're probably all aware of that. It's it's a very it's a it's a very unsettling thing. You know what, you know what the average young person says? Well, I want to know them intimately before I marry them. And those of us who've been married for a few years, what do we say? You're never going to know them until you marry them. I mean, isn't that true? How many of you all would say, yeah, I've been married long enough to know that when I got married I really didn't know him that well? How many of you all would say that? Okay? I mean met that that really is the case, folks. And it is not as though you shouldn't get to know them. I'm not saying, you know, go marry the first person you see. That's not that isn't the that's not the right application of this. But what I am saying is that it just doesn't make sense that you would think that you can you can have a close relationship with somebody, that you can get you can have a relationship with somebody that you are denying who they are. It's one thing if you don't really fully grasp all of what lordship's Jesus' lordship means. It's something entirely if you're unwilling to accept His Lordship. And if you're unwilling to accept his lordship, it's very likely that you don't have a true relationship with him. Philippians chapter 2, verse 8 says this And being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Therefore God also hath highly accepted exalted him. And given him a name which is above every name. Did you catch that? He has given him a name which is above every name. That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of those in heaven and those in earth, and of those under the earth And every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Can I ask you a question today? This is a very basic general question, but it's one that we ought to ask from time to time. Who's on the throne? Really? Who, folks, is on the throne in your life and my life? The world tells us that we need to be on the throne. The world tells us that I've got to make my own way and do my own thing and be my own boss. And that is exactly the opposite of what God's Word says. The best boss you can have is Jesus Christ. And he is Lord over all. And the sooner we accept his lordship in our lives, the sooner we will be able to follow him And know his will for us and please him and live the life that God wants us to live. So, what does all of this teach? Number one. We ought to, there's a been a loss here that we've gone over, but let's just summarize this together. Number one, we should encourage be encouraged by the cross and the resurrection. Because it demonstrates that the grave could not hold Jesus. Folks, there is victory in Jesus. There is no victory anywhere else. Why? Because no one else has risen from the grave and stayed alive. But Jesus rose from the grave, victorious over sin and death. There is no victory except in Jesus Christ. But there is all victory in Christ. Number two, in times where faith is weak, We should consider the many fulfilled prophecies to strengthen our faith. Look, folks, we have an entire Bible full of prophecies in the Old Testament. And what we ought to glean from these prophecies, maybe there isn't isn't something real practical here, but the thing that we can always glean from these prophecies when we see things clearly fulfilled in the New Testament that were in the Old Testament Is that this is a book that's that is fulfilled prophecy. It's true. There's truth in this book. It's all true, actually. The whole thing is true. And when we understand that, we can place our faith firmly on this book. We don't have to doubt. We don't have to wonder based upon the fact of what some academic professor says. Or what the liberal theologian says, or what we just feel to be true, or what circumstances tell us. We don't have a doubt about those things, folks. We can know from what the truth of the Word of God says And if you want to strengthen your faith, do a detailed study on the fulfilled prophecies of Scripture. And if you will accept if you will go in with a desire to learn, you will find that your faith is strengthened as a Christian. Number three. The fact that Christ is working out his will with a full measure of his spirit Should encourage us that we will be used by God his way. Aren't you glad? And we have gone over this before, but are you not glad, folks, that God will use you? And you will be used by him, not because of who you are, but because who Christ is and how he has set up his spirit to do his full work through us. You have the master of Christ at the throne, and you've got the Spirit of God working through us and in us to do what God has, God wants us to do. And I've said it before, but I'll say it again. The only conclusion that we can come to is this. We are to be channels only. We are to be conduits of what God is doing in our world. And the sooner we realize that this is what we're supposed to be doing, we're to be channels of God's grace to people, we can then begin to ask the questions: how do we do that on a practical day-to-day level? May we understand that we are channels of God's grace to the world. Let's pray. Father, we come to you and we thank you for your word. We thank you for your truth and we thank you for the fulfilled prophecies of your word. We thank you that we have a firm, fixed foundation. We thank you that we serve a risen Savior. We thank you that He is Lord of all, that He is the victor, and that we can find our victory in Him. We thank you, dear Father, that because of all of this, we can stand firm, immovable, always abounding in your work, because we know our labor is not in vain in you. And that we're not living for this life. We're living for the next life. Lord, we confess before you that we so often get off track where we're focused on things temporal. And you want us to be focused on things eternal. And I pray for all of us that you would help us in our attitude, in our focus, to be focused on things eternal. So that we can fulfill your purposes in your kingdom in this world, and we can one day hear you say to us, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Let's say