Well, good evening. And Merry Christmas. We want to welcome you here to our Christmas Eve service at Bethel Baptist Church. If you're a guest with us, we are thrilled that you're here. And if you're not a guest with us, we're thrilled you're here too, actually. And uh we just went through just a prepared prelude ahead of time just to kind of get us in the uh Christmas spirit and to listen to some good sacred music. Uh Christmas related sacred music. Tonight's presentation will be the same, very similar as as Sunday mornings, where we will have uh several choir pieces and several uh several prepared selections. And then we'll have a a movie that then we'll we'll have parts of it we'll have commenting on it in between the movie, messages in between the movie. I think it will be very helpful, very in uh uh encouraging uh for all of us to hear it. Some of us will be hearing it again, some of us will be hearing it for the first time. And uh it really illustrates the whole reason that Christ came uh to earth and I think that'll be really helpful for all of us. At the end of the time together, we will be doing we will be uh having a candlelight uh portion of the service. It will be just uh toward the end. And if you can have your candles ready, you'll see when that happens. Um and uh we'll have two gentlemen that'll be coming up, they'll be lighting the candles and then they will just light uh each on the each row on the end. So if you have gaps in your row, if you just kind of walk over the next walk over the find find a candle and light it somewhere, that would be good. And we can get them all uh uh lit uh during that time as well. And I think that's all the announcements that I need to say. And so hopefully we will enjoy this message and this all the service together. And so let's begin by seeing Joy to the World. Good evening. If you could stand with me and turn in your hymnal to number 199, who will also be on the screen. We'll sing joy to the world. Joy to the world the Lord is on the earth received. And heaven and nature's sake, and heaven and nature sick, and heaven Joy to the earth does take your place I messed away No more less than sorrow, nor more deep He caused to make his way. For as the curse is hot, far as the curse is loud, far as far as the curse is loud. The world with truth and praise and makes a nation true his righteousness and wonders. of Islam and wonders of Islam and the wonders of the wonderful is love. Thank you. You can be seated Joyful and try not me over. I love the ball. Scripture reading tonight is from Luke chapter two, verses one through twenty. And it came to pass in those days that a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be registered. This census first took place while Cyrenius was governing Syria. So all went to be registered, everyone to his own country. Joseph also went up from Galilee. out of the city of Nazareth, into Judea, to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and lineage of David. To be registered with Mary, his betrothed wife, who was with child. So it was that while they were there, the days were completed for her to be delivered And she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger, because there was no room for them in the inn. Now there were in the same country shepherds living out in the fields, keeping watch over their flock by night. And behold, an angel of the Lord stood before them, and the glory of the Lord shone round them. And they were greatly afraid. Then the angel said to them, Do not be afraid, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which will be to all people. For there is born to you this day in the city of David a Savior who is called Christ the Lord. And this will be the sign to you. You will find a babe wrapped in swaddling clothes lying in a manger. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host, praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men So it was, when the angels had gone away from them into heaven, that the shepherds said to one another, Let us now go to Bethlehem and see this thing that has come to pass, which the Lord has made known to us And they came with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in a manger. Now when they had seen him, they made widely known the saying which was told them concerning this child. And all those who heard it marveled at those things which were told them by the shepherds. But Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart. Then the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen, as it was told them. That's just my text is just difficult. If you could please stand with me, we'll sing number two oh four, the first Noel. We're gonna sing verses one, two, and six. One is her family like we're seeing Word is the warnings right now, they both are high as for star. Thank you, you can be seated. This is Well we're all tight with celebration. No created, and our man gave you the choice. Love incorporates on the wrong. So there's a minute we have been fair, we've got a bin left, we have save, and then install them. Thank you. And so this is excesses kind of five factors. My dad would always tell me, broken hearts are hard to fix. Sometimes You need a new one. It turns out he was right. Eleven years ago, my dear wife Sarah passed away. She was everything to me. My support My help, the love of my life. I'm surprised I'm still the one standing. For more than 40 years, Sarah and I ran the Hope Center Children's Home. And for years it was just that. A place to find hope. A future. A family. But since my wife's passing, I've struggled to keep it running. I'm just getting too old. And I miss my best friend. I decided to hand the children's home off to Jackie, my niece. Well, she's not officially my niece, but she grew up a foster kid at Hope Center. And according to her, never had the time to get married and have a family. Yeah, just in the She always felt like this was her family and these kids were her own. Since it's just Jackie and the kids, I still try to help out where I can. Oh! What's that? What's that smell? Oh the cookies are bringing! I'm just not very good with most things she needs. But sometimes I'm reminded why Sarah and I started this orphanage so long ago. But Mary kept all these things and founded them in her heart. Can we read it again? Sure, Bell, one more time. And it came to pass in those days that there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus. Boys, would you put the football away? Maddie? Would you go get Bill for dinner for a seat? No. Dilated cardiomyopathy Belle's heart was too big, and the doctor said she had six months to find a donor. It seemed that her chances of finding one were not too high. AB positive blood type is only 3% of the population. It would take a miracle for her to find a donor. She didn't have anyone. No parents, no relatives. The only official record of her existence was a handwritten birth certificate. Her father was a gang member killed three months after she was born, and her mother soon after died from drug overdose. Any other family was either a criminal or unable to support her. She came from a family, alright, but she doesn't have one. For months I sat there waiting to hear from the doctor, hoping there was some good news, some donor. Something, anything to save this little girl. Dilated cardiomyopathy. Bell's condition meant that her heart no longer had the ability to pump blood out of the left ventricle. It was a hopeless situation. She was desperate. Only three percent of the people uh uh in the in the uh area had the ability to be able to um take care of that problem Her situation was very hopeless. Belle had a physical heart condition, but the Bible actually says that you and I have a spiritual heart condition. And that condition is called sin. And the Bible describes that condition as hopeless. In Ephesians chapter 2, it tells us, having no hope and without God in the world. The truth is, the Bible is very clear. It says in Romans 5. 12, wherefore as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin, and so death passed upon all men. That is, because of the first man's sin, Adam's sin, sin has passed and death has passed upon all men, so that we are all born sinners We are born with an impossible heart condition, a hopeless heart condition, a condition that puts us in a desperate situation. You may say, well, that's not fair. I'm a pretty good person. And and you know, I I I uh just because I inherited this sin problem, why should I have to suffer the consequences? Well, the Bible says in Isaiah 53, 6, all we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way. And in Romans chapter 3, verse 10, it says, There is none righteous, no, not one. So not only are we born with a hopeless heart condition, but you and I sin all the time. The Bible actually tells us all have sinned. And you say, well, I don't understand what the big problem is because, you know, compared to everybody else, I'm pretty good. I look at other people and I'm not a murderer. I'm not some horrible sinner. Well, the Bible says that the standard that is not a standard of everybody else, it's God's standard. And it says in Habakkuk 1, verse 13, you are of purer eyes than to behold evil. and cannot look on wickedness. The standard is God's standard of perfection. He is holy and righteous. And the Bible said as we if we offend in one point we are guilty of all sin. Because he is holy and he can't look on sin and he has of pure eyes and to behold evil, the Bible says in Romans 3:23, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Why is this? Well, the fact is God is so just that he cannot overlook sin. In Romans 6. 23 it says, For the wages, that is the payment of sin is death. You and I understand what wages are. We work day in and day out, and at the end of the week or the end of the month, we receive wages. What we deserve for what we have done Well, the Bible says that when we sinned, and we all have, we all know that, we all can admit that, we all sinned, that the wages of sin is death, spiritual death, that is, separation from God. We'll all experience physical death one day, but we also now experience spiritual death, separation from God for all of eternity. What does this mean? Well it means that we are in a hopeless situation. A hopeless situation because God is just And God can't just overlook sin. No more than a judge can overlook sin, overlook a murderer, do it committing murder. So God cannot overlook our sin or he would not be just. That truly puts us in a spiritually desperate situation. We are hopeless and desperate. Family, it's the single greatest miracle we can behold. To be a part of one is some of these kids' greatest dreams. Someone to protect them, provide for them, and love them. just need a shiny red truck or curly haired doll. They need someone who will love them to the end of the world. A family to these kids would be the greatest dream come true. Did you have fun today, Alex? Yeah, but I wish mom was here. I know. I wish she was here too. I guess what tomorrow is. Christmas. You know what that means? Presents. What do you want to get? Alex John Murphy. A single father who had nothing in his life he cared for more than his only son Alex. Where am I supposed to go? Doctors did all they could But after six hours of surgery, there was no hope. In all this, there was some hope. They told him that Alex had a very rare blood type. A little girl was in need of. They couldn't save Alex's life, but they could save his heart. Alex would die that day so a little girl could live. Alex had what Bell needed. Did you catch that? He was uniquely qualified. uh to to meet Bell's need. He had the same A B positive blood type and he was uniquely qualified. The Bible tells us there are out of the billions of people in the world that have been born from the history of civilization, there is only one person that is uniquely qualified to take care of our sin problem. And that is Jesus Christ. It says this in John 14, 6. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. The Bible also says in the book of Acts, neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. Jesus is the only one that is uniquely qualified to be able to pay the punishment for our sin, to satisfy God's justice. Why is he uniquely qualified? Well the Bible explains in Romans chapter 5, verse 12, it says that Adam sinned, and so death passed upon all men. But the Bible tells us that that wasn't the case with Jesus Christ, because he was born of a virgin. In Isaiah 7, it says, Behold, a virgin shall conceive and bear a son. So, because Jesus was born of a virgin by the Holy Spirit, he did not have that sin nature. He did not have that heart condition. He was perfect. He was born perfect. Then he also was God. He is God and took on human flesh. And then he lived a perfect life. uh that we couldn't live. We failed at living in life. We are failures at living in life living life. Yet he lived a perfect life. So the Bible says that because he was uniquely qualified, it says he made him who knew no sin to be sin for us. That we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Jesus took on our sin on himself, so that he could take his righteousness and give it to us. Just like in the in the movie, the father decided to give his son's life. His son was going to die, but to give his son's heart. So the Bible says that the Father God gave his only begotten Son. You may know the verse well, John 3:16. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son In our film, Alex would die so that the little girl could live. That sacrifice. And it reminds us of the eternal sacrifice that Jesus made for us. After losing his wife to cancer, John had nothing left but his son. Before she passed, he would always tell her that Alex was a gift. I guess he just never thought that his life would be a gift to someone else. Four hundred and seventy-three, the number of children that were adopted through Hope Center. Of all my years seeing children come and go, number 474, fell, the little girl that needed a heart, had to be the greatest joy of my life. That day she didn't just have a new place she'd call home, but she had a new family, a new name. A new father. No only with the city. We made it a tradition every Christmas Eve. To remember Alex. I always reminded Bell, what you have is not just a new heart, but a new life, a gift. Belle always seemed to find a way to help others. In fact, growing up, she always said she wanted to be a heart doctor. The best female cardiologist in the world, she would say. I want to share that gift, Uncle Leo, not just keep it. Every year after my wife passed, I kept a journal. But it wasn't until 1988 that I decided to pass that memory along to someone I knew would share it. Deep breath. Breathe out. Good. Do you want it in the back? Deep breath. Good job. Sounds like a nice strong heart in there. And I think I promised you something, didn't I? A story! Right, so let's first get tucked in bed. I often would tell Belle, don't just treat your patients. Care for them. Okay, here you go. Don't just give them medicine. Show them love. The story is about a little girl just like you. Because love is the greatest gift you can ever give someone. Broken hearts are hard to fix. Sometimes you need a new one. It was Christmas Eve 1988 when a little boy gave his life so a little girl could live. The gift that Bell received was a new heart and the opportunity for a new life. And the gift that you and I can receive as well is a new life in Christ. In fact, Jesus Himself said, I am come that they may have life. And they may have it more abundantly. The reason that Jesus can give us new life is not only the fact that he died to pay the punishment for our sin, Taking on our sin and giving us his righteousness. But he also rose from the grave, victorious over sin and death. In 1 Corinthians 15 3 it says, For I delivered to you first of all that which I also received, that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, and that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the Scriptures. Later on in that same chapter it says, But now Christ is risen from the dead, for since by man came death, by man also came the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ all shall be made alive. Jesus Christ offers the gift of eternal life to anyone who is able to receive it. The question is: how do you receive it? How do you receive that gift of eternal life? In John chapter 5, verse 11, it says, and this is the testimony that God has given us eternal life. And this life is in his Son. He who has the Son has life. He who does not have the Son of God does not have life. These things have I written to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that you have eternal life. And you may continue to believe in the name of the Son of God. The critical question for all of eternity is: have you received Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior? You say, well, I'm I'm a I sure I've done that before. I've prayed a prayer at some point, or you know, I'm a good person, I'm a religious person, I do good religious things. The Bible says in Titus 3. 5, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us. So it's not a matter of our doing our good works or our doing good things enough in order to get God's approval. Jesus Christ died for us so that we can have life and we must believe entirely on what He did for us. That's why it says in John 3, verse 36: He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life. And he that believeth not the Son shall not see life. But the wrath of God abideth on him The fact is, those who do not have eternal life, those who do not believe on Jesus Christ, will go to a Christless eternity in hell. But the Bible offers to anyone who will receive him eternal life. In John 1:12 it says, For as many as received him, to them gave he the power to become the sons of God. That is, anyone who will choose to receive Christ as his Lord and Savior can become a child of God. You say, well, how do I receive? How do I believe? What do I do? What does that include? In Romans chapter 10, it gives us very clear instructions as to what that includes. In verse 9 of that chapter, it says that if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart one believes unto righteousness, and with a mouth confession is made unto salvation. For the scripture says, whoever believes on him will not be put to shame. For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek, for the same Lord over all is rich to all who call upon him. For whoever calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved. The first thing we must do is understand. We can't work. We can't do good things. We need to understand what Jesus did for us. But we also have to understand our sin and admit that we are a sinner. We've got to understand that our sin is an offense against God. We've got to understand that our sin separates us from God. And we've got to understand that Jesus Christ died to pay the punishment for our sin. We've got to understand. Secondly, we've got to agree with God about that. It's not enough just to have a mental knowledge of it and academic knowledge of it. We've got to agree with God about our sin and about what Christ did on the cross and that that Christ did is sufficient for us in paying the punishment for our sin. We've got to agree with God. And then we have to accept Him as our Savior. It is not enough for us to just think that Jesus died for the sins of the world. We have to admit and believe that Jesus Christ died for my sin. And when we do that, when we choose to believe on him in that way, the Bible says that we shall be saved. And maybe you're listening today and you're really not sure. One of the ways that you know for sure that that you have eternal life is when God gives you a new heart, he gives you a desire to please him. That's very clear in Matthew chapter 7. He says there's a broad way and there's a narrow way. The broad way leads to destruction, the narrow way leads to life. And in the same chapter, it says You'll know them by their fruits. That is, there is this desire to please God. When God puts a new heart in us, that comes with a desire to please him. Now we still want to please ourselves, we still are selfish, but we have a new desire to please God as well. And if you say, well, I don't even know if I have a desire to please the Lord, I don't think I really have that. I don't think I've ever I've ever had that. Well then maybe it's because you don't have a new heart. Maybe it's because you've never really trusted Christ as your Savior, really never received Him as your Lord and Savior. And today you can do that. You can receive the gift of eternal life. And I would encourage you not to leave this building until you know for sure. First John 5 says, These things are written that ye may know that ye have eternal life, to believe in the name of the Son of God. And you can bel know today. I encourage you, after the service is over, come and talk with me. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you will spend eternity with the Lord. I would love to do that. That would be the I I'll stop whatever I'm doing. I don't care about cookies. I want to talk to you about the Lord. That would be great. Not that I don't want your cookies, but there's something far more important than that Don't leave today without receiving the best gift of all, the gift of Christ and eternal life. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and we thank you for the gift of Christ. We thank you that 2,000 years ago He came to earth. And he he as God took on human flesh, was born as a humble baby. And without any sin at all, was completely sinless and completely righteous, and lived a perfect life, fulfilling your just demands, and then was able to die on the cross, taking our sin on himself. So that we could have His righteousness placed on us. And Lord, I do pray that if there is anybody here today that doesn't know you as their Lord and Savior. They're not sure whether or not they will spend eternity with you. I pray this evening that they we would work on their heart Help them to understand their sin. Convict them of their sin. Convict them of their need of a savior Help them to understand the truth of what Christ did on the cross for them and rose from the grave victorious over sin and death. And Lord, may we all glory in the truth of Christ and what He did for us. May that be our focus this Christmas season. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Oh my god. Oh my god, you're wonderful. Because praise is God. For our last song, we're gonna sing Silent Night, number 190. We'll have it up the on the screen as well. Soling n Only I suffered wake out my glory from heaven. Christ our Savior is for Oh crystal, Jesus born and I would style. Christ the Savior is all. Crypto Well, I do want to wish you a very Merry Christmas and uh a Happy New Year. By the way, do come back for our New Year's Eve. We have a New Year's Eve. We're going to do a potluck as well as um and we'll all do that together and we'll pray together for the new year and then we'll have some games and activities and things as well. So come back for that. Of course, come back this Sunday morning as well. That happens first. Um but uh we do hope that you have a wonderful uh Christmas season. Christmas Tomorrow, Christmas uh time, it's finally here. Um is it did it come fast this year this this this year? Everybody's like, oh man, I can't believe it's tomorrow's Christmas. Uh well I hope you have a wonderful Christmas. Enjoy fellowship together while you're eating all kinds of cook cookies like the best part about Christmas, besides Christ. That's the best part. Uh uh Christ and then cookies. They're both I could do a sermon with that. See anyway. Um But that so enjoy some cookies together. I do need to ask if your kids uh could please stay with the parents. Kids help out your parents. Make sure they don't get too many cookies and Things like that, that would be good and um and that would be helpful. And Harry, would you please come on up and close us in a word of prayer. By the way, thank you all for that gift. Come on out while I'm not gonna take long. Thank you for the gift. Uh and we do as My wife and I just really appreciate you all and how much you appreci how much you take care of us, so thank you. All right, Mary. You can put out your candles now. Let's play pray together. Heavenly Father, we are so grateful tonight. We thank you, Lord, for the abilities and talents that you Grant to us, Lord, that we can come and just present our gifts to you, Lord, back to you. We are thankful for the greatest gift of all in your Son Jesus. We thank you tonight that we can celebrate his birth, death, and resurrection. And Lord, we are thankful also for the fellowship which you established in the church, Lord, the fellowship of believers. And Father, we asked as we go downstairs that you would be with us and help us to have a sweet time of fellowship. And Father, we also ask that you would be with us as we go our way and help us to remember Well what we have learned here tonight in particular our need uh for a Savior and the fact that you have provided that way in your Son Jesus. So help us to celebrate his birth. As we go home tonight and tomorrow, we ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.