As we continue our seven part series, hopefully it's probably what's going to be a seven part series on the seven churches of Revelation that John wrote to That Christ assesses seven local churches in Asia Minor in the first century. And we are coming up upon here our the second church. Two weeks ago we looked at the church of Ephesus And we noted that the that the it was primarily commendation for that church, but that was a church that was falling into dead orthodoxy. They were clear on their doctrine. They were clear on their understanding of biblical truths, but they had lost their first love. But now we come to a church who Christ has nothing bad to say at all. And in fact, this is the most out of all the churches There is one other church that he really commends very highly as well, but out of the seven churches, he commends this church the highest. You could say that this church is the most ideal church It is the most ideal. That kind of brings up an interesting point, doesn't it? What would you consider to be the most ideal church? Everybody says Bethel Baptist Church right away, right? I mean is that what they say? Hopefully you at least I mean you're here, right? So hopefully you you find value uh in in worship the Lord Together in this local assembly. But certainly every church has its has its warts, doesn't it? Every church has its ability to develop its need to develop and to grow as a local assembly, and certainly Bethel Baptist Church is no different. But what would you consider to be the ideal church? And I suspect that if you were asked that question, what is the ideal church, your answer probably would not include suffering. It probably would not include persecution. And yet, this church had great, it was a suffering church. It was a church that was faithful. It was a church that had not lost its first or left its first love. It was a church that was doctrinally sound. It was a church who loved the brethren. It was an ideal church, but this folks was a church This is a church that was suffering. You know, it's interesting when we think about doing right. It's very natural for us to think that when we do right, we ought to be rewarded for doing right. Parents, isn't that what we try to do with our kids? When our kids do right, we want to reward them for doing right, and when they do wrong, they're going to be chastened for doing wrong. And that is a sort of a bedrock normal principle of parenting. The sort of baseline of parenting is you reward right and you and you punish wrong, or you you discipline for wrong, you chasen for wrong. Wrong doing. But what happens when you do right and you get wrong? What happens when it seems as though the results of your right actions are actually harmful to you? That doesn't seem right. And if a child has, if a child gets that, They say it's not what? It's not fair. And if adults guess that, they say it's not it's not fair How many times have you caught yourself thinking to yourself, it's not fair? I have to say personally that it's like that's that's like not in my vocabulary very much. Because I grew up with a dad who's not here today. Uh I can actually talk about my dad, he's not here for once. The whole month I could talk all about now anyway. Yeah, he's probably he could be watching. Up in uh up out west in the mountains, he's looking on his phone. Yeah, maybe so. But he always used to say, life's not fair, it's just there. Anytime we would say, anytime we would say, uh, Dad, that's not fair. And he said, well, life's not fair, it's just there. Now I'm not sure how biblical that that approach is to life, but uh it did stick in my mind, and very rarely in my mind do I think to myself, well, that's just not fair But folks, because in our world and in the world that God has created, if you read wisdom literature, for instance, in the book of Proverbs, you're going to find that generally God blesses people for doing right. And there is harm to those who don't do right. That is the general way the world works. But do you know that for the follower of Christ, things are very different sometimes? And in fact, if you look at church history, the majority of the church hit of church history, the church is actually being persecuted throughout history. What we have in this country, in our churches in this country over the over the last couple of centuries, we have an aberration. This is not normal. to not have suffering and persecution in the body of Christ in a particular country. Now of course over the war all over over all the world the world over we have persecution. There are places, many other places all over the world, China and places out in Asia and other places that are per experiencing persecution. But in this country we are we have experienced something of a of of something that's not normal in church history So much so that very rarely would we ever think of an ideal church being a suffering church. But there comes a point in life as a Christian where we begin to realize that we will not always be rewarded on this side of heaven for doing right. That good things will not always come to us for doing right on this side of heaven. And that is what Scripture calls testing or tribulation. And it is something that every Christian must go through. It is easy to do right when you know you'll be rewarded, but folks, the testing comes when you have to do right and you might not be rewarded. In fact, harm may come to you. And that is really what we're talking about here this morning when it comes to Revelation chapter 2 It is interesting that we're talking here about a church that Christ has nothing bad to say about it. He has no correction on the church. He has a command, just be faithful, doing what you're supposed to be doing, but that this is also the church that is suffering. 1 Peter 4, verse 1 says, For as much then as Christ has suffered for us in the flesh Arm yourselves likewise in the same mind, for he that hath suffered in the flesh hath ceased from sin. And if you think back to the times in your life where perhaps you had the least amount of sin in your life, wouldn't you agree that it is the times where perhaps you were suffering the most? That is hard to handle, isn't it? But there have been times in the Christian life, if you've been a Christian for any length of time, there have been times where you have been put on your backside. Where you feel helpless and hopeless and you are in a trial. It's like you're in a tunnel and you can't see the end of the tunnel. You can't see the light at the end. And you are just completely dependent upon God, and you do a lot of soul searching during those times, don't you? And you check your motives a lot during those times. And you check your behavior to make sure that you're right with the Lord, there is something purifying about those kinds of times of suffering in our lives. Perhaps that is why it says in James 1, count it all joy when ye come into diverse trials and temptations, knowing But the trying of your faith worketh patience, endurance, and let endurance have her perfect work. Her complete, mature work, that we may be perfect or complete, entire, lacking nothing. Well, what we have here in this passage is a group of people that are going through this. Let's go to the Lord in prayer, ask his time, ask his blessing our time together, and we'll get into this passage. Father As we get into your word this morning, I pray that you would help us to see all that you have for us. This passage is going to be challenging for us. None of us like suffering. None of us look forward to suffering, and yet we understand that we may be coming up against persecution in this country sooner than later And we need to be ready. And even if we don't experience persecution from our government There is persecution in the Christian life. There is suffering in the Christian life. There is harm that comes sometimes when we Do what is right. And when we are faithful to you, I pray, Lord, that during those times you'd help us to stay faithful. And I pray, Lord, that as we look at this passage, you would help us to learn how by drawing from the comfort of Christ. I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Jesus doesn't have for this church a lot of admonition. He has no correction. But what Christ wants to do for this church is he wants to comfort this church that is going through suffering. And so when we look at this passage, we're going to see Christ who desires to comfort these suffering, faithful Christians. And we begin in verse 8 where it says, and unto the angel, we believe that to be the messenger or the pastor of the church, and Smyrna, right. These same things saith the first and the last, which was dead and is alive, I know thy works. The very outset of Christ's comfort, how is it that Christ comforts this church? Well, he's going to begin to talk about himself But to understand the nature of this comfort, we need to understand this church of Smyrna. And we need to understand the city that this church is settled settled in. It's about thirty-five miles north of Ephesus. It's not far. From Ephesus. It is a church that is a thriving metropolis. It is prosperous. It's on a very ideal location for trade. It was considered to be the pride of Asia. It was a church with a high population density. And in fact It is a popul not a church, but a city of a high population density. And in fact, this city is still there today. Unlike the the city of Ephesus, which today is really in ruins The city of Smyrna is still there. Does anybody know the modern city of Smyrna? Does anybody know? It's Izmir, Turkey, that has about a population of 2. 8 million, not a small city, and it is today still a thriving metropolis in that area. It is an area that's desirable for tourism and other things. There's it's really a quite a quite a nice city. I I have not visited there but I went on Google Earth and I and I sort of just explored as much as I could. And it's really quite a nice city if Google Earth is accurate. But um which is kinda is actually it's it's a little scary how accurate Google Earth is. But this is a location that is a great metropolis, but this is a great this is a location, folks, of great wealth, but great idolatry as well And like Ephesus, it prided itself on being a religious center of idolatry. But unlike Ephesus, the idolatry was a little bit different The idolatry that they tended to grab hold of had to do with worshiping Rome. In fact, in 195 BC, they erected a temple called Dea Roma. Which was which personified Rome as a goddess. They were so, they were so they magnified Rome so much as a nation That they actually made it a god to them. And they worshipped Rome. And in fact, in 25 BC, they erected another temple. to a emperor, Emperor Tiberius. And this was a temple, Tiberius did so much for Rome that they considered him to be a god, lowercase g. And so they they worshiped him as well. And so this was a little different. Ephesus had its gods, it had the temple of Diana, the great great wonder of the one of the seven wonders of the world, but it didn't have a connection. Between religion and state, like Smyrna does. Smyrna is worshiping the state. It's worshiping its nation and it's worshiping its emperors. And that is why you're going to come into some suffering and persecution during this time. What you have is when the Christians in this area decide that they are not going to offer incense up to the quote the god Tiberius, the emperor When they choose not to do that, the citizens of Smyrna who are very proud of their lowercase gods are very lowercase G gods are very upset. They take great pride in this And so they begin to persecute these people. They are considered to be rebels of the state. And that's why only thirty-five miles north This is a church now that is experiencing suffering and persecution for the cause of Christ and for standing on what they believe and not compromising in areas of idolatry. And so for this church, they're enduring suffering and hardship, and Christ comes to them and he wants to explain, first of all, by his own person who he is. He wants to remind them that Jesus wants to remind him who he is. And he reminds them of a couple of things in this church. He reminds them, first of all, that Jesus says he is, he says he is the eternal God. Do you see that in the passage? Notice what it says here. And unto the angel of the church at Smyrna write these things with the first and the last. These things write the first and the last. He's talking about himself here, and he says, I am the first and I am the last. In Isaiah several times, forty Isaiah forty one four, Isaiah forty four six, and Isaiah forty-eight twelve, all of these say that God is the first and the last. For example, it says in Isaiah 44, 6, Thus saith the Lord, King of Israel, and his Redeemer, the Lord of hosts, I am the first And I am the last. And beside me there is no God. And so what Christ is doing here is he is reminding this suffering church that he is God of God. He is God. He's the one and only true God. Now, folks, that might seem to you to not be all that comforting. I mean, just the sterile fact that Jesus is God, how is that comforting to a suffering Christian? But folks, when you add the, and first of all, he's saying that he's the eternal God. He brings an eternal perspective to his own self. He says, I am the first and I am the last. In this temporal time of suffering, he says, I am the eternal God. But he also says next This is, he says, I am the one who has died and who was made alive, who was dead and is alive. He points out to this church that he died. That he knows what it's like to experience physical death. That he knows what it's like then to come alive. He's pointing out to this church. I don't think his point is to see that this church comes to himself. This church is already faithful. This is a church that's already faithful to Christ. He's pointing out his humanity here He's saying, I died. I know what it's like to go through suffering. I know it's like to go through all kinds of hardship. And so when Christ is going to give them a perspective, his perspective, he does not do it from a perspective as though he has not gone through these sufferings himself. Christ, when he was on earth, experienced tremendous amounts of suffering, and he can empathize with our sufferings. That's why it says in Hebrews that we have not an high priest that cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities. But was in all points tempted, like as we are, yet without sin. Let us therefore come boldly into the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. When you come to Christ and your heart is broken because of the suffering that you're going through or the trials that you're enduring or the problems that you're facing, you do not come to a Christ who can't who doesn't experience these things Jesus experienced these things for himself. He can empathize with you. Have you ever tried to comfort somebody that's going through suffering? Have you ever been at a loss for words? Some of us, that's probably the best time for us to be at a loss for words. There are times where we're going through suffering, and somebody might come to you and say to you, I know what you're going through. Is that a wise thing to say to somebody that's going through suffering? Do you really know what they are going through? Well, in some cases you might. And in some cases that might be an appropriate thing to say, but folks, in the most cases, you don't know what they're going through. I remember when I was, I guess it's been about six or seven years now since my mom passed away when she was struck with cancer. And um it was in stage four. It was too it was too late by the time it was caught. And we we really uh had a s we were trying to s say uh see uh recovery even then. But um we knew that it probably wasn't going to turn out that way and there would and then after she passed away there you know, people would would come to uh to us and and um You know, some of the things that people say are a little bit unsettling. I had somebody come to me, I mean literally my mom had passed away one day earlier and they came to me and said, How are you seeing God's grace through this? And I felt like saying, I am really not seeing that right now. I'd be honest with if I was honest. I know it's there, but I'm not feeling it right now at this time. And um others that who whose moms passed away when they were you know in their in their nineties or uh or and they would come to me and say, I know what you're going through. My mom was forty-eight years old when she passed And I did not feel like they really I'm not diminishing any time you lose a mom. That's that's serious. But I'm not so I wasn't but I did feel as though like I don't think you really know My kid my mom's never gonna see my kids grow up. And they're never you know, th th there's a lot that you know so so we need to be careful about these things But do you know, folks, there are, you may feel that there are times in your life where no one knows what you're going through. But Christ does. He does. Christ can, with all authority, say, I know what you're going through. He can empathize. Have you felt rejection from family? Christ felt that. Have you felt poverty? Christ had nowhere to lay his head. Christ was homeless. Do you have have you experienced suffering and physical pain? Christ experienced excruciating amounts of pain. But do you know that there is a difference between the suffering that Christ ultimately went through on the cross and the suffering that you and I will go through? Christ did it alone. When he went to the cross, the Father had to turn his back on him for a time, where he was separated from the strength Of his own father. He had to experience this alone. And you and I, no matter what suffering or persecution or problems we face, never have to be alone. And we know that Christ is always with us And Christ is our best friend, our closest friend. And we know that Christ knows exactly what we are going through. He is all-knowing. And so he says here, Christ says, I know thy tribulation. I know thy works in thy tribulation. Psalm 103, verse 14, says, For he knoweth our frame. He remembereth that we are dust. Psalm 139 says, O Lord, thou hast searched me and known me. Thou knowest my downsetting and mine uprising. Thou understandest my thought afar off, thou compassest my path and my lying down, and art acquainted with all my ways. For there is not a word in my tongue, but lo, O Lord, thou knowest it altogether Thou hast beset me behind than before, and laid thine hand upon me. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. It is high. I cannot attain Christ intimately knows you personally. He knows every detail of your life. He knows you better than you know yourself. And there is a great comfort in knowing that Christ knows. Remember speaking one time to a a Bible teacher in in college who had who had just lost his mom. And at the time I had not lost my mom and didn't know anything And um I remember it's just saying I'm sorry, uh uh that I'm sorry for your loss, which is uh maybe all in some cases all you can say And he said he was his response was, it's okay, the Lord knows. And at the time I thought to myself, why is he saying that? What I I didn't understand the significance of that until I lost my own mom. And you do begin to when you re when you go through that kind of suffering You feel very alone. You feel completely lonely. You feel like no one knows what you're going through. But the comfort of knowing that Christ knows brings great strength and comfort. And so Christ says, I know your tribulation. Now, when he says then he knows our tribulation, what is the need for Christ's comfort? What is What is this tribulation he's talking about? This word tribulation, in its very essence, means pressure. It means pressure. We're not necessarily talking here about physical pain, although it could include that. We're talking about any kind of suffering that places on you a kind of pressure. And when you think about tribulation, if you want to think very generally, very broadly about what trials and tribulation is. In every instant, it at least is going to include a kind of pressure on you It may be emotional, it may be social, it may be physical, it may be mental, it may be intellectual, but there is some kind of pressure being placed on you. And that's the word that we have here. We have, it is a kind of pressure. Do we like pressure? When you get pressed, what is your response? What is your natural response? You want to fight against it or you want to flee it? One of the two. That's not Christ's advice here. Christ's advice is not, well, you need to just run from this pressure. It's not his advice that you need to just, he says you need to be faithful and you need to endure. He's going to say that later Well, what kind of and what we have here folks then is this kind of pressure that is being placed upon them from outside sources That in this area, the city of Smyrna, the pagan area is now saying that they are putting pressure on them because they are not succumbing to idolatry. They're standing strong for the cause of Christ. They will not worship this emperor. They will not give incense to him. They will not participate in these secular practice or these false religious practices. What kind of pressure? We see in the passage that Christ is going to name three kinds of pressure. You see in the passage here, first of all, he says, I know thy works and thy tribulation. And he says, What? And poverty. And this is the word, this word poverty is a word that means absolutely, completely destitute. This is something where this is a this is the kind of this is the word that's used to mean you have absolutely nothing. We're talking here, folks, about economic pressure. All of us at time to time have felt pressure economically where we are strapped financially. At least most of us have experienced that at time. from time to time, where we just feel as though there's this pressure on us because of finances. And when persecution arises, that often is the first level of persecution. You find that in the book of Acts, actually, in several places, where in the beginning stages of persecution, the first pressure that is applied is economic pressure. More than likely, what happened in that time is they began to not do business. The people did not want to do business with Christians. Because Christians are the ones who won't who won't worship the emperor. Christians are the ones who are rebels to the state. They are really almost criminal. And so we're not going to do business with them And so they began to experience economic pressure to the point of complete poverty. That is the first level of pressure. Now, let me just say this You may, you and I don't know what it's like, I don't think, to have nothing. To be this kind, to the this level of poverty where we just have nothing at all But there are times where we do experience loss because of a decision we've made for Christ. For example, you're in the workplace and you see others who are trying to exalt themselves and their positions and what they're doing. And you're doing you know you're doing a good job, and frankly, you know you're doing a better job than the people that are exalting them your themselves, but but you d are not willing to toot your own horn like that And so you're you get passed over for for promotions that others others are receiving. Or Your boss asks you to do something that you're that's unethical, that maybe he's asked you to lie for him. And you refuse. And so he can't fire you over that, but you're not in his good graces. And when when his boss asks what who should be promoted and who should get receive a raise, you're passed over. Or you're in the military, for example, and And um you're you're you don't, you know, after work, you go you go home and you spend it spend time with your family. Instead of hobnobbing with the with the peop with the people that have the the say in your promotion, and so you're getting passed over because you're not drinking with the other guys It is true that we can experience financial loss as a result of being a Christian, and frankly, there may be coming a day where we experience much more financial loss. It may very well be that in our country it's not long before we will lose, for instance, churches will lose their nonprofit status. And faithful Christians will still give. They will still give a portion of that which we receive, but they won't receive the tax benefit. It will be a hardship. It will be difficult. It will be more difficult. And there is coming a time, perhaps, where we're going to experience a time where, you know, being a Christian is not ideal. In fact, you're identified as a Christian and I, you know, we're just not going to be able to do business with you because you're a Christian. We see this kind of behavior to the point of poverty in this first century church. These people are suffering. Well, what is Christ's advice to them? He says, you are what? You're rich. This is the exact opposite of what he says of the church of Laodicea. In Revelation chapter 3, verse 17, he says, Because thou sayest, I am rich and increased with goods, and have need of nothing. And knowest not that thou art wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked. The Church of Laodicea was monetarily rich. They had no poverty. They weren't experiencing poverty. They had all the blessings that they, physical, material blessings that they ever wanted, and yet he says, you are destitute spiritually. And do you know that there is a sense in which when you are under financial pressure, there is a dependency upon God that really causes you to realize that you are spiritually rich? And I can tell you this that that of the Christians that I have spoken to that have come under financial pressure in the past, that there have been times in their lives where they've struggled financially You know, in many cases they will t they will not say they regret that time. They don't look back with regret. Now, there have been many Christians that said, I made it, I made it big. And they looked back and and with regret, because it consumed them. They had to give up their whole families to make the big bucks But very rarely, folks, have I ever heard of a mature Christian who'd gone through financial suffering and said, you know, I really regret that time. I wish God didn't make me go through that Because when this pressure is applied, there is a sense in which you begin to see your spiritual riches and you see what's really important in life. He says, you are rich. He reminds them of what real riches are. It's not in the physical material things. Then we find not only economic pressure, but we find social pressure. These people, of course, were being were being there was a lot of social pressure on them, but in addition to just the truth, which is they wouldn't worship the emperor, there were being there were being slandered. There were lies being said about about them They were being falsely accused of things. The word here is blasphemy, but it's the idea of false accusation. It's the idea of slander. Do you know who is the accuser of the brethren? Do you know who is the slanderer? Satan. Did you know that that's what the word means? It means accuser. And these people were being slandered by people, look at what it says in the passage, by people It says, I know thy blasphemy or thy slander of them which say they are Jews and are not. But are the synagogue of what? These people are the dwelling place of Satan himself. Boy, how would you like that be said about you? That's a scathing accusation against these people. And folks, there is a sense in which when God's people are slandered, when an individual who knows the Lord is is slandered, is lied about, there is a scathing accusation against the accuser. on the part of Christ. And very frankly, there will be a time where slander is corrected directly by Christ himself in the judgment. But in this passage, what we find is a man, or is a group of people, and it says here something interesting. It says, they are Jews and are not. What does that mean? Does it mean that they were masquerading as Jewish people? Probably not, because it wasn't particularly advantageous to be a Jew at that point. It was much more advantageous to be a Roman citizen. And so it wasn't- it's not likely that you have Gentiles who are who are masquerading as Jews. More likely what we're talking about is Jewish people that are from the nation of Israel who are slandering Christians Because they don't know Christ and they don't know God. Jesus ran into this problem with the Pharisees when they said they were of their father Abraham. And Jesus said to them, You're of your father Abraham, but your father is not God. You're not the children of God, because if you were, you would accept me, he says. The same kind of thing is said by the Apostle Paul in Romans, where he says, not all Israel is Israel. And so in this passage, these are Jewish people that claim to know the Jehovah God, and yet they are slandering. They are lying against these Christians. Is that pressure? Have you ever been falsely accused? Have you ever been had somebody say things about you that you knew had no ounce of truth in them at all? If you've ever experienced that, there is a hurt that comes with it. There is a feeling, there is just a feeling of hurt. There's really no way to get around it. You hurt as a result of that false accusation, of that slander. And you tend to want to be cow, it tends to callous you if you're not careful. You tend to want to be calloused against future kinds of hurt of that nature, and you tend to want to just sort of recoil from people. When you've been falsely accused and you've been slandered. And yet that's not at all what God wants us to do. And in fact, we'll lose our love for people if we do that. If we callous ourselves and distance ourselves from people when we're slandered, we'll lose our love for people and we'll become dead orthodoxy. And it's very There's actually some commentators that make a connection here that it's because Smyrna did not leave its first love that it w they were under suffering Social pressure, slander. Jesus himself warned of this. He said, Don't be surprised when people come and they persecute you and they say all of manner of evil against you falsely for my name's sake. He warned his disciples this, this is something we ought to expect. And did you know, folks, in 1 Timothy chapter 3 it tells us that all, all Who live godly shall suffer persecution. Did you know that? This doesn't necessarily mean that you will suffer persecution every every day of your life, but there are going to be times in your life that if you are living godly, you are going to undergo this kind of persecution It may not be physical suffering, though it might, but it might be economic or it might be social, but you are going to undergo some kind of suffering for the cause of Christ if you are attempting to live godly Finally, we have physical pressure here. They had not gone through this yet. They had gone through economic pressure to the point of poverty, and they had gone through social pressure to the point of everybody lying about them and mischaracterizing them, but they had not gone yet through physical suffering for the cause of Christ, but they're about to go through it, and Christ is going to predict it. You see this in verse 10. Fear none of these things, those things which thou shalt suffer. So we're now talking about future texts. Behold, the devil shall cast some of your in you into prison, and ye may be Tried, and ye shall have tribulation ten days. So he says, You're going to go get into prison. The devil is going to cast you into prison. Now, let me ask you a question here. How long does it say here that they'll be cast into prison? Ten days. Now, what does that mean? Do you know if you read five different commentaries, it is likely you might get five different opinions on this But let me just argue for the most obvious. Why can't it just be ten days? In fact, I think that's exactly what it is. We have other places in the book of Revelation where we have symbolism, but then we have symbolism explained. For instance, it said the candlesticks are the churches. But in this text, there's no reason to believe that we shouldn't take it for what it says. And very frankly, we ought to always do that with scripture. We ought to take it for what it says and not take it for what it's not saying as much as we possibly can. As soon as you move away from a literal, normal interpretation of Scripture, anything goes. So, what I would suggest to you here is just to say Christ is predicting that they're going to be in jail for ten days. Now, you might think, well, that's no big deal, ten days, anybody can live through that. Have you ever been in jail for ten days? Can you imagine being in jail for ten days? And by the way, we're not talking about the kind of jails that we have today where you've got the cable TV and the way we lift weights and the education and all that. We're talking folks about a a a jail that's a little more of a suffering going on. You're shackled, and there it's damp, and you're not fed well. Probably, maybe not at all. And so this is the kind of persecution they're going to undergo. But it's going to actually get worse. Because what we find here is a command where he says, thou, and thou be faithful unto what? He says, Church of Smyrna, some of you are going to die for the cause of Christ. You are going to experience death for Christ. I can't it it it would almost be You know, when I think about it from a perspective of being someone who's looking ahead to the possibility of dying for the cause of Christ, I'm not sure I would want to know ahead of time And yet Christ predicts this for them: that some are going to die for the cause of Christ. And we know from church history that is true. But do you know what Christ says in all of this? He says this. He says what? Don't fear it. He says, don't fear it. And very frankly, some of the suffering that you and I go through in our lives is our own fault because we're fearing what we ought not to fear. There are some times where you might hear messages, persecution's coming, and the intention is for us to get all afraid of it. That's not Christ's intention. Christ says persecution's coming, but he says, don't fear. Now, why could Christ say that? Christ had been through persecution. He had been through suffering. He'd experienced it. And he knew that there was something valuable to it. There was something that they were going to receive. From it. He says, Be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee a crown of life. Now, let me just pause for a moment and ask you this question. This is incredible when we think of the kind of suffering that the Church of Smyrna was going to go through. And if you look at the book of Acts, the kind of persecution that the first century church went through, what do you suppose their attitude was about this? What was the attitude of the church? We know Christ's attitude about it. But what was the attitude of godly people when it came to persecution? Would you take your Bibles and turn to Acts chapter 5, verse 41? I want you to see this. This is incredible. Acts chapter 5 and look at verse 41. It says here in this passage, and they departed from the presence of the council. What's the next word? Rejoicing, rejoicing that they were counted what? Worthy to suffer shame for his name. They looked at the suffering that they were going to that they had just gone undergone, and they looked at the potential further suffering and persecution, and they considered themselves Honored. It's incredible. Paul said in Philippians chapter three Verse ten and this gives us even more of an insight into the mindset of the first century Christians when he says this, that I may know him and the power of the resurrection, of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings Being made conformable unto his death Paul says in that passage that there is a sense in which the sufferings gave him a greater knowledge of Christ. And here's what he meant by this. There is a kind of knowledge that is a mental, intellectual, factual kind of knowledge. That you just know something to be true. But there is a kind of kind of knowledge that we see in the book in the Old Testament and the New Testament, and it's experiential knowledge, and the kind of knowledge of Christ that Paul is saying he'll gain from the suffering. Is an experiential knowledge. That he'll be able to know Christ in a way that he'd never be able to know Christ before because of the suffering And he wanted it. He wanted the suffering of Christ so that he could experience Christ more. And you know what I have to say about that? I'm not there yet, if I'm honest. I want to be there. And this is convicting. I'm thankful that God knows our frame and knows we're but dust. Because when I really think about all of this, and I really think through this, it is not something that I look forward to. It's not something that I really relish. I have to say that I think that I have gone through some, personally gone through some suffering for the cause of Christ already. Nothing to the extent that we're talking about here. But I I think that I can honestly say that. I think there have been false accusations. I think that I have gone through economic pressures from time to time. And I think I've experienced some of it. And I can look back and see God's working in that. And see God n I mean God, you know, when we go through suffering, we just get more of God You look at the book of Job and you see that. The whole point of the suffering is that he is able to get more of who God is. God replaces it with himself, and that's why you have accounts. in Fox's Book of Martyrs of people at burning being burnt at the stake and singing And praying and rejoicing. In fact, what we have here in Smyrna is it's not going to be too long. We're getting to the first part of the second century. where the pastor of the church of Smyrna is put to death. He's burned at the stake. His name is Polycarp. He's the pastor of this church. And he does experience persecution. And we know that he was a man who was he was probably a follower of John. He was discipled by John. And we know by very clear several different sources that here was a man who was burnt at the stake. In fact, the fire could not touch him. And so Apparently, he was had to be speared. Polycarp was burning at the stake, and he said this. Eighty and six years have I served him, and he has done me no wrong. Talking about the Lord and his service to the Lord. How then can I blaspheme my King and Savior? You threaten me with a fire that burns for a season, and after a little while is quenched But you are ignorant of the fire of everlasting punishment that is prepared for the wicked. I bless you, Father, for judging me worthy of this hour. So that in the company of the martyrs I may share the cup of Christ. Now, folks, how should we respond to hearing all of this? Well, we ought to take Christ's own advice and not fear it. It may be coming in the future, but our goal is not to fear it. In fact And frankly, our goal is not to run to it either. We'll let God do that when He wants to do it in our country. Frankly, if we can avoid it, we should. But when you think of your own heart and life and service to the Lord, Your own commitment to Christ. This ought to put every one of us on our knees. It ought to cause for us a sense of humility. Because we're not there. What is the ideal church? The ideal church is the one that stands faithful in a time of struggle and trial and suffering and perseverance. and just remains faithful. The pressure and the struggle and the difficulty and just stays faithful That's God's ideal church. And it says it's his ideal servant. Maybe you're going through pressures and struggles in your job or academically. or in your home or socially or your family or or in your ministry and you're feeling the kinds of pressures And struggles. Now, certainly there's a kind of pressure of life that's really not being talked about here that everybody faces. You you live in this world saved or unsaved, and you're not gonna feel the and and that's just the reality of it, you're not gonna be feeling the you're gonna be feeling pressure But there is another kind of pressure altogether that you're going to feel if you're trying to serve God Paul talked about it. He said he had a care of all the churches. He told Timothy, he said, Timothy, God's not given you the spirit of timidity, of love, and of power and a sound mind, not the spirit of fear or timidity. Pastor Timothy struggled with fear of man. He struggled with a timidity. He tells Timothy later on, take a little wine for thy stomach. You know why? Because if you work with people at all, you're going to get stomach aches from time to time. That's true. I mean, really. I mean, you think about it. Anyone that works with closely with people Many people struggle with. I don't know too many pastors that don't have stomach problems. I I mean that. That are working with people. You get tied up in knots over things. And what you've got to do is you've got to say, you know, I'm going to get more of Christ through this. For me to live is Christ and to die is gain. And I'm willing to go through the suffering of this life because it's not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed in heaven. Romans chapter 8. And this should, for us, cause us to do some soul searching in our own lives, and at least cause us to say Lord, help me to be faithful and help me to draw on the comfort of Christ. But there ought to be, folks, there ought to be a confidence of knowing that Christ will always be there for us. We ought to walk away encouraged because Christ is always more than enough. And I think that's the point of the passage when he talks with smart smart people. And he encouraged them by just saying, hey, just stay faithful. Would you just stay faithful? Stay, keep doing what you're doing. And sometimes that's what we need to say to c comfort each other. There are times where people are going through suffering and you're doing the right thing and you're serving faithfully and you're loving God and you're loving people and it's still hard and you're still suffering and what we need to do to just encourage them is just saying, hey, keep on going Just stay, be faithful. Just stay keep doing what you're doing. And that is in and of itself a commendation, an encouragement to people. Keep doing what you're doing. And I want to say this, there are many of you that I just count you to be, I'm just thankful that we have faithful servants in our church. That the going gets tough and you keep going. And there is weariness and there is pressure and there is struggle and you're dealing with schedules and you're dealing with With family struggles and you just remain faithful. Stay faithful. The beginning of this year in January I went through a couple of messages on what God expects of us, and He expects us to be faithful. Stay faithful. Even under adversity. Let's pray. Father, we thank you, Lord, just for the privilege of knowing Christ. And we admit before you that we've got a long way to go to be like the Church of Smyrna. Which you consider to be your ideal church. Father, I pray, Lord, that you would help us To be faithful, to do right, even when where harm comes to us as a result. Knowing that we'll receive a crown of life, we'll be characterized by all of the fullness of life if we'll be faithful unto death. We thank you for the example of the Church of Smyrna, and may we at Bethel Baptist Church desire to move forward in our faithfulness for you. Despite times of adversity and struggle. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.