Psalm sixty is where we're going to start here tonight. And what we're doing tonight is looking at the Lament Psalms. And the com particularly the communal lament psalms. Psalms. And you might want to write these down. These are the ones that are communal lament psalms. And what they are is a communal Lament Psalm is a psalm where the is uh a lot of times it's David, but maybe others, are lamenting the condition that Israel is in. Or they are writing with a knowledge of what's happening to their nation spiritually Or there is at least or they're writing and they're in the middle of it. Maybe the writings don't exactly look like they're at face value that they're con concerned about the spiritual condition of their nation. But when they are in the middle of it, um that's they find that that's the case. Uh they're in the middle of it and they're writing about it basically. And so that's that's what a communal lament is. Um and there is a common theme that runs along the Psalms in the Psalms that that deals and with concern for the spiritual nate uh uh spiritual condition of the nation of Israel. Now, I do want to say at the very outset of this that there is a significant difference between the time that we are living in and when the nation of Israel in the Old Testament was present. What would be, let me just ask you, what would be the differences? What's the difference? Okay. Any uh any ideas? Okay, so so the nation of Israel, what's the difference between the context that Song that that David writes these Psalms being in the nation of Israel? And And and the context that we find ourselves in. What's the differences? Yes. Okay. Right, right. So Israel was a theocracy so you have essentially the nation and the religion being w together. Okay The they were it was they did have a they had a king at one at one point, but but you had a confluence of the nation and religion. So the there was no church, okay, the church didn't come to the s to the to the first so now you have a distinction between church and and state or and of course that's not the case in every uh in every nation right? You have other nations that are that are you know Muslim nations, for example. However, God's desire for Christianity was that it would reach all nations. Okay, and that it would reach all peoples and that would it would so Christianity is not confined to one particular nation. And so that's that would be the major di that was uh probably the most est distinctive difference between what's happening the the Old Testament writings, what was happening back then and what's happening today So we're gonna have to learn how to a apply this a little more different a little differently to our context. I'm not sure that the right approach is to lament over our country. I'm not saying We don't want that over our country. But but I'm not sure that that's the application of these. And I'll talk more about what I think the application is. You might discover that as we go on. So I just want to say sort of say that at the out the outset. It was during a time of so Psalm 60 is where we're at, and this is during a time of sparkling success that David wrote this psalm. The heading indicates that it was written in conjunction with David's resounding victory over the Sicyrians and the Syrians. in the Valley of Salt. Second um and that's you find that in 2 Samuel 8. Do you see there the large heading above Psalm 60? That's going to give you the context. for this particular psalm. It's going to be key to understanding the psalm. It says to the chief musician upon Shushan Ut Idoth Mitchtam of David to teach when he strove from Aram Naharam and with Aram Zobah when Joab returned and smote of Edom and the valley of Salt twelve thousand. Let's do this. Let's take our Bibles and turn to Second Samuel chapter eight because that's going to give us a little bit more of the context of what how this psalm is written. I am dropping everything tonight. I ha I am. I don't know what in the world's going on with me tonight. Um I uh have dropped this thing. This is the third time. I've dropped this tonight Night. I dropped my paper earlier, so I don't know. Anyway, Psalm sixty uh I'm sorry, fur uh second Samuel eight Samuel eight. All right. So it says, and after this it came to pass that David smote the Philistines and subdued them, and David took Methegama out of the hand of the Philistines. And he smote Moab and measured them with a line, casting them down to the ground, even two lines measured he to put to death, and with one full line to keep alive. And so Moabites became David's servants and brought gifts. David smote also Hadadezer, the son of Hebreh, king of Zobah. And he went to recover his border to the river Euphrates. And David took from him a thousand chariots and seven hundred horsemen and twenty thousand footmen. And David uh Uh hoft out uh all the hoft? Hoffed that's an hoft? Okay. What's it mean? All right. All the chariots I'll be I'm gonna I'm gonna have have to full disclosure tonight is I just pulled my King James Bible. I was studying on my new King James this week. Alright. Um all the ch All the ch the uh all the chariot horses But reserved them uh from a hundred chariots. And when the Syrians of Damascus came to Sukkur Hadadizer, king of Zobah, David slew the s the Syrians two and twenty thousand men. Then David put garrisons in the S She the shields of gold that were on the servant of Hadadezer, and brought them to Jerusalem. King David took exceeding much brass. Let's look at ver, let's skip down to verse 13. And David get uh David gat him a name when he returned from the smiting of the Assyrians uh in the valley of Salt, eight uh being eight thousand men. So it got him a name. Um basically he gained a name for himself, he a reputation for himself is what it's talking about there. Alright, so that's the context that we find. David is conquering all kinds of nations and making them his servants and sl and um and taking over diff various people. Um that's that's what what what's going on there. Now with that in mind go back to Psalm sixty And let's ask this question. Immediately, you're going to find something that you don't expect to find with the kind of victory that David is experiencing. He says, Oh God, thou hast cast us off. Do you see that? O God, thou hast cast us off, thou hast scattered us, thou hast been displeased, O turn thyself to us again. Then hast made the earth tremble, thou hast broken it, heal the breaches thereof, for it shaketh. Okay, so why in the world would David say that when they are having such Great victory in the land. Verse three Then hast thou then hast showed thy people hard things. Thou hast madeest to drink the wine of astonishment Thou hast given a banner to them that fear thee, that it may be displayed because of the truth. Well The question that I'm asking is something that could be answered a couple of ways. One possibility is that in that even though 2 Samuel tells of all of the all of the prospering and all of the the conquering that's going on, it it may have appeared to David that there was a it took more struggle than it should have taken considering the fact that they were under covenant with God that they would conquer the enemies And so, whatever the case, whether that's the case or not, David is concerned about the spiritual state of the nation of Israel, even though they're they're experiencing physical victory. He's concerned about their spiritual state. And in his mind, he is so shaken by this. He feels as though the whole earth is trembling. And is uh and has and he's that the God has broken it. I mean the way that he speaks here, you know, he feels like it's really it's really he's he has great concern about things. Verse 4, Thou hast given a banner to them that fear thee, that it may be displayed because of the truth. So we see here that this is going on here. David's sad before God because of the condition of the nation of Israel. And there is a solemn pleading that goes on on behalf of the nation in verses four through eight. Verse 5 says, that thy beloved may be delivered, save with thy right hand and hear me. God has spoken it uh in his holiness I will rejoice. I will divide Shechem and meet out the valley of Sakath. Gilead is mine, and Manasseh is mine. Ephraim is also the is And you actually saw some of these nations. That he had conquered over in 2 Samuel as well, mentioned. So he is talking about all that God has done for him. And then he he points out uh God's promises specifically in six through eight. That's what he's pointing out there. And then in nine through twelve, that should be four and five, I think, not four through eight. But in 9 through 12 you have David's confident rejoicing before the Lord. Look what it says. Who will bring me into the strong city? Who will lead me into Edom? Wilt thou wilt not thou, O God, which hast cast us off, and thou, O God, which didst not go out with our armies? Give us help from trouble, for vain is the help of man. Through God we will do valiantly, for he it is that shall tread down our enemies. So David goes and looks looks at the the situation he's in. He is very he's almost in despair over the situation. Then he reflects on what God has done for him in giving him victory over various people. And then he turns and he says, Lord, I know that you will continue based upon who you are to give us victory. That's essentially the psalm. It is just interesting how he laments Now, here's what I want to take away from this psalm, and then we're going to go to the next one. David speaks in very direct terms to God here. Do you see that in the first couple of verses? He doesn't mince words. He says, Thou hast cast us off, thou hast scattered us, thou hast displeased us. Oh, turn thyself to us again. Thou hast made the earth to tremble. I mean, he is not saying, Lord, by the way, you kinda you maybe you kinda left us. I mean he is saying, You've done it, you've cast us off, you you um does that surprise you? Does that find do you find that sort of curious It demonstrates it demonstrates how open the kind of open relationship that he has with God. There are other times where David specifically says, why God are you doing this? He's very open with him. And that is because he has that kind of a relationship with him, that he feels as though he can go to God in that way. He is not afraid, he fears the Lord in the in the proper sense of the word, but he is not afraid to be very direct with God. And that is something that I think we very much are I think sometimes we sort of cower when we go to him and we we're not clear about what we're looking for or what we s how we see things. Now of course we ought to have a humility when we go to the Lord and I think David is not, I mean he is humble about these things. But I think that's one of the things we can learn from this particular psalm. Now, what we want to do is go to the next psalm here, because I'm going to try to get hit three psalms here. Um this is another communal communal lament. This particular song is actually one of my favorite psalms in all the psalms. Okay. Now in this particular psalm, David is in the wilderness. And actually you see that as the heading of this psalm. Oh a psalm of David when he was in the wilderness of Judah. And the wilderness was barren, it was a desolate place, and he was deprived of comforts of home and exposed to bad weather and hostile enemies. So you think of the wilderness, you think of just desolate, and there's nothing of any value, there's no comforts, there's no there's nothing around him that is particularly um nice uh or or comforting. Um well let's just ask the question. Um Have you ever felt that way? That your surroundings are not helping you. That your surroundings, you almost feel as though you're in a wilderness. You're in a barren land. There seems to be be no help for you in the context that you are in. Somebody says the whole state of Maryland is that way. No, not really. But um but maybe you're it's in your job. Right? That might be an application. You feel like I mean you go to j you go to work and you're like in a barren land. And it's like nobody understands. Sam? Basic training. Oh basic training in the army? Okay. Where did you where did you get Okay. Where did you where were you in basic training? Oh where? Uh Lackland. Okay. Okay. I saw it came back there shaking his head. Yeah, but yeah. Um so my dad always says he loves basic training. Josh is like, no, I don't think so. Yeah. You know, s a guy could say it forty years from doing it, you know. I mean it's like it doesn't you know, they're not gonna send him back. I mean what anyway. But uh you do so David is in this place of just there isn't anything physically that's comforting him So how does David respond to this? Verse chapter, or Psalm 63, verse 1. O God, thou art my God. Early will I seek thee My soul thirsteth for thee, my flesh longeth for thee, in a dry and thirsty land where no water is. He is talking literally there. He's saying I'm in a land, there's no water here, and there's I'm in a dry and thirsty land. And then he's drawing a parallel And he's saying, in the same way that I'm in a dry and thirsty land, that's the extent to which my soul thirsts for you. What is he essentially saying? He's saying, I don't have you. I am without you. I am destitute of you. It's as though he is using this wilderness time to help him realize who he really, like what state spiritually he is really in. And he realizes his own thirst. You know, most of us, if we're in the wilderness, we are preoccupied with survival. And we're concerned about the next uh drop of water we're going to get. David turns this whole thing and he writes a psalm in the middle of the wilderness about being thirt thirsting after God. And he says, I rise up early to seek after you. To see thy power and thy glory. And look look at how he laments. This is where the laments, the communal lament. He says, So so as I have seen thee in where? What is he talking about? David is in the wilderness, and where is he not? Yeah, he's not able to go to the sanctuary. He's not able to worship with God's people, and he's missing it And he is desolate and he is thirsting because he realizes that there is something very special about being and worshiping with God's people. And he's out in the wilderness, away from the sanctuary, away from those things, and he's realizing that that's the case. Uh and he he is wanting to see God's power and his glory. So as I have seen in the sanctuary. So he's thirsting for this. Let me ask you this question: Are there times in your life where you feel spiritually thirsty? Like every one of us would agree that there are times like that. Where we just feel as though there's just like you feel dried up spiritually. Do you know that the what the first step to revival Realizing you're that way. I mean the worst thing in the world is to coast and to not realize how spiritually destitute you are, not realize how barren you are spiritually, and to just so you're just in this monotonous lifestyle of doing the next thing and not even thinking about where you are with the Lord and your relationship with the Lord and spiritually. You're just kind of going along and going through the motions. That's the worst place you can be You can be spiritually destitute and not even know it. David goes out in the wilderness and he's away from the sanctuary and he realizes how much he how destitute he is and he realizes how how he thirsts after God and he realizes I I remember back in a time when I was seeing your glory and your power when I was worshiping with your people and I want it again. Well why does he want it? Why verse 3? Because thy loving kindness is better than life. Whoa, let's pause for a minute. What is he saying? My loving kindness is better than life. He's in where? He's in the wilderness. And what would a normal person be concerned about? His life. He says, Your loving kindness is better than my life. When I remember thee upon my bed and meditate thee on the in the night watches. Why? Because and and you know so you're thinking about at nighttime, it's dark, it's desolate. Now he uses this term bed, and I wonder if he's really thinking about um I doubt he's on actually an actual bed in the wilderness But he's thinking about he's lying on the on his back at night and thinking about these things and thinking about the loving kindness of God And he says, Because thou hast been my help, therefore in the shadow of thy wings will I rejoice. Now, David's now going to turn He's going to turn from this sort of this desolate, destitute spiritual time where he's realized this and he's drawn this connection with being in the wilderness. And now he turns, and what does he say? My soul what? Followeth hard after thee. Thy right hand upholdeth me My soul follows hard. What do you think that means? Any ideas? Heard something. I heard Rachel. Longing. Longing? Okay. Intense intense pursuit, yes? Sometimes when you say someone is is following hard air or someone else. What you mean is they're trying to stay very close, sort of like the dogs are at my heels. Okay. Have you ever followed somebody in a in a car that that um is really hard to follow. Okay. I actually think I'm kind probably hard to follow. Um so you know you oh a couple people are just shaking their head. I guess they've No, that's scary. Okay So that's why you're watching the Looney Tune or the cartoon my kids' cartoon, the last men's men's retreat, I'm driving the people home in my suburban and they're like they're looking through my kids' video the two men you know, three grown men in the backseat looking at my kids' videos and flipping through them and put the t what did you guys watch? Looney tunes or something like that. I thought that was great. I really wish I had a video camera or something. Anyway Instead of fellowshipping on the men the the c great content of this great men's retreat, they're back in the back watching losing. Anyway, okay. So how where how'd we get on that? That's really a route of trail. So anyway, following hard after. So if you're following hard, you're trying to stay close. You're intent, there's a pursuit. Do we do that with God? Do we follow hard after him? Is there an intense pursuit after God? Or we just sort of take it casually? Or there's a cavalier sort of attitude when it comes to our relationship with God. Yeah, he'll be there when I need him. And I don't know that we'd ever say that, but sometimes that's how we that's how. we treat the treat the Lord. It's not I'm going to pursue hard after him. I'm going to do my thing, but when I need him, he'll be there. We need to pursue hard after God. His soul does this, by the way, and shall go into the lower parts But that uh those that seek I'm sorry, uh thy right hand upholdeth me. But those that seek my soul to destroy it, they shall go into the lower parts of the earth. They shall fall by the sword. They shall be a portion for foxes. For the king shall rejoice in God. Every one that sweareth by him shall glory. But the mouth of them that speaketh lies shall be stopped. I'm not sure at what point he's in the wilderness, but it's possible David in the wilderness. Remember when when Absalom took over He well he went to Hebron and he began to people began to follow him and he gathered a uh thousands of people in in Hebron and David caught wind of this and thought, you know what, Absalom's gonna come and gonna take us over this and and my family and the people around me are gonna be harmed and so they left they left that whole area. Maybe they went to the wilderness. Maybe that's where they went and and And they fled. If that's a possibility, uh and it's possible that that's when the psalm was written, that would make sense, because now he realizes he has these enemies after him him and he is concerned about this. And he has to say to him and he has to say, the Lord is going to fight this, the Lord is going to deal with this. And the king shall rejoice. Every one that sweareth by him shall glory, but the mouth of them that speak lies shall be stopped. And of course you have a lot of lies. You have a lot of um wrong things said about David by Absalom. Frankly, some of it was David's own fault. He neglected his own family for two years. So it's parti it's it's a lot of David's fault that he had the problem with Absolutely. But all that to say David is a man after God's own heart and he has This struggle, family struggle, all these problems going on. He's in the wilderness and he realizes I've got to pursue hard after God. And that is definitely an important lesson for all of us. So that's Psalm 63. He's occupied with God. He's resolved to pursue God. And he is persuaded of God, uh persuaded of glory of the future. All right, one more psalm. No, not one more psalm. It's eight o'clock. Alright. Read Psalm twenty-six sometime. He speaks of follow fellow worshipers. He speaks to God and he speaks um the Lord actually speaks to Psalmist. That passage. That's a very short Psalm, Psalm 126, but that would be another example of the Lament Psalms. So let me just ask you this question. I do need to ask you these. Okay. Do we ever think about the spiritual health of our church community? I really think that the best application of this is not really to go, okay, well, yeah, our Nation's going to pot. Nation after nation has gone down the wrong wrong road. I mean, it's the history of civilization. We might not like it, but very candidly, there is no nation that doesn't fall eventually. Okay? And and so for us to think the United States is just always gonna be here and always gonna be what it always has been, is is really not that it's a bit naive So I think I think a better application personally of this is we're often occupied with our own thoughts of ourselves and our own relationship with a lot of with the Lord. But how often do we think about the spiritual health of our church community? David was concerned about the community of believers. uh in the nation of Israel. And and and but um sometimes we are so occup preoccupied with our own individual lives And even our own s our own relationship with the Lord, that we're not careful to realize that we are living in a community. That's what God wants us to be doing. And we're not asking ourselves what is the spiritual health of the community? Number two, do we seriously pray for the spiritual health of the community? And number three, do we ever ask ourselves asks ourselves, do we ever ask ourselves how we can contribute to the spiritual health and growth of the church? mean I mean spiritual growth. Do we ever do we do we think this way? I mean you probably know I think this way, okay, and I pray for this this and I'm constantly considering how our s we're doing our church is doing spiritually. and are we exhibiting the kind of characteristics that God wants us to consider in a local church? But I would just encourage you and challenge you that you, every one of you, have a responsibility, all of us have responsibility to consider Our own health of the of the community of believers that we are in. And pray for that spiritual health And ask ourselves how we can contribute to that spiritual self-help. In other words, folks, we have to be very careful, and I'm just going to make an application. here and we'll be done. We have to be very careful that we do not think of the church as just something that benefits me. That I come in here and well that benefits me and I like that and I learned this and I want to do this. I mean I I hope that that the church is a benefit to all of us. But if we are constantly thinking, well I think that'll benefit me and I think that'll that won't benefit me. And we're sort of thinking that way And so saying, it's asking, what can we get rather than what can we give? How can we contribute to the health of this body, of this community? And when we think that way, the reality is the more you give, the more you receive. You can't outgive your receiving. And the m it's just that's just the reality of it. And those who give sacrificially, and I don't mean just financially here, I'm really not talking primarily about that I'm just saying give of themselves to the to the community of the church for Christ's sake. Those who give the most receive the most. most. That's just the reality of it. And um and those who pray for it are aware of the spiritual thing. So let me ask you this question. I know I'm a little over time. Let me ask you this question real quickly. Name, just real quickly, name some things that are spiritual things that we need to ask ourselves if our church is doing. Anybody have any ideas? Preaching. Outreach. Okay. Preaching, outreach. Showing love to each other. Good. Showing love to each other is kind of more what I'm thinking. Disciple making. Disciple making. Praying for each other. Praying for each other, good. What else? Okay. Um think about it. Just think about it. How would we measure The spiritual health of a community of believers. Now I think our answer is actually in Revelation 2 and 3. So anyway, it's kind of interesting that this is all kind of coming together this way. Let's pray and and I just want to leave that with you and be pray for our church that it would be the kind of community God wants it to be. And long to be here with us. Have a heart for this community. Father, we thank you, Lord, for our church. We do pray for it. We pray that you would help it to be exactly what you want it to be. And that we would we would we would measure in our minds that we would just not come out of here just entirely out of obligation or what we can get out of it, but we would say what part do we play in this community And how can we contribute to the health, the spiritual health of this community? And may we long to be together. May we long to see you work in our midst. May we desire to know you more, not just in our individual relationships, but may we know you more as we know each other more. May we see glimpses of who you are and your work in our lives because we are vitally linked to this community of believers. And we just pray that you'd help us in this area. It is not easy for us in our twenty-first century Western mentality that is so individualistic to think of ourselves in terms of a community. I pray, Lord, that you'd help us to know how to do this. Do that. And I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen