That I may open my mouth boldly to make known the folks, what is the next word there? The mystery of the gospel. It doesn't here say that I make known the gospel. Paul certainly wanted to make known the gospel, but what it says here, folks, is that he would make known the mystery of the gospel. And of course, if you've been with us for any length of time throughout the book of Ephesians, we've seen this term mystery before. And we're going to recover what that term mystery means. And it's actually going to help us to understand at its very essence what the church is. What did God intend it to be And let me just begin by asking this question. When you think, I mean, just be honest, when you think about what the church is. What comes to mind? Some people and their their conception of a church is really just all about, it's all about just someone preaching. And certainly the preaching of the word in our worship is really takes priority for us according to Scripture. I would never want to diminish that. Others would say that, well, it's really about fellowship. And really what they mean by fellowship sometimes is just a social gathering. You know, it really isn't true, folks, so the church has got to be more than a social gathering. You can go out down to the YMCA for a social gathering. But folks, there's got to be something far more when it comes to what God intends a church to be. And really the social gathering that we have in our church ought to be centered around The essence of what the church is, particularly Christ. When you think about the church, folks, it's got to be more than marbles in a box. When you have a bunch of marbles that are clanging around together in a box, the thing that brings them together is essentially location. That what brings them together is is is the fact that they are all coming, they are all in the same location, and so they're sort of bumping them bumping up into each other in this box. And folks, you rattle that bottle that box a little minute, you realize there's there's not at all any kind of actually true unity in that box. What you have in a box of marbles is simply unity by by by by means of location. And we really all all ought have got to realize that location is not the basis of biblical unity for the body of Christ. There's got to be something more that unifies us. There's got to be something more that is the essence of what God desires his church to be. And we have learned what that is in the book of Ephesians, but you know, isn't it true, folks, that we are we have really good forgetters That's why you find in the New Testament over and over and over in this book, you'll find that Scripture repeats itself in various ways with different facets. Of the same concept of the gospel. I mean, you see all of this throughout the Bible and throughout the New Testament. You'll see different the gospel sh you know, pretty much in the same gospel in different facets throughout Scripture Because we need reminders of this. We are people who often forget things. And so I would ask you, do you remember? Do you remember What the church in its essence is. And if you say I'm a little fuzzy on that, well then it's probably good that we are going over this again. What I'd like to do is begin in Ephesians chapter 2 and pick up here in verse 19. Ephesians chapter 2 and verse 19. We're going to be looking at a lot of scripture today. We're going to work our way through To the point where we see the core of the book. What I actually want to do before we get to 219, I'm sorry about this. What I want to do is look at the very center of this book, and what we're going to find when we look at the center of it is the heart of it And that is Ephesians chapter 3, verse 20. Will you turn there? I'm sorry, keep your finger in two. We'll get there. But Ephesians chapter 3, verse 20. Let me ask you this question. When we are thinking about what Ephesians is about, what is the purpose of Ephesians? Do you remember that it is what God is doing? In the church, by Christ, for his glory. That's the theme of Ephesians. What God is doing in the church by Christ for his glory. And if you want to remember that, all you need to do is remember the center of the book. Which is between chapters 3 and 4. And you find at the very tail end of chapter 3, you're going to find essentially this exact theme picking up in verse 20, where it says, Now unto him That is able to do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think. Now, folks, in this context, we're really talking about what God is doing in the church. We use this oftentimes in our own individual lives. God can do all kinds of things in my life, and certainly there is some application there for us. But when we're talking here specifically in the context, we're really talking about what God is doing in his church Because you'll see here, it says, according to the power that worketh in us, plural, unto him be what? Be glory in the church by Christ Jesus throughout all ages. So, folks, really, what Ephesians is talking about is what God is doing in the church by Christ for God's glory. Now, I want to ask you this question. When we think of who God is, we have a conception of Him. When we think of who Christ is, any of us who know Christ as our personal Savior, we have at least a basic conception of Him. When we think of God's glory, we ought to think immediately of God's identity. That the church That that that that the I that w what we want to do is glorify God in our lives. That means we want to identify who God is. But folks, what's very important for us if we're going to understand the purpose of this book and really the purpose of our lives is to understand what the church is. Because you cannot understand what God is doing in the church until you understand what God's church is And we'll pick up on a definition that the Apostle Paul gives us in verse 19 of chapter 2. Would you turn there with me now? In Ephesians chapter 2, verse 19, we're going to find it here. Now, therefore, ye are no more strangers. He's talking here to Gentiles who are Christians. and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints, and of the what? The household of God And are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ Himself being the chief cornerstone, in whom all the building fitly framed together groweth unto an holy temple in the Lord, in whom ye also are builded together for and what And habitation of God through the Spirit. Folks, what this passage is telling us Several things, but it's telling first of all that the body of Christ is made up of all kinds of different backgrounds. It's not made up of nation of an individual nation nation. It's not made up of a specific group, a specific ethnic group. It is made up of all kinds of foreign foreign ethnic groups and all kinds of nations Coming together under one roof, and that roof is the church. And when we're talking here about what the church is, it is Christ's body. Now let me just elaborate on that for just a moment here. When you think of a body, how are you to know someone? Well, you can't see the soul, can you? You can't see someone's spirit. You can't see the immaterial part of man. The immaterial part of a person is what they are That's the essence of who somebody is, their soul and spirit. But folks, you can't see that. All you can see is what? The body. So it is appropriate for us to understand that the church is Christ made visible. That's what the church is. The church is Christ made visible. It is the body of Christ, and it is to glorify God. In other words, folks, God wanted a way for us to under for the world to understand who Christ is. And so he made this this organism called the Church. Now Wouldn't it then be important for us to understand how this is all supposed to work? You say, well, you've got to get up, you got, you've got to make some schedules You've got to put some schedules together. You're going to have service times. You have to have certain kinds of programs. You're going to have you gonna have programs that's important Um you gotta have um you're gonna make sure that you have food. That's important. You gotta make sure I mean you can't have a Baptist church without food, so you gotta have food, so that's important. I mean You've got to have music. Music's kind of important, so we've got to throw music in there. And uh let's let's make sure we gotta have somebody got standing up there for a few minutes anyway and saying something. I mean that's important, so let's just throw that in there You know, a little prayer be good. Let's just throw this all the stuff in here and let's mix it all together, and then we'll have a church. Maybe not. Maybe not. See, folks, the question that you've got to ask yourself is: are we, and let's just apply this very specifically to our local church Are we representing Christ? Are we an accurate representate representation of Christ. Are we Christ made visible? Do you know you can't do that on your own? Often we think of think of the Christian life in terms of the individual and that we as an I'm I as an individual or you as an individual we're gonna be able to go off and we're gonna do this, we're gonna do that, we're gonna do this. We're a little Christ, so we're walking around like little Christ everywhere Well, first of all, we're not very good at this, are we? But secondly, folks, that is not how God intended it to be. He intended for us to represent Christ collectively. That none of us in and of ourselves is ever going to be able to have to be Christ made visible. That is why the church is, in its essence, is created. Because none of us are able to do that, folks, that we need each other if we're going to be able to if we're going to be able to represent Christ the way God wants us to. Now, when I'm out in the workplace, I am Christ, I'm the only Christ they're going to see made visible to them. And when you're out in the workplace, the same goes for you. We are to be out and about rubbing shoulders with unsaved people, and we are to be Christ made visible to them. But folks, what God intends is for that to be an extension of what He is doing in His church. And of course, just practically speaking, there is one church The universal church, the body of believers, those who know Christ as their Savior, but it is broken up into local assemblies. It was that way in the first century, and it's that way now. And so, what God intends for us to do is to be the Christ made visible. And we have got to ask ourselves the question: what exactly does that mean? And how do we do it? Now, with that in mind, what I'd like to do is take your Bibles and turn to Ephesians now chapter 3. And what we're going to do before we go any further is we're going to ask the Lord's help on this and we're going to pray to God. Father, we come to you and we thank you for who you are. And we thank you for your word. That illumines for us exactly what you want us to be. And we admit before you that we so often get off track. We admit before you, dear Father, that we in the routines of life which you have created, you want us to be people with With you create us to be people of habit and routine. But we sometimes get lost in understanding the essence of what we're doing. And what you're doing through us. Father, I pray today that you'd help us to recover that. And I pray as we look at your word that you would teach us these things. I pray, Lord, that when there is con when when where conviction is needed, you would bring it. Where instruction is needed and reminding is needed, you would bring that as well. And I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Let's pick up here in Ephesians chapter three and look at verse six. Remember I said before that Paul is encouraging the church at Ephesus to pray for the mystery that In order to understand what the essence of this of the church really is, we've got to understand God's plan. And God's plan is identified in Ephesians as a mystery. Now, a mystery is not something where God is hiding something from us, it is something where He wants to reveal something to us. In other words, when we think of a mystery, sometimes we think of some the person who holds the mystery as someone who's hiding things. But the biblical term mystery, when we're coming to Ephesians In this book, we're talking here about something that that has been that has been for a plan of God's before the world began, but now is the time that God desires to reveal it. And he did it primarily in the church through the Apostle Paul in the first century. It was the Apostle Paul that seemed to us that God seemed to really endow this responsibility of Putting forth this new revelation of this mystery of the church that God desired for people to have. And so when we come to this, folks, the central theme in Ephesians has to do with this The heart of the book has to do with what God is doing. And we of course saw in chapter 1 and chapter 2, and now the chapter 3, but chapter 1 really laid the foundation for what God is doing in our salvation. And what God is the Father is doing, his involvement, and we don't usually think of God's involvement, the Father's involvement in salvation, but he's involved And Christ's involvement. And the Spirit's involvement. All in Ephesians chapter 1. And now when we come to Ephesians chapter 3, what we find here. Is a passage that is going to demonstrate for us what this mystery is. And we'll pick up here in verse 5. Which in other ages was not made known, this mystery was not made known unto the sons of men, as it is now revealed unto his holy apostles and prophets. These are New Testament prophets, most likely, because We see the term prophets following the term apostles. By who? Who, folks, has revealed to the is going to reveal this, has already revealed this to the apostles and prophets, and is going to reveal it through his word. Who is doing this? It is his spirit. That the Gentiles should be what? Fellow heirs. You want to understand what this mystery is? It is this, verse 6: that the Gentiles should be fellow heirs. And of the same body, and partakers of his promise in Christ by the gospel. That is the mystery. Now, that doesn't mean that much for us if we just read it with a cursory look. But folks, I want us to put ourselves back in the first century for a moment and realize that prior to the concept of the church, prior to this being completely revealed, that when you thought of the religious right I don't mean R-I-G-H-T, I mean R-I-T-E. When you think of the of the religion, of w what religion is, of what faith is, it was always, I don't know if there's any exception to this, it was always associated to a nationality or an ethnic group. I can't think of an exception to that. The Romans would probably be the only exception, and all they did was assimilate everything. So the Roman Gentiles, and we'll talk about the problem with that in a few moments, but in the first century, they assimilated like everything. But really, folks, the reality is when it comes to what God is doing in the church through Christ Jesus, when we're dealing with this, what we've got to understand. Is that outside of this new idea called the church, this new mystery that God now wants to reveal, you had religion inseparably a tie. Even the God of Jehovah was a tie to the nation of Israel And of course, you had proselytes that would that would adopt the faith of Israel and the ways of Israel. And you have some examples of that in the Old Testament. But folks, there isn't any question, according to Ephesians chapter 2, that that was a barrier. And you have in the first century the same kinds of barriers. For example, the first century when the when when Christ resurrected or when he ascended and the church was inaugurated. You had all these different groups that were still meeting in synagogues. And the Gentile Romans, they looked at this and they said, this is just simply an offshoot of Judaism, of the Jewish nation. This really is just a matter of a sect of Judaism or Jewish the Jewish religion. Well, the Jews looked at them and said, they are a sect of us, but they're heretics. They are heretical in their teaching because they they adopt this person, Christ, as the Messiah, whom we don't believe to be the Messiah. So the Jews looked at this group as heretical. And in fact, in the first century in the in the book of Acts, the beginning of the book of Acts, what you see is the persecution is not from the Romans, it's from the Jews. And then later on, as you work through the first century, you find the Romans realize: no, no, no, these aren't exactly the same thing as the Jews. In fact, they're so different that we got to persecute them because they're exclusive. The Romans were assimilators, but the but the but the faith of the Christians, this is an exclusive faith that is only adopted when we accept Christ as our Lord and Savior. This is exclusive, and the Romans began to persecute the Christians because of that. And the Jews are upset at the Christians on one hand, and the Romans are upset at the Christians on the other, and folks, the culture was anti-Christian. Do you see any application here? I mean, really. We are living in a day where you have tremendous application, and very candidly The gospel is incredibly misunderstood today by our culture. The gospel is understood to be judgmental, and it will judge sin. But folks, the gospel is not judgmental, it is redeeming. The gospel is seen to be restricting When really the gospel is liberating in the right biblical sense of the word, the gospel is seen to be intolerant. When really, folks, when it comes to non-moral, ethnic, national issues, it is incredibly tolerant. But not morality, it is intolerant because we have God and His Holiness as a standard. Do you realize the challenge that you and I as Christians have in this culture of helping unbelievers, those who are against the gospel, to understand their misconceptions about the gospel? That God never intended there to be various ethnic groups where you have racism. That is not God's idea at all. God says in the book of Acts that there is one race, the human race. And so we have challenges, folks, ahead as we consider our culture. when it comes to the gospel, of reducing the amount of misconceptions and barriers that are really there when we're thinking about the gospel. But folks, the challenges ahead is really to be to represent Christ, to be Christ visible to people in the church. That's the greatest challenge that we have. As we continue and look at what this mystery is, we see the purpose of the mystery, first of all, is corporate. Chapter 3, verse 10 is going to explain this for us. It says, to the intent. That now, under the principalities and powers in heaven, heavenly places, might be known by the church the manifold wisdom of God. How on earth could you ever bring multiple backgrounds and multiple nationalities and multiple ethnic groups How could all of them ever fellowship together? How could this ever happen? How could they all be part of one faith? How is this possible? Well, it didn't buy any human effort at all No human effort or power or control could ever do this. But the gospel can and does And that is the glory of the gospel. The glory of the gospel. And the glory of God's church is that by God's wisdom he puts all of this together. And it ultimately, even the heavenly intelligences, even the angels, look at all this and say, This is amazing. It's incredible. That's what God's church is about. It is about glorifying Him. So let's review our definition again, or our I'm sorry, our theme of this book: what God is doing in his church. By Christ for God's glory. Well, as we continue on here We see the second purpose is found in in verse 11. The purpose of all of this, of the purpose of this mystery being revealed in all this. We find is in verse eleven of chapter three. We see here it says, according to the eternal purpose which he purposed in Christ Jesus our Lord. In verse 12 it says, In whom we have boldness and what And access with confidence by the faith of Him. Folks, there's an individual purpose as well. The individual purpose of all God is doing is that you have open access to God. You do not have to go through a high priest. You do not have to go through a pastor or clergy or individual or pre- you don't have to go through through through those kinds of means, folks. You can go directly to God That has never been, that has not been the case prior to the revealing of this mystery, folks. I mean, it is true that in the Old Testament you do have people that are praying to God, but they did, there was a religious a religious form that God intended in the Old Testament, the nation of Israel, where you had to go through the high priest for some things. But now, folks, this amazing concept of the mystery of Christ that occurs, it is, folks. Gives us complete and free access to God. So that when we have time, when we're in time of need, we come to God boldly, the Bible says. And that he will give us grace to help in time of need. That doesn't diminish, folks, the importance of collectively what God wants to do in representing Christ to the world through us. But it is of great privilege to us that we have this kind of access. Now as we continue to move here, we find then we're we're right up against We have a section that I just wish I had time for, we don't, but we have a section on what on a prayer of Paul's that Christ would dwell in the hearts of people by faith. We have this. Awesome section, I encourage you to read in your own time. And then we are right up against our central theme, Ephesians chapter 3, verse 20, where it says, Now to him that is able to do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think According to the purpose that worketh in us, unto him be glory to the church by Christ Jesus throughout all ages, world without end. Now The question that I'd like to ask at this point is that if a church is doing what God has it to be doing, and I'm going to apply, there's lots of application for the universal church, but I want to apply this primarily locally now. If the church is doing what God intends it to be doing, and if God is working The way God wants to work. And if we as individuals are making the kind of contributions to the church that God wants us to make, what is it going to look like? What will it look like? And I have one word for you. Unity. One word. Unity. It will be unified. You won't have one group over here and another group over there, and they have difference of opinions on this and that. I mean, you can have different differences of opinions, but folks, there's going to be this intrinsic unity in the body. Well, I feel comfortable in this group and I feel comfortable in that group and I have this kind of division. I got that I mean you know I'm just better over over here and I've got my groupies over here. No, no, no, not in the body of Christ. You guys like groupies like that word You g I bet you didn't even know I knew that word. Anyway. Well look at Ephesians chapter four verse one. I, therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that ye walk worthy of the vocation wherewith ye are called. With all lowliness and meekness, with long suffering, forbearing one another in love. Endeavoring, folks, what are we endeavoring to do? Endeavoring to what? To keep the unity of the spirit and the bond. Peace. Christian, what is when we're coming, when we're talking about your responsibility to your church, to God's church, what is your singular responsibility? to keep unity. You know it's interesting in this passage. This is a bit of relief to me, but it doesn't say the pastor is to keep the unity of the It doesn't say that there. For me to think that I can do that is impossible. And there are a lot of pastors that spend all their whole time running running interference, their entire ministry is running interference parents to try to keep this group together, this group together, this group together, and appease this group and that group. And I look and I say, what a waste of life. I mean really You know who creates unity? Folks, who creates unity? The Spirit of God It is in the bond, the spirit, and the bond, the unity of the spirit and the bond of peace. But folks, who maintains unity? Look at the passage: who maintains unity? All of us. Every individual in this body has its as its prime responsibility To keep, to maintain, to preserve the unity of the Spirit. My job doesn't even get until much later in the passage. I'm not even there yet. Now I'm part of the memory, I'm one of the body, so I I have a responsibility here too But folks, that is the responsibility of every individual. Now, I want you to see here in verse 4 what is the basis of our unity. There is one body and one spirit, even as ye are called in one hope of your calling, one Lord. One faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is above all and through all, and in you all Folks, the basis of our unity, the creator of unity is the Spirit of God. The basis of our unity is God Himself. In the work of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, they are a tri-unity. And this is something that we can never really comprehend, or at least not on this side of heaven. Perhaps never. But folks, we can understand that God is a unity. And the basis of our unity in the body is the fact that He is a unity. And we have responsibility to maintain this unity in the body. But we don't do it through uniformity. Understand this, folks, that God is not intending us to be unified through uniformity. That's like the Third Reich. Honestly. So I didn't expect that coming out of your mouth. I mean really, think about it That's what they let's just all be uniform and have the same color hair, same well unity through uniformity. No, no, no, no. That's not what God says at all. In fact, what we find here in the next passage is we find that unity is harmony, not uniformity. Look at what it says in the passage. But unto every one of us is given grace according to the measure of the gift of Christ. Wherein he saith, When he ascended up on high and the kid capeth, and gave gifts unto all men. Now unto him that descendeth, uh what is it but that he also descended first in the lower parts of the earth? He that descended is the same also that ascended above all heavens that he might fill all things. I don't have the time to go through all of that. You can listen to that online. Verse 13. And he gave some apostles and prophets. But what I'll just say about this passage for folks In verses 7 through 10, what you find is that God, Christ, has given to each one of us different gifts spiritually for two purposes: to glorify God And to contribute and edify the body of Christ. And folks, there is a diversity in this unity. That everybody is different. And folks, by experience, what I have found as I have worked in ministry is that not only is everybody, not only is people are people diff gifted differently. But their gifting causes them to have a different perspective on ministry and on what needs to happen, and on this, on the working of the body. And all of the perspectives are valuable. The only thing that's the only thing that we must do is understand and remember where the unity is And folks, what is the basis of the unity? The basis of the unity, folks, is God and his gospel. That's the basis of the unity, according to the passage. And anytime we start thinking to ourselves, well, I disagree with this person, I disagree with this, well, of course we're going to disagree, we're different. But there is a agreement when it comes to the gospel. There is agreement when it comes to who God is. There is agreement that comes to how we are going to operate as a church. Our unity is based not on uniformity, it's based upon the agreement on the gospel. Now With all of that in mind, we need to ask ourselves the question, how is this going to function? How does this function in the body of Christ? Well, you have these different gifts given by God of various measures, by Christ, actually. various measures. We don't really understand how he chooses, the measure that he gives, the amount of gifts that he gives. It's not clear on that in Scripture. And very candidly, I'm not convinced all of the gifts are actually in Scripture You say, well, wait a minute, that doesn't sound right. I think what we're talking here about is we look at the different examples of gifts. What we're talking here about is actually lists of examples of gifts. There may be very much well spiritual gifts that are not even mentioned in the scriptures But you have here a setup, a particular person as a people as gifts now that God mentions. And he mentions this, picking up here in verse 11. There are people, individuals now that are gifts, that are given to the body of Christ. And we find, first of all, it says, and he gave some apostles and some prophets. Folks, what was the primary job? If you'll remember, probably I I I don't blame you if you don't remember, but if you remember way back messages like six months ago, what was the primary job Of the apostles and prophets. This is not hard. Absolutely, exactly. Kim got it right. It's the revealing of the word We have this book. This is the main contribution that the apostles and prophets make for us. And folks, that is clear in Scripture. There isn't any question about that if you look at Scripture. And the different occurrences of the apostles and prophets. But folks, will you understand this? That the very next the very next gifts that you have of the evangelists and pastors and teachers, it is to deliver it. There is sort of implied here that the apostles and prophets gave it And the role of the pastor-teacher, the evangelist is probably not an office, but it is a gift. You have three gifts here essentially, or two. I think pastor-teacher goes together. And they are, that's their job. Their job is to preach what this word is, is to disseminate or to deliver what the apostles and prophets have laid down for us. That's my as a pastor, that's my primary role. And then you find very clearly in this passage another role for the pastor as well. For the what in verse 12. For the perfecting of the saints. The word perfecting means equipped for maturity. The role of the pastor, the responsibility of the pastor is to preach and teach the word and to help the Christian, to help the believer grow. To mature and grow in Christ. That's the job description, folks. There are other places in scripture that talks about the importance of a pastor being an overseer, which in and in which talks which is the idea of administrator and you have other things there folks but when it comes down to the central primary things here you find here that this is the primary thing Till we do what, verse 13? Till we all come in the what? In the unity of the faith. The pastor's contribution to the unity Is to mature the body so that they become unified. It presupposes that in order to have practical unity, you must have maturity in the body. And that is true practically experientially, isn't it? The level of practical unity in the body of in a in a given body of believers is going to be dependent upon the level of maturity in that body. The responsibility of the pastor is not to start to try to run interference on everyone, but the responsibility of the pastor is to help each individual as much as he knows how, and certainly I I uh the the weight of that is heavy on me sometimes is to help people mature. The weight of that becomes heavy, folks, because sometimes people don't want to mature. The weight sometimes becomes heavy is heavy because sometimes People don't realize they need to mature. The weight is heavy because I know I need to mature and continue to grow in the Lord And yet that is the responsibility of the pastor. And what I have to do oftentimes, and this is very personal, but what I have to do is just go to the Lord and say, Lord, I can't do this. I have to depend entirely upon your working and trust your calling. That's why it's so important for a pastor to understand really, really, act, really called to do this. You're either, as one person said, you're either called or crazy. It's true. Because once you get into it, you you're gonna feel sometimes like you're going crazy. But you are called. And we have to remember that. Christ then delegates the responsibility to the uh well I need to move on here. Um We find then here a clear description of spiritual maturity in this passage. What does maturity look like in the body? Verse 14, that we henceforth be no more children tossed to and fro and carried about by every wind of doctrine. And by slight of men and cunning craftiness whereby they lie in wait to deceive. How do you know someone who is spiritually mature? Verse 15 is it. That's it. Verse 15, but speaking the truth in love may grow up into him in all things which is the head, even Christ. Verse 15, folks, tells us that you know someone who is clinging to the truth and who is able to speak the truth and who is doing it in love. That indicates for you a spiritual Mature Christian. It is one who is not tossed to and fro by every wind of doctrine, who is not constantly swinging back and forth on one thing after another, after another. They're constantly being going this way and now I believe this and now I believe this and now I think this is right. Now I think that is right. Now I'm wrong on this and they're swinging back and that's not a mature believer. That's not that's it that's not Folks, it doesn't mean that we don't grow in our faith. It doesn't mean that we don't learn more as we grow and develop, but there is a sense in which it is not a person who is tossed like a wave going back and forth, and you never know where they're going to be. It's talking here, folks, about someone who is stable. A mature Christian is stable, and he knows how to speak the truth in love. Doesn't mean necessarily he's perfect at it, but he must be able to do that. Paul at the end of this entire discussion reminds us of how the development of the body occurs in verse 16. All of this now, he is going to, he reminds us of all of this, and look at how he words this. He says, and this is a verse that is chalked full, verse 16. From whom the whole body fitly what? Joined together Folks, we are by God's providence and by the gospel and by what Christ has done, we are joint, we are fitly. That means God has done it We are fitly joined together. And compacted And each one of these joints that Christ has fitted does something. It supplies. Do you see that word? It supplies to the body. According to the effectual working in the measure. Now we saw this word measure before. Remember when it says that Christ gave this measure of giftedness to the church? So what we would we would say here when it says according to the measure, it's saying that your measure of giftedness is to supply the body. And what it does, the result, is that it maketh increase of the body. It develops the body. Under the edifying, the building up of itself, folks, and finally we see these last two words are very important. It does it how? Or does it what in what way? In love Folks, what we have here in this passage throughout what I have read, we haven't I haven't identified it as we've been going through it, but you're going to have find laced throughout this passage this concept of love, starting with Christ's love. And in our love and our love for Christ and our love for others and how we've got to be in this bond of love together, folks, we find that what seems to gel this whole thing together is our love for one another. And what we see here is that mature Christians love each other. And that brings unity in the body. Now, I want you to see just how practically this works out, and I'm going to ask you to turn all the way back to Ephesians chapter 6. Back where we were at the very end of Ephesians chapter 6, and you're going to see, I think, how this practically works out in the final verses of this passage. While we're turning well, let's just take a look at this, verse twenty one. But that ye may know my affairs, Paul is saying to the Church of Ephesus, how I do Tychicus, a beloved brother, so he's one who's loved, right? And he is what? He's described as what? A faithful minister in the Lord shall make known and known to you all things. Now take a Ticus is one who would deliver these letters. It is estimated at least, at least, that Ticacus has delivered five letters. Of Paul's to various churches. And more than likely, he's going from church to church, delivering these letters all over the place. And it says here that he's faithful at doing this. So his primary job was disseminating God's word as it was penned down by the Apostle Paul and perhaps other people, other apostles as well. But folks, I want you to see this in the passage. There's something that just that is really implied in the passage. Look at this in verse 22. Tychicus was also going to do something else for this Church of Ephesus It says, whom I have sent unto you for the same purpose that ye might know our affairs, and that he might comfort your hearts. Why would Tychicus need to come and comfort the hearts of these people? Because the Apostle Paul, among other apostles, were imprisoned and under persecution. Persecution. Folks, what this indicates to us is that the church at Ephesus and the churches that are around have great affection for these people Their heart hurt when the Apostle Paul was under persecution. Their heart hurt when they heard the hurting of the other pe of the other um the other people that were under personal The Apostle Paul in various letters will say to the churches: Look, don't be concerned about me. I'm fine. I'm in God's will. I'm doing what God wants me to do. God's using me to comfort them. And he wants to give Tychicus as an eyewitness that Paul's alright so that they can understand the affairs that Paul's doing and all what God's doing through the Apostle Paul. So that they aren't so hurt. They're not hurting as much as they are for this person. This empathy isn't overwhelming for them. But it is interesting, folks, that they have this kind of empathy Love is is in it in its very core the giving of yourself to another But love certainly in the body of Christ includes this kind of affection for others that are hurting in the body. And the Apostle Paul doesn't I'll tell you this, the Apostle Paul doesn't just shun away from it. It's not like he he He ignores the fact that that they're hurting, or it's not the it's not like he doesn't explain talk to them about his hurting. In fact, in fact, sometimes he's saying, I'm in bonds. He'll say in other letters, I am hurting, I am suffering. Pray for me But there was this bond in the body of Christ where you have, folks, this kind of unity and affection for each other, and it's implied in this passage. And that is part of what God is doing. Why in the world would you have different people of different backgrounds and different perspectives that would all have this kind of affection and love for one another? It is because of the bond of Christ that happens. In the church. It's not something any individual can do. It's something that only God can do. Through Christ But every one of us have a responsibility to play the role that God wants us to play in the body. Why? What's the goal? What is the church? It is Christ made visible Now, with all of this said, I would if issue this plea. Maybe you are listening today and you've never understood that this is what the church is all about. Maybe you would admit that you're really You're really not part of Christ's church. You really haven't accepted by God's grace the gift that He has given to you. When he shed his own blood on the cross for you to pay the punishment for your sin, so that your sin could be forgiven and taken away. So that you could be rightly related to God. So that you could have access to God and free access to God. So that you could be a follower of Christ, so that you could be more like Christ, so that you could have the kind of purpose that God wants you to have. This is not something that you've really ever understood. If you are listening here, folks, within the sound of my voice, let me just encourage you, come and talk to me afterwards or talk to somebody else that you you see that in them. You see Christ in them And let one of us take a Bible and show you how you can genuinely and truly and authentically know Christ. Christian, you have and I have a responsibility in the body And there are many things I've said today, and I believe they all are straight from Scripture. And I would just really ask you, are you fulfilling your responsibilities in the body? Are you making the contribution that God wants you to make to this body? I think it's very appropriate for me to ask that question, and I would ask you to ask that of yourselves. I am in no way suggesting that you're not I would not pretend to know those kinds of things. In some cases, maybe I would know, but I don't pretend to know exactly what your role is supposed to be But are you settled about the fact that you before God are making the kind of contribution that God wants you to make To make in the body. You say, oh man, you want us to work harder. No. I might want you to work less. That might mean what that means. I want you to do all God wants you to do and only what God wants you to do. But I think it is a fair question, and one that I believe would please the Lord if we would ask it of ourselves. We have a lot to think about. I have taken a little more time in my sermon, but I had a little more time today because we didn't have special music and some other things. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and we admit before you that we are all at the very best unprofitable servants. And yet, by only your grace alone and the divine wisdom that you have, you have fitly joined us together I pray, Lord, that you would teach us what that means as a body. As a local assembly, I pray that you would teach us what that means. means help us to genuinely be Christ made visible. I think of vacation Bible school coming up where we will have the opportunity opportunity to to demonstrate Christ. I think of just our individual opportunities and we we are we are really in our infancy when it comes To what you would want us to do to demonstrate Christ to this community. I pray, Lord, that you would work in us As the Apostle Paul prayed, that we would be filled with all of the fullness of you. That we would know the love of Christ that passeth knowledge. And that we would understand that you can do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think according to the riches of Christ. And I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen