Take your Bibles and turn to the book of Acts this morning, Acts chapter eight. As uh as many of you know, I did my undergraduate work at Pen in Pensacola, Florida. The city of Pensacola is an interesting city. It's kind of a melting pot for world, for weird religion, religious practices. I'm not sure my alma mater is an exception to that. I still, I don't know, it depends on the day, but um but one of the things I saw uh there was um You would be up on you drive up on a traffic light and there would be people outside, or man, usually a man, standing on the street corner with usually a sign with something like some ver Bible verse and screaming at the top of his lungs this verse and you know in the sweltering heat of Pensacola, ninety degree weather, everybody's got their windows up. He's screaming at the top of his lungs this verse and saying that everyone's going to hell and I mean it's just making a uh quite a quite a scene. This was this was very common. Nearly every time I drove anywhere you would see somebody coming out and doing this kind of thing It seemed to be increased in frequency on the weekends. They would usually say something like, you're going to hell, and that kind of thing. It's very alarming. I was reminded about this when we went to the conference that Jeff and I went to recently down in Nashville. There was Um that was not the kind of conference we went to, but but uh on the on going into the conference, uh going into the conference, it was a conference on music and worship and that kind of thing. Going into the conference, there was this guy with this megaphone. And he was yelling out, God hates your worship. The Bible says there's no, the Old Testament, the Bible says there's no instruments. And we're looking at each other, where's the where does the Bible say that? And uh and then he said, God hates abortion, and um And we looked at each other and Jeff said, he is literally preaching to the choir. Somebody will get that a little bit later. But anyway, and and so and so it was really a cra Uh a strange thing. And then and then it was funny. We didn't know which direction to go, what building we were going to. And um we started going one way and he took he he dropped his microphone and said, Oh it's it's that direction. You want to go that way. It was just kind of c like he just kinda went out of character, was very polite, put us in the wrong direction, and went back to his uh craziness Now let me ask you a question. Are these kinds of things effective ways of expressing a message, getting across any kind of message? And I would suggest to you that the answer would be no. It will it it that kind of a direct approach, is that really what God is calling us to do? Is he really wanting us to be that way when it comes to proclaiming the message of the Word of God and the gospel of people? And what we're going to find is something quite different in Acts chapter 8. We have seen so far that the preaching of God's Word has been clear. They have gone to different areas, the apostles have, and then now it's expanded. Uh uh the church has expanded beyond Jerusalem into Samaria and they have preached the gospel as they've gone. They've gone to the synagogues and other places, and they've gone to public places. But there has been a reception to them going in each one of the places that they're going. And now what we're going to see in the text is that Philip is going to, by the direction of God, the clear direction of God, he is going to be removed from uh preaching to gr groups of people and there's one specific man that he had that God has in mind for Philip to go to And one of the two of the things I want you to see in this passage, just at the very outset as we look at it, is first of all, we clearly see God's direction in this passage. The God is directing. He's moving. He is doing what he wants to do. Would you notice, for example, in verse 26 of this passage? It says, Now an angel of the Lord spoke to Philip, saying, Arise and go toward the south along the road which goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza. So you have the angel of the Lord speaking there in verse 26. Then you have in verse 29 it says that the Spirit said to Philip, go near and overtake the chariot. You see the direction of God there Then finally in verse 39, the Spirit of the Lord literally catches Philip up. He transports Philip to 26 miles north of where he was. So you see in this passage repeated times where God is clearly directing in certain ways The Spirit of God's working, the angel of the Lord appears to Philip and says what to do. And so when we understand what this passage is saying, we need to understand that part of what God wants us to get from this is how God is directing and how he is leading. The other thing that is obviously clear is that God's directive here is to reach the individual. So far, what we've seen in the book of Acts. Is that the apostles and different people have been sent to various areas and they have preached to the masses. But we're going to see from this passage, and there are going to be other times in the book of Acts, we're going to see this as well. Where God is not concerned with just the masses, but God is going to direct to the individual. And we're going to see an emphasis today on personal evangelism. where we are to go to individuals to preach the gospel. We're going to see that in this passage. So we're going to see both things, how to note God's direction, and also how to cooperate with God's direction in personal evangelism. Before we see all of this, let's go to the Lord in prayer and ask his help with this. Father, as we come to you this morning, I pray that you would help us to see clearly Your working, your direction. We thank you that you do draw people to yourself. You guide them and you bring them to yourself, Lord. And there is clearly an inability in Scripture for people to come to you apart from your working. Lord, today I pray that you'd help us to clearly see our role in this process. We thank you that you've included us. From our vantage point, Lord, that you could have you could have just chosen to save people by a direct relationship with them with not using us at all. But you've chosen by your providence to use us and your wisdom to use us to bring people to yourself. And so I pray today, Lord, that we would see our responsibility, but you'd also give us guidance on how we are to follow your direction in all of this. How you work. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, we're picking up here in verse 26 through 28 here, and we're going to ask the question: how does God direct his people? And we're going to see, first of all, that God directs us to reach people in unexpected circumstances. Notice, if you would, with me, the angel of the Lord is going to speak to Philip. We've already seen that. The angel of the Lord is mentioned several times in the book of Acts. From Acts chapter 5 through Acts chapter 12, you see him mentioned several times. And there is a particular reason why you see that. When you see this term angel of the Lord, sometimes in the Old Testament it's referring to a pre-incarnate Christ. But not all of the time. Sometimes it's not. In this particular passage, it's very unlikely that it's talking about a pre-incarnate Christ here. I think it would have been noted in the passage if it were In the Old Testament, the first time that we see this used is in Genesis chapter 16. Do you remember when Hagar was with child and she went? Away from Sarah, she she had to leave or felt that she had to leave Sarah's side and escape from the some of the bad attitude that Sarah had toward her. And on her way out. The angel of the Lord appears to her. It says it's the angel of the Lord, and the angel of the Lord says to her in Genesis chapter 16, verse 11, Behold You are with child, and you shall bear a son, and you shall call his name Ishmael, because the Lord has heard your affliction. He says also in that passage that there will be the descendants will be exceeding, or their descendants will be exceeding from Ishmael. The angel of the Lord is marking something that is very significant. And of course, the Arab nation has come from Ishmael, and the fulfillment of that prophecy has been clearly clearly taken place. The second mention that you see of this angel of the Lord is found in Genesis chapter 22, and you'll know the story well when you remember that Abraham took Isaac Up to sacrifice Isaac, actually. And instead of sacrificing Isaac, at the last minute, the angel of the Lord says, No, don't do that. God has made another provision And then he says in verse 18, In your seed all the nations of the earth shall be blessed because you have obeyed my voice. These are two very prominent occurrences of the angel of the Lord coming, and in one case announcing that there's going to be many descendants that come from Ishmael, and another time where there are going to be many descendants that come. From Abraham and Isaac. And of course, we have the nation of Israel that comes as a result. Now, why is that significant for this passage? Because what we're going to see In the book of Acts, when the angel of the Lord is used, it is often used to demonstrate that something significant is happening. And you say, well, this is one man being saved. Thousands have been saved so far. One man being reached, how is this significant? Well, you'll see in a few moments why that is significant And we'll pick up that theme in a few moments. I want us also to notice from this passage that God is directing Philip at a very illogical time. The timing is is would not seem like the best timing as we would see it. Philip is leading people to Christ. There are many people he's preaching to. Multitudes are being preached to. And yet God is calling him and directing him to go to one, actually to go to the desert is actually what it says in the passage. Notice what it says in the text. Verse 26, arise and go to the go toward the south along the road which goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza. This is desert. Strange timing for God to be doing this. And not only that, we have an illogical location. Location is is unusual as well. Why would God send them to this deserted Gaza? In fact, in history, you have two different places that were named Gaza. And it was at one time a budding metropolis until the city of Gaza was destroyed by Alexander the Great in 332 B. C. And then it was sacked again by Alexander Genaius in 98 BC. Then the uh Gaza, there was another city that was built up that was not this deserted city, was close to it, but it was not that particular city. And that city was said to have important, numerous pagan temples, and uh was this was was built up in all of this. And but the the the the city that God tells Philip to go to is not the one that's been built up. It's the desolate one. It's the one that's deserted, the one in In the desert, if you will. Why? What is going on here? Why would God direct Philip this way? It doesn't seem to make a whole lot of sense Remember before I mentioned about the angel of the Lord signifying something that is very important here. Well, what we're going to see here is that the Ethiopian eunuch is going to be another barrier that is broken down. Do you recall in the book of Acts that we've seen other barriers that have been broken down by the gospel? The first barrier was the diaspora. In Acts chapter 2, not only did the Jewish people that were in Jerusalem come to Christ But 3,000 people that were outside of Jerusalem also came to Christ. They were spread all over the region, and many of them didn't even speak speak Hebrew, they spoke other languages, dominantly Greek, and they all came to Jerusalem for the Pentecost, and during that time they come to Christ. Do you remember in chapter six there becomes a a bit of a problem? There's a a a hindrance uh to what is going on there where the Hellenistic Jews, that comes from the Scattered people that don't speak Hebrew. The widows of that group are being neglected. And so God has to deal with that problem by allowing deacons to be ordained in Acts chapter 6. So that barrier is broken down by first the gospel and then some administrative help as well in chapter 6. But then in chapter 8 We see again the barrier broken down between these were all Jewish people so far, but now when persecution comes as a result of Stephen being being stoned, you then have all of uh these people that are coming to Christ in Samaria. Philip is really heading that up and we see people coming to Christ last week. Simon uh who may have been one of them and many people are coming to Christ that are outside of Samar of of the Jewish nation. The Samaritans were what they called half-breeds. There were people that had some Jewish heritage but were mixed with other things as well. But there was a barrier that was broken down because of the gospel. But at least they had some semblance of understanding of Yahweh They would have believed in the first five book five books of the Old Testament, the Pentateuch. But now we're going to the territory we haven't heard before, we haven't seen before. This is an Ethiopian. An Ethiopian is someone who is from Africa, several countries removed from Israel. This by that those standards would have been, this man would have been part of the uttermost part of the earth. We now have another barrier that the gospel is going to be broken down. So this This is going to break down the barrier. So this is extremely significant. Now that then brings us to the character of the Ethiopian. You'll notice in verse 27 what it says here in the passage. So he arose and went, and behold, a man of Ethiopia, a eunuch of great authority under Candace, the queen of the Ethiopians, who had charged of all her treasury And had come to Jerusalem to worship. So this man was an Ethio, a eunuch, it says, of great authority. Now, what is the significance of that? Well, most of you m probably are aware of what a eunuch is. A eunuch is one who, by a physical means, I'll be discrete here of of physical means has no longer has the ability to be fertile. And um uh uh the rest of that is more graphic than I want to go into, but basically that's what a eunuch is. What is interesting about a eunuch is that in Deuteronomy 23, 1, the eunuch is said to have not been allowed to enter the assembly. That you may not have known. Perhaps you did if you read Deuteronomy, but that's what it says. So a eunuch in the Old Testament was not allowed to enter into the temple. But in Isaiah 56, verses 3, or at least parts of the main, the most close part of the temple. In Isaiah 56, verses 3 through 6, we actually have a prophecy. Would you go ahead and take your Bibles and turn there to Isaiah 56? I want you to see this. What it's going to say about a eunuch, it's going to prophesy something as a as a fulfillment of what God is doing. Verse 3, Isaiah 56, it says, Do not let the son of the foreigner who has joined himself to the Lord speak, saying, The Lord has utterly separated me from his people. Nor let the eunuch say, Here I am a dry tree. For thus says the Lord to the eunuchs who keep my Sabbaths and choose to please choose what pleases me and hold fast my covenant, even to them I will give in my house and within my walls a place and a name better than that of the sons and daughters. I will give them an everlasting name that shall not be cut off. Also the sons of the foreigners who join themselves to the Lord to serve him And to love the name of the Lord, to be his servants, everyone who keeps from defiling the Sabbath and holds fast my covenant. So there's this prophecy in Isaiah that a eunuch will actually be included in the assembly. They'll have the ability to be able to be included in the assembly. And you're what you're seeing here, folks is a prophecy of that. It's another barrier that's being broken down. It's another demonstration of how the gospel is going to penetrate all of the cultural barriers that have been in place. That's the greatness of the gospel, the power of the gospel, and the fact that Christ is has died and risen from the get grave and assembled and ascended and is on the right hand of the Father And we see that this term Candace is actually a term uh it's a title used for the Queen of Ethiopia. And she is She is one who has sent the Ethiopian out. And it says that he is in charge of her treasury. So this is a man who probably has means. And it's a man who probably has influence, and it's a man who is also man a one who is very responsible Now, all of this, what can we learn from all of this? Well, we can learn a couple of things. One is that God works in ways we often don't expect and we often don't anticipate. Have you not found that true in your life as a Christian? That God will work in ways, and you go, I don't get, Lord, what you're doing. I don't really understand why you're doing what you're doing. It doesn't seem logical to me. Isaiah 55, 8 reminds us, for my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord. William Cooper wrote these words, God moves in mysterious ways, his wonders to perform. He plants his footsteps in the sea and rise upon the storm. Deep and unfathomable minds of never-failing skill, he treasures up his bright designs and works his sovereign will We also see from this passage that the gospel breaks through barriers. And finally, we see also so far that the scripture teaches And encourages personal evangelism. To go from the crowds, to go to this one individual demonstrates that God cares about every one of us, and God wants us to be actively involved in personal Evangelism, bring people to Christ. But that then brings us to a question: How should we approach personal evangelism? What should we do? What is our responsibility? And I can just tell you from experience and from From noting other people and talking with people. It is a harder question experientially to answer than you might think on the surface. Do we have a responsibility that every person we meet, that we must give them a full gospel presentation? Is that our responsibility? Is our is the blood uh is their blood on our hands if they go to have you ever heard things like this? Their blood's on our hands if you don't go and talk to that particular person and And and if you if you skip somebody, you know, it might be that you're going to be under judgment for that. Have you heard those kinds of things before? Have they caused you to be a bit of a bit alarmed, like you go go to somebody at a gas station and all they're asking for is, you know All all they're th they're just talking, they're making small talk and you y y you feel like well maybe you know maybe I need to just punch the gospel in there somewhere so my their blood's not on my hands and Then you do that and they look at you like you have three heads and you walk away and and you wonder, okay, well at least I'm not going to be judged for that because I got the gospel out. Have you ever have you ever gone through uh am I the only one that's gone through those kinds of things and do you just struggle? What what's my role in this? I think we need to ask that question. What is our role in personal evangelism? I think we need to understand two things before we're going to see the example of Philip. Number one, I think we need to understand that man is totally unable to come to Christ on his own. Did you realize that? It says in Romans chapter 3, verse 10, There is none righteous, no not one. There is none who understands, there is none who seeks after God. To think that by some manner of our own persuasive power, we're going to be able to convince Someone by their own ability to come to the gospel is foreign in the New Testament. It is not what Scripture says. Man is unable to come to Christ of his own volition. We need to understand as well, John 6. 44, that no man can come to me except the Father which hath sent me, draw him, and I will raise him up on the last day, the Bible says. So the Bible actually tells us as well that God must be involved in the initial steps of someone coming to Christ. He must draw them. Now with that in mind, we are then prepared to ask that question, how is it that we are, what is our role in personal evangelism? And we're going to see this basic premise, and we're going to see how this breaks down when we get into the passage, that God directs us to work with those whom He has drawn to Himself. God directs us to work with those whom he has drawn to himself. Now let me say this. We ought to, as we have opportunity, give the gospel to everyone. In other words, it's nothing wrong. We ought to want to seek and pray for opportunities to give the gospel. But on the other hand, folks, if God is doing the directing, and he is clearly doing that in this passage, and God is doing the drawing, Would it not then stand to reason that we ought to really consider His role and our role and make sure that we are w working in cooperation with him when it comes to this matter of reaching someone with the gospel. Now, I'd like you to notice then in verse 27 what happens. Uh picking up here, it says, um So he arose and went, and behold a man of Ethiopia, a eunuch of great authority, under Candace the queen of Ethiopians, who had charge uh of all her treasury, and had come to Jerusalem to worship. So what was what was the Eunuch doing? Well he was traveling. He was Gaza is significantly a distance from Jerusalem. He's basic is basically on his way back to Ethiopia. It's on the southern coastal region of Israel. And so he is headed that way back from Jerusalem. He has gone up to Jerusalem to worship God. Well, what does that then tell us about this man? This man at least has interest in spiritual things. We can at least say that the way the passage says it is he came to Jerusalem to worship. We have no indication that this man knew certainly he did not know the Lord at this point, we've no he's converted later on in the passage And we have no indication necessarily that he has any exposure to the Jewish people, although it's possible that he did, because he is maybe he's an ambassador for the Queen of Ethiopia. But what we know is that there is interest in spiritual things. And we see that in this passage that he has interest in spiritual things. And so number one, I want us to just think in terms of this. God directs us to people who have an initial interest in spiritual things. Ask yourself the question as you're relating to people. Do they have this interest in spiritual things? That's God-given if they do. And so to understand that is important. That's number one. Number two God directs us to people who are drawn to the scriptures. Would you notice what happens in the text in verse 28? Verse 28, it says, He was returning and sitting in his chariot, he was reading Isaiah the prophet. And the Spirit said, so he's reading Isaiah the prophet, and notice what Philip said, what the Spirit says. The Holy Spirit says to Philip. Go near and overtake this chariot. Now, this is not in the text, but what might this imply? It might imply that God has providentially directed him to Isaiah. Can we say that? I think that's a very likely likely idea that God by his providence has put this Isaiah pass book of Isaiah into the hands of of uh of the Ethiopian eunuch to read. God has done this for the Ethiopian eunuch. And and because God is preparing him to hear from Philip with the scriptures itself. And we can you if you if you just listen to the testimonies of God's people, maybe it's a tract with a gospel with a gospel in it. Maybe it's maybe it's um maybe it's uh a gospel of John or or a whole Bible or There are many times where God will choose to confront somebody directly with his word. And they learn just enough to realize they don't know what they don't know. They they don't know what what they see and so they just know they don't know what they need to know And that's exactly a place that they ought to be in in order for us to have the privilege of being able to lead them to Christ. So we see that here in this passage. And would you notice then? What it says here. It says so uh verse um twenty uh twenty nine 28 it says he was returning, the Spirit came to him, and then verse 30. So Philip ran to him and heard him reading the prophet Isaiah and said, Do you understand what you are reading? What does Philip do here? Well he meets, he he sees, he's observant. He sees where this person is at. He realizes there's their spiritual interest. He realizes he's reading God's word, and he The Spirit of God says, go over to him, and he asks him, do you know what you're reading? Verse 31. And he said, How can I until unless someone guides me? And he asked Philip to come up and sit with him. That's a great invitation, isn't it? This man is obviously being drawn by the Lord. The place in the scripture which he read was this. He was led as a sheep to the slaughter, and as a lamb before his shear is silent, so he opened not his mouth. In his humiliation, his justice was taken away. And who he will declare his generation for his life is taken from the earth? So the eunuch answered Philip and said, I ask you, of whom does the prophet say this of himself or of some other man? So the eunuch then asked the question. So he reads the passage in Isaiah He narrows in on Isaiah 53 verses 7 through 8 where this servant has been put to death and been afflicted and suffering uh persecution and and death and stricken by his own people and all those different things. And he says, who is this man talking? Who is Isaiah talking about? Is he talking about himself? Is he talking about somebody else? What a great question, right? But we can learn something from the question that this man asked. You know, one of the things that we need to think about when we are witnessing to others is. What questions are they asking? Let me give you an example. So when I first started, most of you know that I was uh involved doing tree pruning and and um and Mm removal tree perennium removal with a local company around here uh during college and seminary, those kinds of things. Uh w in between and summers and that kind of thing. And of course I wanted to be a good witness to my co-workers. It was the one of the first opportunities I had to be in a secular environment where I would be on the front line giving the gospel to people. And so as a young I think it was a sophomore when I started that that summer, maybe a maybe a junior. I really wanted to do that and I was a bit gung ho. I remember trying to find ways to get the gospel in there as I was talking to people. Somebody mentioned something about the tr tr uh tr n nature being millions of m years old and I would say, well you know, have you ever considered the fact that it might not be that old? And uh the guy said, yeah, I don't really care, and and walked away. And um, you know, those kinds of things uh I said, well, I'm not sure this is working all that well. And then I decided to I prayed something. I said, Lord, would you cause people to ask me questions? This whole idea of me asking the questions isn't working that well. Lord, would you would you cause them to ask me questions? And then I'll know that I have an open door. And do you know, I'm just telling you from personal experience, that God answered that prayer. Very frequently people started asking questions. I would get questions like this. Hey, you you seem like you might be religious. And I would say, uh, why do you say that? He said, Well, you don't smoke, and I don't ever hear you curse, but you drink coffee, so I know you're not Mormon. And uh I I'm I'm still I'm just still trying to figure out what what uh what what what are you? What are you doing? Well a gr then I have an open door to answer those questions. They did ask those kinds of questions and Before long, other people started asking me questions because I would give answers like uh I'm not actually religious in the way you're probably thinking. I'm have a relationship with the Lord and trying to talk with him. It it opened up an entire I mean I was witnessing all over the place, but you know what? I never pushed it, not one time. After that, I always waited for them to ask me questions And I would pray that they would ask me questions. And when they ask me questions, then I would be able to have the opportunity to witness to people. Now, I'm not saying that you can never take the direct approach and just witness to somebody. That is not what I'm saying at all. But the Bible tells us that we are to be wise as serpents and harmless as doves. And for us to really consider what our role is and to see how God is directing us And to see how we work in cooperation with what God is doing is something that is exactly what we see in this passage Philip is following the direction of God. God's already been working with this man. And now Philip has the opportunity to lead this man to Christ. And Philip is able to answer this question, and of course we all know the answer. By the way, Many people during that time did not know the answer to the question. This was a debated thing among the rabbis of the day and the religious leaders of the day. Who is this man that was talking about? And people did not know the answer to this Who was suffering this humiliation? Who was willingly a land of the slaughter without complaint? Who is this man who was killed before he ever had a chance to have the sentence? Who is this man who was vindicated by God and exalted even above kings? Who is this man? That was a question that the Sanhedrin were probably asking, that the religious leaders were asking, that the rabbinical writings, there's actually rabbinical writings that demonstrate that All of that is going on. And this man asked this question to Philip, and you know they, of course, we all know the answer. It's Jesus. That's the answer. What Philip did was, it says in the text that he explained what the text was saying. Would you notice what it says here? Verse. 34. So the eunuch answered Philip and said, I ask you, of whom does the prophet say that this is this of himself or of some other man? Then Philip opened his mouth and began and beginning at the scripture Where did he begin? He began the scripture. Preach Jesus to him. Now as they went down the road, they came to some water. We're going to get that in a minute. You know, God directs us also, finally, to explain scriptures to those who don't understand. And you say to yourself, you know, I you know, how many people are really even care about the scriptures? You know, you'd be surprised how often people people will ask, unsaved people will ask questions about something of the scriptures that they don't understand. I suppose I get it more than most people. You know, I I I suppose that's probably true. They find out that I'm a pastor and they they they want to ask me questions and I I'm thrilled to answer them But I would suspect that if you if if we're living lives that please the Lord and there's a difference in our lives as we rub shoulders with people in the workplace and they see that difference, then it it it would just stand a reason that when they come up against something or have qu questions that they're gonna say, hey, you you seem to be one who's interested in spiritual things, or they'll usually say religious, that you seem to be religious. And perhaps that will lead into a question about the scriptures. And we God wants us to understand that the way that people come to Christ is through this book. It's through the explanation of the scriptures, of the Word of God. And sometimes we get so occupied with all kinds of methods of the of the of evangelism and if we're not careful we'll leave the scriptures out. I love doing this and I think this is really this is just helpful hopefully to tell somebody hey look It's not about what my what church I go to. It's not about what religion I'm from or anything like that. What I want to do is just show you directly from the scriptures, what the Bible says. Can I just show you what the Bible says? It's not about what anybody told you. It's not about my opinion. It's not about somebody else's. Can I just show you what the Bible says of how you can have a relationship with God? Can I just show you? You know, I I think oftentimes Asking that question will disarm people because you know what? Very infrequently is that question asked. Now, it's not the first question you ask. But if you have an open opportunity to just ask that question, hey, can I just show you from the Bible? Because you you know you hear all kinds of opinions, one person, another person, all these opinions, all kinds of different things. Let's just look at what the Bible says Let's concentrate on the understanding of the scriptures. Do you remember in when Jesus spoke of the parable? in in of the sowing of the seed. In that passage in Matthew chapter 13, he actually quotes Isaiah and he says, hearing you will hear and shall not understand. And seeing you will see and not perceive. For the hearts of the people have grown dull, their ears are hard of hearing, their eyes have they have closed. lest they should see with their eyes and hear with their ears, lest they should understand with their hearts and turn, so that I should heal them. Even in the book of Isaiah, even in Christ's emphasis on what to do with someone who doesn't know the Lord, all of that, the emphasis is on understanding the scriptures. In Romans chapter 10, verse 8, it says, And what does it say? What does it say? The word is near you in your mouth and in your heart, that is the word of faith which we preach. That if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God hath raised him from the dead, you will be saved. And that passage when it says to confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus, it is saying that we ought to be able not only to agree with God about who Jesus is, but are be able to articulate it. It implies understanding. And so when we give the gospel to people, we want to not help them understand my view. Or understand what the Baptist Church believes, or understand, no, we want them to understand what the Bible says. Now, with all that in mind, we need to ask ourselves another question. When someone comes to Christ, how much further do we take them? The Bible actually tells us in Matthew chapter 28. It says that we ought to make disciples, that the goal is not necessarily to bring somebody to Christ and then suddenly just drop them. Okay, you're done That there is this role that we ought to be playing in helping people to follow Christ. But on the other hand We must understand that God will do what He wants to do in the person's life and He will complete the work He has begun. Would you notice what happens in this text? Obviously, this person, the eunuch, comes to Christ, and then he asks Philip a question. Uh he says, um uh uh verse 35 then the scripture preached uh he preached Jesus verse 36. Now as they went down to the road they came to some water and the eunuch said, see here is water. What hinders me from being baptized? Then Philip said, if you believe with all your heart, you may. And he answered and said, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. So he commanded the chariot to stand still, and both Philip and the eunuch went down into the water, and he baptized him. Now when they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord caught Philip away, so that the eunuch saw him no more. And he went on his way rejoicing. But Philip was found at Azetus, and passing through he preached to all the cities till he came to Caesarea. What happened there? Well, they passed by some water. The Ethiopian eunuch wants to express the fact that he has trusted in Christ as Savior. And so he wants to express that, not that he hasn't already done that, but he wants to express that in water baptism. And so he says, what hinders me from being baptized? The implication is I know the Lord. Now what do I do? Alright, now can't can I be baptized? Phillips answer is yes, as long as you since notice the condition. The condition is you've got to believe And then he says, yes, I believe in who Jesus is and what he has done, and then he is able to be baptized. And as soon as he's baptized, what happens? He's he's gone. The Spirit of God transports him. The only way I can illustrate this is if you've watched Star Trek before I mean that's the only I don't know how El she explained this. So so so watching Star Trek is biblically helpful. It's not really true. Uh the whole be me up, Scotty. I mean that's basically what happened here. He's going miles and miles from where he was to Azidas up the coast uh uh several miles, and he does and the Spirit of God just moves him exactly where he wants. him to be moved. And I'm not really advocating Star Trek. It's actually an extremely liberal socialistic show. If you watched it, please make sure that you are aware of the underlying problems with that show. Okay, but let me get back to the text. So So what do we have here? Now here's what's interesting about this. We know from church history. A man by the name of a couple of different, a couple of different men actually report that that that he the the Ethiopian unit goes on to be a missionary in Ethiopia where many many more people come to Christ. We don't know that from biblical text, but from church history that seems to be verified by more than one source. And what we need to learn from this is this truth: that God wants us to work with people. He wants us to lead people to Christ. He wants us to disciple people. But, folks, it's always his work. It is always his work. Philippians chapter 1, verse 6 says, being confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it unto the day of Jesus Christ. You ever been working with somebody, you think that they are doing well and growing in Christ, and then suddenly something happens and they They leave or you leave or whatever happens happens and you're no longer in contact with them. Rest assured folks that God will continue to do the work that He wants to do in their lives He he will what what he has started the Bible says he will finish Philippians 1. 6 But I want us to notice as well that collectively we work in different ways to bring somebody to Christ and to disciple them. 1 Corinthians chapter 3 verse 6 says, I have planted, Apollos watered, but God gave the increase. So God does planting and watering, and we as a collective body of believers Work together to bring people to Christ. Now, you might say, well, good sh I'm glad I'm glad I don't have to give the gospel. I can just be the follow-up guy or something. I don't have to Now that's not exactly what I'm saying here. But understand this that we collectively, as we follow the direction of God, God is going to use his church To disciple his people. So there ought to be this tension, if you will, between my responsibility to follow God's direction and bring them as far as they can go, as far as he wants me to take them And God's God's promise that He will take them the rest of the way in those kinds of times. I was by the way, I'm not going anywhere. Some I uh I was showing somebody this outline and they said, well somebody they're afraid you're gonna be leaving the church. I'm not going anywhere. Just be c as far as I know, unless I get if I get beamed from here, that would be cool. But but um as far as I know, I don't think that's that's uh that's happening. Now, so let's wrap this all up, just concluding these things. Number one, what do we learn from all this? Well, we must willingly follow God's direction. Even when the situation seems unexpected, illogical, or less than ideal. You know, the longer I live, the more I realize that life just ain't that ideal. It's just not. And the quicker we get the idealism out and realize that God will providentially and sovereignly work Through his word, to do his will. You know when the ideal is going to come? The ideal will come when we're in heaven, and the ideal will come when Christ comes for us. and sets everything right. Until then, we don't live in an ideal world. We live in a fallen world. And that is going to affect every area of our lives. But the truth is that as we depend upon the gospel and the working of God and the direction of God, he may direct us in ways that are un illogical and unexpected and not ideal. It takes faith, doesn't it? We've got to trust him. Number two, we must attentively look for opportunities to share Christ with those who who already have been drawn to Christ And God when we see that, when we see the the even the beginning or middle stages of God's working Then we're going to see open doors that God has to use us. One of the first things we need to do, and I've mentioned this before, but when we are getting to know someone that doesn't know the Lord, to just show them love For them to be able to see a difference in our lives, for them to be able to see Christ in us. We are to be Christ made visible to the world. And and some of that needs to happen initially before we would necessarily try to convert them or something. We need to be sensitive to how the Lord is working in their lives. And by the way, there's no if we're doing that, that means that there's no set formula. I can't say, well, if you do this, this, and this, well then they'll come to Christ. Or if you do this, this they won't. No, it's really not about that. It really is being sensitive to the Spirit of God's working and being sensitive to what the Word of God with But understanding certain things about how God works and uses his word and those kinds of things. We need to keep the understanding of the scriptures primary when we're sharing people, sharing Christ with others It's not about my feelings. It's not about what I think. It's not about what the church thinks. It's about what the Word of God says. And finally, we must balance our responsibility to disciple with God's faithfulness to complete the work. And if we have this kind of approach to our personal evangelism, then it will help us greatly with being used of God in these ways. And it is thrilling when someone comes to Christ. It's thrilling when someone comes to Christ and you know it's not your own convincing that did it. It's thrilling when somebody comes to Christ and you know that you're just You're the conduit, you're the vessel, you're just the clay pot that shared the truth. Those times are are wonderful. And God does do that because the gospel is powerful. Let's pray to him. Father, we come to you and thank you for the truth of your word. We thank you that it teaches us practically, and we can see the example of Philip, and we can see how How we can cooperate with your direction. And we admit before you that it is not easy to do so And that we see principles from your word here today. I pray that we be spent sensitive to your spirit and your working. Lord, we want to see people come to Christ. We're thrilled when we do. Even when you have used our church to bring people to Christ in the past, we're thrilled about that. We want to see more of it. Lord, I pray that you would help us not to shirk our responsibility. In being available and open and observant and attentive to the souls of men. I pray that you'd help us to work in cooperation with your Spirit, realizing that you must do the work. And we must respond to your spirit's working in a good way, in a right way. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.