Uh budgets in there? Okay. So you can re you can get the the financials in they're in your in your um uh files in the in the lobby. Feel free to pull pick those up today. And Um that's all I really need to announce at this time. But what I didn't do is bring up my Bible, which would be helpful since I need to do a scripture reading. All right, and our scripture reading today will be from Psalm seventy-eight. It actually Psalm seventy eight is really an explanation of the Psalm of of Exodus, uh the passage that we're going to be looking at today. Um it's almost like a commentary on it. It's really really quite descriptive. Psalm 78, and we'll just look at verses 15 through 21 for our call to worship this morning. He split the rocks in the wilderness and gave them drink in abundance like the depths. He also brought streams out of the rock and caused waters to run down like rivers. But they sinned even more against him by rebelling against the Most High in the wilderness. And they tested God in their heart by asking for the food of their fancy Yes, they spoke against God. They said, Can God prepare a table in the wilderness? Behold, he struck the rock so that the waters gushed out And the streams overflowed. Can he give bread also? Can he provide meat for the people? Therefore the Lord heard this and was furious. So a fire was kindled against Jacob, and anger also came up against Israel, because they did not believe in God, and did not trust in his salvation. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you just for the time we could spend together worshiping you this morning. We see In your word, that you are an incredibly patient God. And so far we've learned that. We've learned time and time again from the very beginning of the deliverance of Israel that the people of Israel have really um uh gone against you, doubted you, complained against you over and over again, and yet you have patiently provided for them in an effort to just show them your presence. But we thank you, we praise you, because you are not only a patient God, but you are a God who knows Who is not so patient that he does not execute justice. And unlike us, you know exactly uh because of your great wisdom you know exactly when to move from um from impatience or from patience rather to um beginning to execute justice the way that you can And we confess before you that we don't know how to do that. We are impatient and yet wot justice. You are patient and yet choose to be just at the same time. And Lord, we we confess that often our justice, our sense of justice, is is due to our impatience rather than just really wanting to please you. Lord, we confess that before you and when we reflect on that, we we uh know our need. Uh we uh our your perfect character is in such contrast to our constant flailing of character and We see that with Israel just constantly failing you, and yet you are faithful. And Lord, as we worship together this morning, I pray that That would be in our minds, your character, who you are, your plan of redemption, the gospel, all of that would be on our minds, and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen What do you do? Ah no, what are we doing Great things have so And all things all we can set to go. And the morals, and the morning, and a free quarter Two three, three, three, four, one, comes, one, come, Uh, See them all bring me by And break the building on the. . Okay, we're gonna be gonna go out one of the weeks. Well let's go to the Lord in prayer after that. Father, you truly are Worthy of bringing glory. As Romans eleven twenty-six says, or thirty-six, for of him and through him and And to him are all things, to whom be glory forever. Amen. Well, we thank you for being such a God that Is working all things to bring glory to yourself, and that we actually have a part to play in that It's truly remarkable. We thank you. Um even as we'll be seeing today uh from from Exodus seventeen That part of you bringing glory to yourself is your patience with us and and the fact that that you have uh you you mix your patience with justice and the perfect balance. Um there is no person on earth that is like that. Yet you you are perfect in that. And we thank you, Lord, for For being a God of patience and a God of justice, and that you know when to when to enact justice and and and stop being patient and uh and and really in that you you are all wise And Lord we um we bring want to bring before you uh some requests. We we we ask Lord that you you would continue to watch over um mr kill cup that you'd uh continue to watch over his recovery we ask that um you would uh really give him a a ample uh recovery time at home and uh that that he would that all And we do want to bring before you the Rogers and and dealing with this uh this difficulty in the pregnancy, we we pray, we pray Lord that that you would be able to work in such a way that um that this that their baby would be able to be to live uh as close to full term as possible. That's what the doctors are doing, that's what they want, and and it is helpful So Lord, we we ask that that that you would work that way. We pray as we are about to go to the message as well Will that that you would help us to um now focus on on your truth and we would be listening for uh your spirit to apply the truth to our hearts And how you would have us to correct our thinking, to encourage us to even change course if necessary. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Now we'll be reading from our text today. Exodus 17, verses 1 through 11. And it says, Then all the congregation of the children of Israel set out on their journey from the wilderness of Sien. according to the commandment of the Lord, encamped in Rephidim, but there was no water for the people to drink. Therefore, the people contended with Moses and said, Give us water that we may drink. So Moses said to them, Why do you contend with me? Why do you tempt the Lord? And the people thirsted there for water. And the people complained against Moses and said, Why is it you have bought brought us up out of Egypt to kill us and our children and our livestock with thirst? So Moses cried out to the Lord, saying, What shall I do with this people? They are almost ready to stone me. And the Lord said to Moses, Go on before the people, and take with you some of the elders of Israel. Also take in your hand your rod which you struck the river, and go Behold, I will stand before you there on the rock in Horeb, and you shall strike the rod, and the water will come out of it, and the people may drink. And Moses did so in sight of the elders of Israel. So he called the name of the place Masa and Meribah because of the contention of the children of Israel And because they tempted the Lord, saying, Is the Lord not uh among us or not? So we have seen Moses complaining, or the people rather, complaining, over and over again, and we've seen the patience of God over and over again. the last couple of weeks as we've gone through uh Exodus. And um now we're actually going to see sort of a transition. But from God's patience to God's justice, from God's provision and uh just desiring for them to see his presence to a sort of a transition into um identifying their problem And their problem is also getting more severe. Sin is always that way, by the way. Sin does not stay just static. Sin continues to get worse and worse and worse. It is not possible for sin to just flatline. And we see this here. It's either got to be dealt with through the gospel or it's got to be uh uh or or it will get worse and we see this in Exodus chapter 17. It's interesting that the un those who don't know the Lord or question the vol you know who God is The question whether there even is even of God. Some people feel like God is a sort of this wrathful God, and they want God to be more patient. Their concept of God is more patient. They don't like the God of the Bible because the God of the Bible seems to be this vengeful God. We haven't seen him so far that way. We've actually, other than toward the other than toward uh Egypt, we've seen him as a patient God so far. But there are actually other people that um who who They don't think that God is real because there's so much injustice that happens in the world. And there's so much injustice, and so how could there be a real God who allows this injustice to go on? It's interesting how we sometimes want it both ways. We want God to be patient and just at the same time. And you know what? He is. God is patient and just at the same time. You and I have a real hard time with this. I mentioned my our prayer. The idea of being patient and just. We are just and impatient Or patient and not just, we're just tolerant. And yet God is both patient and just And he, in his wisdom, knows exactly when to move from patience to a place where justice needs to be executed. And you're seeing in 17, 1 through 7 this transition. This actually is a passage where there is a lot in other places in the Bible to talk about this. And it's mentioned in Deuteronomy several times. It's mentioned in the book of Psalms a couple of times. This passage is cited several times throughout the Bible because this is really a watershed moment for the nation of Israel where God transitions from from his patience to, okay, you are wrong, Israel. And we begin to see this now in the life of of the nation of Israel in the very beginning stages of this. And I want to read for you, you're in Exodus, hopefully, Exodus 17. I want to read for you where this happens in Deuteronomy. Moses is the writer of Deuteronomy. He actually is the, it really is a series of sermons that Moses preaches at the end of his life. That's really due to what Deuteronomy is. And in Deuteronomy, I'm sorry, chapter 6, verse 13, it says, You shall fear the Lord your God and serve him. shall take oaths in his name, you shall not go after other gods, the gods of the peoples who are around all uh who are all around you For the Lord your God is a jealous God among you, lest the anger of the Lord your God is be aroused against you and destroy you from the face of the earth. You shall not tempt the Lord your God as you tempted him in Masa. And you may have noticed from Enrique's reading of it that Massah is mentioned here. This is the place they're at. You shall diligently keep the commandments of the Lord your God, his testimonies, and his statutes, which he has commanded you. And you shall do what is right and good in the sight of the Lord, that it may be well with you, and you you may go in and possess the good land of which the Lord Swore your fathers, they shall not enter my rest. So this passage that we're looking at today becomes a passage where God wants the nation of Israel to remember where they really went wrong. God was patient with their complaining in the beginning. It continued to get worse and worse up to this point. And now we see that God wants this to be a memorable time. And we're going to really flesh this out today as we go through God's Word. God is really going to reveal, and we're going to see this today both in Exodus and in the book of Numbers The danger of continued defiant complaining. The danger of continued defiant complaining. Well, what is the danger? We're first going to see that defiant complaining grows into quarreling behavior. It grows into quarreling behavior. You'll pick up in verse one it says, And the congregation of the children of Israel set out on their journey from the wilderness of sin, according to the commandment of the Lord, and camped at Rephedem But there was no water for the people to drink. Refedem is the final place before they get to Mount Sinai. Um if you put all the chronology together, that's what you find here, and they're at Rephidem and they don't have any water to drink. Well this has happened before. This is not anything new. They're in the desert. That shouldn't be surprised. And what did God do the last couple of times? Well he Provided water for them. But there's something that happens in this passage that is really telling. It says in verse 2, therefore the people contended with Moses. They contended with him. That is a different word than what they previously did. They complained. This word means quarreling. So what we find here is that the problem of the root problems in the heart of Israel have now grown to the place where they're now quarreling with Moses. And I want you to notice actually three this growing problem in three different parts here. First of all, complaining grew into contention It grew into contention. That's the way complaining is. We talked about complaining before, and complaining gone unchecked and continues, it will grow into a place of quarreling and contention. So Moses says, why do you contend with me? This is a word that means to strife. It comes from the idea of being dissatisfied. And Moses says, why are you quarreling with me? Why are you is there contention? This is a natural res a natural out growth of continuing to complain and not learning from their previous problems of complaining. And now it's become something that's very contentious, very quarrelsome. Number two, complaining grew into testing God Complaining grew in a testing God. He actually says, Why do you tempt the Lord? This is different than what we've seen in the past. We've not seen this the level of complaining Up till now, we've not seen it this way. Now they are really tempting God. And this becomes a very serious thing. God does not does not Look on tempting him, testing him in a favorable way. We're going to see more of what that means to tempt God, to test God as we go through this. Where does this testing God come from? Where does this you really now, it's sort of like God is saying, you know, I've I've provided for you multiple times in the past, I've shown you my presence through my provision in the past. And you keep doing what you're doing, and now you're testing me. You're testing, it's as if you're testing how far will I go in my patience. Folks, that is not a place we want to be. And you're going to see that as we go through this passage. See, here's what happened. What we find in other places in the Bible, it actually explains what's going on here. For example, in Psalm 106, verses 14 through 15, it says this, but lusted exceedingly in the wilderness, talking about this passage, and tested God in the desert. And he gave them their request, but sent leanness into their souls. Number three, complaining grew into hardened hearts. He says There was a leanness in their souls. There was a dryness toward God. There was not an intimacy toward God. There was not an openness toward God. There was this leanness where there began, they began to not really care about God at all. There was a leanness in their soul, Psalm 106. In Psalm 78, referring to this time as well, it says that they tested God in their heart. by asking for the food for their fancy. And actually we're going to learn more about that in the in in numbers. In Psalm 95, verse 8, it cites this passage again and says, do not harden your hearts as at Meribah. This seems to be the time where there was where they really began to harden their hearts. Now they're not done hardening their hearts You're going to find that they end up going to Mount Sinai and they are into idolatry at Mount Sinai. Remember that, the golden calf, and all that all that that we're going to see And uh and we're going to see after that what happens uh in a few moments in in numbers. But it seems to have started, this hardening of the heart, it went from complaining over and over again. Doubting God to now I am hardening my heart against God. And we think of it, you know, we think of it this way: you look at it from a bird's eye view, it's like, why would you do this? God provided for you every single time It's really hard to understand, actually, but that's what happened. God warned, this becomes a passage where he is warning his people, don't do this. Do not harden your heart, Psalm 95. 8, as at Marabah, as on the day at Masah, in the wilderness where your fathers tested me. In fact, the word Marabah means a place of discontentment. And masa means to test. And it wasn't as though Moses didn't name this these two names because they were being tested. Previously God was testing them, which was all appropriate. No, they were testing God now And their heart was being hardened. In Hebrews chapter 3, verses 9 and 10, we're going to look at Hebrews later in a minute as well, but I'll just note this that this again, they refer again to this passage. Hebrews chapter 3 verse 9, where your fathers tested me, tried me, and I saw my works forty, and saw my works forty years. This began here. Therefore, I was angry with that generation and said, They always go astray in their heart, and they have not known my ways. The straying of their heart, the hardening of their heart. The coldness in their souls seemed to really begin to take place in this passage. Well, the severe it got so severe, this complaint got so bad That it actually ended up, look at verse 3, and the people thirsted there for water, and the people complained against Moses and said, Why is it that you brought us up out of Egypt to kill us? and our children and our livestock. We've seen that before. They've accused Moses of that before, this conspiracy theory that keeps going on. And then notice verse 4, so Moses cried out to the Lord saying What shall I do with this people? They are almost ready to stone me. It got so bad that this defiant complaining results in violent thinking. It results in violent thinking. That's how bad it got. This is the heart of man. If the heart is not changed By the power of God, through the gospel of God, this is the direction that the heart of people go. And this is what you see in this passage. So how do we avoid complaining? See, there's a real problem here. Do you see the severity of this? Do you see that there is no this will continue in your life if it goes unchecked? And in my life if it goes unchecked. And we're going to see actually it gets even worse for Israel when the whole complaint. They're not even done with this. On the other side of Cyanide, we're going to see it again where they're complaining again. Well How do we do deal with this? Well, defying complaining must be reversed. It must be avoided. Defiant complaining must be avoided. How do we avoid it? Well, look at verse Exodus 17, 5. And the Lord said to Moses, Go on before the people and take with your c with you some of the elders of Israel. Also take in your hand your rod which you struck the river, and go. Behold, I will stand before you there on the rock in Horeb, and you shall strike the rock. And water will come out of it that the people may drink. The striking of the rock in this particular instance seems to be an indication of God's judgment here to some degree. Ver uh seventy-eight fifteen, he's uh uh uh in Psalm seventy eight fifteen it says this about this passage. He split the rocks in the wilderness and gave them drink in abundance like the depths. He also brought streams out of the rock and caused waters to run down like rivers. This is what happened. Water gushed out for these millions of people that needed water Notice, by the way, that is even as bad as their content their their contentious complaining God, it wasn't as though God said, okay, I'm not providing for you anymore. Isn't that interesting? That God will still sometimes provide for us even as we get into very dangerous areas in our lives. And that happens here. God promised to provide for the nation of Israel, and God is fulfilling his promise. It's going to be interesting how he fulfills it later on. But he provides for them as he said he would. But we find then that Moses, there's this reprimand that happens in uh on the part of Moses. It says, and god and Moses did so in the sight of the elders of Israel, verse six. So he called the name of the place Masa and Meribah because the of the contention of the children of Israel. Now there is a lot going on here, but let me just mention what what's really happening here. And let's ask this question because this is so important for us to get In fact, I was going to last week combine these two passages and preach from them, and there was just such important truth here. I said I'm going to separate them out so that we can really delve into this a little bit What are the root problems going on here? Why? Why is it that the people just continue to complain and complain and complain? Folks, why do we do that? What is going on in our hearts? We read that the heart of the heart of these people were hardened What is happening that that this would continue to go on? And what's happening in our hearts Well, we have a real key indication here. Remember last week we said that God provides to show his what? To show his presence. God provides to show his presence. Well, would you notice in the text what happens Number one, what are the root problems here? Number one, defiant complaining questions God's presence. It questioned God's presence It says, because they tempted the Lord, saying, Is the Lord among us or not? They questioned the presence of God. They said, Is the Lord among us or not? Well by now that sounds foolish, doesn't it? It is foolish. God has shown them time and time again. He showed them the He delivered them uh from from Egypt. He delivered them from the Red Sea. He delivered them uh to to to serve him and he's provided for them. You've got the pillar of clouds, share the presence of God. And they're still questioning Is God among us or not? In other words, folks, what you find here is that they are not getting their provision the way they expect somehow They're thirsty, and they're sort of instead of going and accusing Moses, now they're saying, Is God here or not? They are tempting God. Number two, defiant complaining ignores God's working. Defiant complaining ignores God's working. And we actually see this from Psalm 95, but I just want you to notice something. Remember last week that at the end of last week Uh the end of the passage, the previous passage in Exodus 16. Do you remember what it said there? Let's just look at it for a minute, 32, Exodus 16, 32. Then Moses said This is the thing which the Lord has commanded, fill an omer with it to be kept for your generations, that they may see the bread which I fed you in the wilderness when I brought you out of the land of Egypt. It says, fill an omer with with manna, and it's going to it's going to remain forever, and you're going to put it into the Ark of the Covenant. I mean, you've got all kinds He wanted this to be very, very memorable. I'm providing with you, and my presence is with you. This was to be a memorable time. How in the world could they now say, is God with us or not? And God is finally now going to say, you're not recognizing my work. You're not looking at what I'm doing. You're not paying attention to my work. You said, that's not what I say. This is what the Bible says. Psalm 95 says this. For he is our God, and we are the people of his pasture, and the sheep of his hand. Today you today if you will hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion As in the day of the trials of the wilderness, when your fathers tested me, they tried me, though they saw my work They saw God working, they saw God deliverance, they saw God's provision, but they turned a blind eye to it They ignored the working of God. Why do they do that? Why is it that they chose to do that? Well, number three Defiant complaining re- reveals a hard heart of unbelief. The real issue is just unbelief. We gotta call it like it is. Complaining, folks, comes from a heart of unbelief. You're not trusting God. And I'm not trusting God. When we get into this mode of complaining that ends in contention and quarreling and all of that Defiant complaining reveals a hard heart of unbelief. We see this in Psalm 78. That same Psalm. You just read through that Psalm. It's all about what's going on here. In verse 22, it says, Because they did not believe in God and did not trust in his salvation. Yet he had commanded the clouds above and opened the doors of heaven, had rained down manna on them to eat, and given them the bread of heaven. But they wouldn't believe. The issue was unbelief. And we find the same thing in Hebrews chapter 3. Now God is going to apply it to these Jewish Christians. And he's going to say, hey, don't do what your ancestors did and remain in unbelief. They were being tempted by oncoming persecution and they were being tempted to And God says in Hebrews 3, verse 12, he says, Beware, brethren, lest there be any of you of evil heart of unbelief and departing from the living God But exhort one another daily while it is called today, lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin. For we have become partakers of Christ if we hold the beginning of our confidence steadfast to the end, while it is said today, if you will hear his voice, do not pardon your heart as in the rebellion. Now where did all of this lead to? They've got unbelief, their heart is hard, they're not following after God, they're tempting God. Where did this all of this leave? Now I hate to say this, but they didn't even learn their lesson in this passage. They're naming places like discontentment and quarreling and tempting God as memorable times where they did this. But but What happens? Well, would you take your Bible to turn over to Numbers chapter 11? Numbers chapter 11. Now, Numbers chapter 11, we need to set the stage here. There's some time that's passed. And the reason I'm going to this is that in the book of Exodus You're not going to see again them dealing with, you're not going to see again God dealing with the manna and the and the and the quail and all of that and the complaining all of that in at least in the same way. And now we're going to move to numbers, and this is on the other side of Mount Sinai. So you've got Rephedim, they're at Rephedim. Then they're going to go to Mount Sinai, and Moses is going to give the Ten Commandments. There's all going to be cause all kinds of things that happen there. And then on the other side of Mount Sinai, now as they go toward the promised land, as they're now in the wilderness, they're going to have to stay there for 40 years Notice what happens in Numbers chapter 11. And uh pick up in verse 1, it says, Now when the children now when the people complained, it displeased the Lord, for the Lord heard it, and his anger was aroused. For the fire of the Lord burned among them and consumed some in the outskirts of the camp. Then the people cried out to Moses, and when Moses prayed to the Lord, the fire was quenched So he called the name of the place Tabarab because the fire of the Lord had burned among them. Now the mixed multitude who were among them yielded to intense craving So the children of Israel also wept again and said, Who will give us meat to eat? We remember the fish which we ate freely in Egypt, and the cucumbers, and the melons, and the leeks, and the onions, and the garlic. But now our whole being is dried up. There is nothing at all except this manna before our eyes. God had provided for them through the manna. Previously he had provided for them through quail. Some say that it was one night of quail. Others say that it was a little bit longer. It is not clear in the pat in the in in the text. But at some point the quail probably stopped, I mean surely it stopped, and then they're just eating manna for quite a while And now they're getting sick of the manna, and now their craving is just they're just they just they can't they can't think right almost, it looks like. It looks like they're just so preoccupied with this, they just need something else besides what God has provided. Look at verse 18. Then you shall say to the people, Consecrate yourselves, this is God talking to Moses, consecrate yourselves to for tomorrow, and you shall eat meat. For you have wept in the hearing of the Lord, saying, Who will give us meat to eat? For it is it was well with us in Egypt. Therefore the Lord will give you meat and you shall eat. You shall eat not one day, nor two days, nor five days, nor ten days, nor twenty days. but for a whole month until it comes out of your nostrils and bec becomes loathsome to you, because you have despised the Lord who is among you, and have wept before him, saying, Why did we ever come up out of out of Egypt? God says, okay, Moses went to God, same same scenarios before, basically. Moses goes to God, God says, okay, I'm going to provide until it's coming out of their nostrils. It's it's it I'm it's gonna fine, this is what I'm gonna do. And and Moses, you know at this point I think Moses and I think all of us are going, why is God even doing this at this point? I mean he keeps providing, providing, providing. All of us be like, forget it. Eat the manna, stop complaining, and you know that that would be all of our kind of way of dealing with this. Or okay, forget it. You know, you don't like the manna? Fine, I'll take the manna away for two weeks Or a week or something until you're about to starve and then you'll appreciate the man. I mean that's the way we handle things. Notice the way the God notice how God handles it. He's going to give them quail, he's going to give them exactly what they want But then notice what it says in verse 31. Now a wind went out from Lord the Lord and it brought quail from the sea and and left this fluttering near the camp about a day's journey on the side on this side and about a day's journey on the other side all around the camp and about two cubits ab above the surface of the ground And the people stayed up all that day, all night, and all the next day, and gathered the quail. He who gathered least gathered ten homers And they spread them out for themselves all around the camp. But while the meat was still between their teeth, because it was chewed And the wrath of the Lord was aroused against them. And the Lord struck the people with a very great plague. So we called the name of the place Kibrath Hataba because there they buried the people who were yielding, who yielded to the craving. Apparently what will happen here is that the people craved this so much, they were so preoccupied with this, they wanted so much, and they were just, it became like this quail became an idol for them And they couldn't live without it. And that's just I mean they just could and so they come and they're they're reveling in this and they just can't help themselves. This craving is so bad That they are just diving into this and God, as he watches them, make quail their God is infuriated because he is a just God, and God is a jealous God, as we already read in Deuteronomy 6. And the quail rots in their teeth, and they die, some of them, because of this. The truth is that, you know, it's interesting how God does this. God takes the very provision and he makes the curse. He takes the thing that he said otherwise was a provision and he makes it a curse. And you know what's interesting? You see this over and over in scripture, you see this even with the the fruit in the very in the beginning of the with the garden. God created the whole thing, made it good. He said, Don't eat of the tree in the midst of the garden. But his provision became a curse as they sinned. Sin takes God's provision and makes it a curse. And God says, Okay, you can do it. I'll give you sometimes that's the way God works. He gives you all what you want and it destroys you. Do you know that, by the way? We ought to thank God God doesn't give us everything we want Really. Because if we if we if God gave us everything we want, it would destroy us Look at some of these look at some of these um childhood actors that have just abundance of and they all like almost all of them blow away because they get everything they want. And they just it it destroys people. We need to say instead what Job said, Job 121. Naked came I from my mother's womb, and naked shall I return. The Lord gave, the Lord takes away, blessed be the name of the Lord. Can you say that? What I want us to do then is really think through this and the time we have remaining. I want us to To really think, okay, how is it that we we turn from this? Because that's what needs to happen. If we have this kind of complaining that is just continuing and we have a defiant spirit before God and we have a defiant spirit in our lives and we're quarreling. This will ha you this will destroy a family. It'll destroy a church. It'll destroy a workplace. This kind of thing will destroy any place that it gets a hold of. Sin, complaining kind of sin gone unchecked, that's what will happen. So, how do we turn from this? Three things. Number one, in our concluding applications, number one, we must stop focusing on the absence of what we want. And start focusing on the presence of who God is. We must stop focusing on the absence of what we want. Looking at what isn't there that we want, and start focusing on the presence of who God is. One person said, we must be continually on guard against our all-too common penchant for judging our circumstances by our stomachs. We must stop focusing on the absence of what we want and start focusing on the presence of who God is. Number two, we must stop loving the provision and start loving the provider. We must stop loving the provision and loving the provider. When God provides, isn't his provision rich? You think about your life, I'm now 40. And uh I'm looking back at forty years and I'm it's it's a weird age, I think. I'm actually not alone in this. I I I'm apparently uh other people felt the same way. It's you know you It's just weird. But I'm looking back and I'm seeing God's provision and God's provided. But you know what us men like? I'm guilty of this too. We like our toys Kids, any kids in the room? It doesn't change. It just gets more expensive. And you ladies, you like your toys too. And we if we're not careful, we want the quail because the man is not good enough. And it becomes the provision becomes the God. It becomes the idol. And what God intended to be good for us, because of our own hardened, deceitful, wicked hearts, it actually becomes a curse for us. And the only way to stop that from happening is to love the provider more than the provision. And when you find in your heart you're loving the provision more than the provider Realize you're in a dangerous place and you're going the wrong direction. Number three. Actually, I want to mention one, a couple of verses from this one. It says, But they sinned even more against him by rebelling against the most high. This is from Psalm 78 Most high in the wilderness, and they tested God in their hearts by asking for the food of their fancy. They just wanted the provision rather than the provider. Number three We must stop expecting God to work the way we want and remember God's faithful work in the past. We must stop expecting God to work the way we want and remember God's work in the past. God, you're not doing what I think you ought to be doing. We don't say that, but we think it Lord, why are you not doing this this way? Why is this happening the way it's happening? I don't get it, Lord. And we can there is a sense in which we can express ourselves to God. That's actually what we ought to be doing without defiance But man, when we're doing that, we ought to be thinking about how God has worked. How has God worked in your life? Has he worked? Or are you are you just totally ignoring it? I mean that's what that's what happened to the nation of Israel. They had a hardened heart, and they didn't, they even though God was working among them, they clearly could see it. It was so obvious. We must expect, stop expecting God to work the way we want, and remember that God is faithful in working in his own way. In Psalm 78 it says this, in spite of this they still sinned and did not believe in his wondrous works. Therefore, their days he consumed in futility, and their years in fear. Did you catch that? I'll read it again. In spite of this, they still sinned. In spite of God's provision, they still sinned, and did not believe in his wondrous works. Therefore, their days were consumed in futility, and their years in fear. Do you want your life to be that way? Now, you know the thing about it is I don't like to pre- this is not my favorite kind of message to preach. This is a like negatively I'm just preaching the passage, right? And it is it is warning us. So I'd much rather preach passages that are positive about who God is and his provision and his patience and all those kinds of things, but to preach the whole council of God, when I come to these kinds of passages, I've got to preach them. And we need it, don't we? But folks, there is a kind of life that we can end up in that is a life of futility, a life of emptiness and crippled by fear. Because we refuse to see the work of God. We don't believe the work of God the way that God wants us to. This is so necessary for us. This really is an area where we've got to make sure we're right on And there needs to be, in some people's lives, even today, perhaps, there needs to be a place, you need to come to a place of repentance. Repentance is the key here to turn from one direction and go the other way. Has God been working on your heart? I want to give you a chance, I don't do this very often, but I think it's just appropriate on a message like this to just between you and the Lord spend a moment in silence before the Lord. And I would just suspect in a message like this, from a passage like this, that there is a need. to to to talk with God and to come to a place of repentance in some of our hearts And I'm going to give you time to do that just between you and the Lord in silence before the Lord. We will just be silent and pray on our own individually before the Lord. And then we will again pray together corporately and move on with our service. But I want to give you that time now. Our Father, we do just collectively confess before you that our hearts are prone to wander. And we are clearly warned in this passage. Father, I pray, Lord, that you would help us to heed the warning. That if we have made if our spirit is contentious before you, and we have made the provision greater than the provider in our hearts. That we would turn the other direction, turn around. Lord, I pray that You would help us to turn to you and just love you. And look to you and remember your work. Number one, remember that your redemptive work in our lives is In the gospel, you delivered us, but you've delivered us, you've provided for us, you've taken care of us, and we don't deserve any of it. Lord, I pray that you would then, that would cause us to, as we see your working, know your presence. And as we know your presence, we will live lives that are full of faith rather than doubt. And we pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen. I think it's standard thing we'll continue our version because we've got the same To the Lord. We're going to sing worship the Lord number 35. As we sing, let's think about how He is perfect in His provisions for us. P's there for you. I know Pastor likes those. But uh let's sing in number thirty five worship the Lord. Sing to the Savior a song of praise, come let us worship the Lord. Trust in his mind, walk in his light. Come let us worship, worship the Lord. Great are his wonders and grand his ways. Come, let us worship the Lord. Heaven's proclaimed, Jesus shall reign. Come, let us worship, worship the Lord, let us worship the Lord, worship the Lord, come, let us worship the L Worship the Lord, make the voice, sing and rejoice. Worship, worship the Lord, the Lord and the Word, worship, come and worship the Lord. Sing to the God of eternity. Come let us worship the Lord. He is the king. Rise up and sing. Come, let us worship, worship the Lord. Sing to the vicar of Calvary. Come, let us worship the Lord. Honor the sun, Jesus has won. Some let us worship, worship the Lord, let us worship the Lord, worship the Lord, some let us worship the law. God of the Lord and God of land, conquering life, and covering life. Worship the man worship the Lord worship worship the man worship the Lord Let's go to number two forty one. Jesus Sorry, our great Savior. Jesus said. Hey you're gonna make a give it a free thing. Jesus find She does not be b. We are one bread and help me. She has a soul. It needs to be one. Amen. Amen. Right? Let's continue our worship and we'll go to one ten. More love. Oh no, I love to do praise me, for I fear that my work is in me. I am now I will then be praying whenever you Still will be lost when I say that in your soul. If my motives are now inspired Oh Lord I want to feel where you are not Soul overcome this love that I have for myself. As I yield to the spirit's control, they almost rise increased in my heart. And my knowledge of ever wrong So I gave to my kingdom. Will reply the soul. Lord, we thank you so much for your goodness, Lord. Help us to truly recognize your provisions, not to be complaining, but to be satisfied with what you give us. Lord help us not to desire those things that we should shouldn't want. Lord, help us to desire the things that you would have for us. Lord, may we walk um in careful step with you. May we be in tune to those things that you're revealing to us and may we We have a heart of repentance, one that desires to walk in fellowship with Jesus. I thank you Lord for today. I pray Lord that you'd give us safe travels as we go home and we are grateful for you For your goodness in our lives. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. And then you know kind of you were kind of being wrong. Table cloudy windows and I don't know what you do as well as I'm sorry. You go in public and you have the MLM and the pair of the colour. I got the country for all the city tables down there. So the Google and you wouldn't have that all that goes on.