Please take your Bibles and turn to Acts of the Apostles, chapter 7, verses 18 through 50. Somebody reminded me that the full name of the book of Acts is Acts of the Apostles. And that I hadn't actually mentioned that yet as we have been going through um through this text. So it is Acts of the Apostles, chapter seven, and we're going to be looking today at verses eighteen through through fifty. And have you ever said in your life, this isn't working? This simply isn't working. Perhaps it was a relationship, maybe a work relationship, and you said, this isn't working. I'm on. It's green. This isn't working. Perhaps uh perhaps it's a uh uh uh uh a computer program. You're you're working on the computer and you're and you teach You keep trying to do something that isn't working right and the computer locks up and you reboot the thing and you start up again, you get on the program again, and the same thing happens again and you say, This isn't working Or perhaps you uh there's some process that you're going through, some process at work that you're seeing, and it's like the same thing happens over and over again and it's not working every single time and you say this isn't working. That's exactly the situation that the Second Continental Congress found themselves in when they were trying to establish a connection. between them and King George III. They had written one letter to him. Actually that was the first Continental Congress, and it was and it was not It received well. The second one called I think was called the Olive Branch Letter was not received well. I in fact w uh and I think the third one wasn't even opened if I have that correct. It wasn't working. There was taxation without representation. There was no even even recognition of the fact that they were self-supporting colonies. It was a problem and so In 1776, they gathered together and the Second Continental Congress, around June, they started really making movements toward separating from uh the British uh set declaring their independence from Great Britain The man that wrote those letters was a man by the name of John Dickinson. John Dickinson was a delegate from Pennsylvania. And John Dickinson was basically a conscientious objector. He did not believe that there should be war for any circ circumstances whatsoever. And when it came to a vote for declaring their independence from Great Britain, John Dickinson It's history seems to be a little unsure. Either he he show chose not to show up or he uh or he abstained from that vote. John Dickinson's choice to do that when the entire Continental Congress was in agreement made him one where he was no longer of any kind of particular respect. He people did not respect him anymore. And uh he was one who was considered to be just stubborn and unwilling to comply with the with the rest of what the majority were saying with regard to what should happen to the colonies. Even though it was clearly what was happening there was not working. You know, it's interesting that when we look at the book of Acts, we actually find many uh this is the third sermon that is preached, two by Peter previously, and now one by Stephen to the Sanhedrin. And essentially the Sanhedrin are not listening. This last sermon that Stephen is preaching in Acts chapter 7. Is the longest of the sermons in the book of Acts, and I think the longest sermon in the entire Bible. And this particular sermon is a sermon that accounts the history of Israel. And one of the major things you see throughout the nation of Israel as it is it's unfolded from Abraham all the way through John through uh Joseph, which we mentioned last week. And now into Moses, which we'll look at this week, you see one presentation of a program by God And a rejection of that program by God's people, one right after another. And it was as though it simply wasn't working. Now, God, of course, knew that in each case it would not work, and he God's people would rebel against him and reject his plan over and over and over again throughout the Old Testament. the problem being, as we'll see today, idolatry. They God knew that that would happen. And God knew that as Peter preached his first message to the Sanhedrin in the book of Acts and his second message to the Sanhedrin in the book of Acts God knew that they were not going to listen. Even as Stephen preached his third message to the Santa Heather in the book of Acts, God knew that they were not going to listen. But in God's justice and God's mercy, God has a way of giving opportunity after opportunity after opportunity To the nation of Israel, as well as to the Sanhedrin. And the truth of the matter, he does the same thing for us. He gives us opportunity after opportunity after opportunity to submit to his will. To follow, if you will, his program. And what Stephen comes to at the end of chapter 7 in verse 51, He says to them that you are stiff-necked. You are stubborn, if you will. And it says in this passage in 51, he says You uncircumcised of heart and ears, you always resist the Holy Spirit. That word resist is an interesting word. The word resist uh it's it's the idea of falling against. Falling against. There's just a compound word in the Greek. And it means to fall against. It's like the the Spirit of God was working in uh in through Stephen and performing all kinds of miracles and the other apostles as well. They were clearly uh clearly being Being sanctioned by God through all of these miracles. And the Sanhedrin were not seeing it. They're stiff-necked. They're not seeing it. They're resisting the work of the Spirit of God. As it is so clearly portrayed through the preaching and the people coming to Christ and the miracles that are happening and Stephen being one with great power. uh in great authority by given by the Spirit of God and they're rejecting all of it. They're falling against it. They're not seeing what they need to see What causes these Sanhedrin time after time after time to miss the opportunity To reject and resist the opportunities that God has been giving them, to comply with His plan. Probably more personally, what causes us To miss opportunity after opportunity after opportunity to comply with God's plan That's what we're going to discover as we look at God's Word this morning. And we're going to pick up here in chapter 7, verse 17. But before we do that, let's go to the Lord in prayer. Lord, would you help us this morning? We see your working through the nation of Israel and giving them many opportunities to comply with your plan. We see your patience, your justice, and your love. We see the same thing in giving the Sanhedrin, the representatives of the nation of Israel, the same kind of patience and justice and love as Peter twice presented the gospel to them. Stephen now is presenting the gospel to them and intending to compel them to turn from their ways and to accept Christ as the Savior given to them by God, by you. Father, I pray, Lord, that you would help us to learn what we need to learn. That we would we would Have a fear of you that would cause us to accept and embrace the opportunities that you give us to comply with you and to follow after you. I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. As we looked at last week from the context of Acts chapter 7, there are four different objectives that we see In Acts chapter 7, four different goals of Stephen as he preaches this sermon. The first objective is to present a defense Against the accusations of blaspheming Moses and the law and God and the temple. The Sanhedrin had accused Stephen of blaspheming Both God and Moses, by blaspheming the temple and the law. And Stephen wants to answer these accusations with uh with a defense of a kind. But not a defense that is an overt defense that here's why I'm right, but simply a a more a more subtle defense as he goes through the history of the nation of Israel. Objective number two is to show that this is a Sanhedrin, that they were in fact on the wrong side in rebellion against God. He wanted to show them, look, you are rebelling against God's plan. You're on the wrong side of this thing. And he wants to show them how the nation of Israel has repeatedly been on the wrong side of things and rejecting God's plan. Basically saying to them, you're doing the same thing. Number three, to show that God should not be confined to a particular program by recalling God's previous program progression. He's going to show how God chose to work in different ways. We would call them dispensations. Work in different ways throughout the Old Testament. And that God is now on the cusp of working in a new way, a change of program, and they need to get with the program, if you will. They need to accept this. change of program where now God is is about to work primarily, already is working primarily with the church, but it's going to become very apparent that there's going to be a separation now of the church from Israel as they will no longer soon be meeting in the synagogue at all. And the and the temple particularly. They'll be sitting in the synagogues actually a little bit longer, but in the temple they'll be they'll be moving on here after this point. Finally, objective number four He wants to get and keep the audience's interest by beginning on a common ground. And I I want to mention on number four here, a little bit here. I think we can learn a little bit from Stephen here when it comes to our approach to giving people the gospel. I don't think we always now sometimes sometimes we need to we need to uh just just overtly say this is This is wrong or whatever. But there are other times where it's it would be wise for us to to um start on common ground if you could find any. And then work from there. At least help them to understand that you understand truth. I'll give an example, and I wasn't planning on doing this, but I'm going to do it anyway Uh it let's suppose somebody I I I remember doing this one time when I was uh ship manager at Chick-fil-A, somebody was having a real problem with their finances and they were in uh significant amount of debt and I said to them uh Uh and and they were just kind of saying, Man, I feel weighted down by all of this debt. And I said to them, You know, I I said, you know, the Bible actually says that that will happen. They sort of said, What? I said, you know, the Bible says that the the borrower is a servant to the lender, that that that we are enslaved to the people that we are indebted to. And the person looked at me and said, man, the Bible says that? Wow, that's really true. I feel like I'm enslaved. It was a way of just connecting on common ground to just show them something that they experienced that was also true about the Bible and then working from there. So Stephen is very wise in how he does this. Now Stephen is not going to stay on common ground. By the end of his sermon, he's saying, you stiff-necked People, you are resisting the Spirit of God in your life. You're stubborn and you are uncircumcised in heart and ears. That's not at all unoffensive language to the Sanhedrin. That's extremely offensive. But it doesn't start out that way. He starts on common ground with Abraham, talking about how great Abraham was and how that God was did select Abraham And then about Joseph and these things they would have agreed with. They really couldn't disagree with him because he was straight uh coming from scriptural truth when and dealing with those things. But that brings us then to chapter 7, verse 17, where Stephen now comes into the third point of a point of a four-point sermon, actually. And we see in verse 17, uh he picks up and begins to talk about Moses. And he says in verse 17, but when the time of the promise drew near which God had spoken to Abraham, The people grew and multiplied in Egypt till another king arose who did not know Joseph. This man dealt treacherously with our people. And oppressed our forefathers. Notice how he's saying our people, our forefathers, making them expose their babies so that they might not live. And this time Moses was born and was well pleasing to God, and he was brought up in the father's house for three months. But when he was set out, Pharaoh's daughter took him away and brought him up on her own son as her own son. And Moses was learned in all wisdom of the Egyptians and was mighty in words and deeds. You recall that Stephen was accused of blaspheming Moses. And here Moses does exactly the opposite. It's as though Moses finds every good thing he can possibly say about this man. And speaks of it. He's going to say that he is born at the right time, that he is good-looking. Well bred in God's sight, he says, that he is educated in wisdom, that he is powerful in word and in deed. That doesn't sound like blasphemy of Moses, does it? And blasphemy, by the way, means to make light of something in the context. And so it doesn't mean it doesn't sound at all like he is he is short uh shorting Moses of his of his respect at all, does it? He's not doing that. He is he is everything he said was true Interestingly enough, Stephen is not going to say anything about Moses' shortcomings, which were there were plenty of shortcomings. Stephen doesn't mention any of those. He just mentions those things that are true of Moses that he was certainly selected by God. And he mentions these things that are that are speaking well of Moses. But he's doing something else as well. He is also mentioning the same kinds of things that were mentioned of Christ when he came to earth. For example, and Luke is the writer of the book of Acts, we need to remember that. Luke, uh Acts is really a a continuation of the gospel of Luke. It's We should not see a huge distinction between Luke and Acts. Really, they were written one right after the other in succession, more than likely. And in Luke chapter 2, uh we find it accounting of when Christ was born, and it says And it came to pass in those days. There's this emphasis on the timing being right when Jesus came. And in Luke 2. 40 and 52 it says, and the child grew and became strong in spirit and filled with wisdom, and the grace of God was upon him. And verse 52, and Jesus increased in wisdom and stature and favor with God and man. And it says in Luke 40, Luke 24, verse 19, that He was powerful in word and in deed. Verse 19, and he said to them, What things? So they said to him, The things concerning Jesus of Nazareth who was a prophet mighty indeed and word before God and all the people. The very things that that Luke says about Jesus. Luke records that Stephen says about Moses. And there's a reason for that. Stephen is essentially lifting up Moses as a prototype of Christ as Savior. Now, Moses is not like a pre-incarnate Christ or anything But he is one who God set up to save the nation of Israel. He was their God-appointed savior. And in the same way, Jesus is the nation of Israel's God-appointed, or in a much greater way, God-appointed Savior as well. And Stephen is sort of raising this as an issue. Because what he's going to say next is that as Moses began to realize what he was supposed to be doing and what God had planned for him, Moses began To go to the nation of Israel, and you'll see, we'll pick up in verse 23, and we'll see what happens. Now, when he was forty years old, it came into his heart to visit his brethren and children of Israel. And seeing one of them suffer wrong, he defended and avenged him who was oppressed and struck down the Egyptian For he supposed that his brethren would have understood that God would deliver him by his hand, but they did not understand. The next day he appeared to two of them as they were fighting and tried to reconcile them, saying, Men, you are brethren. Why do you wrong one another? And he who did his neighbor wrong pushed him away, saying, Who made you a ruler and a judge over us? Do you want to kill me as you did the Egyptian yesterday? Then at this saying, Moses fled and became a dweller in the land of Midian, where he had two sons. Stephen accounts of the fact that Moses then comes to the at age 40, realizes that he is appointed by God to be the Savior of the nation of Israel. And as he comes He deals with a dispute by killing an Egyptian that is abusing one of the Israelites. Now, it doesn't say here anything about whether what Moses did was right or wrong, because that really isn't the point. Stephen's point is to note how the nation of Israel responded to Moses. How did they respond? Well, they rejected the initial leadership of Moses And in this passage, you'll actually see why they rejected the initial leadership of Moses. The key of it is found in verse 25. In verse 25, it says that they did not what? They did not understand. They did not understand who Moses was. They did not understand that he was the one who was appointed by God. And the same problem that the nation of Israel had, Peter says in a previous sermon in Acts chapter 3, was the same problem that the Sanhedrin had. In Acts chapter 3 verse 14 it says, But you denied the Holy One and the just, and asked for a murderer to be granted to you. And kill the Prince of Life, whom God raised from the dead, of whom we are witnesses. Yet now, brethren, I know that you did it in ignorance. As did also your rulers. You did it in ignorance. The problem then, why is it that these Sanhedrin are continuing To be stiff-necked and are ultimately going to reject Christ and reject Stephen and stone him and all that. Why is this happening? Why did the nation of Israel rebel against Moses and God's plan? It was because they did not understand. The problem, folks, was ignorance. You know it says in Romans chapter 3 verse 11, there is none righteous, no not one. There is none who understands. None who understands. There is none who seeks after God. Did you realize that we are all born sinners and we are born not understanding? We do not have the spiritual perception to be able to know who Jesus is. We do not have the ability to understand who Jesus is. That's why in Luke 24, verse 45, as Jesus spoke to the disciples on the road to Emmaus, it says And he opened their understanding that they might comprehend the scriptures. When we present the gospel to others, or when we're just. rubbing shoulders with other people, unbelievers, really believers as well, we ought to pray that God opens their understanding. That is the key, the initial key. We are never going to be able to convince people of the truth on our own. It is going to have to be the Spirit of God that works in the life of a person. to help them to understand the truth. Hosea 4. 6 says, my people are destroyed for lack of knowledge. Because you have rejected knowledge. I also will reject you from being priest for me. This was again reiterated to me in Living Color. I was actually studying This passage, not this past week, but the previous week on a Thursday at my house in my study down in my basement, and I got a knock at the door of our front door Now, just to let you know, that is a very unusual thing. We do not usually get unsolicited knocks on our door. You say, well, how do you make that work? Live on a hill like ours. Nobody wants to come up nobody walks up there and uh and and gives us a lot of mail because they look at that street, they see that there is about, you know, I don't know, ten houses on that street. and it ain't worth it. So so we get very few unsolicited knocks on our door, like unless we know them and they call us or something like that. So I went upstairs, I said, who in the world could that possibly be? And of course, um it was two ladies with um some things in their hands, and it was very apparent that they were Jehovah's Witnesses. I mentioned a coup a little bit of this on Facebook. Um and they I opened the door and I and my they knew I had some kids in the house and they said to me, they immediately said to me um and I knew who they were and I said uh they said uh hey um Would you like to learn how to be uh to raise a better family, to raise a family and to uh r uh be a better husband and father? I don't think it's husband, I think it's a father And I said, um I said, I think you're asking the wrong question. And they were sort of, what? And uh they said, really? I said, yeah, I think you should be asking me how I can have a relationship with God. And they said, oh, oh, well, well, that's just our lead-in. We were going to get into that. So I said, well, let's get into that then. And um then I said uh I said to them I said they said, so so in order to have a relationship with God, they said, you you you you need to be a good family man and you need to you need you need to try hard And I said, well what good would that do? The Bible says in James 2 10, you if you commit one sin one time, you're guilty of all. So why would trying to be a good family man help man help me to be real connected to God They sort of stood there for a minute. I said, well let me help you here. So so the way this works is is that Jesus died to pay the punishment for The Bible says that that I am, Jesus says, I am the way, the truth, and the life, and no man comes to the Father but by me. The only way to get connected to the Father is through Jesus Christ. And they they agreed with me. I said you have to understand, first of all, though, that who Jesus is. Let me just pause here. When you're talking with a Jehovah's Witness, they cut through everything else and just talk about who Jesus is. That's the get to that as quickly as you can. The rest of it doesn't matter. Whether or not there are 144,000 people uh Jewish all of that doesn't all the other things get It's get out of get get all out of the way and focus on who Jesus is. Because if you don't have that right, you'll have nothing else right So I said, we need to understand that Jesus is the one and only true God. He claimed to be the one and only true God. They said, oh, well, well, no. They said that he is not the mighty God. I said, well it says that in Isaiah 9 6 that he's the mighty says exactly that that the mighty God would be coming to earth. The mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. Who do you think that is? And they said they said, well, they gave me an illustration, they said, well, not an illustration, they said, uh, hey, you you know, you know, the Bible actually says That Jesus came and always did the will of the Father. So how he how could he be God? I said, well, I totally agree that Jesus came and did the will of the Father. I said, let me ask you a question. Are either of you married? And they said uh they one wasn't and the other one her husband died a couple of about three years ago I said I said okay when you were married, who was who was your your spiritual head? Was it you or was it was it uh your husband? Now they believe that that the man is the spiritual So she said it was my husband. I said, does that make you of lesser value than him him in any way at all? She said, Oh no, no, uh-uh. And I said, well that's right. I said, so why do you think that the fact that Jesus is head is the Father makes him of any lesser value than God? The Bible says that he did not consider it a thing to be grasped to be equal with God, Philippians 2 And they were sort of stunned by they sort of never really had that. They they they change they tried to change the subject. And at that point, you know, I'm thinking to myself, I got a sermon to So I just said to them, I said, look, I look, ladies, I said, look, I you know I know you mean well. I said, but if but the Bible says no one comes to the Father except through Jesus If you don't get this right, then you won't get anything else right. And the truth of the matter is the Jehovah's Witnesses will not, they've got it wrong. And they mistranslate John chapter 1. They say that Jesus is a God instead of the one and only true God. And I said, and by the way, I've tried to give you all literature before. And you won't take it. I'll read yours. You want to give me something? They didn't want to give me give me any literature at that point. But I said, I'm gonna I'll read I'll read your literature anytime anytime you want to give me your literature, I'll read it But you know I found I find it interesting that you won't if I give you literature, you won't read it. Is there any reason for that? And and uh I said, You you you should ask yourself the question. She said, Well, if I know the truth, why do I need literature? And I said, Well why will I read yours even though I know the truth? So anyway, I I I w I did I ended well and everything, but you know it it's it's when every time I have these kind of experiences with the Jehovah's Witnesses And by the way, I'm really not trying to just argue with them. I want them to think about whether they really understand what they believe. They have this sort of pat answer for everything, but once you get them beyond their pat answers, they're sort of clueless, they're a little on the clueless side. And I just getting them to think, the reason one time I had a Jehovah's Witness that was talking, they came to the uh it was at the other building, and I was using the parsonage as a office. And uh it was two men and they came to my door thinking that it was a house and I said, Come on in. And they walked into my ho walked in the and they saw all these books and everything everywhere and they said, Oh what what what where where are we? What what are you And I said, Come on, have a seat and they did and everything. That w you know, you know, in that case, one of them came back later, which they're not supposed to do, they're supposed to come in pairs. But one of them came back later and said, You know, I really have never understood this before. Would you help me understand more about what you're what you're talking about. So ever since then I've taken the time at least given ten minutes to at least go over a few things. So anyway, after that point I just said, look, um, you know, I I really would cons You've got to decide you've got to get this right when it comes to who Jesus is. I'll be praying for you and and I and I headed out after that The thing that that can that is amazing to me in talking with all these people, you know what, you know, I and every time I see a Jehovah's Witness, I usually talk to them. You know what's amazing to me about this? Never once have I led anybody to Christ. I never have. Now I'm hoping that God uses some of those things to to to to bring them to Christ eventually. You know why? Because their understanding has got to be enlightened by God. They've got to know what they know. They've got to understand who Jesus is. not by just me telling them these things that are clearly scriptural, but the Spirit of God has got to open their minds to the truth or they're never going to understand because no one understands. You're not born understanding these things. And the nation of Israel wasn't born understanding these things, and the Sanhedrin weren't understanding these things. The problem, the initial problem with why we reject The Spirit of God's working. Why we rebel against the plan of God is a failure to understand. Then we pick up here in verses 30 through 36, we're going to see that. Stephen is going to continue to look at the life of Moses in significant detail for a sermon. And he talks about God's encounter with Moses at Mount at um at the burning bush here. Look at verse 30. And when forty years had passed, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a flame of fire in a bush in the wilderness of Mount Sinai. When Moses saw it, he marveled at the sight, and as he drew near to observe, the voice of the Lord came to him, saying, I am the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, the God of Jacob And Moses trembled and dared not look. Then the Lord said to him, Take your sandals off your feet, for the place where you stand is holy ground. I have surely seen the oppression of my people. who are in Egypt. I have heard their groaning and have come down to deliver them. And now come and I will send you to Egypt. This Moses, whom they rejected, saying, Who made you, who made you a ruler and a judge? Is the one God sent to be a ruler and a deliverer by the hand of the angel who appeared to him in the bush. He brought them out after he had shown wonders and signs in the land of Egypt, and the sea Red Sea, and the wilderness forty years. So Stephen accounts of this encounter with God. Of course, the initial encounter was with an angel, which re which authenticated that this what truly was uh God in the bush as he as he lifted his voice and as Moses heard the voice of God in there. We know the story well, so it's not necessarily important for us to go over a lot of this, but I want to make one one initial note. He goes out of his way to explain that what was happening here was on holy ground, that he had to take his shoes off, his sandals off, and be on holy ground. Well, where was this? This was at the foot of Mount Sinai. Where did these leaders of Jerusalem see the quote-unquote holy ground to be? Where would they have seen that to be? Well, they would have been it would have been the temple. And this is a precursor to later on what Stephen is going to tell them about the temple. Understand essentially then that God has worked with Abraham outside of the temple and it appearing to Abraham in Mesopotamia. And now God has appeared to Moses at Mount Sinai. And later, and there's this case that Stephen is building that God can work outside of your box, Sanhedrin. Do we ever put boxes on the way God works? Do we ever want God to fit in the way we think He ought to work in our lives? And when He doesn't work that way, we think to ourselves, Why aren't you working that way? We put God in a box. That is essentially what the Sanhedrin are doing in this passage. Stephen points this out that wherever God is is holy ground. And God can use any ground he wants to and make it holy by his presence. Then we see that it reiterates again that Moses was rejected by the people. Verse 35. So the initial problem was a failure to understand who Moses was. And the initial problem that we have is a failure to understand who Jesus is. But beyond that, Stephen begins to explain that God's people often rejected God's appointed leadership. Now we've already already seen this, but we're going to see this in even more detail in verses 37 through 43. Picking up in verse 37, it says That is Moses, who said to the children of Israel, The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from your brethren, him you shall hear. This is he who was the congregation in the wilderness with the angel who spoke to him at Mount Sinai. And with one with our fathers, and uh the one who received the living oracles to give to us. whom our fathers would not obey, but rejected, and in their hearts they turned back to Egypt. Now notice go notice folks that turn. They they didn't obey And they turned back to Egypt. Notice that word turned, and we'll keep reading, saying to Aaron, make us gods to go before us. As for this Moses who brought us out of the land of Egypt, we do not know what has become of him. And they made a calf to those days, in those days offered sacrifices to the idol. And rejoice in the work of their own hands. Then God what? What did God do? God turned and gave them up to worship the host of heaven As is written in the book of the prophets. So we see in this passage that Moses goes up and he is going to receive the living oracles of God, as is mentioned there, the law. of God from the hand of the the finger of God. He's going to be in the presence of God at Mount Sinai, and while he is up there receiving The oracles of God for the people, they are down below, as you know well know, they are down below rebelling against the very man whom God has set up as the leader of Israel. We often have a propensity to lead, to rebel against our leaders. That is something that is of significant We just tend to do that. For example, an illustration of uh William Carey who believed that the Lord really wanted him to go to the mission field. He was told by a senior minister, sit down, young man. When God chooses to convert the heathen, he will do it with, without your aid or mine. And that man was truly wrong. We know that, of course, because of the history of William Carey being uh such a great influence of the people that he went to. We have this tendency to reject what God has appointed. And we see here what makes that happen. It is the heart of the person is turned. Did you see that in the passage? That's exactly what it says in verse 39. That the heart, their hearts turned back to Egypt. He notes that it's our fathers that did this. Our lineage, our patriarchs, they turned back to Egypt and rejected Moses. And the problem is the problem of the heart. Do you remember back in the book of Numbers, in the book of Exodus, and Deuteronomy, and the problem of the heart of the people? The complaining of the people, Numbers 14, 2, and all the children of Israel complained against Moses and Aaron. And the whole congregation said to them, If only we had died in the land of Egypt, or if only we had died in the wilderness. Why has the Lord brought us to this land to fall by the sword that our wives and children should become victims? Would it not be better for us to return to Egypt? In Exodus chapter 16, verse 3, the children of Israel said to them, Oh, that we had died by the hand of the Lord in the land of Egypt. When he sat by the pots of meat, when we sat by the pots of meat, and when we ate bread to the full. For you have brought us out into the wilderness to kill this whole assembly with hunger. Do you know when you can begin to see your heart turning the wrong way? Do you know when that happens? You know what happens when you begin to complain. When there is a complaining on your lips, when. When you begin to identify something and your heart wells up within you and it spreads to your mouth and you complain about it. It's why Scripture says in the New Testament, do all things, all things without murmuring and disputing. The word is there, complaining. Our hearts are turned as we are discontent with our circumstances. We're impatient with our God. We he doesn't work in the way that we want him to or the way that we think he should. And we turn to other places. To we look to other resources when we ought to wait on God. That was the nation of Israel's problem. They sat at the foot of Mount Sinai and they were not willing to wait for Moses. to come down on God's timetable when God was ready. Instead, they had to focus their minds, put their hopes in something else. Instead of saying, God is more than enough for me, God knows best, I will wait on him, I will trust in him, I will do what he wants me to do, and their hearts were turned Notice also, though, that as their hearts turned against God and toward Egypt, and they began to worship other idols. They began to make idols of their own hands and manufacture their own deities. As they began to do this, God turned their heart, turned his heart on them. See what it says? Then God turned and gave them up to worship the host of heaven. The host meaning the angels. As it is written in the book of the prophets, did you offer me slaughtered animals and sacrifices during the forty years in the wilderness, O house of Israel? You also took up the tabernacle of Moloch and the star of your God Remphan. images which you made to worship, and I will carry you away beyond Babylon. That's a quote from Amos chapter 5, verse 25. What happened to these people? They fell, they moved into idolatry, and God turned them. He gave them up. God's patient. God gives many opportunities, but there is a point in time where God will say enough is enough. This is very reminiscent of Romans chapter 1, isn't it? Remember what Romans 1 22 says of those heathen who were unwilling to turn to God? It says professing To be wise they became fools and changing the glory of the incorruptible God into an image made like corruptible man, and birds, and four-footed animals, and creeping things Therefore, God also gave them up to uncleanness, to the lust of their hearts, to dishonor their bodies among themselves. Who exchanged the truth of God for a lie and worshiped and served the creature rather than the creator Who is blessed forever, for this reason God gave them up to vile passions. For even the woman exchanged the natural use for what is against nature Likewise the man leaving the natural use of the woman, burning in their lusts for one another, men with men committing what is shameful, and receiving to themselves the penalty of their error which was due. And even as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge, God gave them over to a debased mind and to do those things which are not fitting. God's judgment on someone is recognized when they begin to no longer feel guilty for their sin. You ever realized that before? When the conviction of the Spirit of God comes upon your life about a particular sin, you ought to thank God for that. When you feel guilty, now I'm not talking about false guilt, there is that possibility, but but when you feel guilty for a sin, when the Spirit of God works in your life to cause you to realize that there is an area in which you have been sinning against God. Don't ever ignore it. Don't ever do what the fool does in saying, as in 1 John 1, that we have no sin. We deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. When we feel guilty for our sin, when the Spirit of God works, embrace it. Realize that you are guilty. And thank God that God made you guilty for that sin. That is a demonstration of God's mercy in your life. It's a demonstration of God's grace in your life. One of the greatest Tragedies and one of the things that we ought to fear is no longer feeling guilty for sin. That is a sign of God's judgment. As it is in these people. There came a day where they're worshiping Moloch and they're worshiping stars in the heavens and they're not feeling guilty at all. They're thinking this is the right thing. This is something that's no problem at all. And that can happen in the life of the believer where the conscience is seared with a hot iron, the Bible says. And no longer do you feel guilty for certain things. Folks, that's not freedom. That's judgment. And you and I need to be careful about that. We ought to realize that when God convicts our souls about a sin in our lives, When we will embrace that, when we will admit and agree with God about that sin, when we will confess that, when we will make it right Then we can know the grace of God. We can experience it because God resists the proud But gives grace to the humble. These people were blinded by their pride. They were blinded by it. We finally then see all of this culminating in Stevens preaching. To a discussion about the tabernacle and then the temple. They had accused Stephen in the tabernacle. uh in the temple rather of of of defaming the temple and and and and discrediting the temple and when they discredited the temple they were therefore discrediting he was therefore Stephen was therefore discrediting God And we pick up in verse 44 where it says, Our fathers had a tabernacle of witness in the wilderness, and as he appointed, instructing Moses to make it according to the pattern that he had seen. Which our fathers, having received it in turn, also brought with Jos with Joshua into the land possessed by Gentiles, whom God drove out before the face of our fathers into the day days of David. Who found favor before God and asked to find a dwelling for God of uh of Jacob for the God of Jacob, but Solomon built him a house. Basically, Stephen recounts of the fact that God, the tabernacle was ordained by God. It was Moses was tasked with building the tabernacle, and it was used of God to house the Shekinah glory of God. The presence of God was there, and people were to see the character of God, both the transcendence and eminence of God through the tabernacle. But that the tabernacle at in David's time to the David Covenant in 2 Samuel chapter 7 it became a temple. It was David's desire to build a temple, and Solomon ended up doing it. He ended up building the temple for God. Stephen wasn't against the temple. He wasn't against the place of God, but he has to remind them of something. He says to them, picking up in verse 48, however, the Most High does not dwell in temples made with hands. As the prophet says, heaven is my throne, and earth is my footstool. What house will you build for me, says the Lord? Or what is the place of my rest? Has my hand not made all these things? This tells us, this Old Testament tells us that That the dwelling place of God is not in the temple. Dwelling place of God, it says here, is it's interesting, it's a personification of God that the earth is his footstool. God is everywhere. He is omnipresent all the time, everywhere. But to help us to sort of picture this, the seat of God is in heaven, and the feet of God are on earth, if you will. He does not, he's not, the point that he's making here is that God is not to be contained by a temple. This was something that even Solomon recognized as he built the temple. In 1 Kings 8, verse 27, it says, But will God indeed dwell on earth? Behold, heaven and the heaven of heavens cannot contain you. How much less the temple which I have built. Verse 30 says, And may you hear the supplication of your servant and of your people Israel when they pray toward the place Hear in heaven your dwelling place, and when you hear, forgive. Of course, we've already read the quote from Isaiah 66 and verses one and two that this that that the bottom line is that that God cannot be contained in a temple. The Sanhedrin were guilty. You know what they were guilty of? They were guilty of making the temple their idol. As Stephen progresses through all of these events, he now wants to show them that maybe they have not worshipped gods of Moloch or gods of the stars. But the temple has become their God. They have tried to contain God in their temple. So that they may, when Stephen says something like, the temple will not always be the place of the presence of God, they are inflamed by it. They are incited by it. Why? Because they are equating the temple with God. And you and I, as people of God, often will divert from God's priorities when we take something that is associated with God and we make it equal or higher to God. And we are known to do this. We must understand that we can make things that are even provisions from God and make them idols in our lives. It could be our homes, our families, our church, our places of service, our vocation. There are all of these kinds of things that are provisions from God. But we ought to be very careful that we don't see them as gods themselves. So as we conclude all of these things, let's just recap this way Stephen is going to tell them, but that based upon all of this, you are opposing God. You're opposing his person You're opposing his plan. You're opposing the Savior Jesus Christ. You're doing the exact same thing that all the people before you have done. So number one, we need to understand this: that opposition to God's plan comes from failure to understand who Jesus is. And perhaps today you're listening today and you really, you have come to realize that you really don't understand What it means to really come to Christ. It starts here. You must know not just what Jesus did, but you must know who Jesus is. He is God, the one and only true God, the Son of God, who came to earth, set aside his glory. So that he could pay the punishment for your sin and for mine on the cross. Number two, opposition to Christ as a person occurs when our hearts are turned to idolatry. And it's so subtle. It can happen so easily. And there is this possibility, folks, that as we turn our hearts to idolatry, if we are confirmed in that, then we will have God's judgment. Hebrews chapter 12, it says that it is a fearful, it's saying to Christians, it is a fearful thing to hand to fall into the hands of an angry God. There is that possibility. Number three, diverting to wrong priorities occurs when we make something associated with God more important than God. We must be very careful about that. It is so easy for us to pursue things that may be from God, but we make them our idols. And in doing so, we we can fall into the trap of not seeing the hand of God, not seeing the Spirit of God, rejecting rebelling against who God is and what he has done. Him in prayer. Father, as we come to you this morning, we thank you. We thank you for your word that so clearly and so thoroughly Shows us exactly your plan, starting in the book of Genesis, working its way through the Old Testament. To the time of Christ, and then seeing how Christ is going to come up on the scene, provide the ultimate sacrifice for his people. And set up a new vehicle with which to further the kingdom, your church. We thank you for Stephen's sermon as we have gone through it. We thank you for its truth. And I pray, Lord, that that truth would indelibly be marked on our hearts, that we would, as John says in the very last phrase of 1 John, That we would keep ourselves from idols. That was the singular problem in the Old Testament with the nation of Israel. It was idolatry. And we confess before you, dear Father, that, as your word says in Colossians 3, that idolatry is the same as covetousness. And we confess before you there are so many times, dear Father, that we want what we want, even though you may not want it for us. Father, I pray, Lord, that you would help us to align our desires with yours, to follow hard after you. That you would, we would, as we have sung this morning, follow Jesus. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.