We have been witnessing a lot of tumultuous thing things down south. Uh Hurricane Harvey just a few weeks ago And now Irma is here uh in the Florida. And um in some parts of Houston in the some of the sub Suburbs of Houston, apparently water has gone up as high as ten feet. Now it's all dissipated now, but there was water that had actually gone as high as ten feet deep. in certain areas. Now can you imagine that uh you decide you you had a you have a boat, so you decide that you're gonna go down and help and so you take your boat down to the area and you're rescuing people from this ten foot deep water Maybe it's res res re receded down to maybe five feet, but it's still something where you've got to rescue people from this uh horrific um storm surge and from all the water and so you You see a guy who's who's treading water, he's dog paddling, and so you you motor over to him, and as you help him climb into the boat, he says, Hey, would you please help me get over to my car? And you say, over to my car. Over to your car? Why do you want to go over your car? He says he says it's right he's he says it's right over there. And you look over in the distance and you see his car and really all you see is like the roof of the car. You can barely see that there's a car there because there's so much water there. And he says, why do you want to go over there? He says, he said, just take me over to my car. Just get me over there, I really appreciate it. So you take him over to his car and he and as you're headed over the uh headed over to his car, you say to the guy Um, what are you gonna do when I get you over to the car? What are you planning on doing? He says, well what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna dive back into the water and get down into the water and I'm gonna get a hold of the handle, pull the door open, get in the car, and I'm gonna drive away And you say this guy's got is crazy. Why? Because that car has no ability to do what it what what he wants it to do. That actually illustrates pretty well Paul's dismay when it comes to what is happening with the Galatian Christians He has expressed God's grace to them. And they've actually received God's grace But now they're going after the following of the law to do what God already did for them through Christ and his grace completely. And he says, why would you go back? Why would you go back into something that can't has no ability to do what God has already done for you through Christ? Why would you go back? He is dismayed about this. And as we looked last week, we we realize that he absolutely has flatly told them That this is a different gospel, which is of no similar category at all. In fact, it's not a gospel at all. He's told them in verse 6, if you recall, I marvel that you are so soon removed from him that called you into the grace of Christ unto another gospel, which is not another. But there be some that trouble you and would pervert the gospel of Christ. Now, what Paul is going to do is he is going to indict the very people that have Cause these Galatian Christians to go astray and to go into this false gospel. And they are the Judaizers. Let me ask you a question this morning. Are you prepared to deal with false teachers? Somebody were to come to you and to give you an alternative gospel that sounded really like the true gospel, but there was something that wasn't quite right, are you prepared to deal with it? How would you deal with it? Have you ever thought through that? Well, I'd call you Pastor Jim. Well, that's not always the answer How would you deal? You can call me, that's okay, but um uh we all need to be prepared to deal with false teaching And false teachers. And today we're going to learn how to deal with enemies of the gospel by looking at the example of the Apostle Paul. Before we do, let's go to the Lord in prayer and ask his help with this. Father, as we come to you, I pray that you would help us to learn from the Apostle Paul's example on how to deal with enemies of the gospel. Lord, we are living in a society that is so tolerant, and the prime American value seems to now be tolerance. And we can almost feel as though when we identify A slight change in the gospel that ruins the gospel message, we can almost feel as though we are in error for identifying the error. Father, may we be like the Apostle Paul, who was simply and clearly intolerant of any aberration to the gospel. And may we be the same. And may we learn how to be the same today. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Paul begins by explaining the tactics of these people. He says in verse 7, he says, There are some that trouble you and would pervert the gospel of Christ. The word trouble is an interesting word. It's used quite a few times in the New Testament. It is used as associated with fear. For example, in Matthew 14, verse 26, it says, When the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were troubled, saying, It is a ghost, and they cried out for fear. The Judaizers were troubling these people. They were preying on their fear. Are we inclined to fear? Really, I think all humanity is in is inclined to fear. That's why Stephen King, author of the Many, many thriller novels. I think he sold 350 million copies of various horror novels. He says this, I like to scare people, and people like to be scared Obviously if he sold that many, that must be true. People it's almost like people like to be scared. People want to they there's sort of this Inclination toward feeling fearful is kind of a weird, morbid way of liking something. It's actually kind of weird when you think about it. 1 Peter 3:14 says, But even if you should suffer for righteousness' sake, you are blessed, and do not be afraid of their threats, nor be troubled. Peter warns: don't be afraid of false teachers. Don't be sucked in by their fear-mongering, by their fearful, their tactics of fear. Then you can identify many false teachers by their fear tactics. That's why, folks, every cult has an is motive, or if not all, most are motivated by fear. Fear of not getting to the celestial city or fear of not being able to h get to nirvana or whatever whatever you're dealing with. There's always this overriding fear that are that is placed on people to get them to not only stay in various cults and false religions, not only get into false various cults and religions, but to stay there. How dare we would ever step outside of this for fear Not only does it mean tru does trouble is is trouble associated with fear, but it's also associated with doubts. Luke 24, 38 says in He said unto them, Why are you troubled, and why do doubts arise in your hearts The greatest expert on putting on putting doubts in people's minds is Satan himself. When he said to Eve, hath God said, he's putting a doubt in Eve's mind. And that's the other way that you'll find that false teachers, their tactics are deceiving and they trouble God's people. They trouble people by by by putting doubts. Just are you really sure that's true? Are you really sure that that is all you really need to do in order to come to Christ? Isn't there something else? That was exactly what was happening in the first century with these Judaizers. They were accusing Paul, as we'll see a little bit later, were accusing Paul of preaching a cheap counterfeit gospel. Like this is the cheap counterfeit. I we've got the real thing and you need to get you need to add to what Paul has already taught you. This is the kind of thing that happens, and people are troubled over this. They have no peace in their hearts Because the gospel of Jesus Christ, when truly received and truly accepted, brings a sense of peace. And these people have no peace. Well, not only that, their tactics include troubling people, but also it says that they would pervert the gospel. The word pervert is an interesting word here in the Greek. It actually usually means to turn It means to go the other direction. Acts 2. 20 says the sun shall be turned into darkness. It means to be transformed a different way, gone a different way, totally go the other direction. James 4. 9 says, Lament and mourn and weep, for your laughter should be turned to mourning. Go the exact opposite way. This word pervert doesn't mean, oh, let me make a little modification here. But it means that it's actually totally going the other direction completely Now, this is interesting considering the Judaizers would actually have they would name the name of Christ. They would not have rejected Christ as being the Messiah or paying for the sins of people. They would not have rejected that. But they just added a little bit. They added circumcision to it. They added the law, uh keeping of the law to it. And you want what Paul says? Any even minor addition to the gospel is a completely different false gospel. Any minor addition to it, no matter how minor it might be. Gospel revision is gospel reversal. And you're going to see, he's going to explain why that is. But folks, we are full of this in our nation. In our culture, little adjustments to the gospel to make it be a little more palatable, a little more gentle, a little more calm. And that's so necessary because we have a culture, it's not really necessary, I'm saying that sarcastically, because we have a culture. That is absolutely um tolerant. See, the gospel isn't tolerant The gospel is absolutely diametrically opposed to any adjustment whatsoever. It's not tolerant. It's exclusive. And our culture absolutely doesn't like that. And on every turn, you're going to find an attempt to soften the gospel message. For example, in Omaha, Nebraska, apparently it's been reported by Harvard University that Christians, Jews, and Muslims are building a tri-faith campus that will include a church, a synagogue, a mosque, and an interfaith community center. Hindu temples and Sikh Gudwars, I had to look up how to how to pronounce Have gradually joined councils of churches, synagogues, and mosques. The interfaith stru uh the interfaith infra infrastructure of American cities and towns is strengthened with dialogues, congregational partnership, coalitions to fight hunger and homelessness, and interfaith thanksgiving services. See, tolerant principle of our culture is now tolerance. We just need to learn to be Tolerant. But you know what? They've actually redefined tolerance. See, our founding fathers understood that it was not right to impose a faith on someone else, that there will that the government should stay out of doing that kind of thing. And really all of us would agree with that. That the acceptance of the gospel should be a free decision that is made. And it used to be that tolerance meant accepting the existence of other points of view. Acceptance, the existence that there are other people that view things differently than I do, particularly in the realm of faith. Tolerance isn't meaning that anymore. Tolerance is going one step further to where it's now we're accepting other views. Going from the exit uh accepting the existence of other views, which our country does allow for and should allow for, to accepting those views and even embracing those views and even celebrating those views. So much to the point now that the new thing on the horizon is that tolerance just isn't enough. What we must do is move toward pluralism. A uh professor by the name of Diana L. Eck. I should know you you can just know by her last name, there's something wrong. Um I'm kidding, it's not true. Eck I know my la my last name is probably something wrong too. Um pluralism, he she says this pluralism is not just tolerance, but active seeking of understanding across lines of difference Tolerance is necess is a necessary public virtue, but it does not require Christians and Muslims, Hindus and Jews and ardent seculars to know anything about one another. Tolerance is too thin a foundation for the world of religious differences and proximity. It's too thin a foundation. Pluralism is not relativism, but a encounter of commitments. The new paradigm of pluralism does not require us to leave our identities and our commitments behind, for pluralism is the encounter of commitment. It means holding our deepest differences, even our religious differences, not in isolation, but in relationship to one another. Folks, this is insidious work of the devil, is what it is. It is it is intended for us to just let our guard down. Oh, I don't have to, I don't have to You know, release my commitment. I can I can still have my commitment to my faith as long as I work in relationship to others and their commitments and I accept them and I embrace them. And this is absolutely pervasive throughout our culture. And the problem is, folks, is that as soon as you allow other things into the gospel, you have now redefined the gospel. And that's what he says here. He says, pervert the gospel of Christ. That little preposition of is reflective of actually a genitive verb, which most of you probably were aren't aware aware of what that is, but there's real, there's some views that would take different Different meanings of what that word of means. It means the gospel is defined by the person. of Christ. The gospel is defined by the person of Christ. In other words, if you change the person of Christ, you change the gospel. And we're living in a society that just def changes the the to that does exactly that. I want you to see how this works out and so and and and why Paul would say that revision is actually reversal. Will you take your Bibles for a moment and turn to Romans 9 verse 11 We're going to look at that verse. Romans chapter 9, verse 11. And he says this For children not not yet being born, nor having done any good or evil, but the purpose of God according to election might stand not of works But of who? Of him. Who's that? Christ. Not of works But of Christ who calls you. Do you see that that phrase actually puts works and Christ at odds with each other? You either believe in works or you believe in Christ, you can't believe in both And the gospel is absolutely defined by the fact that Christ is absolutely complete in his work on the cross for us. Martin Luther said it this way: there is no middle ground between Christian righteousness and works righteousness. There is no other alternative to Christian righteousness but works righteousness. If you do not build your confidence on the work of Christ, you must build your confidence on your own work. And so what these people were doing was trying to convince them to build their confidence on their own work, the Galatian Christians. So these are the tactics of the Judaizers, and frankly, these are the tactics that occur in our day and age as well. So understanding their tactics. How then should we deal with them? And the answer is that we must expose the gospel and the enemy's identity. We need to expose the identity. Notice what Paul does here in verse 8. But though we or an angel from heaven preach any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you, let him be what does it say there? Accursed. Let him be accursed He says, first of all, if any preach any other gospel than what was pre-origin preached to you. Now here's what he's doing here. He actually says there's this condition. And it's you see the word if which tells you it's a conditional clause. What you don't know from the text or from the English is that it's actually a different kind of conditional clause for the next time he says it. This particular conditional clause is an uncertain fulfillment but likely. In other words, he's saying here that if this happens, it's an it's a likely thing that could happen, but if this happens under any circumstances at all, if this happens, you need to let those people be accursed. And we're going to learn what that means. a few moments. But notice what he does here. He establishes a very clear plumb line. Notice what he says. But though we are, he says verse 7 again, I'm sorry, verse 8, but though we or any other angel from heaven preach any other gospel from you than that which we have what? than that which we've already preached unto you. Paul, what he does here is Paul establishes a plumb line. It is a, it's like a gospel deposit that was that was dropped to the apostles. That they all agreed on was the true gospel of Jesus Christ, and that it should never be contradicted by anyone, even themselves. How many of you ever used the plumb line before? I'm curious. Okay, quite a quite a few of you use the plumb line one time or another. I've used been able to use the plug line several times. Can you imagine you're on a construction site And s and uh and you built the wall and um your your supervisor comes by uh your foreman comes by and he checks your wall and your and he drops a plumb line and that wall and there's obviously uh a uh a crookedness going on with that wall But he just says he says to you, hey, you know what? He says, um, he says, we don't you don't need to change that wall. We'll just move the plumb line Let let's let's move the plumb line to to make it line up with the wall. Have you ever tried to do that? You can't do it. You can't move a plumb line to adjust to a crooked wall. Well if you move a fun line, what will happen? The whole thing will move. It'll stay straight, but the whole thing is going to move. And what they're trying to do is, Paul is saying, you can't adjust. You can't, you're trying to adjust the gospel to you. If anybody tries to do that, let them be accursed. Don't adjust the gospel to a given person or given situation. And he gives two examples of this. First of all, he actually says, we Now that's significant. He says, if we come and preach to you, that actually includes the Apostle Paul. He is including himself in this, and this is very significant for this reason. All of the apostles, he is saying, have to be actually submissive now to this deposit of the gospel. They must submit to the gospel. The gospel does not submit to them. Now, folks, this is absolutely necessary to understand. Error occurs when we do not get this. The Bible judges the church. The church does not judge the Bible. The Bible is the foundation for and the creator of the church. The church is not the foundation for and the creator of the Bible and the gospel. Getting those two things confused is the real problem. We have there's a massive mainline denomination around this world that basically says that the gospel actually originated from the church. And Paul says, no, no, no. That deposited the gospel, that plumb line was put down, and we now submit to the gospel. The church comes from the gospel. The gospel is the foundation of the The gospel judges the church. The church does not judge the gospel. It has the gospel has the supreme authority. Error comes in when we let anything at all have authority over the gospel. But not only that, he says this. Notice what he says here. But though we, or what? An angel from heaven. Now, some actually suggest that they were saying that the Judaizers were actually claiming the angels came to them and told them what they what they were teaching. It's very unlikely. We see no other evidence of this at all besides this verse. And so it's very unlikely that that was what was going on. More than likely, what Paul is doing is he is he is using uh sort of hyperbole to explain that there is zero option here. But he's saying something very specific. He is saying that even if an angel comes and appears to you and says something to you that is contrary to the gospel, you ought to curse him. You ought to be accursed. Now, what is he saying? He's saying this. This is so important and so necessary. He's saying that the gospel must be of the authority, not your experience. The gospel is the authority over your experience. Can I ask you a question this morning? What lenses are you wearing? Wow, you guys got really blurry on that. all of a sudden. What lenses what lenses are you wearing? See, some people are wearing the lens of experience. And they look at the gospel through their lens of experience. And if they don't see what they want to see, they adjust the gospel to their lens of experience so it matches up. Folks, that is a hotbed for error. The gospel must be our lens. We must see things through the gospel. The gospel is our lens, and we view our experience through the lens of the gospel. And if they don't match up, there's something wrong with our experience. There's nothing wrong with the gospel. Folks, we must be absolutely determined. in our mind, that when our experience does not line up with the gospel, that we we choose not to trust our experience and we choose it choose instead to trust the gospel. And I would imagine that gets harder and harder the older you get Because what I've seen is that one of the errors that can happen among folks who have more experience is they begin to depend and rely on their experience That folks, when it comes to anything gospel related, is a mistake. God tells us that we need to not do that. We need to be very careful about that. We've got to look at our experience. through the lens of the gospel. The gospel is the authority, not our experience. This is absolutely important for us to understand. We must not judge the Bible by our feelings or our convictions. We must judge our experiences by the Bible. Then he says this, he says they're accursed. This word cursed is transliterated anathema. Imagine you've heard that before. It means this. It's actually used all over the place in the Old Testament. Now it's a different word, it's a Hebrew word. But it's used all over the place in the Old Testament. There's tons of references we could go to. Leviticus 27, Numbers 18, Deuteronomy 7, Exodus 22, Numbers 21, Joshua 6, Joshua 6, Joshua 7, Zechariah 14. It's all over the place. So that when Paul said this, the Jewish hearers would have immediately known what that meant. They would have had a whole body of context of the Old Testament understand what he was saying. And here is what he was saying. One of the great one of great a great passage to understand this is in Deuteronomy 7. 26 where it says, Nor shall you bring an abomination out of your house. lest you be doomed to destruction like it, you shall utterly detest it and utterly abhor it, for it is an accursed thing. The word means to be doomed or destined to destruction. Throughout the Old Testament, there are various examples of things that were destined to destruction. offerings given to false gods and idols. Those kinds of things were destined to destruction. They were accursed things. And he says this about these people. That's pretty harsh, isn't it? No tolerance there, is there? Paul was defined by intolerance. Can I ask you a question this morning? Are you? Are you defined by your intolerance when it comes to particularly the gospel message? Paul was defined by this. Now, lest you think for a minute that he was actually being anyway hateful, he wasn't We know this because he actually says in Romans chapter 9, verse 3, I would that I would be accursed if Israel would be saved. He uses the same word and he says, if Israel would be saved, I would be destined for destruction. That's actually the kind of compassion and love that he has for the nation of Israel who is going down the wrong direction and who is headed the wrong way. He would actually go, choose to go to hell himself for them. Paul is coming to them not with animosity or resentment or anything like that. He is saying these things out of a grave, loving, urgent concern. And he is absolutely unrelenting in what he says here. Now to understand the next verse, I want to illustrate it this way. You remember back in the Old Testament in 2 Samuel chapter 12 when Nathan goes to David about his sin? You remember that Nathan starts off by talking about a poor man who has a little lamb? And how the ri a rich man steals that little lamb, and how David then is drawn into that story and realizes how How um how wrong that situation is. Actually says that that man should be put to death. And then Nathan set turns after that good, that general di just general illustration He turns and he says, You are the guy. You're the man. That's what he's going to do here in this next verse. You might think this is just redundant, but would you notice what he does here? He says As I said before, so I say again, he is repeating for emphasis, no question. If any man preach any other gospel unto you than you have received, let him be accursed. He says it again. This time, though, it's in a different conditional clause. This particular conditional clause is a condition of reality. It is a assumed truth. For those of you who know Greek out there, it's the third class of this traditional clause. It's an assumed truth. He goes from saying, this is a possibility to this is happening. And he em he and he identifies that it's actually going on. In verse ten verse nine he says, as we said before Before, so say I now again preach any other gospel under that that which ye have received, that that that that initial deposit of the gospel that you received, let him be accursed. Now, let me ask you this question. Was this not great boldness on the part of the Apostle Paul to be able to say these things? Was he not clear? I mean, no question anybody could establish his clarity. Was he not going to battle on behalf of the gospel and behalf of the Galatian Christians? Can I ask you a question? What would cause someone to be able to be like the Apostle Paul? For instance, what would cause someone to be able to stand for what was right instead of c succumbing to compromise? What would cause someone to hold to the truth instead of being deceived by false teaching? What would cause somebody to let uh instead of letting everything go, cause them to expose the false teacher? What would allow a person to do this? Paul is going to answer that question in the next verse. Would you notice what he says in verse 10? He says, For do I now persuade men or God, or do I seek to please men? For if I yet pleased men, I should also I should not be the servant of Christ. The word persuade there is exactly the way it it it's normally translated as persuade, but in this context it's talking about Approval. He says, do I now gain the approval of men or God? He says, if I seek to please or gain the approval of men, if I yet please men, then I cannot be a servant of Christ. Do you know that what will make the difference between compromise and conviction? Whether or not we are people pleasers. People pleasers do not make good servants of God. So what is a people pleaser? A people pleaser is motivated by fear of man. A people pleaser pretends to serve God, but is doing it for their own benefit. A people pleaser is anxious for the approval of others, and they are distraught when they don't get it. That's a people pleaser. See, the apostle Paul was actually being accused of being a people pleaser. You say, what? That doesn't sound like him at all. What he was actually accused of was that he wasn't telling the whole gospel because he wanted to please or gain the approval of the Gentiles. And the Gentiles didn't want to hear anything about the law and circumcision. And so in order to gain the approval of the Gentiles, he was leaving out certain things. He was pleasing people. Paul says here, I am not a people pleaser. And he really just demonstrated that, did he not? Folks, you and I, when it really comes down to all this, how can we, how can we Have not compromise? How can we keep from Compromising and stay true to our gospel convictions, it will have to do with whether or not we are people pleasers. And the truth of the matter is all of us have that temptation. If you say, I'm not a people pleaser, I've never been a people pleaser, well then you're delusional. Because all of us have that temptation to want to please people. Now it doesn't mean you are a people pleaser, but all of us have the temptation to want to please people. Why would Paul go so far as to say that people pleasers are not good servants of God? Well, there's a couple of reasons. Number one, people pleasers will cave underneath pressure. They will cave. They will bend. They'll get into a situation where somebody really important is in the room and they'll say something that was against the God and they will bend to it. They will adjust to please that important person. They're a people pleaser. Number two, People are are our people pleasers are afraid to confront. They will run from confrontation. They don't want anything to do with confronting anybody. You ever heard somebody say, well, I you know, I'm just non-confrontational. Get be careful with that because you're probably a plea people pleaser. Now, let me let me go to the other side for a minute. If you like to confront, you're demented. Okay. If you actually like to confront, then there's something wrong too. Nobody likes you're kind of warped or something's not quite right if you actually man, I can't wait to just tell it like it is to that guy. Okay? Be uh you know Uh be careful about that. However, on the other hand, folks, a people pleaser won't do it They will run from confrontation. They don't want, they want to gain the approval so bad. They don't want to have negative uh negative vibes of g from anybody. So they will not confront when they need to confront. It won't happen. There are times where I th where where we ought to be able just think about it. With your friends, are you willing to confront if you need to confront? With your spouse, oh boy, not my spouse. Yes, with your spouse, are you willing to confront when you need to confront? I didn't may I didn't say be hateful or rude to lovingly confront, are you willing to do that? If you say, you know, I I really just I I'm just not willing to do that. I You you're probably a pe people pleaser. The reason I say this is the Apostle Paul in chapter two, he actually confronts somebody pretty huge. He confronts actually the leader of the apostles, who is Peter. We'll learn more about this in chapter 2. But he actually says in chapter 2 that when Peter was tempted to be a people pleaser, which is what happened, Paul went and confronted him and told him in front of everybody, you're a hypocrite, you're an error. And you know what? Paul was right. He was right. Oh, that's not very nice. Ah, it's not very that's uh I don't like I don't see the nicey nices with Paul there. I'm not sure about that. No Paul Confronted where he needed to confront. And when there was gospel error, he was not backing down. I gotta tell you, sometimes I see on Facebook error, and I cannot help but type something. We are we you know uh you know how I know our culture is full of people pleasers? Facebook is a perfect example. Facebook, there are people that can't wait to see how many likes they get. Man, if I I got a hundred likes, I must be really something Yeah, you're a people pleaser. We are in a culture that it's like we all live to like please ourselves and Please each other. It's all about pleasing me and pleasing others. If we can all please each other and please ourselves, we'll all be one happy family. That's not Paul. And frankly, that's not Christ. Christ was willing to confront. Number three, people pleasers are fair weather Christians. Now here is the here's the danger of all this folks. What words What words will be said of some Christians who are faithful when they see Christ? Well done, thou good and faithful what? Servant. People pleasers will not hear that. They will not hear that. If we live for ourselves and we live to please ourselves and we live to please other people, don't think for a man That will be able to stand before the Lord and hear, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Paul says, if I am a pleaser of people, I am not a servant of God. That's sobering, is it not? Because all of us like to please people But we have to constantly check ourselves. And the only way, you can't just not please people, you have to have an overwhelming, overcoming desire to please God. Not a matter of saying, okay, well I just got not pleased people. I'm not pleasing nobody man. No, wait a minute. I'm see, I'm not pleasing, you know, forget you, I'm not pleasing you. No. It's a replacement thing. It's saying I've got to please God with every fiber. And you know what that means? We're going to show love to other people. We're going to serve other people. But the motivation is to serve God, to please God. And see, when when When pleasing people comes into conflict with pleasing God, we won't back down. We won't compromise. Why? Because we're pleasing God. We're God pleasers. A God pleaser is a true servant of God, and he will one day stand before the Lord and say and hear, Well done thou good faith. I don't know about you, but I want to hear those words. Is there not something in your spirit as a Christian that just longs one day to hear your God say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant? We need to heed these things. We need when we're thinking about people that are That are against the gospel, or they don't even know they're against the gospel, but they're against the gospel. Number one, we need to understand that fear and doubts are the tactics of false teachers. Number two, false teachers must be exposed as those who are destined for destruction. Look, there is no middle ground here False teachers are those who are destined for destruction. There are churches all over Maryland that are have leaders in them and teachers in them that are destined for destruction. You say, a church? Yes. How many churches just adjust the gospel a little bit? It doesn't take much. A little adjustment is a reversal, according to Paul. Number three, people pleasers cannot be servants of Christ. And will ultimately compromise the gospel. People pleasers cannot be servants of Christ and will ultimately compromise the gospel. Let's pray together. Father, as I read this verse and studied it this week, particularly verse ten, it was convicting. Lord, may we have a firm resolve that no matter what, we want to please you And we will not be people pleasers. To please you is to love you, to please you is to love others, to please you is to show kindness. But Lord, when it comes to please the gospel that we have to take a stand. And I pray that you would prepare us and that you would purify our hearts. That you would cause us to stand firm for the sake of the gospel, as the Apostle Paul did in this passage. May we be willing, Paul says, I bear in my body the marks of Christ. He was willing to suffer. He's willing to take up the cross and follow Christ as Christ. said to do. There is going to be suffering. There is going to be rejection if we follow you. And if we're preachers of the gospel, may we accept the rejection rather than compromising. And we pray these things in Christ's name Amen. Let's stand together and respond to