Last Wednesday night on dealing with the problem of fear. Pat, can I have you put that slide up, please, or the PowerPoint. You can start from the beginning. We're going to review a couple of things. So I want to kind of recover a couple of things just to get our our bearings on this before we get into uh the re well, I don't have a lot of time to recover a lot. actually looking at it. Um let me let me uh just just mention a couple of things here. And then we'll get into the rest of the lesson here. In dealing with the problem of fear, we notice in verses sixteen and seventeen that the foundation for for not having this debilitating fear that this passage is talking about, um, is is that we have to live in the love of God. So you'll notice in verse 16 And we have known and believed the love that God hath to us. God is love. He that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God, and God in him. Verse 17, herein is love made perfect or made mature, that we may have boldness. And that word that we do as we discussed. That word is the is the idea of um of confidence. Uh we find it its usage in the New Testament as being openness. There's this freedom or transparency transparency, there's this openness that you have that you know that that occurs because when when love has taken maturity In other words, when you really begin to understand the love of God and you begin to dwell in that love, then you're going to have this confidence before the Lord. Not based upon your own merit or your own effort, but this confidence in the fact that God loves you And I was reflecting on this and I noticed a a particular quote that was really important. I don't remember where I heard it from, but basically Are we really aware that there is nothing that you as a Christian can do to lose God's love? And there is nothing that you can that you can do to you he can't love you more because of what you do. He won't love you less because of what you do. That is a fixed thing. He loves us that much. It's hard for us to grasp. We we don't have that same when, you know, uh there are some people are You you find it a little difficult to love, right? I mean, are is it not true that there are some people a little easier to love than others? Well God doesn't see it that way God loves us because of Christ. He doesn't look at Jim Ganam and think that Jim Ganam is harder to love than anybody else. As much as I think I might be hard to love, he doesn't think that Why? Has nothing to do with me. Has everything to do with he's looking he's looking at us through the lens of his own son. And so when we begin to really realize that, then we're going to have, it says we can have boldness or confidence at the day of judgment. That one day we can stand before the Lord and know that He will, of course He is going to judge us, but we can stand with confidence because of Christ. And if we know in the future we can stand in confidence before him because of Christ, then we know in the present we can stand in confidence before him. And so that's the that's the the line of thinking there. He that feareth is not made perfect in love, though. So one of the things Oh, that's that's in verse eighteen. Because as he is, so are we uh in this world. Verse eighteen, there is no fear in love, but perfect love casteth casteth out all fear. And we did mention in In dealing with the fear kind of fear we're talking about here, we're not talking about speaking of the fear of the Lord. The fear of the Lord is a healthy thing. The beginning of wisdom. So, this kind of fear we're talking about here in this passage is not this kind of fear of the fear of the Lord. It's not the reasonable, God-given ability to identify and respond to potential problems and to pre prevent them if we can. So all of us have this ability to some degree, some more than others, have this ability to be a look ahead and say, you know, I see a potential problem down the road, and I'm going to steer clear of that problem. No, that's not fear, that's actually prudence, is what that is. And the Bible says he that foreseeth evil and hideth himself it's wise. He's wise if he does that. So that's not what we're talking about here either It does not include healthy biblical fear. And I wanted to make a couple of I'll mention a couple of things about this In 2 Corinthians 7, verse 11, it tells us that actually healthy fear is an indicator of true repentance. Verse 11 says, For observe this very thing, that you sorrowed in a godly manner. What diligence, so he describes what repentance looks like, and he says, What diligence it produced in you. What clearing of yourselves, what indignation, what fear there's your word, there's our word, what vehement desire, what zeal, what vindication. In other words, when somebody is truly repentant, there is this carefulness, there is this even fear that is a God-given kind of a fear that I am repenting from that sin And so there is this fear toward that sin that is a healthy biblical kind of thing. I realized how sin grieves God, and I don't want to do that again, and there's this level of fear that's a good thing here. Then there's another kind of fear according to 2 Corinthians 7 verse 15, and it it has to do as well as Ephesians 6. 5 and Philippians 2, several places. Where it's talking about the concern of others. Have you ever had fear for others? Where you look at you look at others and you have sort of a concern that they're going down the wrong path. Now the truth of the matter is there is a s a, if that's not taken too far, there's some degree of good to that. that we ought to have some that there is a a concern that you can have for your brother or sister in Christ that's going the wrong direction. And there's a fear there that is something that is healthy. Now it can go too far and we'll learn how it goes too far in a few moments. But that's something that we need to understand that those are healthy kinds of fear. And so the passage is not talking about that We just mentioned very quickly, I'll just blow through these. It works from the the the fear, uh healthy fear works um from the inside out, so it's a God-given thing that works from the inside out. Unhealthy fear works from the outside in, so there's something circumstantial or people or problems around you that's causing you to have that fear That kind of a fear is a very dang is dangerous fear. Comes from an awareness of God and a concern for others. versus unhealthy fear, which is an awareness of others, a concern for self. I'm aware of others, I have the fear of man, the Bible says that's a reproach and a snare. Or I have a concern for myself rather than a concern for others. So there's godly fear that is aware of God's presence, that's going to cause the fear of the Lord. And a concern for others that's going to cause a healthy fear So it has to do with focus, right? Now let's pause for a minute and just mention this. Is that not the case? Unhealthy fear finds its focus where? On self. That's the real indicator of a problem. When I really think about it, it's really about all about me or my future or what I think or what's going to happen to me or what where I'm going to be Fear, the dangerous kind of fear that we're talking about, is a fear that is very self-focused. Versus a healthy fear, it results actually in love and trust. Unhealthy fear results in this fight or flight kind of a thing. Where I'm going to fight it to get rid of it, whatever circumstance or problem or person I'm dealing with, or I'm going to flee from it Um somebody I afterwards I was going we were going through this la last Wednesday night and somebody afterwards said said well there's fight or flight some people just freeze. I thought that's probably true too. There's probably that possibility where you just sort of to freeze. But when you freeze, you're actually fleeing, I think, to tell you the truth. But anyway, because you're not dealing with the situation at all, so that would really be flight. What is what this fear is, okay. It does include potential threats that are outside of our control. That's really a key here. Now there's some things if the Lord if the Lord says, okay, you can fix this, I mean, well then fix it. I mean if it's something you can deal with, then deal with it. But we have to come to the conclusion that there are some things that are really outside of our control. And when we know it's outside of what we can do, you know, there's some people that that want God to take control when we when He's given us everything we need you to do. to do what we need to do. For instance, dealing with sin. Sometimes people are saying, Lord, would you just take control of my sin problem? Well, if you know Christ your Savior, God's giving you the power to deal with your sin problem. It's just you a matter of applying what God's already given you. So sometimes it's that. But there are other things, aren't there other things, folks, that are really outside of our control? Now, I'll mention this this way This really is part of the problem, is it not, when it comes to fear? Is there a connection between fear and a desire to control? Have you ever noticed that connection? I fear something's outside of my control, but I want to control it. I can't control it, and so I am Afraid. That is a very dangerous kind of fear. Why Because you're not letting God be in control. There are just things you say, well, you say, well, I I did something wrong, and that's why it doesn't really matter. If it's not in your control, it's not in your control. And so we have to come to the point where we simply say, okay, fear, fearing something that is outside of anything that I can do about it, that God hasn't given me the ability to deal with it, is really an unhealthy kind of fear. It is speaking of a spirit of fear. In fact, the Bible has the you mentions this on a couple of occasions. He says, for example, in Romans chapter 8, verse 15 For ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear, but ye have received the spirit of adoption whereby we cry of a Father. That spirit of bondage again to fear. This is that debilitating fear that keeps you in bondage, even though Christ has made you free, according to Romans chapter 8. This is that very, very dangerous fear. So this is not like I get afraid for a moment. This is a sort of I'm being taken over by fear. You could say it this way: you could say fearfulness. This passage could essentially, its point could essentially be that there is no fearfulness in love. It's not that I don't have some sort of healthy fear, but a fearful spirit. The Bible says, for example, in 2 Timothy 1, verse 7, God has not given us the spirit of fear, but of love. And a power and a sound mind. Keep that in your mind. We have a contrast here. He's not giving us the spirit of fear, but what is he giving us a spirit of what? Instead? Of what? Of love. Not of fear, but of love. And we've already seen how dwelling in God's love keeps us out of fear. And we're going to explore that more in a few moments. So God hasn't given us the spirit of fear, but of love and of power and of sound mind. That is probably in the context, by the way, of a fear of man. Paul is telling Timothy this. Timothy is a pastor. Do you think pastors ever deal with the fear of man? It's probably one of the most common things that pastors struggle with. is the fear of man. People don't realize that sometimes, but it's true. And she's telling Pastor Timothy, you've got to deal with things sometimes. You have to speak truth. You have to be confrontational sometimes. And he says, God hath not given us the spirit of fear, but of love and of power and of a sound mind. And this is something that we would call sustained fear. And we've kind of already seen that from this passage as well. We're talking here about a fear that is unresolved by God's comfort. It's something that is s sustained. Now, with that in mind, would you take your Bibles and turn to 2 Corinthians chapter 7? 2 Corinthians chapter 7 and verse 4. Keep a finger in 1 John, we'll be back, but 2 Corinthians chapter 7, verse 4 This is, we're going to look here at the Apostle Paul's example of natural, normal kind of fear But then what happens to it when it when he it's dealt with correctly He says in 2 Corinthians 7, verse 4, for indeed when we came to Macedonia, our bodies had no rest. But we were troubled on every side. Outside were conflicts. What were inside? Fears. Well, there was conflict on the outside, fear was on the inside, they were troubled everywhere, there was persecution, there was Strife and difficulties, and he identifies the reality of fear. However, look at verse what verse 6 says. Nevertheless God, who comforts the downcast, comforted us. You see that? Very, very important. So, fear in its normal sense is something that everybody's got from time to time. The question is whether or not you're allowing God to comfort you is God's comfort comforting you. Now it is interesting how God comforts in this case. What method does he use in this case? He uses Titus, doesn't he? Comforted us by the coming of Titus. And not only by his coming, but also the consolation with which he was comforted in you When he told us of your earnest desire, your mourning, your zeal for me, so that I rejoice evermore. Now let me mention just something. This is just kind of a side application. He says, Titus comforted us, you comforted Titus, you've been comforted by other people. What's his point? His point is that one of the methods that God often uses to deal with fear is if we will express it, if we will be comforted by others. That others in the body of Christ can help us in dealing with fear. But do you know something? There are some people that are so fearful, what happens? They don't want to discuss it with anybody. They're too afraid of what somebody will think about them that they don't want to mention, that they're fearful about a particular situation. They get themselves really caught Because they can't use the but God can't use the body of Christ to comfort them because they're just totally shut down. So one of the ways that God does that. Now, is that do you suppose that that's the only way that God comforts? I don't think so. I think this is one example. The bottom line is that God has the ability to comfort us, and he often uses God's people to help in comforting when it comes to this problem. Of fear. And part of this, just by way of application, is that we've got to allow God's people to help us When there is fear. We need to have the humility to express when we have sustained fear and say, you know, can you pray for me about this? Can you help me with this? I am fearful about this. Would you just pray with me? And we've got to allow we've got to allow each other to comfort each other in that in those kinds of times. That's just really one of many applications. Would you then take your Bibles and turn back to back to 1 John? And would you notice then in verse 19 what it says? Well, let's pick up verse 18. There is no fear in love, but perfect love casts out fear. Because fear has torment, we went over that before. He that feareth is not made perfect in love. He says that the key here, the key, we've discussed the pot the contrast between faith and fear, and you can't really muster up more faith. The real issue is When we have this sustained fear that's unresolved by God's love, folks, the problem is that we're not mature in our love. The problem is, it doesn't mean that we don't love at all. Doesn't mean that we have no love at all. Somebody says, I'm fearing a lot. We should not assume, well, they just don't love. But there is a lack of maturity. There's some somehow There is not a maturity or a completeness in their love. Now let me ask you a question. Do you suppose that spiritu a a spiritual person, a spiritually mature person, person can have a problem at some point with sustained fear, and they can digress, if you will, or they can demature in their love. Do you think that's possible? I think it's possible. In fact, I think it's likely that it w that it may hap you know I think it's a very, very possible idea And I think I could actually take it to first Hebrews five, which I won't, and I can actually explain why that's even more possible. We won't take the time to do that. But I think that there is a possibility that a Christian can sort of go backwards in his maturity when it comes to this issue of love in his life. Now Let me ask you to take your Bibles. Just notice this actually, verse 19, it says, We love him because he first loved us. We're going to look at that in a minute. I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn to another description of love in a very familiar passage in 1 Corinthians 13. So would you take your Bibles and turn there? 1 Corinthians 13. Let me ask this question as we're turning there. Why? Why is it that if we have sustained fear in our lives, it demonstrates our love is not mature? Or also, if we have mature love, it will cast out fear. Why is that true? Now, before we look at the passage. Does anybody want to r re venture a uh uh an answer to that question? Kim? Because we're allowed to basically come Exactly. It's exactly right. If you look at the description of love here Um pick up in verse 4. What does love look like? Well, it suffers long. It's kind. It envies not. It bonneth not itself, it's not puffed up, it doesn't behave itself reamely uh unseemly, it seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil. What is love Mature love doesn't have self in it. So if you have mature love, you're not focusing on self, and when you're not focusing on self, you're not having sustained fear. Does that make sense? That's why the issue then with our sustained fear is what kind of love do we have? And you know, I think that part of this is we just gotta come to grips with the fact that if we have this sustained unresolved fear, we need to sort of have a reality check and we sort of say Okay, it's not that I don't love it all, but I'm not loving the way God wants me to love. Until we have sort of a reality check on this, I don't think we'll be able to begin to resolve the problem. And we needed to sort of say, okay, reality is we see very clearly, John's very clear about this. If you have this kind of fear, then you love is not perfected in you. And we the first thing we need to do is agree with John, which is God's word, that that's the case. Okay, alright, fine. Love is not perfected in me Let me just admit it, but that's the problem. Then let me ask you a question, what's the solution? If you don't love others the way that God wants you to love others, or let's say it this way, and John says it this way: you don't love God the way God wants you to love God. Is it that true by the way? If you don't love others the way God wants you to, you're demonstrating you don't love God, particularly the brethren, then you're demonstrating you don't love God the way He wants you to. Now, with that in mind, go back to 1 John, and you'll see what it says here. 1 John chapter 4, and we're in verse 19. How do we cultivate this kind of love? And the answer is in verse 19. What's the answer? Why do we love him? Because he first loved us. If we have a problem with our love for God It is because we do not realize, or we are forgotten, or there's something wrong with our understanding of his love for us. That's the root problem. The answer to that problem is that we begin to it well a couple of things. The answer also to that problem is that we meditate on God's love for us. If you, for example, go to Romans chapter 8, verses 31-9-39, and it talks about The love of God and how nothing can separate us from the love of God. It goes through all kinds of external things. Things like. Death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, or things present, nor things that come, nor height, nor depth, nor any. I mean, all of these external things that cause us fear If you think of all those things, it says God can't, nothing can separate us from God's love. That's we've got to really believe that. But you know what the problem is? Here's the problem. I think I mentioned this last week. We see circumstance, we determine God's love for us based upon what is happening to us. Is that how you know God's love for you? No, you have the assurance of knowing God's love for you by what He says, by His Word, and by His action. Let me put it this way, I think this might help. When you look at the world, do you ever have a difficulty discerning what is merely an effect of the fall? Verse what God is sovereignly doing. Does that do that make any sense? In other words, there's sometimes I look at a per particular situation and I say to myself, um That is, you know what that is? That's the fall. That's the fact that we're all fallen creatures. That's the fact that everybody You know, when I look at suffering of Christians, for example, why do Christians suffer? Well, you have twofold. The original reason is because of sin, not their sin necessarily, but sin in general And so they suffer like everybody else has suffered. God doesn't pull us out of this world after we're saved. So why do Christians suffer? Because of the fall. Now God uses that suffering for his purposes in their lives, but when you're going through and walking through life, It's really hard to kind of figure out, okay, where's God's sovereignty? Where does where does uh the fall begin and God's sovereignty? I mean, how does this all work? And you know the truth of the matter is You can't figure it out. You've got to, what do you got to do? You've got to trust God. You've got to trust His Word. In other words, I've got to go into the situation with the presupposition that God loves me and that hasn't changed. Well, this has happened in my life. How can God love me if this has happened in my life? Because you don't know the end result, you don't know what God is doing, you can't figure it out, you have to go back to because God said he loves me. Does that make sense? That has got to be the absolute bottom line of our lives is that we've got to constantly say and affirm in our hearts That God does love us with an incomprehensible love and that can never change. I'll tell you something else that happens a lot of times in our lives as Christians We run into real problems because we have such a performance mentality and we think that, you know, because I and I've mentioned this many times before, but it is so prevalent in our minds. Well I didn't do this, this, this, and this, so God must not love me the way he used to love me Now we may not overtly say that, but the weight our disposition toward our God is such that, well, I missed my devotions, you know, three days this week. God must not love me. How could God love me? I am such a failure. I am such a failure. How could God love me? He can't possibly love me. You ever said that kind of thing to yourself? You know what you have to believe? That he know he loves you because of his word, not yours. And you may not understand his love, and that's okay You don't have to understand it completely. You have to believe that God says he loves you, and even when it doesn't make sense in your brain that he loves you, because frankly it doesn't make sense, why does he love any of us It's okay. We don't have to understand it. We just simply have to believe that God does love us. Now, let me mention something on this. For me personally, I'll just this is really personal, but for me personally, one of the things that that concerns me at this point in my life more than a particular I I I don't worry as much I hope this doesn't sound wrong. I don't really worry about as much about myself And what will happen to me. I sometimes I do. I mean that's always the temptation is there. I really worry a whole lot more about my kids or my wife or my chur or the church or I'm really worried I worry a whole lot more. I have fear Some of it is good. I should care have concern about my wife and kids, right? I should have concern about our church Sometimes I there but that concern crosses over into fearfulness I don't know if you ever ever had that happen, but I'm sure that you do. Well, how do you deal with that? You deal with it this way, and this is a little harder than doing it with yourself. You have to remember that God loves them. More than you can love them. Better than you can love them. And that whatever happens to them Will be not outside of God's love for them either. In other words, it's easy, it's I find it easier for me to say, okay I know the trial, Lord, that I'm going on in my life. I know that that trial is for my good and I'm willing to go through the trial. I actually find that easier than to watch my kids go through a trial And to say, and to say, man, I don't want to see them go through that trial. But wait a minute. Am I trusting God with my kids? Am I willing to say, okay, God, if you see they need to go through that trial, well you love them better than I can love them. And you're in control when I'm not in control. Lord, would you just let them go through that trial? And and I'll trust you on that. Whatever it is, whatever what So all of this has to do with being rightly related to God's love. 1 John 4, verse 20 says, If a man say, I love God and hates his brother, He is a liar, for he that loveth his brother, whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen? Now let me just mention uh verse twenty one, and this commandment have we From him that he who loves God loves his brother also. Now let me mention this. This is really, really important. The word hatred here in this passage is often translated to anger. When we see this passage, we see hate or brother, we immediately say to ourselves, well, I don't hate my brother or sister in Christ. I don't hate them. Because I'm not trying to kill anybody. Isn't that what we do? That's not what it's saying here. This is a matter of are you angry at your brother in Christ or sister in Christ? Do you know that if you're angry at your brother or sister in Christ It will stop you from having that kind of love that you need in your heart and you need to express to others so that you can't have fear, so that you don't have that sustained fear And I will tell you just by personal experience, I've seen this. You want to see an angry man, you'll also see a fearful man. The Bible says that that an angry make no friend with an angry man. You'll see that connection time and time again An angry man is a fearful man. A fearful man is an angry man. And do you know why? Because an angry man cannot be mature in his love And if he's not mature in his love, that love is not going to cast out the fear that is a problem in his life that's causing him torment. You see how all that works together? The whole answer, then, is that I need to really know and be convinced of the love of God in my life. I need to begin to I need to love others. And as I know God's love, and as I love others, and I trust in his love for others, being better than my love for others, as long as as I grow in that, as we grow in that, That fear will then begin to move away. We will not have that sustained fear, that dangerous kind of fear, that fearfulness any longer. Let me just recap this way. I know I'm running late here, but I need to finish. The foundation for a fearless life is resting in God's love. and experiencing confidence that results from his love. Mature love will cast out all fearfulness And we must carefully maintain our life of faith by quickly recognizing when we are failing to love others. And let's let's go to the Lord in prayer. I'll leave those up on the screen if you want to copy those down. Father, we do pray, Lord, that you would help us in this problem of fearfulness. I pray, dear Father, that you would help us to grow in our love for you. And we know we do that as you as we recognize your great love for us. Father, when we just reflect upon even this week of the cross and what all Christ did for us We are so ignorant not to see your great love for us. I pray that you would give us eyes to see that That that would cause us to mature in our love, that we would relinquish control, that we would give control to you of those things that you have not given responsibility to us. That all of that would cause us to have a confidence and openness toward you, that openness that leads us to a place of faith and trust without fearfulness. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen