John with me this morning, John chapter seven. There is no doubt that the re majority of the folks here, you all would agree with me that As we observe our world and live in our world, we can all say that at least at times, if not the majority of the time, life is full of confusion. It's just confusing. And there are so many variables and so many different aspects to nearly every issue under the sun that you have to uh take into account as you navigate this life. And it can can become very confusing And the more confusion you have in life, the more controversy you have in life. Isn't it true that our world is full of controversy? I mean if you think in terms of just our political system, we have controversy, don't we? And I'm not taking sides on all any of that. I'm not supposed to do that, so I'm gonna be good today. But we do. In our lives as believers, God, though we live in a world with great controversy, God desires for us to live. In simplicity. But if we're if we admit to ourselves these things Often our lives are not that simple. And the reality is because of the fall of man, the effects of the fall, they affect us every day of our lives. And so life is not simple. And yet, when Christ speaks, and when you listen to him from his words from the Bible, it is often rather simple. Why is it that we seem to go through life and life seems so complicated so often? It is certainly complicated for the unsaved world. And their view of Christ is not all that simple and is often very conflicting. For example, you will hear some unbelievers say that Jesus is a good teacher. He was a good man with a good way to live, and that he was a good teacher. Of course, he was, in their mind, merely a good teacher. In the last probably three decades, you have really a group of a lot a lar a growing group of people that would really suggest that Jesus was a a merely a a great um influential leader but who was also who was really a a leader of a cult. You think of the Da Vinci Code that came out several years ago now, and and and those kinds of books that have come out really trying to debunk the claims of Christ and And the validity of Scripture. And so you have in this world some people that say, oh, he's a really good person, and you have other people that are saying that he's a deceiver, and what you have essentially is confusion. But you know, even as believers, sometimes we get a little confused, don't we? Sometimes we think of Christ as so loving that he is tolerant, that he is just going to overlook things. On the other hand, sometimes we see Christ as so rigid that he is unloving And so if we're not careful, even as believers, even as those who name the name of Christ and know Christ, we can become confused even about who Christ is. Or confusion about the gospel and the elements of the gospel and how you come to the gospel. It is true, folks, that we as Christians, because of our deceitful hearts And because of just the fact that we are in a fallen world and the fact that we are fallen in our own makeup, it is true that sometimes we get sort of derailed. And to use another analogy, and I know I'm mixing my analogies here, but what happens, folks, so oftentimes is it's like we become unanchored from the anchor of Christ. And in nautical terms, many of many of you uh have have um some experience in those, some of you in the Navy and and sh sailing and those kinds of things. You know, when you get unanchored and you've got fierce winds and storms, you're going to be carried all over the place. And it is true that Christ is that anchor for us. So the question that I would have for all of us is how do we keep from from having confusion in our lives when it comes to this person of Christ. It isn't when we think of the doctrines of Christ, that's not all that confusing. That's fairly fairly straightforward. But when it comes to applying the simplicity of Christ to our daily lives, it becomes a little bit more difficult. And sometimes the daily life overwhelms living in Christ. Paul said, Christ, who is our life, he must be our life. Let's go to the Lord in prayer, and we're going to answer this question as we get into the text this morning. Father, we come to you and we thank you for Christ. We thank you for the simplicity of who He is. He is God and He is man and He is our Redeemer and He is our intercessor. And I pray, Lord, today, that you would help us maybe clear away the confusion from our thinking and our minds. Help us simplify in our wills. Help us simplify in our thinking that Christ would become again preeminent in our minds and hearts and thinking. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, we pick up the story here, if you'll request recall from la two weeks ago, John's own or Christ's own uh brothers and sisters, uh they had compelled Christ or desired to compel Christ to go to the Feast of Tabernacle Tabernacles Christ told them, My time is not yet come, and so he chose not to go with them. They wanted him to perform more signs and miracles, to display himself in the world. He had just significantly lost quote-unquote popularity. And so they were concerned about this and so they wanted him to to display himself to the world because I think there was probably some mixed motive and motives in wanting him to Establish himself in the kingdom as ruler of the kingdom in this world. And so they saw that this was diminishing, and so they compelled him to go, and he said, No, my time has not yet come. And then we find him changing course in verse ten, and now he is actually going Well, verse eleven actually. Pick up verse ten and you'll see here. But when his brethren were gone up, then went he also up unto the feast, not openly But as it were in secret. So he decided, though dis though not openly, he came very discreetful and discreetly. He decided that he was going to wade in there and go to the Feast of the Tabernacles And the question immediately arises as we look at this verse, why? It was logical. It made sense that if Christ's time of glorification had not yet come, that he would not go to the second most popular feast for the nation of Israel That he would not, he would sort of stay back and perhaps not participate at that feast, and he said he wasn't going, he wasn't going to. At least not in the way that they wanted him, he wasn't going to do it in a public manner. But what we have to assume, folks, is that he was following, he was very closely following the will of his father. And then although when the bo when when his brethren asked him to go, and he said he wasn't going to go, at least in the way that they wanted him to go, He then moved in another direction when God called him to, or when his father led him to. We're going to see clearly in the passage, he was constantly attentive to his father's will. Even though in some senses it wouldn't have made sense if his time had not really come to be glorified, logically he wouldn't go up, and yet he needed to choose to follow his father's will. Also, if you'll consider the fact that he had seen how the people had had reacted to his miracles in the past, his signs of the past, they wanted to take him by force to make him king. And that some had gotten so disgruntled that he was aware of the hostility that was in their hearts toward Christ. And so it would have made sense in a lot of ways for Christ to hold back for those reasons To really put this into perspective, I want you to see, would you just flip over for real quickly over to verse 30? You're going to see a lesson here from verse 30 that will be helpful for us as we look At Christ's decision to go up to the Feast of Tabernacles. Verse 30 says, Then they sought to take him, but no man laid hands on him. Now notice why. It wasn't because he he chose, it wasn't because of his tactics or his strategy. Notice what it says. Because his hour had not yet come. And what you see essentially in this passage, in this verse, is that because the Father in his will decided that it was not his hour to come, it was not his time. to be glorified. The Father preempted any kind of either either glorification, but in this case, uh preempted, he protected Christ. It does bring up for us a lesson that sometimes God asks us to do things that are uncomfortable. Sometimes God asks us to do things, it's God that does it, it's not man that needs to do this, but it's God that asks us to do things that may have some semblance of a possible intended negative result. I was so challenged by the the organ donor last last Sunday, weren't you? Al br Al Bem, it's Bem by the way, I was saying it wrong the whole the whole time last Sunday. Sunday and he told me afterwards, he said, No problem, people get it wrong all the time. I said, I have no idea what it's what it's like to get your last somebody get your last name wrong. I'm not not familiar with that at all. But um It's Ben. But anyway, he his testimony was so compelling for me and so convicting. Now here was a man who really did not the man that you could tell the struggle in his heart to to do what God was asking him to do to give up sixty percent of his liver. I talked to him afterwards a little bit and was just discussing things with him and he said this. He he said, you know, I didn't mention this in Sunday school, but he said this. He said, I just realized that it is it is more important to be obedient and uncomfortable. than to be disobedient and comfortable. I don't think it's wrong for us as Christians to want to be comfortable as people. I think that's sort of a natural thing to want to be safe and to want to be comfortable and to But there are some times where God asks us to step out in faith and to not be comfortable. I was reminded as I was studying this and realizing this, I I remind I was reminded of the fact that I'm going to be be going on a seventeen hour flight, straight flight from Chicago over to Hawk Hong Kong this coming Wednesday morning. Wednesday afternoon actually. Well I'm going from I don't know why I'm so technical. Anyway, uh I'm going from from DC to Chicago in the morning and then Chicago from from uh Hong Kong in the uh in the afternoon. And uh um I I I gotta tell you, I'm I'm a little uncomfortable with the fact that I'm gonna be uncomfortable that long. And um I I was I I had run into somebody, we were at Columbia Mall looking at something uh on Friday night. My wife and I had a date. My dad said you're gonna be gone for two weeks, why don't you go I'll watch the kids, which was really nice. So we went husband and I went on a date and we were in Columbia Mall and we ran into somebody we know and and uh she had gone to Hong Kong several years ago and she said, Oh, you're going on a trip and I said going to Hong Kong. She said, Oh yeah Yeah, I've been there. I was there years ago and and I said, Oh, well how was the flight over? And she said, it was horrible. And she said it was awful, both ways. It was absolutely the worst flight. It was awful. It was the wor I've never I'm thinking, wow, this is this woman has the gift of encouragement. But anyway And uh but you know what the truth of the matter is I need to obey. I need to do what God's led me to do. And I'm clear I'm sure he has. I mean there was a point which I didn't look like everything was I wasn't getting my passport, things weren't lining up, and and then I just said Lord if you want me to go it's gonna have to line up here And uh it lined up like very quickly. It was quite a quite amazing how that happened. I did have to work hard at it too, that all works together if not but but um It was it was neat how the Lord provided in that way. not comfortable. And this is a lesson for us. We need to just be willing to follow God's leading in our lives. Whatever that is. And so we find here in this passage that that is the case, that this is a that Jesus followed the leading of the Lord of his own father in this passage. But we'll see here in the passage that as he comes, it's not as though Jesus is a wallflower, apparently, because as he comes, the people begin to recognize that he's around somewhere. Well, do you notice what it says here in the passage? And this also explains how prolific Christ's ministry had become at this point. Verse 12, and there was much murmuring among the people concerning him. For some said, he is a good man. Others said, Nay, but he deceiveth the people. So there was this controversy, verse 13, howbeit no man spake openly of him for fear of the Jews. The Jews there are probably Jewish leaders. So there's this controversy. Some people are saying he's a good man. Others are saying, oh no, no, he is a deceiver There is confusion about Christ. There is controversy about Christ. And Christ is going to basically have to deal with this. Is there controversy about Christ today? There certainly is. I've really already mentioned this. Isn't it interesting, though, that the same controversy here about Christ is the same controversy that we have in our day about Christ? That some people say he's a good man and other people say he's a deceiver. It's the exact same controversy back then. Folks, that ought to encourage you. If you read the Da Vinci Code and you start questioning things, look, the same controversy back then is the same controversy today. There's nothing new under the sun. And either you are going to choose to believe Christ, which we're going to find that there are some that do in this passage later on in verse 31, or you're going to choose to reject him. When you consider all of the facts, it really boils down to acceptance of him or rejection of him. Now, with that in mind, let's pick up here in verse 14. Let's see how Christ deals with this, because what we find in here is that there is actually confusion about his authority. So what we have is first there's confusion about the nature of who Jesus is, and then we move and it narrows to To what about this man who seems to have this authority about him? Would you notice what it says in the text in verse 14? Now, about the midst of the feast, Jesus said went up unto the temple and talked And the Jews marveled, saying, How knoweth this man letters having never learned? So here's the controversy. They said they're listening to this man teach. Jesus, at this point, and we will have to assume at this point that Jesus, in fact, we'll have to assume it, it's going to be in the text later, Jesus, by the will of his own father, decides that he is going to publicly teach. And so he gets up and he does so. And when he does, the people they're astonished or they're marveled at the way, the manner in which he teaches. He teaches in a way, and they say they say, well how can a man teach this way and not be formally trained? They don't understand how he could teach without this kind of formal training. But when we look at other parallel passages, it's going to help us to understand exactly what he's talking about here. In Matthew chapter 7, verse 28, it says this, and it came to pass when Jesus had ended these sayings, the people were astonished at his doctrine, for he taught them as one having authority and not as the scribes. So the issue was that Jesus spoke in a way that was authoritative, that was very clear and with great authority, while the scribes did not speak that way. Well, to understand this, we need to understand how the scribes spoke. The scribes were extremely academic. And so what the scribes did in order to interpret the Torah and interpret the Word of God They looked at previous precedent. And so they would look at the history of how it was interpreted in the past, and when they presented how to interpret it then, they would give supporting examples of how to interpret it later. How to interpret it now based upon how it was interpreted in the past. On an academic level, that's a very good idea. It supports your argument essentially to be able to do that And so they did this in that way. When Jesus taught, he didn't do that. When Jesus taught, he simply said, This is what Scripture says. It's very clear, this is what it says. And so D. A. Carson puts it this way: He says one of the consequences of studying for years in the rabbinical centers was the tendency to substantiate every pronouncement by appealing to precedent. to earlier rabbinic judgments, but to do so might indicate a certain arrogance and independence of spirit in danger of drifting from the weight of tradition. Now that helps us a little bit, doesn't it? Because really what they are saying is that Jesus has this, he's speaking with this authority, and they are interpreting it as arrogance. He's direct with them. He's not giving supporting, substantiating claims to them. And because he is so direct and so authoritative, they become They question his authority. Now, how does Jesus deal with this? Now, I'm going to just tell you: when you read this text, it's masterful how he deals with it. Should we be surprised? Of course not. It's Christ. But the way that he deals with it is this way. Would you notice what it says in the text? He says, verse 16, Jesus answered them and said, My doctrine is not mine not mine. But his that sent me. You see, when Jesus came and spoke, and he said these things to these people, and he said that the Bible means this by what it says, he says, My doctrine is not my own. I'm not saying this of my own accord. He's saying it from him who sent me. Well, who sent who sent Christ? Okay, this is not a hard one. Who sent Christ? Good. His father sent Christ. That's right. And so he says, my doctrine is not my own. Look at verse 17. If any man will do his will, He shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God or whether I speak of myself. So even though Christ is saying to them, This doctrine is not my own, he's not actually saying that I am exclusive to understanding what the Bible says. He's saying, he then says something else. Now I want us to make a very Christ says that in order to understand the Word of God in a way that God desires for us to understand it, there's got to be a prerequisite. And it's not what you might think. It's not education. Education is helpful, but it's not education. It's not formal training. It might be helpful, but it's not, that's not what it is. He says, in order to understand God's word, there's got to be a prerequisite. Look at the passage again and notice what it says. He says, if any man will what? Will do his will. If any man will do his will, let me ask you this question. When you come to God's Word, do you come to God's Word saying, I just want to know your will, and I'll do it before you know it You know what we like to do? We not we like to get our all our ducks lined up in a row. We like to have everything figured out, and we like to have our options laid out in front of us, and we want to pick our options based upon the uh the available data that we have. We want to do ev we want to have everything all together and we want to have everything figured out and we want to have it all set And and we want to certainly consider what God's Word says about it. But sometimes it's and and all that's understandable. We we need to know all of what we can know about the situation that we're in. But folks, sometimes it's simply we've got to come to the point where we just simply say, Lord, whatever the outcome is, I want it to be your will. Whatever I've got to do in order for your will to be accomplished, I've got, I've I want your will to be done in my life. This is something that we struggle with, don't we? It's something that we wrestle with. We've got all kinds of uh seniors here looking to go to college and looking to go to various uh vocations eventually, and you're probably asking yourselves, well, what how do I know what God's will for my life is? Now I didn't choose a message based upon this. I didn't even know you were coming, so I didn't I would I didn't choose a message based upon this. But it but I'll just tell you teens and I'll tell you and kids our kids and teens Start off by just saying, whatever your will is, Lord, I want to do it. Whatever it is. Start off by saying that God's will is the best for me. And believe it. And we adults, we forget that sometimes, don't we? We forget that the very best place that we can be is exactly where God has placed us. The best place that we can be is exactly in God's will. Even if that means across the other side of the world. Even if that means 17-hour flight, even if whatever it is, the best place that we can be is exactly where God has us to be And we need to, before we even come to the Word of God and wonder what He has for us, we need to say, Lord, whatever it is, I'll do it. And the reality is, what we do oftentimes is we have our glasses of what we want, and then we look at Scripture based upon what we want. And when we do that, we're not going to see God's word for what it really is objectively. So we've got to learn to look at God's word, and we're going to say, Lord, whatever it is, whatever your will is, help me to know you through your word and help me to see what you want me to do, and I'll do it. And it really does become that simple. When you come to that conclusion in your life, you see this simplicity in the Gospels as you read them, and you see over and over and over again in the Gospels that Jesus says, follow me. It's that simple. Follow me. Isn't that simple? Two words. Follow me. And sometimes we are factoring in all the I'm this is me. This is I I've got just the way I am. I'm factoring all the different scenarios, all the different things. And Jesus says, hey, follow me. I've got it figured out. I know the end from the beginning. Follow me. We've got to learn to follow him and we've got to agree that we're going to follow him before we look into his word to see what he has for us. And that will help us to understand what exactly He does have for us. Christ says the prerequisite to knowing the Word of God is actually to say, Lord, whatever your word is, I'll take it for what it is. Verse 18: He that speaketh of himself seeketh his own glory, he says. But he that seeketh his glory that sent him, the same is true, and no righteousness is in him Did not Moses give you the law? And yet none of you keepeth the law? Why go ye about to kill me? Verse 20: The people answered and said, Thou hast a devil. Who goeth about to kill thee? Jesus answered and said unto them, I have done one work, and ye all marvel. Moses therefore gave unto the circumcision, not because it is of Moses, but of the fathers, and ye on the Sabbath day circumcise a man If a man on the Sabbath days received circumcision, that the law of Moses should not be broken, are ye angry at me because I have made a man every every wit whole on the Sabbath day? Judge not according to the appearance, but judge righteous judgment. Jesus begins to say not only that the word of God is interpreted Not as he was doing it by himself, but as as it came from the Father. But it was also available as we submit to his will. But he also says this, and this is very important for us He says, in order for you to discern the teaching that you are hearing, you need to ask this question. Is the teaching that you're hearing glorifying God or is it glorifying man? That's a pretty good litmus test, isn't it? If you think about the teaching that you might hear when you turn on the radio, not all radio teaching is bad, but some of it is Or watch the television. There are people that would stand from a pulpit and teach, and they'd say they're preaching from the Word of God, but when you listen to them, their message is self-serving. They are desiring to glorify themselves. They are desiring to seek after their own profit. They're desiring those kinds of things. Their desire is not to glorify God. And one of the things we've got to determine and we have to discern when it comes to discerning good from evil and right from wrong is who is this person this really genuinely trying to glorify? But let me just say to you, we have sort of this in issue because the Bible tells us that we ought not judge motives. We preach I preach on a Wednesday. So how do you tell the motives of someone, which the Bible says don't do it? You can't do it, so don't do it. How do you discern the motives of someone without discerning the motives of someone? How do you know if someone's glorifying God without knowing if they've without discerning their motives? How do you know? The answer is the message they're preaching. It's the message. Does the message glorify God, or does the message glorify itself in some way? And I think if if more people would use that litmus test when they're looking at listening and reading different things, I think they would find that to be somewhat helpful. Actually, perhaps very helpful. Now, as we go on here, what we find here is now Jesus is going to hone in on a particular area that the Jews are questioning him on. It's not clearly spelled out in the text, but if we look at other texts and we compare all of it, what we find is there's a controversy over the fact that Jesus chose to heal on the Sabbath day. And the Jews, the Jews that were there, and particularly the Jewish leaders, but others as well, they looked at what Jesus did and they questioned him on it. Should Jesus heal on the Sabbath day? In fact, there were some that were so vehemently against him because of this that they were ready to kill him. And Jesus knowing their hearts knew this. Now, when Jesus says to the people, Why do you some of you want to kill me? Some of them don't know where he's getting that from, and they say they sort of think that he's being overly paranoid, and they say he has a demon. They totally do not. The point is they basically don't trust Christ whatsoever in the situation. And so now Jesus is then going to deal with them on this, and he's going to try to explain to them the the what he's doing and why he did what he's doing. And he does it this way. He says, you all have a law called called circumcision. And your circumcision, he says, is something that you do if a child is born on the eighth day, you will do even on the Sabbath day. That was regularly practiced back then Well, the Bible says don't work on the Sabbath day. And essentially what he is saying is you all already take have precedence in the way that you do things, that circumcision you have decided is more important than keeping the Sabbath. Now, what we need to remember about this, folks, isn't it true who when did circumcision come about? What patriarch Okay, it's Abraham, not Moses, right? That's when it started. It was certainly codified by Moses. We find in Genesis 17, we find that Abraham is we s it was commanded to Abraham to do to do so. And then we find it you know, solidified and codified in Exodus twelve forty-four. Then we find find it that uh that circumcision all the way in Galatians chapter three, that it took precedence for the over the Mosaic law for the Jewish people. We find there even Even being controversy all the way up to Acts 15 on that subject of circumcision. And it has to be dealt with then. The point is that the Jewish people did understand the concept of priority However, that was not applied to everything else. And so when Jesus literally healed somebody on the Sabbath day, they didn't think to themselves, okay, that takes priority. Over this ceremonial ex the ceremonial teaching. They didn't seem to understand that some rules and laws take priority over others. And so they judged him solely on the fact that he was doing something that was unlawful on the Sabbath day without factoring in what he was doing. Was Jesus breaking the law when he healed on the Sabbath day? And folks, the answer is no. Because Jesus fulfilled the law. He kept all of the law. But Jesus rightly understood the law far better than any of the Pharisees, of course. And so what Jesus did was he did it based upon priority. And do you know what these people do? They judged him incorrectly. And he says to them, notice what he says, he says, verse 24, judge not according to the appearance, but judge what? Righteous judgment. The Bible says this for us, and we've got to remember this. He that answereth a matter before he heareth it, it is folly and shame unto him Do you know what we do oftentimes, folks? We are so guilty of doing this. We answer a matter before we hear the whole thing. Before we hear both sides of the story, before we see the whole picture, we are quick to answer the matter. And the Bible says when we do that, it's folly. When we choose to say, okay, well that's what I see, and we don't delve into the various various possibilities and we don't get the whole picture and we don't see the whole scenario and we make judgment on it. That is why oftentimes we fall into judgmentalism. Why why is it that we fall into judgmentalism It's because we don't see the whole picture and we are too quick to come to judgment on something. I preached on this on Wednesday night and it's sort sort of interesting I'm just doing the next text on on in James on Wednesday nights. I'm doing the next text here and they sort of con there's a confluence here Are we guilty of judgment, folks? Are we guilty of judgmentalism in our in our even in our church or our churches? Are we guilty of this We are. Do you know why we're guilty of this? We're guilty of it, folks, because we come to too quick of judgment on something. We don't get all the facts. We don't see the other person. We only hear one person's side of the story. We don't ever get the other side person's side of the story And we we come to judgment on the thing. Oh, that we would learn to not be so quick to judgment. Now it's not wrong to have a concern, and it's not wrong to question, but it is wrong to come to judgment without knowing all the facts. And we've got to be careful about this. And do you know why sometimes people come to judgment so quickly? It is because they have an inability to prioritize correctly. That's what we see in the passage. Somebody prioriti doesn't understand why one person would do something, and they look at the scenario, they don't know all the facts, and they can't understand why that person would take the take the road they're taking or do what they're doing, or come to the conclusion that they're coming to, and they don't have all the facts, and they rush to judgment, and they don't realize that something in their life is taking priority right now that you don't know about. And they're quick to judgment. A mature, godly person does not move quickly to judgment. They understand that life is complicated, that life is difficult, and there are all kinds of decisions that are made And there are all kinds of things that you've got to weigh out in life. And sometimes there are things that you don't know about and that I don't know about that are causing things in our lives to make decisions that we make in our lives that other people don't know about and I can't really all We can always say anything about it. But if they knew what what I knew, they'd know why I'm doing what I'm doing. You ever felt that way before? You know, if they just knew what I was doing, knew what I knew, and I can't tell them what I know, then they'd know why I did what I did A mature Christian understands this, a mature person understands this, and they don't, they're not quick to judgment. In fact, I think that this is such a problem that I want to illustrate it this way. And I think some of you this will help. How many of you all, and some of you I'm going to lose through this illustration. I I I'm wrestling with this. Don't worry, I won't go into it too much. Some of you how many of you all remember doing algebraic equations in high school? Raise your hand. Seniors, you better read. I mean I'm looking. Okay, okay. All right. How many of you remember that, okay? Alright? Some of you remember it. How many say this is too long ago? How many of you were doing algebraic equations or some sort of long equations after high school? Okay, I got a few more of you. Some of you some of you s uh uh blessed in the age category are now like, okay, I don't remember what. Okay They're complicated, right? I remember when I first started doing algebraic equations and and I would get all I would work try to work the algebraic. I didn't know what I was doing really, I'm working working them out and And the answer is like four. I mean you've got this long equation, and once it's all worked out, it's four And you go, how did that whole big thing turn out to be four? And sometimes, they'll, like in formal proofs and geometry, sometimes they give you the answer. Right? And they give you some of the givens and you got the answer and then you get to figure out how they got there and you're like I already know how they got there. Why do I need to know that? I mean I I the answer is right there. They're trying to you're trying to know that what the process is You know what the answer? I'm going to tell you the answer. You want to know the answer to your problems? I'll already give you the answer. It's Christ. That's the answer. You have a problem, right? Everybody's got a problem. Okay? We all have problems. We came into here with problems. Do you know what the answer? It's Christ. You know what our job is? Our job is to be able to link the problem with Christ and see how the Christ is the answer. I mean if you think about that that way, folks, that is exactly what we have got to learn to do. Christ is the answer. We got a problem. How do you connect the two? For example, a complicated I'll I'll use another illustration for you to understand this. And um so yesterday I freaked out. Can I say that when I'm preaching? Does that sound weird? I did. I'm just gonna tell you that's what I did. I freaked out. So So um I'm going to to Hong Kong on Wednesday and um and uh I was uh in I was working on my laptop. I have a MacBook Pro. Sorry you PCU users and you're gonna you're gonna like the story. Um and I'm working on it and I and I I had I delayed updates for like two weeks because I just get so busy and I'm like I don't have time for that So I I thought, okay, I better put some update go ahead and do it. So I hit the updates button and it reset the and you know to shut the computer down and it came up and it stalled and it and it started the the the monitor started like flashing. Off on off on. And the little line that's supposed to like finish up booting, it doesn't finish Like it will not I mean it won't and I'm pushing all kinds of stuff and I'm going what is wrong with this computer? I'm like I'm like what what is going and literally it's sitting there for ten minutes flashing And I'm going, oh boy, this is really a bad time for my computer to stop working. I'm going to China on the other side of the world and um I d I can't afford another one and I'm going I'm I'm I'm sure what I'm gonna do, I'm trying to extrapolate okay how many to deal with this and I'm I I went downstairs went down the stair downstairs and I said to my wife, this thing is fried She was cooking dinner. I said, My computer is fried. It's just fried. She goes, What? And I thought, okay, I better calm down now. And um so I I I called uh one of our resident computer gears and and um his I won't say his name but his name is Eric Riversti. And and um actually I texted him and I said can you help me Like I text him, I say, Do you have a minute to help me on FaceTime so I can get this figured out? I don't usually I'm not that urgent, but I was that urgent and and he goes I'll I'll do it as soon as I get finished lifting carrying up my my air conditioner my six my eighty pound air conditioner up to my room. And I thought I felt so bad. I'm like, oh, oh okay yeah fine. Yes do that first. Anyway. So then we got online and and by God's grace um he he he went on and we found that it fixed it's fixed Okay, bottom line. W it took some figuring out. It was not easy. It was a complicated thing and we didn't know what to he didn't know to do originally and we're figuring out trying to understand it and had to Google a bunch of stuff, but eventually the set it was really the fix was really simple. Like super, super simple. You know what I had to do? I hit shift P, I forget the other letter, and another letter. Okay? L, I think maybe? It was like shifts P and L or M, maybe. Anyway, three letters. That was it I just like it booted up. I hit those three three three simple fix. Suddenly the thing fixes. It's simple. Now let me explain what we do in life. And I have this diagram up here to help us understand this. We have, we see our surface observation. The kapir's fried. And we think to ourselves, simple fix, buy another one. Or or we look at the issue issue and we go, oh the computer's fried, which is the wrong conclusion, because it wasn't fried. And then I gotta buy another one. That's a simple fix, except I can't afford another one. So so we've got this so this is what we do in life. Okay? In life you come up on a problem and you immediately think you you understand the surface problem. You don't understand the depths of the problem. You you just see the surface And you and I want to make a sol a surface solution to a surface problem. We don't know all the facts. We don't have all the priorities right. We don't know what we're doing, but we have a solu we have a problem and we want the solution and we want to match it and we think we got it figured out and the problem is folks is that we don't delve deep into the problem to figure it out. It's more complicated. We like simple. We like easy. Now let me just tell you, the answer is easy. The answer is simple. But do you know what you and I have to do? We've got to do the work Of going deep into our problems, considering all of them, praying through them. We've already got the answer. The answer in some way or another is Christ. That's the answer. And we've got to take we've got to take the time and the effort to meditate and to think through our problem and to work through it and to figure it out. We already got the answer, but how does this aspect of this problem, how does it equate to Christ? Folks, if we learn to do that, then what you're going to end up with is that the real solution is simple, but the problem is that we don't take the time. To deal with our problems in a way where we're finding how Christ is the solution to our problems And what we are do, what we do instead is we are quick to judgment on things. We want it fixed now. We want to take care of it immediately. And it doesn't always work that way in life If we can learn to understand Christ is the answer, to understand the gospel solves the problem, and we are willing to do whatever God wants us to do in the situation. Then we take all of that and we apply it to the complexities in our lives, and we eventually are going to come out with the Lord's will. And we're going to come out the way that God wants us to. The problem comes is when we get confused about the solution, when we don't understand, when we don't believe that Christ is the solution to our problem. That Christ is the answer. When we get confused about who Christ is, this message is about a bunch of people that are absolutely confused about who Christ is, and it's causing controversy and it's causing problems. And we see this in the passage, and folks, there is clear application for us today that simplicity comes when we see Christ as the answer and we deal with our problems with Christ as the answer. Now, what we're finally then going to see in this passage is that the confusion over the origin of Christ. What this is now going to narrow down to is: is this man the Messiah or not? Is he the Messiah or not? And what we find in the passage is this. If you'll notice what it says in the text, verse 25. Then said some of them of Jerusalem, Is not this he for whom they seek to kill? But lo, he speaketh boldly, and they say nothing unto him. Do the rulers know any indeed that this is the very Christ? So they're trying to figure this out, and they see that the rulers could take care of him, and the rulers choose not to, so they're making, they're saying, okay, well maybe the rulers know something we don't know, like he actually is the Messiah And then verse 27, howbeit, we know this man whence he is, but when Christ cometh, no man knoweth whence he is. Now, here's what they're saying. They're saying we know the origin, we know where Christ comes from. He comes from Bethlehem, we know he's Mary and Joseph as his father. They said we know where he comes from. And so because we know where he comes from, this can't be the Messiah. Well, why do they believe that? They believe when the Bible, when it said in Old Testament prophecies that the Messiah will appear. They made the assumption that this appearance required there to be no background understanding, that this Messiah appears on the scene and they don't know where he comes from. Well appearance doesn't have to mean that, does it? Appearance could just mean that he came on the scene. It doesn't mean that he has no background at all. And they're saying, well, because we don't know the origin, we're we're we this isn't the Christ And then on top of that, so we have that assumption. They're assuming what Scripture says, and they don't know what Scripture says. So they have an assumption about Scripture. And then they have an assumption about that they know the origin of Christ. Do they really know the origin of Christ? Whose father was Christ? Christ's father was the was his father was the was God, wasn't Joseph. And so they were wrong about his origin. They made two wrong assumptions. Folks, what does that tell us in application? What do we do in life too quickly? We make wrong assumptions. We make wrong assumptions about God's word. We don't get in deep and we don't understand it completely. And we just assume we got it And we make sometimes wrong assumptions about what we are already observing. And we see that's exactly what the people did. Why is it the people practically speaking, did not accept Christ. I mean, sovereignly speaking, it wasn't the Lord's will. But practically speaking, why? Because they made unrighteous judgment, they came to wrong conclusions, and they had wrong assumptions about Jesus. And you and I have to be very, very careful in our lives that we do not do the same. Now, there is good news here in this passage Isn't it wonderful that sometimes there's good news? And we find in this passage there is verse thirty. Then when they sought to take him, but no of uh but no man We don't have time to turn there, but if you'll find If you back to chapter six, you find that Christ is saying, Christ says that the miracles that he gave, the signs that he gave, were for the purpose of them understanding to authenticate who he really is And folks, there are some people that got it that believe. And I want to encourage us that there's going to be a lot of people in the world that are confused about Christ. There's going to be a lot of people in the world that misunderstand who Christ is. There's going to be a lot of people in the world that never really come to true saving faith in Christ. But folks, there are going to be some. Because God is going to choose whom He will to come to Him. And we can have we can rest assured knowing that there are going to be some, there is going to be a remnant, there is going to be some that truly believe in Christ just as there was this day. Aren't you glad if you know Christ is your Savior this morning? Aren't you glad that you believe in Christ? That this is not a confusing thing for you, that he is who he said he was, that he is God, and he is Savior and He is Lord. And this is something that we find our unity, we find the basis of our faith in. We We can have all kinds of opinions, we can have all kinds of backgrounds, we can have all kinds of issues, but the bottom line is we know, we believe the same thing about who Christ is And there can be clarity in our lives when it comes to Christ. And I just have this very simple question for you this morning. Are you confused in your life about Christ being the answer? Are you looking to other things to be the answer in your life rather than Christ being the answer? The truth is. I don't have time to go into all kinds of examples on what that would look like in every situation. I wish I could. But folks, no matter what it is, we've got to come to the conclusion on the outset. That Christ is the answer and I need to follow him. It's simple, isn't it? Aren't you glad the answer is simple? The problems aren't simple. The understanding of how the solution gets to the problem is not simple, but the answer is simple. It's all about Christ. And we have the opportunity today to partake together of the Lord's Supper. This is a time where we'll be able to celebrate Christ. We'll be able to remember what Christ did for us in the sacrificing of Himself on the cross in our place. This is a wonderful time of unity in the body. This is a wonderful time of realizing what really brings us all together. And if you know Christ as your Savior, what we do here is we practice a communion that if you know Christ as your Savior, you've been baptized scripturally. Then you're welcome to partake with us. We have many visitors here today. You're welcome to pay if you know Christ as your Savior and you've been baptized uh scripturally, you're not disciplined from another church. I don't if there's any issues there. So you're I would just encourage you to partake for it with us because here's the thing. We all have Christ in common. Isn't that wonderful? We can be from Arizona or Maryland, and we have Christ is Christ is the common bond. You can immediately come in here and have a bond with us. Because of Christ. That is a wonderful truth that we all need to understand and remember. What I want to do now is just take a few moments and just in a quietness before the Lord, just give you a chance of time a time of self-examination. before the Lord. This is not a time where you are trying to scrounge up every sin that you ever committed. The point is to focus on Christ. However, if the Lord brings to your mind sins that you have not confessed before the Lord, certainly it is an appropriate time to agree with God about those things. And I really want to encourage you just to get our minds out of the distractions of life, all of that, and prepare our minds and our hearts to be able to partake of the Lord's Supper together. And then we'll be able to partake together in a few moments. We'll come back together. Just a so just silent prayer. Father, we come to you this This afternoon, Lord, and we thank you for Christ. We pray, Lord, that He, as the Apostle Paul said would be that he is our life. I pray, Lord, that you would help us as we come to you today today That you'd be pleased with our time of unity before you in recognizing the suffering of Christ and the shed blood of Christ on the cross for our sin. We thank you, Lord, that we can that you've given us this time just to be able to display our unity before Each other, Lord and Christ, and remind ourselves of the most important person and work in all of the world for all of the history of all of mankind. It is Christ and His atoning work and substitutionary work on the cross for us. Lord, may we be mindful of this. May this allow us to bring from what is in the back of our minds to the forefront of our minds in remembrance of you. And as we do this, I pray that we would do it in a way that we are proclaiming the Lord's death until he comes. Your desire for us is in doing this is establishing and proclaiming and preaching to the world that we are Christ's. And we thank you for that, Lord, and we pray that you'd bless this time in Christ's name, we pray. Amen.