Oh yeah, I'm so Yeah, like It's great to see you all this morning. I don't have too much by way of announcements, uh, except that Uh Anchor Baptist Church has extended an invitation for their special meetings uh in September, uh the 11th and 12th. Those are looks like Friday and Saturday. Uh so note that. I guess we'll be getting more information too as we get closer to that. And then also in September um our our morning services and and s and times will be changing, so take note of that as well. Other than that, I think that is everything. And I've asked Stefan if he could open us in prayer this morning. Thank you, Dr. Father. or around our uh for example we want to have the owners for that. So thanks for the break that given um uh for example uh method sharing what the problem. And you know there are other um difficulties in other parts of the US We pray for it for those uh waiting that helped you trade that in the detail and give it to them to those involved. We pray for this Good morning Lord. Um pray for uh that our hearts will be open and ready to hear your word and uh that we need to be teaching up by my mind and Thank you with love and draft all the different things. Um, I could like this and doesn't have uh better but it's like Moral reading From the Psalms, Psalm eighty-four. How lovely is your tabernacle, O Lord of hosts! My soul longs, yes, even faints for the courts Of hosts, my King and my God. Blessed are those who dwell in your house. They will still be praising you. Blessed is the man whose strength is in you, whose heart is set on pilgrimage, as they pass through the valley of Baca. They make it a spring The rain also covers it with pools. They go from strength to strength. Each one appears before God in Zion. O Lord of hosts, hear my prayer, give ear, O God of Jacob. O God, behold our shield and look upon the face of your anointed. For a day in your courts is better than a thousand. I would rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than dwell in the tents of wickedness For the Lord God is a son and shield. The Lord will give grace and glory. No good thing will he withhold from those who Walk uprightly. O Lord of hosts, blessed is the man who trusts in you. Good morning. If you would turn to Psalm seventy-three in your Bibles We're going to be looking at the testimony Of a very godly man named Asap, who was a Levite who led one of the temple choirs during David's time. And in Asaph's testimony, there is a very relevant lesson for every believer today. I wanted to share with you an experience I had when I was a young teenager. And this was before I was married to Joey. I haven't met her yet. But some friends came by my house and uh this was in the middle of winter and uh they come by and we were gonna go and uh shoot And uh so we drove it was about nine miles from my house and uh we got there and it went inside and we were in there for about two and a half hours playing pool and meeting friends and having uh some uh hamburgers and cokes and stuff. We came out and we looked and all the trees and everything was covered with ice. And it was just like it was a crystal uh thien. I mean everything was covered, the leaves, the stems, everything was covered with the sheet of ice, the cars, the lights were on. It was dark at night, and all the lights were on, and we came out and were looking at this and we were just so amazed at the beauty of this scene. And I'm sure we've all have seen it when we have a uh freezing rainstorm. And so we walked out onto the sidewalk, and as soon as we hit the sidewalk, we started to slip and fall and stumble. We didn't fall down But it caught us by surprise because when you looked at the concrete it looked like just regular concrete and the blacktop looked fine, like it was just wet. And we weren't really paying attention because Because we were distracted by the beauty of all this ice on these trees. And I say this to bring this out because today we're going to be talking about the things that distract us Us. There are so many things in this world that distract us even today. And I think we can all relate to it. And we have the COVID-19 causes a big distraction in our lives. Everything is changing And then we have things that are going on in our country and we have an election coming up and everything is just distracting to us. We need to know about these things But we get distracted. Sin is the same way. Sin will distract us from God. And many things we can be going through different trials and in our lives and we become distracted Distracted by them from God. And so as we look at Asaph this morning, we see a very relevant lesson here. And so we're going to begin in verse 1 of Psalm 73. ASAP begins with what truly He believes. He believes this with all his heart. He says in verse 1, Truly, God is good to Israel, to such as are pure in heart. And when you think about this, this is the mindset of Israel, and this is the mindset of Asa. And the mindset here is that God is good to his people. God blesses his people. They are to be prosperous. They were to be healthy. They were the ones who had everything. Good. And we know today that that's not absolutely true, because we know that there are going to be trials. We are warned of this. And God says, in this world you will have trouble. And uh so but in their mind they thought everything should be perfect for Christians. And we see that example in John 9 2. Remember when the disciples were We're with Jesus, and we had this blind man come along that was blind from birth. And what did they ask Jesus? They asked him, Did this man sin or did his parents sin? For the reason he's blind. They always thought that sin had something to do with anything bad that you did, and they always thought that God would be very good to them, and God is very good to them But as we come into verse 2 here, we see something that Asaf recognizes in his uh testimony here. He says in verse 2, but as for me, my feet had almost stumbled. And he said, my steps nearly slipped And so when we read that, we wonder what happened to ASAP here, that all of a sudden He knew that God was good and to those who were pure in heart, but all of a sudden he's stumbling and he's almost ready to slip. And if you go on To find out what happened, the important part that we need to notice here is that Asa got distracted, just like you and I do in different times In our lives, we get distracted. Asaph here got distracted, and he almost slipped and almost stumbled and fell from God. And so verse 3 tells us what it was that distracted Asaph. And it says in verse 3, for I was envious of the boastful when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. Asaf was looking at the wicked and the boastful, and he got distracted because of their prosperity. And I want to look here, I'm going to read through this psalm completely, then we're going to come back and kind of go through it and uh So if you'll follow along, in verse 1 it says, Truly God is good to Israel, to such as are pure in heart. But as for me, my feet had almost stumbled, and my steps nearly slipped, for I was envious of the boastful, when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. For there are no pangs in their death, but their strength seems to be firm. And they are not in trouble as other men. They are not plagued like other men Therefore, pride serves them as their necklace, and violence covers them like a garment. Their eyes bulge from the abundance. They have more than the heart could wish They scoff and they speak wickedly concerning oppression and they speak loftily. They set their mouth against the heavens, and their tongue walks through the earth Therefore his people, talking about Israel, return here, and waters of a full cup are drained by them. And he says, and they say, How does God know? And is there knowledge in the Most High? And behold, these are the ungodly, who are always at ease. They increase in riches. And he says in verse 13, Surely I have cleansed my heart in you. Vain and washed my hands in innocence. For all day long I have been plagued and chastened every morning. If I had said and will speak thus, behold, I would have been unfair, untrue To the generation of your children. When I thought how to understand this, it was too painful for me Until I went into the sanctuary of God. Then I understood their end. Surely you set them in slippery places And you cast them down to destruction. And oh how they are brought to desolation as in a moment. They are utterly consumed with terror. As a dream when one awakes, so Lord, when you awake, you shall despise their image Thus my heart was grieved, and I was vexed in my mind, and I was so foolish and so ignorant, I was like a beast before you. Nevertheless, I am continually with you. You hold me by my right hand. You guide me with your counsel, and afterward receive me to glory. Whom have I in heaven but you? And there is none upon the earth that I desire beside you. My flesh and my heart they fail. But God is the strength of my heart Heart and my portion forever. For indeed those who are far from you shall perish, and you shall have destroyed all those who desert you for heart. But it is good for me to draw near to God. I have put my trust in the Lord that I may declare all your works. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we pray this morning and thank you for your word. And Father, I just pray that you would just set me aside. Forgive me of all of my sins, Lord. I am sure that They are many. And I pray that your spirit will speak through me and Lord that you would uh remove all the distractions from us this morning, that we could just glean From your word, how these things happen and what the outcome is, Lord. So we ask for your Spirit to do the work and lead and guide in your word. And we pray that in all things you would be glorified and lifted. It up, we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. So we see Asap here, believing that God is good to Israel, such as pure in heart. So he believes in God. He was a godly man But he almost slipped and fell because he got distracted by uh the prosperity of the wicked. This was bothering him. And as we were talking about earlier, in Israel's time they always thought that all the good things happen to God's people. They are to be well taken care of, they are to be prosperous, they are to be in good health, they are everything. God is good to them. And it was a But he talks about here for I was envious of the boastful when I saw the prosperity of the world. Wicked. You know, distractions in our life today can cause you and I to forget scripture. There is an Old Testament passage in Proverbs 23, 17, and 18 It says this, do not let your heart envy sinners. Do not let your heart envy sinners. You think of Asap here. And it says, but be zealous for the fear of the Lord all your days. For surely there is a hereafter, and your hope will not be cut off. This is a passage that ASAP would have been And there's another one in Psalm 37, verse 31. The law of his God is in their heart, none of his steps shall slip. So when we are distracted, we have the possibility of slipping and stumbling. And so I want to go over just a few things about the description of the wicked That Asaph saw. And this is in verses 4 through 11. He saw, first of all, that they were prosperous. And he also saw that he said there was no pangs in their death. They they died with ease. There was no worrying about whether God was going to put them in heaven or hell. They didn't worry about that. They just seemed to when time came, they died and everything was at peace. And their strength seemed to be firm. They weren't weak They were firm. And he says that they were not in trouble as other men, and they were not plagued like other men, and we just heard Asaph saying that he was plagued and he was chastened And yet they don't seem to be plagued and chastened, and they are evil people. They don't believe in God. He said balance covers their garment. They walk around with all their pride like a necklace on And they said that their eyes bulge with abundance. They have everything the heart could wish, so they could get anything they wanted. And he said that they scoff and speak wickedly concerning oppression. They kept people oppressed because they would walk around and show off everything And then you hear down here in um uh verse uh eleven. And they say, how does God know And is there a knowledge of the Most High? Exactly what he was saying here is that God doesn't care what they do. He doesn't care what we're doing. He said, He's blessing us, he's allowing us to have this and have that, and we're not in any turmoil. And uh then it ends up, and he says, Behold, these are the ungodly who are at ease. They increase Now you can imagine ASAP here when he sums that up. Again, Israel always thought of health and prosperity for God's People. It was going to be a good life for them. Yet the wicked seemed to have it without plagues or chastening. All of this, and nothing seems to bother them They have no fear of God. Though they acknowledge Him, they are in complete ease and no fear of death. Now, this distraction here, as we find in verse 13 This distraction also seems to cause Asap to question himself. He's like he's thinking, is it really worth it for me? To be good for God. Is it really worth it for me to try to be good? For all the day long I have been plagued and chastened every morning. And yet I keep it to myself. When he was talking about here in Verse fifteen he did not want to go in and tell anyone else who were children of God because he was afraid that if he told them that he was having this uh uh envy of the Wicked that he would bring them down with him. And he says that it may cause them to falter. And he even mentions in verse 16 that I tried to understand it on my own. He's going This is his uh thoughts and his way, and it was far too painful for him. He toiled and In short, Asath's conclusion at this point was that the wicked are totally self-reliant and autonomous people They do not need God. And they can take care of themselves. And what troubled Asaph, which also sometimes troubles us, is that their lifestyle seemed to work. They were doing well. They had everything they needed. They weren't sick. They weren't going through troubles and all that. Everything seemed to work. And in vain I kept myself pure, he says, and washed my hands. and innocent. Can you relate to that? Have there ever been times when you question God, when you're distracted by things? I think of so many things that distract us today and I'll tell you a way that you can tell whether you are distracted or not. And the way that you can tell whether you are distracted or not is in your Conversation. When you come into church in the morning, what is your conversation? When you're going to your job, what is your conversation Is it about everything that's distracting you? Everything that's going on in this world? You know, it we find at the end here, which is a very good lesson for you and I, at the end where he says, I have put my trust in the Lord that I may declare all your works. If we are not distracted, we are going to be declaring what God is doing in our lives. We are going to be joyful with each other. We want cheer. It's not that we don't have uh trials and tribulation in our life. we do. And God gives us instruction on how to handle that. But here, when you think about it, a lot of times you can tell whether or not you are distracted by what your conversation Bringing out. And I tell you, I am guilty, I have found myself talking more about what's going on. than what I should be talking about. I have very wonderful Christian friends who mean well and but you find it yourself. You find things on the Facebook and messenger that they want you to read it real quick and send it on to somebody else about something that's going on, something that's untrue. That can distract us, can it not? Distract us. We should be more talking about what God is doing in our lives and what God wants us to do and direct us. We are here together this morning to learn from God's word and that we do not get distracted And the problem is sometimes those distractions come into the church, and our conversation mostly is going to be on the distraction instead of on the goodness of God. of God and His wonderful works. So that's a good lesson there to remember. But this now comes to a turning point for ASAP. And we need to realize here too That in the danger of distractions in Asaph's life, it didn't happen in one day. He saw all of this, and then he would, you know, he finally comes and he goes into a uh sanctuary of God. But this was something that was going on because he was watching, he had to see it. And he was he worked at the temple, so I'm sure he was And things going around and whatnot. But this didn't happen overnight. And the second thing is when he comes into the sanctuary, this is a turning point in Asas' life. He says, until I went into the sanctuary Of God. Now we've got to remember here, just because he walked into the sanctuary of God didn't mean a light bulb went off, and all of a sudden he knows all of this It took time for Asaph to be in the sanctuary, hearing the word of God, learning it, and being around fellow believers and discussing what they're learning. And this is what we see happen here to Asaph. And he says, until I went into the sanctuary of God, now again this is a span of time, then I understood therein This shows the importance to you and I of the scripture in Hebrews 25, where it says, not forsaking the assembly of ourselves together, as is the manner of some But exhorting one another, and so much more as we see the day approaching. Then he goes on to verse 18 through 20, and he declares the wicked sin, it's going to come quickly. They are utterly consumed with terrors. And in verse 20 he said, as a dream awakes, as when you awake from a dream dream. You know when you finally the light comes on, it's like waking up from a bad dream. And you say, oh, it was a dream But the wicked also will have that problem when the day comes. But he says, So the Lord, you awake, and you shall despise their image. ASAP's confessions come next As he talks about here, God has shown him what was going to happen to the wicked. And he's going to show us a little more about that. But Asaf's confession comes here in verses 21 And I want to read them to you. It says, Thus my heart was grieved, and I was vexed in my mind. I was so foolish and ignorant I was like a beast before you. This distraction that we talk about causes grief. In our hearts. It causes vexation of the mind. We can't think clearly. We've got this going on in there, and it's causing anger in our hearts. It's causing us to be distracted from God. Not having uh sound judgment as he talked about being ignorant and foolish. Foolish meant that he was stupid We have to be careful how we use that today, but a lot of us are stupid. And we are foolish. And we are ignorant, not discerning God's truth. And he says, I was like a beast You know there is a battle of the flesh and the spirit. We all are aware of it. We all struggle with it. The battle between the spirit and the flesh. For the flesh lust after the spirit and the spirit after the flesh. This is a battle that we all go through. But the problem that happened with Asaph, which can very surely happen to you and I, envy. of these wicked people's prosperity blinded his vision. He did not see things clearly. He did not see God's word. He didn't he was He even forgot it, most likely. And I think that's true of each one of us. But in verse 23, we find that he says, Nevertheless, I am continually with you. Talking about He came to the realization as he was going into the sanctuary and learning as we are doing today and as we do every week. says you hold my right hand. Asaph is this is why Asaph did not fall. You know, though he stumbled and slipped He did not fall. And we would hope that that would be our case. Because he returned into the sanctuary of God and learned, even when he was tempted To doubt God, even when he wondered if it was even worth following God. This reminds me of Hebrews 13:5, where Jesus said, I will never leave you nor Forsake you. And I think that it's important for us as we look through this and how easily we can be distracted from God. And what he is doing in our lives. And so he goes on here, and uh it also reminded me that in verse 24, he says, You will guide me with your counsel. When we are learning God's Word, He is guiding us. His Spirit is teaching us. What are we doing with the Word if we are grasping it and hearing it? What are we doing with it? With it. And he says that you will guide me with your counsel and afterwards receive me to glory. Can you see what is happening here with Asaph? He finally realizes that he has been distracted. And that he was going after something that was not of God. And he comes to this point where he realizes that God loves him still And shows mercy to him and shows grace to him. And he is guiding him. Romans 10:17 says that faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. When we are distracted or we decide to miss church here and there, we are not going to have this hearing of God's word. It's important that we We have this. Asap finally understood and realized that though it looked like prosperity of the wicked had no strife, plagues, or chastening Their doom, their doom was on the other side of life and eternity. The believer's struggle and chastening were in this life, but glory awaits on the other side. For the believer. We have these plagues and these trials and these challenges in our life because we are God's children. We are God's children, unlike the wicked. God was not disciplining them and all that, because they were not his children. They were the wicked. And he says in his word, before we get mistaken here, he says, I am patient, not wanting that any should perish. So they had time and they knew God because they mentioned it here. But they didn't take the time Time to put their f faith and their trust in God. And he also says that he causes the rain to fall upon the just and the unjust. So when Asaph saw that they were looking good, he was wondering why God wasn't bringing judgment against them They were not God's children, but Asaph was. And we know from scripture throughout that God's children are going to face trials. And we will go through them with the Lord while he holds our right hand. And then in verse 25, I like this, because now we see where his eyes were fully opened. He says, Whom have I in heaven but you? And there is none on earth that I desire beside you. He came to the point where he no longer wanted to envy the wicked because he realized the mistake he made. And so he comes back and he says that there's no one in heaven but you. I wonder if we can say that this morning, that above all else, Christ is our everything. Verse 26, he says, My flesh and my heart fail. You know, we know from Jeremiah 17, 9, the heart is dis deceitful above all things and desperately wicked, who can know it? I remember a little clip I saw, one good clip on my Facebook somebody put on there, and it was a Billy Graham crusade. And Billy Graham was speaking to A stadium full of people. And he made this statement. He says, I don't put my trust in government. I don't put my trust in the United Nations. I don't even put my trust in myself. He said, I put my trust in Jesus Christ. And him alone. And that should be our desire. But God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever, Asap. says. And this here, though his flesh and his heart fail, we do fall short. We know that. And but we should be repenting And getting back and right with God. But God is the strength of our heart. He is our portion forever. And then in verse 27, Asaph's conclusion of the wicked is that they shall perish and be destroyed. In verse 28, he makes the decision. But to keep from being distracted, to keep from slipping and falling. He said, but it is good for me to draw near to God. And brothers and sisters in Christ, it is good for us to draw near God Near to God. I have put my trust in the Lord God that I may declare his wondrous works. His conversation is going to change after what he has just gone through. James chapter 4, verse 7 and 8 says, Therefore submit to God, resist the devil, and he will flee from From you. Draw near to God, and he would draw near to you. You know Satan is the one who is the great deceiver. He is a liar, and he's a Beef. And he is the one who distracts us and causes these distractions. And our flesh is very willing to go, but it should not, if we have God's spirit in us, there should be condemned And Proverbs 3, 5, and 6, which is a verse that most of us probably memorize when we were kids or even in uh Sunday school. But verse uh 3, 5, and 6 of Proverbs says This trust in the Lord with all of your heart and lean not on your own understanding. What happened to Asaph being distracted? He was leaning on his own understanding Remember, he said it was too much for him. He couldn't understand it. He was so consumed with it. And it says, In all your ways, acknowledge him. And he Will direct your path. God was directing Asa's path, even though he got distracted and started envying the wicked because they were prospering. And he thought, why wouldn't I go that way instead of this way because if I go with them then I don't have to worry about suffering and struggling and all that. They have everything at ease. They don't even have to worry about God God's not doesn't doesn't doesn't care. I met a young man at my work one day and we were talking about the Lord. And I forget what they call that faith, but they believe that God created and put everybody here just left us. And uh, you know, that's such out of my scope. I couldn't even grasp it. But distractions can cause us to lose sight of scripture And dull our thinking. It vexes our minds, causing us to stumble and nearly cause us to slip away from that. I'm going to close with a passage from Hebrews, and it's Hebrews 10, 19-25. Therefore, brethren, having boldness to enter the most holiest, by the blood of Jesus, by a new and living way, which He consecrated for us Through the veil, that is his flesh. And having a high priest, our portion here, a high priest Over the house of God. Let us draw near with a true heart, in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience That evil conscience is what causes us to be distracted. And our bodies washed with pure water. This is God's word that we should be washed by. Let us hold fast the confession. of our hope, our testimony. We should hold fast to having a good testimony. And one thing you find about Asaph, he was very honest in his testimony. He wasn't afraid to admit that he was slipping and fallen and he Went after something he shouldn't have. But he also shows the other side of what God had done. And he showed us how we can do the same thing. And he says here, without wavering. So what causes us to waver? Distraction. Anything that is distracting us is causing us to waver. For he who promised is faithful. This is the strength of my heart. And let us consider one another in order to stir up love and good works, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together. ASAP became discontent when he saw what was going on and he started to envy them. My question to you today is what is it That distracts you. You know it can be anything. It can be anything that just takes us away from God and causes us not to be in fellowship with God closely. closely as we ought to be. Remember that Asaph says it is good for me to draw near to God. And I think that's the same for us. And so as we close in a word of prayer, I pray that this has been an encouragement to you and a challenge to you And uh we will pray that uh God will do his work in due time. And Father, we thank you this morning for the testimony of Asap. What a wonderful testimony, Lord. We all can relate to times when we feel we have been distracted. And Lord, it can be many things that That distract us. Father, it can be issues in our families, it can be in our marriage, it can be, Lord, just in anything that is drawing us away. And Father, I ask that as we have learned here, that we need to draw near to you and put our faith and trust in you. That God maybe when we do this, Father, not maybe, but when we do this, that you will be our strength and our our portion. And I pray, Lord, that as we realize and uh be careful about the distractions of life, that Father, we will keep our faith in our trust in you so that when we are talking with other people, Father, we can talk of the good works that you are doing in our lives this day. And we ask in Jesus' name. Thank you, Harry, for uh Delivering the word this morning. Now we have an opportunity to respond to what we've heard in song. Our first song this morning is worthy of worship. And I think it it really is a reminder of the character of God and the fact that He is worthy of our worship. He's worthy of our service to Him. He's worthy of our commitment to him. When we have thoughts of uh that distract us wondering when we look at the at the world and see the prosperity of the wicked We can be reminded that He is worthy of our commitment to Him. Let's go ahead and stand together as we sing. We are honored and we are Worthy of all the only three three creator in my world. Save yourself, worthy, and honorable worthy, your worship and praise. Worthy of reverence, worthy of fear, worthy of love, and emotion. Worthy of allowing and mending of knees, worthy of all this and add it to these, you are worthy. Father began in Lombard. Save your Savior Illy Worthy and honorable, worthy of worship and raise. Almighty father, brother and more king of kings and re Wonderful counselor, conqueror, friend, savior and source of our life without head, you are worthy. Father Creator, you are worth me. Name your neighbor, you are me. Now we move to our next song, Abba Father. He holds us and keeps us safe in his arms. Trust my God, trust me, of me, all that you are. Of mother I rest in you. You're always made home. You're always true. Oh my father, you are my song. Oh my god, So nine is long time, right new Father help me lean on you more through me, follow me, through every sour. Help me when I can see. Your will is best for me. Call me hold me, shelter and war. You're always waiting, you're always true You are my soul, the ground or dog, no night I like you a Thy my heart free, so that the world makes me You're lying, break me, shape me, make me like you. You're always waiting for you're always true. No love butter, you are my soul. No love nor nor nine is more I cry. For our last song