All right. Um if you have your green books, we are nearing the end of this series on the living the exchange. We've definitely gone through at a slower pace than what you would probably want to go through someone um that you're going one on one with. We are going to look at, we're looking at the second to last chapter, which is on finances, and we've come to page 111, which deals with the issue of saving and borrowing. I want to say at the outset of this, my own experience with regard to just this topic as a whole. I remember when I was a child, um Which wasn't for some of you would say that wasn't that isn't that long ago. Um some of you would s say it's kinda wild, a l a long time. I don't know, I'm somewhere that in the middle somewhere. But anyway, but I remember that it was deplorable the even even the idea of using a credit card at the supermarket. In fact it wasn't allowed, right? Okay? Um Yeah, it wasn't yeah, it was just wasn't even offered. The idea of using a credit card for food was just just totally like nobody would even think of doing that now. Uh doing that then. Um And the whole view of debt um just in our country back at that point was was not like it is like it is now. Um and so we've had sort of a even in my lifetime had a shift in our under in p in understanding of debt Since 2006 and the whole thing you know crashed, there have been some people that have understood how important it is to not, you know, go into too much debt. So we've had some more conservative views when it comes to finances even in our culture. But as a whole, um the world's would we all agree that the world's view of borrowing and saving is really opposite of the scriptural view as a whole of borrowing and saving. I think I I have found that to be the case. And so um this is a subject that I think is important for us to go through. And he reads, he gives some statistics here. They're actually kind of old statistics, but I don't think things have gotten any better from these statistics, so they're safe to uh So I'm just going to read some of these. The total amount of consumer debt in the United States stands at nearly 2. 6 trillion. That's very old. I think we're What, up near 14 trillion now, I believe? Uh something like that. So it's it's this is way low compared to what we are now. Is that right? Who would know that? Jac Jacob, you would know that. Do we do you know that? No? I don't know. Okay Yeah, national debt is that Oh this is consumer debt. Oh this is consumer debt? Yeah. National debt's fourteen to eighteen trillion eighteen trillion. Consumer debt is that that eighteen trillion doesn't include Of course not. You wouldn't include it. You wouldn't include it. Calm down, babe. Um anyway that that number two two point six trillion is still is probably higher now. Um and based on the latest census statistics The works out uh that works out to be eight eighty five hundred dollars in debt for every man, woman, and child that lives in the United States This is not counting mortgages, so it's not counting mortgages. This is $34,000 of consumer debt for an average family of four The size of the total consumer debt grew nearly five times in size from 1980 to 2001. So my my experience in my lifetime bears out statistics. I mean it's it's accurate from what I'm seeing. Nearly one in every thirty-five households in the United States filed for bankruptcy in 2007. We live in a buy now, pay later culture, but the Bible does not promote this lifestyle. Let me ask you a question. How many of you have ever really taken a look at all, or as many as possible of the um of the of what the Bible says about this issue of debt. You've just taken Scripture and you've looked at all of what Scripture says about it. How many of you have ever done that Okay. Um I can raise my hand. There have been a couple here that have done that. Let me ask you a question. Is there any time in Scripture Now what I'm going to do is I'm going to bend the, I'm going to I'm going to sort of bend our thinking the other direction and maybe we'll come straight here. Is there any time in Scripture, any time, where debt is considered to be a good thing? Financial debt I'm talking about. I can't find one time it's ever talked about as a good thing. Not once. It's always, every time I've ever seen it talked about in Scripture, it's a bad thing. It's a unwise thing. Now, is it sin to go into debt? I can't find any scripture where it says it's sin to go into debt. But there is a lot of, but it's there are many times it talks about be really careful when you go into debt. And he points this out. One of the passages that is sort of this overall understanding of borrowing, I think he rightly points out Proverbs 22:7: the borrower is servant to the lender. Okay, that's just a fact, that's just the way it is. It's a very general statement. So how much of a servant do you want to be to somebody else? Ultimately, who who do we want to serve Right, we want to be a servant of Christ. Part of the biggest problem with debt is that if we're not careful, debt makes us a servant of something other than Christ. It distracts us from serving Christ. So we have two masters. And the Bible says you can't have two masters. So we have a sort of a built-in problem. with with this con with this idea um of having uh a lot of debt. What does the Bible call, number 30 here, what does the Bible call people who don't repay their debts? Wicked. I mean, it goes so far as to say it's wicked. Alright, the Bible says also in Romans 10 in the New Testament, owe no man anything. Alright, so what does that mean? Can I ask you a question on that wicked part? Yeah. Um w in scripture you had the year of Jubilee. Every fifty years. I thought it was Saturday Every 50 years. They had certain certain uh no the year of Jubilee was every fifty years. They had every seven years there was certain things that that occurred. the nation of Israel that that wiped out certain kinds of debt, but not all that. But the problem of course was that once you once you stepped out of the nation of Israel and they went and borrowed from somebody else, then there was not that not that at all. whether it's fifty or six if you owe are owing them money and then you're not having to owe them money is it's like then it will be a little bit more Here here's what happened. The lenders were extremely careful. It's not as though you had all these debts that were just wiped out all the time. Usually what happened it caused the lender, it gave accountability to the lenders, to the lenders saying, Oh, I know I only have this amount of time. to pay for him to pay off his debt. So you it reduced the level of the level of amount of borrowing. If we had that that in this country, if if only if lenders could only lend out every and they had they had to wipe it out at ten in ten years or fifteen years. What you'd have is people wouldn't be able to qualify for loans because you'd really have to be able to back the fact that you're going to be able to do this So the whole idea, the i th God's idea on this was very, very, of course the best. Yes, Kim? Can we just increase the interest rate? Based on the risk? Well that may be true too uh around here? Yeah, that that may be that maybe the case. So they get their money back faster. That's possible. Are they then considered wicked? Okay. That is the question. Who is who considered wicked? The people of number thirty. borrows and pays not again, but the righteous show mercy and what is that? Yep. The righteous so show mercy and gifts, right. So are they then They have this forgivingness, they have this grace, right? Yeah. This this time that's known. They stole money, but yet they are then now forgiven of their debt. Are they still considered wicked? Um that's a good question. I mean the your Jubilee is every fifty years, so we're not talking about a lot of time. Uh I mean we're talking about a lot of time there. there's also I'm not trying to get on a basic year, but you also that seven year of claws within different things. And only if I said there are many many people that That um would have maybe a bankruptcy, right? That's tax of credit for seven years. Right. That's like the thing, right? And so I I almost wonder there's that That I've never had a banger stand, I actually want to go. So if you have that forgiving grace period, it is there for that that person. There are many people that I have actually known who have had these. They still have grace that has been essence to to be forgiven of that debt. Are they Well, um what does the Bible say? I mean uh you know, yes, just Right. So I think it would have to do with, you know, that that person is not paying back their debts. Right. Then yeah, I mean they're they're wicked. And yeah, the the debt can be forgiven, but I mean that person It's not wrong to be in debt. It is wrong to not pay on your debt. I mean that's really it. The bottom line is it's sin to not pay your debts. You can be in debt. It's it's it's sin to not pay your debts. The question is, is how much of in debt do you want to be bec and to risk not being able to pay your debt because it's going one w might lead to the other. Tricia? And I think it's not not a necessarily a matter of the dollar amount that that you have returned when your ju july hit. It's more about a pattern of character sure that this is a person who the the wicked person is the person who and I know people like this personally who they They allow people to give to them, give to them, give to them, and promise that they'll pay them back and they actually have no intention at all of paying them back. They actually think they deserve them to get that for free. I think that kind of goes to towards a little bit of what I was saying because there are people that want to pay back. Like maybe maybe it's credit card, right? Maybe they got to open it and couldn't pay it. But the And finally they just bury themselves. But it's not as if they were they they just got crazy, right? So are they then counted wicked because they charged off all their debt? they settled with their credit card company and the credit card company thought it would be okay to settle on a ten thousand dollar debt for the no I I mean there's differences I that's kinda what I'm saying I think that I don't know if you could just broad stroke and say that if you owe somebody money and you don't pay them, I think to that point absolutely, because you have an alternative alternative motive to not pay back. idea. But to say they're wicked, um with that because and I'm having a hard time with the Bible. Yeah. Because other Okay, let's take the New Testament principle here. Instead of categorically saying somebody's wicked, it says o no owe no man anything. Here's my question. My answer to your question is a question. Is it wrong? Let's forget about the person being categorically wicked for a minute. Is it wrong for a person not to pay their debt back? Okay, so categorically, it's wrong for a person it's thin if they don't pay their debt back. So this concept of whether a person is wicked or not, if you know Christ is your Savior, it's covered under the blood, it doesn't mean it's not wrong. It's uh so I'm not sure that and and and the Proverbs is full of general principles. If a person is in the habit of doing that, they're wicked. Okay. Um yes. Also thinking that situation with the year of Jubilee, like what Josh was saying about whether that person would be considered wicked or not, it was typical too, you know, like that was a a picture of you know that forgiven that's a forgiveness later yeah. So so yeah and definitely in the type of that. But if you're forgiven forgiven, you're not then considered wicked Anyway. Yeah, the act is still simple. I uh exactly. Yeah. As a matter of fact, uh I feel good if we do hit it a little bit longer because it's in the wicked borrows and does not pay. Right. Right. Sure. It's not unusual at all for people that are getting ready to go into bankruptcy to um put as much on credit as That's definitely working. What is the what are the items which the pe in in the Nehemiah story, what are the items which w with which people borrowed money? We might buy what? Corn, right? Um So they placed their in fact so even they were buying good things, they were borrowing money to buy good things. What was their result of their actions? They put their children in bondage. Okay, now let's just the okay so in our country is that possible it isn't it isn't once a person dies their debt does not go down to their children in this country. Okay, so now however if there's any inheritance left, the debt gets paid off first. Okay. And the Bible actually says it's honorable to leave your children inheritance. Well, if you have debt that reduces their level of inheritance, it's it is something that's to be considered here. Borrowing is uh barring to get at he he may makes a good point here. Um the passage does not teach against borrowing But it certainly demonstrates that borrowing to get out of trouble makes a bad situation worse. Proverbs 15, 6, in the house of the righteous is much treasure. But in the revenues of the wicked is trouble. Proverbs twenty-one twenty There is treasure to be desired and oil in the dwelling of the w of the wise, but the foolish man spends it up So what does this say about describe about a person who saves? So we're not going to move from borrowing here now and talk about saving instead. What does it say about a person that saves ahead of time? It's a wise thing, right? So wisdom says I'm going to save up and then buy. Foolishness, I mean, every time you see borrowing used in Scripture, it's always foolish. I mean it's at least foolish. It's not always sinful. But you don't see borrowing as a wise thing in Scripture. Now I'm not saying you shouldn't buy a house. I mean, there's there's but but just what scripture says, you can't find anywhere it says it's wise to borrow. So the biblical, general biblical way is you save up, then you buy. Rather than you buy, and then you have to pay back. You go into debt to to buy. How does it how does God describe those who do not save? They're foolish. Do we have a problem with this in this country? I mean, people do not save up. They want what they want now. So this is culturally a serious problem. What is the motive to save as much as you can Proverbs nineteen fourteen Houses and riches are an inheritance of fathers And a prudent wife is from the Lord. Proverbs 13, 22, a good man leaves an inheritance for his children. So the motivation is, you know, there's some people that say, well, I ought to spend it all now. You can't take it with you. You ever heard that before? You can't take it with you. Well, biblically, what God says is honorable is for us to not take it all with us, that we leave some for for our children. That should be our desire to do that. It's not always possible, but but that that that's uh uh an honorable desire in God's in God's thinking. Um The Bible also promotes a strong so so saving versus borrowing. And there are, if you want to write down some passages, I looked up, um, I won't read all these passages, but I'll just give you the references. Romans 6. 24 talks about you can't save, you can't serve two masters. Proverbs 22. 7. Romans 13, 8, O No Man Anything, Proverbs 13, 11, Proverbs 22, 26 through 27, Proverbs 17, 18, Proverbs eleven fifteen Psalm 37, 21, Proverbs 6, 1 through 5, Deuteronomy 25, 4, Nehemiah 5. 3, Ecclesiastes 5. 5. They all talk for the most part about debt in different ways and different nuances, different ways of looking at it, and all of them though are considered to be a foolish thing. The Bible uh so we've got borrowing on one hand, saving on another. Now let me be clear. As far as I can tell from scripture, it's not sinful to borrow. It's not a wrong thing to borrow, but it often is a wise and unwise thing to borrow. My experience has been that with mature Christians, there generally is one thing that tends to be something that people say, you know, I um I think you still think you have to be careful with this that it probably is okay to borrow. What do you suppose that is? Yeah. You've got to live somewhere, right? Um and usually the thinking behind that is is that you've you you you're going to borrow uh uh to live somewhere versus renting, for example, where you're just throwing the money away. And also your assets could theoretically uh your assets in in a couple of years your equity is gonna outweigh your debt anyway. Um how sort of markets typically end up Yeah, it's an appreciable item rather than a depreciable item. But the problem though, we do have to be careful here, right? Since 2006 we've got to be careful with that, right? We've learned it's not always an appreciable item now. Uh uh it's in fact it's it's less It's less a guarantee than it used to be that it's appreciable. Yes. Right. Yeah. Yeah, so I my experience has been that most ex most mature Christians that I know, that's the one debt that they usually that universally is sort of uh understood, that that that's probably probably reasonable. Um but you don't o you don't over overextend yourself on it. Um because if you can't pay on it, then you sinned Okay. So you don't want to get your and I think that's that's where wisdom comes in. And in all these different areas, it's really a matter of wisdom. What do I want uh to do it's not like I want to get as close to sin as I possibly can without sinning. So I'm gonna borrow as much money as I possibly can and I can pay it. But no, how far away do I want to stay from this so that I don't ever have to to sin in this area? Does that make sense? So uh the this thinking is is uh important for us. Um Then we move to another subject that factors into all this that Jeff Musgrave wisely wants to cover, and it's also a problem in our culture, and that is our work ethic. Okay. We have serious I mean when you look at these things, every one of these are serious problems in our culture. And uh the Bible uh he uh says the Bible also promotes a strong work ethic. One of the Ten Commandments teaches the importance of long days and long weeks of hard labor. While rest is necessary, it is not the objective. Listen to this. This is really good. We rest so that we have the energy to work, not work so that we have the time to rest. Did you catch that? We rest so we have the energy to work. We don't work so we have the time to rest. That's a good litmus test in your thinking. Are you constantly working so you have the time to rest, or are you resting so you have the energy to work? One is going to slide toward laziness. The other is going to is going to maintain a strong work ethic. Does that make sense? Um something something that somebody's laugh. Why you is that funny? I guess we can't work for the weekend then. Can't what? Can't work for the weekend. Work for the week. Right. Well that's true. What's the other problem with working for the weekend? The Bible says that whatever we our hand finds to do, we do it with all of our might, as unto the Lord. So that's the other re thing. We are not to work for the weekend is not something that is Everything we do, we put up we we put our hand to it, we do it with all of our might as under the Lord. including our work. It is not as though your spirituality stops when you get at work. Our spirituality really is defined by what we do in the mundane everyday of life in our work What is the prime the uh priority taught in Scripture? Prepare your work without and make it fit for your field. and your and afterwards build your house. So the priority is to is to work hard. What does the Bible teach should happen to people who won't work? 2 Thessalonians 3. 10. You shouldn't eat. 60 uh 36. What does this verse teach about hard work? Ephesians 4. 28, let him that stole steal no more. But rather let him labor, working with his hands, the thing which is good, that he may give. So the unbeliever or the not even I mean, not every unbeliever has a problem with stealing. But but the the sinful way to do it is to think of stealing all the time. The the godly, Christ-like approach is to give. One is to take, the other is to give. He says this from contentment to overborrowing, and from working to giving. God has shown us what to do. The Holy Spirit of God will enable us to make the changes necessary to do it. Romans 11, 36, for Him and through Him and to Him and All are all things to whom be glory forever. Amen. Philippians 2. 13. For it is God which works in you both to will and to do for his good pleasure. So these are all things that are very important for us to uh to understand God's God's attitude. I think when you're considering some of these things, what you really have to consider is what is God's mind on the matter? It's not so much trying to figure out every detail of everything necessarily and where we can, where we have wiggle room, where we don't. But generally, what is God's attitude about this? So what is God's general attitude about borrowing? Right, he's that's a good way to put it, it's not a fan. Okay? So God it's not a positive view of borrowing, general attitude What is God's general attitude about saving? It's wise. What is God's general attitude about work? We ought to do it. And I think that's important that we have things um our are our things accurate in the way in the way that we think through these things. Uh any any questions or thoughts now that I've gotten through through the material? Have I offended everybody in the room Okay. Hopefully not. I I will tell you this. Dave? Yeah. I grew up with him. Yeah. You were talking to somebody and they said, well, gee, you're gonna run it off on your income tax. And Briquette's comment to that was, tell you what, you loan me $1,000, I'll promise not to pay pay it back and you can write it off on your income tax. Think about that. That's stupid. But the object of buying or borrowing something is going into debt so you'll write it off on your income tax income tax unless you're in the fifty one percent tax bracket is crazy. But that's what people get sold all the tax deductible. Yeah. Yeah. Um yeah, I grew up listening to Larry Burquette almost every day. I was a bit of a nerd that way. I didn't tell my friends. Um that's why she laughed when you said Larry Burquette. She knew I listened to Larry Burkett. Anyway. Um so yeah, I I I was a big fan of Larry Briquette growing up and um anyway, I I had a spreadsheet budget when I was a teenager. So uh anyway. Um the and Dave Ramsey's a good guy today to listen to. Um he really has good advice on this, has a good approach to to uh a biblical approach to to these kinds of of things. I would really I would highly recommend um these guys that uh that do this. Layer Burkett's not not around any w any longer but But we would really stay in a lot of trouble if we listen to these guys, to be honest with you, with a lot of things. Now let me just um sort of close this way. What we really um we know what the world says about this kind of stuff. I understand from a business perspective the idea of leveraging, for example. But we really need to ask ourselves the question. Here I think is the for me is the bottom line. I want God to lead me through his provision. So I know what God wants for me because He provides for me. When we borrow It's like I really feel like a lot of times we're getting ahead of what God wants. That's why I will just tell you as a whole, I am really I am very uninclined for a church to borrow money. I really don't care for it. Because we can see how God is leading when God provides for us. It is so much better to save up ahead of time to buy a you know land or property or something than to than to pay go to go into debt for it. I really am I I'm not saying it's it's not categorically sinful And I know churches that are godly, have godly people in them and godly pastors that have gone into debt, but I have a really strong aversion to it. Let me put it that way. Because um because we see that God has a strong aversion to it, frankly. Yeah. There there is no other way to look at it. Yeah. That you are presuming on the future. And actually God's pretty clear in James not to do that. Um and that's one of the main problems with it. Larry Burkett always always brought that up too. All right. I could see Dave and I could have a long talk about labor cuts sometime. All right, let's go ahead and close in a word of prayer. I hope that this has been helpful for us. to think biblically about these things. It's exactly the opposite of the way our world and culture is thinking about these things. And um We uh we would uh be wise with our our finances to follow what God's plan. Let's pray. Father, I do I would imagine that there are some here, Lord, that um have struggled with uh this kind with with debt in just in general. Um I know that there are extenuating circumstances in certain certain cases where debt has been almost inevitable or just very hard to be helped. And I'm thankful that you understand all those situations and that you are very merciful in providing for for your children in these ways. And I hope and pray that there's been no misunderstandings about these kinds of things. things it is my desire that we uh just think biblically about about these kinds of things and um that we understand your way of doing things is the best way. I pray that that would be our heart to just look at how you choose to do things and that we would say we want we want to do things your way because it's the best way. And we know all of us have failed in different ways in these different categories. We have s often perhaps have not saved what we should or borrowed more than we should. There are times where we are lazy. All these areas, Lord, I pray that you would just help us to to be good stewards of what you have given us and help us to to have a a desire to work hard uh for your honor and glory. Um and we pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen All right, you're dismissed. I've I've seen that movie. Remember the part of the breakfast table we talked about uh he's in advertising and his daughter looks at him and says My teachers, I can't remember their names, that advertising makes people want things they can't they don't need. And that was all the way back then and they didn't have nearly the problem we have at the time. My favorite verse is in Ecclesiastes.