Hi everyone, take your Bibles if you would and turn to Matthew chapter 5 tonight. Matthew chapter 5, we're going to finish up the Beatitudes. I'll give everybody a minute just to be able to log on tonight as we uh have another segment of our series on the Sermon on the Mount from Matthew. Chapter five. I want to ask a question. I actually the first thing I want to do is I need to I I'm told I need to smile. So I came downstairs in my office. And um and on my desk is was this. It says, see can you all see that? It says E-limes, well actually what it says is smile if it from here. One of my daughters wrote this and put this on my desk and says smile. I don't know if anybody else is like this, but I don't tend to smile unless somebody tells me something funny. So I just have a little hard time with it. So if somebody wants to comment and tell me a joke, then I'll smile and we'll be good. Now I'll try to smile more. I I I I I'm actually quite cheerful. I really actually enjoy doing this Um and so maybe I'll just hold this up every once in a while rather than actually smiling. I d I am not a good actor. I am not a good I I I always had trouble. Uh even as a kid they would put a camera in front of me and want me to take and take my picture and I I just uh fake smiles don't work for me very well. But I do uh certainly enjoy uh enjoy doing what I'm doing tonight and I hope that you can enjoy uh listening as well. Matthew chapter five, and I want to ask this question as we begin in Matthew 5 Can a follower of Christ consider himself or herself a victim? Can a follower of Christ consider himself or herself a victim? That's the question for us tonight. We hear a lot on the news about so-and-so is a victim of this or that or um uh different kinds of things that occur. Well, uh can a Christian can a true follower of Christ think of himself or herself biblically as a victim? We are going to this is our should be our last segment on uh the on the Beatitude, which is the first segment in the Sermon on the Mount. And um and I'm look forward I'm looking forward to looking at this tonight. I should probably go ahead and mention that if you want to see previous segments of uh this study, you can go onto our website and at BBCOFMD. org forward slash sermons. And then when you get into the sermons, you're going to see a series, and we're calling this BBC Truth Point Live. That's the series that you'll see. BBC, that's Bethel Baptist Church, and then it'll just say Truth Point Live. Um live to Demit to show you that it's from Facebook Live. That's where they're there the uh are the The guys, uh Pat primarily is taking the Facebook Live um videos and then putting them into the sermon audio so that you can see them over again. But if you want to see this in any of anything in this series, just go to again bbcofmd. org forward slash sermons and then you can then go to uh It's called Truth Point Live. And so let's go ahead and begin our study by reading Matthew chapter 5, and we'll read the first Uh the first eleven verses of this chapter. It says, and seeing the multitude he went up on a mountain, and when he was seated, his disciples came to him Then he opened his mouth and taught them, saying, And then as I go through the Beatitudes, I'm just going to remind us of what these are. Number one, blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. That is, a person who is who is destitute before God, who sees himself spiritually as destitute before God, offering nothing to God, and really understanding his own spiritual need. That person, God says, is blessed, and it says that that person is happy and will and will receive the kingdom of heaven The next verse it says, Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. And we noted back when we looked at that word, the word mourn has to do with the With the mourning of someone uh mourning particularly of sin. A follower of Christ is a mourner of personal sin and the sin of others. There is a grieving that happens uh on the part of a person who who really is following Christ when he sees his own sin. And when he sees the sins of others, the Bible says that that person is happy. But it also says future tense that person shall be comforted. And each one of those as we re we as we re we have recalled has a has a present tense blessing, blessed it says, or happy, and then followed by the actual beatitude, and then followed by a future reward. If you recall, later on in the passage it says, Great is your rewards in heaven, which we talked about the very first time we looked at this passage. So the reward there is that they shall be comforted. And it tells us There's going to be a time where for the true follower of Christ we will one day be with the Lord and we will be free from sin, which means we will be free from all mourning. We'll be free from all grieving We look forward to that day. Then it said, Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. The meek is not a a a kind of weakness that has no strength. It is a harnessed strength. The strength is under the control. under under control. And then it says, Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness. It really points to our own hearts. What is the true desire of a follower of Christ? He doesn't hunger and thirst after fame or fortune. He doesn't hunger and thirst after um after the kinds of things that the world follows after. No, he wants righteousness. He there is this hunger in his soul for righteousness. for things to be right, for his life to be right, for him to be in accordance and in and in a place where he is pleasing with God. That person, though he is not always righteous, practically He's declared righteous, working on righteousness, but he has a desire for it. Really, if a person has absolutely no desire for righteousness, That person should really question whether or not they really are a true follower of Christ. It says that person will be filled. And if look and we look forward to the day. Where we are if a follower, a true follower of Christ is declared righteous, he is longing after righteousness in this life, and there will be a day where he will be completely filled with righteousness. when we see Christ. We shall see him, and we will be like him, for we shall see him as he is. It says then, Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy, a person who understands his own sin, who understands he is destitute spiritually before God, a person who understands that that he is he mourns over his sin. and who desires after righteousness, that person is a place in which is at a place in which he is going to have a merciful attitude And that person is going to obtain mercy. And the reason for that is that when when someone is reali realizes how undeserving they really are, they begin to look at other sin as a secondary thing, they look at their sin as primary. They're first going to look at their sin, then they're going to look at other people's sin, and there's going to be a level of mercy. Why? Because they've received mercy. And then it says, Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Last time we looked at that. And we looked at what it meant to uh to be pure in heart and what it means to see God. And there there seems to be in Scripture a a A proportionate degree to which the more pure in heart you are, the more you will see God. Seeing God requires purity of heart. And one day we will we will be our heart will be completely pure and we will be able to experience God in the in the deepest way possible. that we can. And then we looked at peacemakers last yester uh last time as well. Blessed are the peacemakers for they shall be called the sons of God. And today we're going to look then at the final beatitude, which is really, it's a big one. It's it's There's a lot of implications with this one, and that is, blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Now we've seen this word righteousness before. It says, blessed are those who hunger and thirst after righteousness. Well, if you really hunger and thirst after something, then it's not long before you're going to be practicing it. And this passage says, if you are practicing righteousness consistently, you're going to be persecuted for righteousness. Now let's circle back to the question that I asked in the beginning. How is it that that a Christian could ever see himself as a victim? When we think of what a victim is, how can we see it this way? Well, well, we need to understand that a victim is one who sees himself as as uh the bad things that happen to him are imposed on him. And and what we need to see as Christians is that there is nothing for a true follower of Christ that happens That is it something that the Lord is using in his life to make him more and more like Jesus So let's break this down a little bit. It says, Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Now, my- I just got a text from my wife. And my wife says to smile again. My girls are really picking up on this. So my one of my girls writes smile here. See that on my desk? My wife is texting me to smile. I I guess you need to smile. Is that better? Okay. Anyway, um I am I am trying to smile. I just I don't have a na naturally have a smile. I you know, there's some people that uh that do this stuff and they're so good at it and they have a great smile. I need to just get back to to teaching God's word and hopefully you can imagine a smile or something. I guess I don't know. Anyway, so um So we're talking about blessed are the are the uh those who are persecuted for righteousness And let's then just look and see what it means. What is this talking about? Let's talk a little bit about this idea of persecution. What does it mean when it says persecuted for righteousness' sake? Well, first of all, let's just consider history. And the history of the Christian Church, per per particularly in the first century. And let's really consider what kinds of persecution they underwent. And I don't really don't, this is probably not something I can really smile too much about. Uh the first one the first consideration is bodily persecution. Are you aware that Emperor Nero, who was who was the primary emperor during the time of the First century church bathed Christians in pitch and lit the roads with them In fact, he lit his gardens with them as a decoration. They were tortured on a rack. Red hot brass plates were attached to tender parts of their bodies and their eyes were plucked out. These people, God says, are blessed. He says that these people are blessed and that theirs is the kingdom of heaven. That's not the only kind of persecution. In the early church, when when the church was first forming, they met in synagogues. And one of the other kinds of persecutions that they were that they began to uh experience was ostracism, where they were, as it were, unsenagogued. It says uh and and what would happen is they were there was uh uh usually a public rebuke and they were actually excommuted from the synagogue. for at least uh at least thirty days and sometimes longer. Um and so there was there was persecution in that sense. And then There was this verbal persecution as well. And actually the text talks about this verbal persecution. It says, Blessed are you when they revile you and revile and persecute you And say all kinds of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven. So it says, those who revile and persecute you and say all kinds of evil against you falsely for my sake. And so there is this reviling, heaping of insults, false accusations and lies, all of these kinds of things. are the are are examples of persecution. Now, let me let me qualify something. Persecution is something that what we're not talking about here is persecution for someone's angry disposition. I remember when I was in college, we used to go to the central area down uh at the city in which the school was located, and we we used to go just walking along the streets and we would tell people about Christ And I recall one particular time as I was walking by, a fellow student was talking to someone who was just just s walking along. And he was like preaching at him. He was like condemning him and and speaking very angrily at him and those kinds of things. um just just just railing on him. And that person is that's not what we're talking about here. Somebody was sh is shunned because they're just of their of their ornery disposition or No, this is something different. See, what happens when a person is trying to live righteously and loves righteousness and and that kind of thing. What happens is is that a person who isn't living righteously, he begins to, his conscience begins to bother him. And went or her. And when his or her conscience bothers them, then they begin to want to retaliate toward the person who is living righteously. That's really often the root problem with righteousness, uh with persecution. A perfect example is the Pharisees, and Paul and Christ is going to obviously oppose the Pharisees The Pharisees were righteous on the outside, but they weren't inwardly righteous. And when they saw somebody that was inwardly righteous and it was just naturally coming out of them The Pharisee began to be convicted and their guilt would overwhelm them and they wanted to lash out. It would cause great problems. This happened in Acts chapter, several chapters in the book of Acts. But I want you to notice something in the book of Acts, chapter 5 We won't take the time to uh to turn there tonight, but I just notice in verse 41. But after a group of apostles were there and they were persecuted for righteousness' sake, they said this. They said they left the presence of this council, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer dishonor for the name of Christ. It's incredible that they saw being persecuted and suffering for Christ's sake in that way. And likewise in the book of Philippians, which is where our study is on Sunday mornings in our worship service. uh church. In the book of Philippians, it actually Paul actually says that when when a when a follower of Christ really under uh goes under suffering that it's actually something that is um i it it's it's a privilege. Uh I'll read it for you what it says in Philippians chapter one verse twenty-eight it says um It says, and not in any way terrified by your adversaries, which is to them a per proof of perdition or destruction, but to you of salvation and that from God. For to you it has been granted on behalf of Christ, not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for his sake. Paul actually says that suffering for the sake of Christ is a gift Because we share in the sufferings of Christ. There's a sense in which we are counted worthy to be able to do that. That is hard for us to grasp. It's hard for us to understand. But understand this that the person who who is living out the rest of the Beatitudes, they're mourning over sin and they're they're suffering for uh uh they're they're they're mourning over sin and they're they're have a purity of heart and they're all those other things it sometime in their life lifetime they're going to suffer persecution The Bible actually says this in 2 Timothy 3. All who will live godly shall suffer persecution in Christ Jesus 2 Timothy 3 verse 12. It's just one of those things that occurs in the life of a follower of Christ. But notice what it says in the passage. It's incredible. He says this. He says, blessed are they are you when they revile and persecute you and say all kinds of evil against you falsely. For my sake, rejoice and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven. It says, exceeding glad. Now, I don't think many of us, when we think of persecution and suffering for the name of Christ and sharing in the sufferings of Christ, that we think of it in terms of being exceedingly glad. I gotta admit, can I just be transparent? I have a hard time with really conceptualizing this. Until until I actually consider times in my life where I can honestly say that that that I went through something That was I was doing the best I could to serve the Lord, to follow after the Lord, and and I did go through suffering as a result. And here's the thing I remember about that. those times. I remember the comfort of God. I remember the times where there there was this presence that I just realized that God was there with me. He was comforting me. He was strengthening me. As long as I stayed close to Him in His Word, there was a comfort that came uh in the midst of the suffering. And there is a kind of encouragement from God, a kind of kind of comfort that comes from God in the midst of suffering that doesn't come any other time And that is where the exceeding gladness comes from. It comes from drawing close to God. The truth is, we really don't, there there is a sense in which There's a kind of closeness, a fellowship, if you will, in drawing close to God when we experience suffering in our That's why the Bible says in James chapter 1, count it all joy when ye fall into various trials, knowing that the trying of your faith works patience. uh endurance and let that have its perfect work that ye may be perfect or complete lacking nothing. There is something that happens when we go through trials in this life and we respond to them correctly, that we can consider it to be something that is joyful. And that's what we see in this passage. Great is your reward. And then it says, it makes a comparison. It says, for so they persecuted the prophets which were before you. They persecuted the prophets which were before you. And you remember the Old Testament prophets? I'm reading in in my devotions in the book of Jeremiah, and now I just get gone to Lamentations. Do you remember the kinds of things that Isaiah and Jeremiah and some of the Old Testament prophets went through? They were persecuted by the people. Do you see the same kind of thing? in the in the New Testament by the apostles. They were they were those people that were trul that were living truthfully, living for the cause of of God the truth, they did suffer persecution. And there was and there is just something there is a reward that God says will happen. And I don't you know I may Th there there is a mystery to the rewards that that that will be received. Uh to some level we know that the Bible talks about crowns of righteousness. And Paul said, I fought a good fight, I finished my course, I have kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, will give me that day, and not for m uh not only for me. but unto all them also that love is appearing so we know that that there is this reward. But there seems to be in there's reward uh associated with every one of these beatitudes But the greatest reward is the reward where where someone has experienced persecution, suffering. for the cause of Christ. Now let's talk a little bit on a practical level. You say, you know, I have not lately been burned to the stake and I don't know anybody who has. I haven't observed any Christians lately that have been stoned. What does it mean to actually to actually in this day and age in our current context in our Western world, let's narrow it out And I want to tell you this that although the severity of persecution um is greater in the first century church and and frankly in churches in other countries uh uh in the eastern countries and asia and the ten forty window, other places the persecution is much more severe. But if you go through suffering of any nature for choosing to do right, this still applies at least to some extent. So let me give you an example Suppose you're at the workplace and you are asked to um to lie and you choose not to. Or you are mandated to do something that's unethical and you choose not to. And as a result, your superior does not promote you. I know of a couple of different situations where in the military s there was the certain people did not have a pragmatism about them, an end that justified the means and wouldn't do certain things just in order to get in with the right people because they're just they had a sense of duty and a sense of of um wanting to do the right thing And and because of that, they didn't experience the promotion that they otherwise perhaps would have experienced. Or perhaps they chose perhaps in some cases uh uh a a person who works in the corporate world rather than working so long and so hard that he doesn't see his family just to get ahead. He chooses to spend more time with his family and doesn't get the promotion. Folks, all of those are the kinds of things that a true follower of Christ are going to go through from time to time. They're mild compared to first century kinds of persecution. And there may be a day where we do experience the kind of persecution that the first century church experienced. But for now, we can be assured that sometime in our life, if we are truly a follower of Christ in the way that Matthew chapter 5 expresses that we will at some time or another we will experience suffering for doing for righteousness' sake for doing the right thing and that is something that we need to be mindful of and we need to understand. And and it puts us in this kind of perspective. It puts us in the perspective of living for eternity rather than living for the here and now. That really is the key. How can someone actually consider joy? How can someone be blessed when they suffer for righteousness' sake? How is this possible? It's possible when they say, as it says in Colossians chapter 3, set your affections on things above, not on the things of this world. When we choose to do that, that doesn't mean we can enjoy the things of the world that God gives us, but when we choose to look at everything through the lens of eternity, then we begin to we begin to see things from a perspective of being able to make decisions and choices that are going to have lasting eternal results rather than the results that occur in the here and now, the immediate results. And folks, that takes a different kind of heart, a different kind of desire that we find in this passage. Now, with all of what we've learned, let's remember this. The Beatitudes are um are from in chapter Matthew chapter five the Beatitudes in verses three through ten are different facets Of a diamond. The diamond is the follower of Christ. All of these beatitudes are not things where you say, okay, well, I gotta work on that beatitude today, and I gotta work on this beatitude today I'm going to work on this Beatitude today. That's not the purpose of the Beatitudes. The purpose of the Beatitudes is for us to observe various facets of what a follower of Christ is. and be able to ask the question, am I a follower of Christ? So let's ask the question. Are you a follower of Christ? You say, well, I remember a day where I made a decision and I prayed a prayer. Well, that's wonderful. But I'm going to ask you again, are you a follower of Christ? In other words, when you look at these facets of this, of being a follower of Christ, can you say, I am This is true of me. Now, I need to ad it maybe in a marred sense. It's like a diamond that has not been polished and we're constantly being polished. Maybe we're a pretty rough diamond But we're still a diamond in the sense of being a follower of Christ. And each one of these facets, you can at least say on some level they're true of you. Let's go through them and look at it that way. So ask yourself the question, are these in any way true of you? Do you, have you ever seen yourself as spiritually destitute before a holy God? If you haven't, you're not a follower of Christ. Just plain and simple If you've never seen yourself as a sinner, then you're not a follower of Christ. Have you ever mourned over your sin? If you've never mourned over your sin, then you're not a follower of Christ It's just that simple. Now you may have a hardened heart right now that would cause you not to mourn over your sin. But if you've never mourned over your sin, then you're not a follower of Christ. If you had a have a strength that is out of control instead of under control. then you're not a follower of Christ. If you don't have any hunger or thirst for righteousness at all If you think to yourself, you know, I just really want what I want, you don't have this hunger or thirst after righteousness, then you're not a follower of Christ. Same thing with the merciful, same thing with peacemakers, and certainly the same thing is true with whether or not you're persecuted. for righteousness' sake. So so this is the question then. How do you become a follower of Christ? It's very simple. It starts with that very first beatitude. It it starts with understanding that we are we are spiritually destitute before God. I don't think that there's any any doctrine that is any um more verifiable than to look at man and see how depraved he is. See how sinful he is. I'm sinful, you're sinful, everybody's sinful. The Bible says the whole world lies in wickedness, actually. And I I think anybody who's lived any length of time, who's honest with themselves and honest with the things that they're seeing around them realize the injustice of the sin and all of that in the world. But there has to be a personalization of this. There has to be an understanding that I've sinned. And then there has to be understanding that there's nothing I can do about my sin. The Bible says all my righteousnesses are as filthy rags. People try to, for their right, they're good that way, they're bad. The Bible says all their righteousnesses are as filthy rags And then after that, you have to understand that Christ is the one when he lived a perfect life. Lived and fulfilled the righteousness that we could not fulfill. And then he died to create a possible transaction That transaction was that he took on the sins, that's not possible. It did, it happened. He took on the sin in the world. And then there is this exchange that occurred that's enacted by faith that when we trust That Jesus lived a perfect life, died to pay the punishment for our sin as man's representative, as my representative. And then I choose to place my faith and trust in Jesus, the Bible says, whose own self bore our sin in his own body on the tree. Then the Bible says that if as many as received him, to them gave you the right to become the sons of God, even to them that believe in his name. When somebody believes that and they place their trust in Christ and they understand their sin and their need of a savior, and that they believe that Jesus Christ rose from the dead three days later, then then that person, the Bible says, God makes them a new creature. in Christ. The Bible says, if any man be in Christ, old things are passed away. He's a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. A follower of Christ begins by understanding that he is undone and that Christ is the only one that can save him because he lived a perfect life. And died in our place on the cross. If you have any other questions, if you have any questions at all about what it looks like to be a follower of Christ, or you're wondering whether or not you're a follower of Christ, Let me encourage you to message me on Facebook. I'd be glad, just private message me, say, hey, look, I'm I want to know more about what it means to be a follower of Christ. I'm questioning whether or not I am. I'm really not sure. Would you help me with this? And I would be glad to take a I I'd be glad to get in contact with you, whether it's just by Facebook messaging going back and forth or or phone call or whatever it whatever makes sense I'd love to do that and show you what the Bible says about how you can know for sure that you're a follow of Christ. And realize this. There's a lot of people think Well there's different paths to God, and I don't really know if I'm on the right path or not, and I don't think really anybody anybody can know. The Bible says these these things are written that ye may know that you have eternal life. God wants us to know this, and I would encourage you that way. Well, that that concludes our study of the Beatitudes. Next, we're going to be looking at something called, next week we'll look at the similitudes, and we'll look at what it means to be salt and light to the earth It's going to be a great study. There's a lot of questions, there's a lot of talk about this. You've probably heard the term you're the salt of the earth or we or people are the salt of the earth. Or Christians maybe are the salt of the earth. What does that mean? What does it mean to be a salt of the earth? We're gonna learn or light of the world. What does it mean to be a light of the world? Are you a light of the world? Am I a light of the world? What what does that mean? We're going to look at that next uh week, Lord willing, next Thursday at nine o'clock. Again, I'll just mention again, and if you want to look at any of these previous episodes that we've looked at, the previous sessions on the Sermon on the Mount. Feel free to go to our website, bbcofmd. org forward slash sermons. Go to the series Truth Point, uh, or Truth Point Live is what it's called. And you can look at previous uh sessions as we go through this verse-by-verse study of Christ's longest sermon. and his one of and his certainly greatly profound sermon, uh the Sermon on the Mount. Um hope you enjoyed uh tonight. I enjoyed being with you. Thank you for those who logged on and are watching now. I can see quite a few that that have and uh I appreciate that. Now I apparently I do have a question online. I'll go ahead and take a minute to ask this question For some of these, blessed are the merciful, are these things that are certain people are more gifted with like a spiritual gift? I appreciate that question. I would actually say not in this context. That's a good thought. We do have in Romans chapter 12 We do have uh a spiritual gift, um uh a list of spiritual gifts, and uh mercy I believe is in that list, but here it's not the context isn't really talking about uh giftedness. It's really talking about the kind of attitude that is indicative of a follower of Christ. Now, I will say this. I think that there are different Based upon a f a growth in the Christian life, different God God works out these and polishes these polishes these facets um of this diamond uh at different times in different ways. So I think that somebody could easily be more merciful because God has polished them in that area. area or more aware of sin and mournful over sin because God has worked him in that area. So I think that's certainly possible, but um I think in this context, Matthew chapter five spiritual that's not really what's here uh is spiritual gifts. I really appreciate the question. I love questions. I'm just the kind of guy who loves I love asking them um and I love answering them if I'm able to And so I definitely appreciate that question. And if you have any any other questions, even after looking at this, if you want to comment, I usually try to uh uh view the comments uh throughout uh the next couple of days and I'll be glad to answer your question um after as I see them. Have a great evening. I hope this was a a blessing. It was a blessing to me. And we'll see you back next Thursday night at nine o'clock. Have a good night.