Good evening everyone. We are going to be in Matthew chapter 5 tonight. Hopefully you can join us tonight as we are going to be looking at Matthew chapter 5, and we'll be looking at verses 13 through 16 tonight. tonight. Um I will wait until I begin to see some people uh logging in, give you a chance to do that, and hopefully I can be a we can be a blessing to each other tonight as we look at God's Word uh together. This is a uh this we're we're moving to the next section of Matthew chapter five. Our first section that we talked about was the Beatitudes and now we are m moving to what is sometimes called the similitudes or uh the the concept of a Christian being salt and light to the world. And so I think we'll get into some pretty good discussion tonight, some very practical practical things as well. And so hopefully We'll uh we'll look forward to having you join us. Good to see Jenny out joining us tonight and Claudia as well. Good to good to see you all. I'm glad you you're able to to join us tonight and uh we'll give it a couple minutes before to uh allow others to join join in as well. I need to do a little bit more advertising than I do. I first couple times I sent out an email uh that um encouraged people to log on and even did sort of a Facebook commercial in the middle of the day. Um I did do more of that kind of thing. That's not my forte. My forte is not advertising and those kinds of things. But um anyway, uh hopefully we can uh Just have a good time studying God's Word this evening. Matthew chapter 5, and I also want to mention that if you have any questions, feel free to um to ask the question online and in some cases I might be able to stop, read the question and then answer it, other cases I can answer afterwards. But either way if you have any questions about what we're reading or about or about what we're studying or talking about, then I certainly would encourage you to ask some questions. Also on mention this at the end of the time together, but if you want to look at previous Facebook Live sessions or if you want to look at uh uh sermons from our from church. You can go on to bbcofmd. org forward slash sermons and And you can look, particularly if you want to look at uh previous sessions of this, then you can go to the series called It's called um Truth Points Live. Alright, Matthew chapter 5. We'll read the first few verses here, beginning in verse 13. Remember that we've already been talking for the last several weeks about the Beatitudes. And uh and basically the beatitudes are to show us what a follower of Christ really looks like. And uh now we're getting into the similitudes and it and this the idea is that it's where I uh it really answers the question of what what a follower of Christ looks like to the world particularly So Matthew 5, verse 13 says, You are the soul of the world, or soul of the earth. But if the salt loses its flavor, how shall it be seasoned? It is then good for nothing but to be thrown out and trampled underfoot by men. You are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hidden. Nor do they light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on a lampstand, and it gives light to all who are in the house. Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven. So this is a short passage, short section in the Sermon on the Mount, but it has a lot to say. So what is he saying here? A couple of observations I want to make at the beginning, and that's really when you're doing Bible study, it's good to just look at the text and to make some general observations about the text. The one thing that stands out to me If you began reading in verse 1 and read through verse 15, then you're going to notice that in verse 11, actually, which we didn't read tonight, but Verse 11, you have the the person changes. It goes from third person to second person in verse 11 So prior to verse 11 you have, blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Talking about they and Uh it's third person. Um but then when you get to verse eleven it says, Blessed are you when they revile and persecute you and say all kinds of evil against you fall asleep for my name my sake. And then in verse 13, you definitely have it have that you are the salt of the earth. So now verses 1 through 10 are are given so we can evaluate whether or not we are a follower of Christ. Once we've gone through that those that evaluation and we conclude that we are a follower of Christ, then verse 13 is going to help us to uh to see what What a follower of Christ is supposed to be what influence a follower of Christ is supposed to be having on the earth. That's really the question that's being answered tonight in verses 13 through In verse 13, you have two illustrations here in 13 through 15. You have the salt. And you have the light. So those are the two illustrations that he uses. And so we'll pick up and look first at this concept of salt. You, he says, are the salt of the earth. But the salt loses its flavor, how shall it be seasoned? It is good for nothing but to be thrown out and trampled underfoot of men. So why does Jesus use the illustration of salt? Well, let's talk a little bit about what it's not talking about here first. Sometimes when when people study the Sermon on the Mount and they they refer the Sermon on the Mount, they think that the salt of the earth is a res is a reference to preserving the world socially. But the point of the text is to demonstrate that what we do as Christians is we preserve the world from a social point of view. That that that that is our that is our goal, that's that is our aim, that's what God wants us to do. And that really is not what is in view here. Um something else to note about this whole idea of salt is that the Roman soldiers were often paid in salt. It was used as a covenant in the Old Testament for friendship and loyalty. So salt Normal table salt today is not an expensive item at all, but salt had significantly more value in the first century. You perhaps have heard somebody say that something is worth its weight in salt. Well, that's because salt had value back then But there was a kind of salt that did not have flavor, that was had lost its ability to season things. And that kind of salt was thrown on the road, was thrown on the street, and uh and was trampled underfoot of men. It was it was it was used for that purpose which essentially it lost its original usefulness. There's a warning here in verse 13. It actually says in this passage that there is this possibility that a true follower of Christ, who is salt of the earth, has the possibility of losing its flavor, losing its savor and losing its losing its influence in the world and it really becomes something that is not useful. It's harsh language actually. It says, good for nothing, but to be thrown out and trampled underfoot of men. So Saul so then it says you are verse 14 the light of the world. Now another observation I want to make here. Notice it doesn't say you need to be salt of the earth. Or you should be a light to the world. It doesn't say that. It says you are salt of the earth. And you are the light of the world. It's assuming that the things that are that are true, the things that are in the Beatitudes are true of you. This is clearly somebody who um who is a a child of God, a follower of God, and this is somebody who is who is so Christ is saying, you are salt and you are light. Here's what he says about light. He says a city that is set on a hill cannot be hidden. He says the idea of of of a Christian A follower of God who is light being hidden is a foreign idea. That is, if if our lives are truly different, the in the worlds. If there is a distinction. And if you just go back to the Beatitudes and you think about all the Beatitudes, the distinctiveness is obvious. We are the people who are to be pure at heart and peacemakers and merciful and um and mourn over sin and are meek and are hungr hungering and thirsting for righteousness. I mean, just read through that. You know what the contrast is supposed to be between the world and us And by the way, the contrast between the world and us is not external primarily Well, I mean it it can it it has external ramifications, but it begins internally. And we're gonna talk about that as well, how this practically bears out uh on a on a practical level. We're we're gonna get really, really practical about It says in verse 15, nor do you do they light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on a lampstand, and it gives light to all who are in the house. So, so Christ sets something up here. He says, your salt, your light And then he's this is who you are. And then he's going to say, you need to act like who you are. You need to live out who you are. This is a concept that is, and he says that, by the way, by verse 15, it says, let your light so shine. That now is a command. Let your light so shine. um before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven. So um So what is what what's the how the question then becomes, how do we let our light shine? How do we carry out or live out our true identity in Christ. How is this to be lived out? And this is where we are going to get very, very practical. So let's ask this question. Um, how are we to fulfill the command? And all of this now is going to be very practical. Sometimes I tend to be over uh or I I some feel that I I'm rather theological. Um you're gonna find this to be very practical tonight. So so how are we supposed to uh um carry out this command to let our light shine. Well, I want to cover a lot of different kinds of approaches to this How is it that we are to what is, and we'll ask this question this way, what is the believer's evangelistic responsibility? What is his responsibility To evangelize the world. This is something that we really got to get right. It's of paramount importance. And it's something that has I was just talking yesterday to a couple of a few teenagers. They were talking about the Crusades. And they were discussing whether or not the Crusades were a good thing or a bad thing. I explained to them that the problem with the Crusades is that they were trying to Christianize by force. Is that is that what it means to let your light shine? Certainly not. That can't be what it's talking about. It can't be that we're supposed to force people to become Christians. That certainly isn't what it's talking about. There's got to be something else that he's ta uh uh talking about here and what is it? Well, I'm going to give you a bunch of wrong approaches to what it means to let your light shine. And in giving these different approaches, it will help us hone in on what the right approach is. So let's just think about a few approaches. Number one, wrong approach. From a theological point of view, from a doctrinal point of view, there there tends to be two wrong approaches One is what is called the hyper or the high Calvinist approach. The high Calvinist approach says that God is the one that does the saving, which is true. My responsibility is to think little of the lost and to focus on the glories of heaven and of God. This kind of person will not usually demand d absolutely deny the demands of the Great Commission But practically, he seems to have little concern for his own responsibility. That's the hyper or the high-Calvinist approach. The other side of that is what we would what we all call the Arminian approach. The Arminian approach is the is an approach that that says that salvation is dependent entirely on a person's choice or primarily on a person's choice. That what we need to that there is and and it goes so far as to s to suggest that what that there is like a spark of ability in light of every person to be able to choose God or not apart from God's working in their lives. Man is the initiator in this kind of approach rather than God being the initiator. And I would also suggest that both of those extremes are wrong approaches. So let's then talk about, we're going to switch gears here now and talk about two practical extremes. Those are theological extremes. Now let's talk about two practical extremes. One practical extreme is the idea that I'm going to let my light shine. That's what we're trying to figure out here. What does that mean? One practical extreme is I'm going to do this by being what is called a silent witness. I'm just going to be a silent witness. That's me. I'm just a silent kind of a person. I don't want to I really want to talk a whole lot. I don't want to really want to share my faith. I just want to I want to be a silent witness. This is the kind of approach that suggests that preaching the gospel is unnecessary. Or that it's only for the gifted. Those people that have a silent approach say that my primary responsibility is simply to invite people to church or to introduce others to a pastor. Some rely on witness wear and gospel bumper stickers. That is a silent witness approach On the other hand, we want to take another appro uh look at another approach that's opposite of that and and we're gonna call this the notch and the belt approach. So you have the silent witness approach and they pretty much say, okay, I don't want to talk to anybody, I wanna, you know, throw a bumper sticker on the back of my car, I wanna do witness wear, I wanna uh lead uh ask people if they want to go to church occasionally but I really don't want to share my faith. I don't really want to talk about the gospel to anybody. I don't really want to talk about the Lord. It's not really what I do. But the other side is this sort of notch in the belt approach This is on the other extreme, and it's basically the idea that I need to get as many people to pray a sinner's prayer as I possibly can. You might have met people like this, or you have seen people like this. One of the most famous in church history, one of the most famous people to do this. was a man by the name of Charles Finney. Um in fact I was talking with um I was uh my my my kids homeschool and my oldest daughter is going through the second uh well the first and second great awakening and the influence of the Great Awakening on the Revolutionary Time Period and all those that kind of thing And the the curriculum that she's using, though it usually is a good curriculum, in this case I had to help her understand more about this. was suggesting that the Second Great Awakening was was a really good thing. If you want to know the difference between the the Great Awakening and the Second Great Awakening, let me encourage you to read a book uh entitled Revival or Revivalism. It's an excellent book. If you just Google that title, you should be able to find it. The author, let me see if I can find it on my shelf and I can tell you of the author. It is J. I. Packer is the is the name of the author. J. I. Packer, Revival or Revivalism, that really distinguishes the difference between the Great Awakening and the Second Great Awakening. In the second Great Awakening, the most influential man was a man by the name of Charles Finney. Charles Finney believed that there was a within every person this ability of his own accord, of his own volition, to be able to come to Christ and to choose Christ to initiate that kind of a relationship. And he believed that his responsibility was to almost, as a salesman, sell the gospel. similar to a used car salesman or something like that. And if he could just sell it and convince people to make this sort of, to pray this prayer, to pray the sinner's prayer. then then that was his, he was fulfilling his evangelist responsibility. He was shining his light. Um he he went so far to actually s to actually create these booths where he would um Where uh he so he'd have a rev and it was these revival services up, started out in Rochester, New York, worked its way out ro around New England And he would he would ha he would actually in these revival services he'd have these booths over on the right-hand side. And he would say things like, if you have any desire to to follow the Lord, uh he would give these sort of hellfire and brimstone messages and if you have any desire to to to go to heaven or anything, go in that booth So people would just migrate over the booth and then he would just point to them and have them all pray pray the sinner's prayer. It was this this problem of trying to manufacture uh conversions of souls. Really is a major problem. And and it was such a big problem that it actually burned It burned whole areas out. I mean you had things like bars closing and and and social reform and all kinds of things happening. The problem is that you did not, it was manufactured by human effort. And that is that sort of notch in the belt approach. I'm going to do what I'm going to do by human effort. And and so that that's that approach. Now, I want to move then to another major approach having to do with two pragmatic approaches. And for those of you who are joining, I just want to I'll just mention that what we're talking about here is from Matthew chapter 5, talking about how are we to be a light to the world How are we going to be a light to the world? What are we supposed to do? To let our the command in the passage is to let our light shine. So what does that look like? And we've been going through just different approaches that Christians have taken to apply these. Most of them so far I've suggested are extremes and they're they're wrong or bad approaches to to the the believer's uh uh command to shine his light in the world. The next thing I want to talk about are two extremes. One extreme is the isolationist approach. The extreme to that is the resemblance approach. So let's talk about the isolationist approach first. There are some people that think that the best way that they can shine their light to the world is to isolate themselves from the world. Now this out of hand makes no sense whatsoever. How can you influence the world if you're isolating yourself from the world? It really doesn't make any sense. But there are some people that take this approach. They feel the need to physically separate from the world. These people feel uncomfortable with unsafe friends. They really only feel comfortable in a Christian context. It seems that their primary concern is feeling content and safe. and protected and immersing themselves in a Christian subculture. This is a very dangerous kind of thing. Now, the Bible wants us to insulate ourselves from the influence of the world. But the Bible is very clear that we are not to isolate ourselves from the world. In Christ's high priestly prayer to his father before he died in John chapter 17, he actually says, I pray, I pray, Father, that you would not take them out of the world. But that you would keep them from the harmfulness of the world. Um and and uh and that they would be in the world and not of the world. And so this isolationist approach is an approach that is really not a biblical approach at all. The other side of that is this idea of a resemblance approach This is equally harmful. So we've gone through all of these different approaches, but I think it's just helpful to think through all the different ways that people have approached this idea of shining our light to the world. The approach that I'm going to contrast, the isolationist approach on one side, the other side of this, is what I would call the resemblance approach. This is an approach that says that I need to become like them in order to reach them. Those resemblance approach kinds of people are ones who will compromise in order to reach someone. I need to be like them in order to reach them is sort of the mantra of someone who is a who takes a resemblance approach to shining light to the world. The reality is, this text is very clear, that a light is entirely different than darkness. The very nature of what God says we are, we are light. We are different. I mean the b the distinctiveness, the uniqueness of who we are is how we influence. It's how we share our life. Now, let me pause here and just mention this. That does not mean we are weird. Have you ever met a Christian who is trying so hard not to resemble the world that he just looks weird? He's just strange. He's odd. And he's thinking that by being odd, by being strange, that he's a light to the world. That is not what is being referenced here at all. Um I it's not talking about having an orinary disposition or being overly dramatic or whatever. There's all kinds of ways that people people suggest uh uh people uh You know, fall into this kind of a trap. And I want us just to realize that the way that we are different is from the inside out. We mourn over sin When we sin. And we're not judgmental over everybody else's, but we're mourning over our sin. We're merciful. We have purity of heart. We desire righteousness. We thirst after it. We are peacemakers. All of those beatitudes, that's the difference. That's the distinction. And then we take that distinction that starts from the inside, works its way out And we sh let that shine. We let who we are, who we really are, shine as influences, spiritual, not social influences but spiritual influences to the world. That is how we um we we we fulfill that command. And in doing so, I want to really boil all of this down to to a to basically a question. We have about six minutes left here of a question. My question is And this is it to this is to illustr how this all works. If we're going to understand how we are to let our light shine, but not go to strange extremes, we need to ask this question, um, who is what is God's role? in influencing the world and bringing people to a place where they have a relationship with him. And what is our responsibility as as believers. I mean that's really that's really the question. What's God's role and what's our responsibility? So let's ask let's let's answer that question. I want to answer that question By asking another question. Can I do that? I'm gonna ask ask this question. It might sound like a same strange question, but you remember the story of of of David and Goliath in the Old Testament? I wish they had like a show of hands or something we're doing Facebook Live I could actually see I mean know the story and things like that. But most of you probably are we're aware of the story of of um of David Goliath. Do you remember that story? Do you remember that um that David of course took a stone and swung it around and and hit it and And slung it toward Goliath. Here's the question. What killed Goliath? God or the stone? I mean think about it. What killed Goliath? God or the stone? And it most of you probably at this point, some of you probably maybe see you're saying, well, God killed him. And you would be absolutely right. Some of you say, well, if Stone certainly was involved, and you would be right as well. The answer is both. God used the stone, and David for that matter, to kill Goliath. You can't separate the action of David from the action of God to produce what occurred. That was according to God's will. Now, how do we apply that to um being a light, or or letting our light shine rather? The answer to that is is ask making sure we understand what God's role is, and then making sure we understand biblically what our responsibility is. So let me Let me answer that. Number one, what is God's role? Number one, God is the one who convicts someone of sin. You and I do not have that ability. God does that. It says that very clearly in John chapter 16, verse 8. Number two, God is the one who draws a person. We find that to be the case in John chapter 6, verse 44. God convicts of sin. God draws a person. We cannot initiate a drawing, a divine drawing of a person to God. God draws a person. Number three, God prepares the heart. Matthew chapter 13, verse 5. demonstrates that God is the one who cultivates the soil uh so that that that that the word of God can be received. So So that's that's God's role as well. God does the saving. Luke 19, 10. Jesus said, I'm kind of seeking to save that which was lost. God does the saving. God gives the increase. He gives the increase, 1 Corinthians chapter 3, verse 6. I like the illustration of the of, you remember the feeding of the 5,000? Who fed the 5,000? Was it the two lo was it the five loaves and the two fish, or was it Christ who fed the five thousand? Well, frankly, did the five the five loaves and two fish would not have been able to feed the five thousand men and plus one of the children. But but Christ used it. So almost amazing to me. I mean, you know, you think of those kind of stories, Christ could have just fed them out of thin air with nothing, but that's not usually the way God works God works through us. He uses us to do what he wants to do in the world. And he has just chosen to glorify himself by doing that way. God is the reels the reveals the significance of the truth to people. You could share truth and share truth and share truth with somebody. and they can just totally not get it, not understand what you're saying, or not understand the significance of what you're saying. God is the one helps people to understand the significance of truth. Well, okay. We've talked a lot about what God's role is. What is our responsibility? Well, our responsibility, number one, by an application of assault, is to make people thirsty. or to help people become thirsty. What do you think it so so if you eat a lot of potato chips or you eat some sort of salty thing, what does it do? It makes you thirsty. You want to drink something It makes you thirsty. That's what salt is supposed to do. Salt is to is is we are we are the salt of the world. Well how do we do that? What what what is what is it that we're trying to do? We're trying to make people thirsty. Well, well, what do we make them people thirsty for? Do you remember in in Matthew chapter 5 It actually says what we're thirsty for. We're hungering and thirsting for what? For righteousness. That's what the follower of Christ does. He hungers and thirsts for righteousness. Folks, by our lives, the way we love people, the way we are a light to people, the way we care for people. people, the way we we uphold righteousness, the way that we are different, the way we are are are uh unique in our mercifulness and our our desire for righteousness. those things are to are to are going to on some level sometimes make people who don't know the Lord thirsty for God. They're going to look at our lives and say there is a difference there from the inside out, not just external stuff, but from the inside out, there's a difference there and I'm thirsty. And it's making me thirsty. It's making me want something that I don't have. God uses us to do that, which is a pretty incredible thing. So God uses us to do that. God uses us to demonstrate truth. Now, we don't, God's the one that has the truth And that is the word of God. But what what we do is we demonstrate truth. We're the light. That's light is is revealing of truth. Is that's what a light does. And if you're if I I I have all kinds of light in my office. I have actually a pretty bright l office. I I I uh I finished my office uh myself and uh I put six can lights all the way around my office. And I realize I'm one minute over time so I need to finish up here. Um Why? Because I want to be able to re read. It reveals things to me. And it it's the same way with God, it's the same way with what we're to do. We're to we don't we don't make up the truth. We don't manufacture the truth. God's word is the truth. But we we we simply reveal it. So we make people thirsty with our lives And we reveal the truth, which is the word of God, to people. That's our responsibility. The Bible says this in Mark 16, 15, go in the world all the world preach the gospel. Romans 1017 says that the that those who preach the gospel of peace, that their feet are beautiful, there's a responsibility there for us to do that. To simply present the truth. Not to convict where we're not supposed to be doing it. That's not our job. Or to try to make people force people into decisions, but just just present the truth And then the Bible says that those who receive the truth, we are to make disciples. Matthew chapter 28. So did you get that? What is God's responsibility? All of these things. What is our role? Our role is threefold. It's very, very simple. This really helps us, I think. Number one, we make people thirsty with our lives. We want, we make people thirsty. And that's it, that's a crucial. That means we're gonna live when we're living out the gospel, that's gonna happen. Number two, number two, we present the truth. Whenever we have a chance, when people I let me give you a little I I I you know how you've made people thirsty with your life? You've made people thirsty when you're li with your life when they ask you questions. When they ask you questions about your relationship with God or what you believe or what how you live or what whatever it is, when you're on the job or in the neighborhood and they're asking you questions then then you you you can you're making that's an indication you're making them feel thirsty uh for God And then you're able to just lay the truth out for them. Just present the truth. Present the fact that God is holy, Isaiah 6. That God, that we are sinners. Romans 3. 23. that Christ died for our sin. Romans 5. 8 or 1 Corinthians chapter 15. You just lay the truth out. What and you don't have to give the whole gospel all at one time to somebody, but if God gives you opportunities and you make people thirsty, then you can supply that thirsty soul with truth and just present it. Let God do His work. God's work is to take it and and impress it on a person, to convict a person, to cause somebody to come to Christ. That's God's work. My job is to present the truth. I need to know the truth. I need to present the truth. And then whoever God chooses to come to himself, whoever God works in their lives and Then I'm going to make disciples. I'm going to help them grow spiritually. I'm going to baptize them. I'm going to help them and get involved in the local church. I'm going I my job is then to disciple them So just three very simple responsibilities we have in in presenting the truth, or rather, in shining our light. to the world. And that is Matthew chapter 5, verses 12 through 15. Again, if you want to go through all the different approaches and and how to apply this. Some of you kind of just what just came on. Let me encourage you. I will be posting this video right afterwards. By the way, I can I encourage you Uh I don't, you know, it's not like I have an really thing to gain from from saying this at all, but because I really encourage you just to share this. You know, hit share after I I will post it right after right after I'm done. And if you could share this, that would be great. Um just to be just to be helpful to people. That's really what I want to do. Just to to be able in the middle of the week, in a in in a world where we are constantly bar bombarded with with lies and and And confusion and all kinds of things. I it it's just a an opportunity to to to present the truth. And if you if you're willing to do that, that would be great. Just share it. Um And also, if you want to go back and listen to this session or any other sessions, you can just go on to bbcofmd. org forward slash sermons, look up the series Truth Point Live. And you can find uh all the all the different sessions on Matthew chapter five so far, and you can look them up and it really this is an incredible study. It is it is the really prime sermon that Christ preached. in uh in uh the Sermon on the Mount there when he was here on earth. It's established the very rudimentary foundation for for what Christ came to do, what he wanted to see happen in the lives of people, and uh how and laying the foundation for what he was going to do in the future. And so let me encourage you just to just to either uh log on and um log on to our the Facebook page or just go into bbcofmd. org forward slash sermons and you can look at this uh uh this session over again and see it from the beginning or other sessions as well Hope you have a great night and I hope that this can will be helpful for you. Let's really try this week to let our light shine. Not by trying to do something that's got that's God's work, not by trying to do things that got only God can do, but simply by helping people to become thirsty for right righteousness for truth, presenting the truth when we have have the opportunity, and then letting letting God and then and then and then discipling people that come to the truth. Have a great evening and uh have a great Great rest of your week.