All right, welcome. I think we are live here and looking forward to spending a little time together around God's Word. We're going to be looking at Matthew chapter 5 here. And um I will give some folks a chance to to log on. Um if somebody the first person that logs on and seeing this, if you could comment to let me know that this is working, uh, that would be great. Hope you had a good day today. And um I had a good day uh studying primarily and talking with various folks and things like that and uh I can see people are coming up and watching them That's great. You can be turning your Bibles to Matthew chapter five, and we'll be looking at the Sermon on the Mount primarily tonight. and uh talking about that and I want to give people a little chance to to to go ahead and and um and log on. I think while we're doing this, I w while while I'm giving people a chance to do that, I wanna highlight a couple of good resources for you if you are going to walk through with us the study on the Sermon on the Mount. A couple of good resources that I would recommend. There's one, this is this book by D. A. Carson. It is uh Jesus Sermon on the Mount. It looks like it's kind of backwards on the screen the way it the way it shows. But uh I'd encourage you to uh pick this up. Uh D. A. Carson is excellent. Everything he writes is I've ever read is excellent. Um and so I really think he so I really recommend him. But that will be a really good resource for you. Another great resource on the Sermon on the Mount is something called it's a titled Studies on the Sermon on the the mount and it's by David Martin Lloyd Jones. That's another great great option as well. And so I encourage you to pick pick that up uh as a great study. The next one that I encourage, and just this is just one more, and again I'm just kind of waiting until people have a chance to uh uh people have a chance to to log on. Uh this is part of a commentary series called the Expositor's Bible Commentary. The whole series is pretty good The the best commentary in the series is the first commentary on Matthew, um, and uh at least in the New Testament uh on Matthew, and that's by D. A. Carson. It's really actually worth purchasing the whole series although you don't have to. I think you can purchase them in individually. But that is an excellent uh study as well. Again, it's by D. A. Carson. So David Martin Lloyd Jones, D. A. Carson are great uh great resources for you if you want to get into into the the study on the Sermon on the Mount. Um one more that I'll mention as well and that is um just a good study bible is is really helpful. My favorite study Bible is the MacArthur Study Bible. It's excellent. And um and I'd encourage you to to really um possibly um uh pick up uh a a good study bible. There's others as well out there that are that are great and it'll be a big help to you as well. Alright, what we're going to do tonight then is we'll read the passage. We're going to read chapter Matthew chapter 5. The Sermon on the Mount comprises Matthew 5 all the way through chapter 7. But we'll read the first 12 verses. We won't actually get all the way through the first 12 verses tonight, but we'll read the first um 12 verses tonight And then we will uh we'll pray together and then we'll get into God's word here. Matthew chapter 5, and we'll pick up here in verse one Jesus and it says Matthew says and in seeing the multitudes he went up on a mountain and when he was seated his disciples came Then he opened his mouth and taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be filled. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the sons of God. God. Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you when they shall revile and persecute you. and say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice and be exceedingly glad, for great is your reward in heaven. For so per so they persecuted the prophets who were before you. So that's Matthew chapter 5, verses 1 through 12. And I want to begin by asking this question. Are you happy? Just a very simple question. Hi everybody. Good to have everybody out uh tonight uh logging in. We have a a good group of people uh so far that's great um are you happy in this passage you have this word over and over and over again it's the word blessed And the word blessed really simply means happy. It's in fact translated happy in some cases. In 1 Timothy 1, verse 11, we find the word happy. In John chapter 13, it says, Blessed are those who are happy. If you do these things happier, you do them, or blessed are you So the first section, the first thing that we see here in this first section in the Sermon of the Mount has to do with happiness. And to ask the ourselves the question Are you happy? The Sermon on the Mount is a sermon that is widely read and quoted by many people. The first section here is called the Beatitudes. Uh it it's it's it's so widely um quoted that I just want to note a couple of people that you might know. For example According to Wikipedia, the 14th Dalai Lama has quoted on several occasions the teachings of Jesus. From the Sermon on the Mount. In the 16th, uh or in I'm sorry, in 2016 uh election, Hillary Clinton was asked about her faith. And she says this about the Sermon on the Mount She says, see if I could find it here. Um let's see. She says, um thank you for asking Thank you for asking that. I'm a person of faith. I'm a Christian. I'm a Methodist. I've been raised Methodist. And I believe in the instructions of Scripture. She says the famous discussion of the Sermon on the Mount should be something that you really pay attention to. There's a lot of great Bible studies. What does the Sermon on the Mount really mean? What is it calling us to do and to understand? Because it is it is sure it sure does seem to favor the poor and the merciful and those in worldly terms don't have a lot, but who have the spirit that God recognizes as So there is much to be learned, and I have been very disappointed and sorry that Christianity, which has such great love at its core, is sometimes used to condemn so So quickly and judge so harshly. When I think part of the message that I certainly have tried to understand and live with is live with is to look at yourself first to make sure that you're being the kind of person that should be in that you should be in how you are treating others. And I am by no means perf a perfect person. I will certainly confess that to one and all. But I feel the continuing urge to try to do better, to try to be kinder, to try to be more loving, even with people who are quite hard. That is Hillary Clinton's take on the Sermon on the Mount. So this is extremely widely discussed and accepted as Teaching that all should be a part of and listen to. But what really is Jesus saying in this Sermon on the Mount? Well, as we've discussed, the word blessed, which is mentioned over and over again. is a word that means happy. It has something to do with the idea of happiness. That's something that should stand out. uh out to us. So if we're really going to understand what the Sermon on the Mount means, what we can't do is extract certain phrases from it and put whatever meaning we want to to those phrases Instead, what we need to do is we need to ask ask actually what is the purpose of the book of Matthew? What is the purpose of Jesus as he preaches this entire sermon, which is the longest uh singular sermon in uh of Christ's in the New Testament. What are the purposes behind what Jesus is saying here? And I want to begin by just m mentioning a couple of things about the purpose of the book of Matthew as he depicts the the life of Christ. Number one, to expose wrong motives. The Sermon on the Mount and the Book of Matthew at large has to do with exposing wrong motives It discusses the issue of righteousness as an adherence to external regulations. and and how uh and externals um in the first century were exalted over motive The second purpose is to teach the nature of true righteousness. What is true righteousness? The third purpose is to show the character of the disciple. What is the character of the disciple? What is a disciple supposed to look like? And the fourth purpose of the Sermon on the Mount is to show the reward of the disciple. Now, we then get into this whole section, this particular section on the Beatitudes What is the purpose of the Beatitudes? Number one, we need to understand that what we're not going to find here is a code of conduct. What Jesus is not saying, he is not saying that here is a code of conduct that you need to live by. We need to understand that. That's not what Jesus is saying here at all. He is talking about morality, but his his overall point that we're going to see is that true morality starts from the inside. and then worked its way to the outside. A couple of other things that we need to see about this passage as well. One thing that you'll notice is that there is there is a particular a particular structure in the passage that helps us to understand the passage by noting this. In verse 3 you'll see it. It says, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for and then it has this phrase, theirs is the kingdom of heaven. And then if you look over at verse 10, you're going to see in the last Beatitude it says, Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of God. of heaven. You have the exact same phrase at the last phrase of the first Beatitude in verse 3, and the the last phrase in verse 10 of the last beatitude. And what that is called is an inclusion. Or sometimes it's called an inclusio. And what it tells us is that these are these beatitudes are not intended to be different set different uh separate character qualities that don't have a relationship to each other. The perfect illustration or or good illustration of this has is is a diamond. A diamond in its beauty is seen because of the various facets of the diamond. The diamond is intact. It's it's it's one unit. But as you view the various facets of a diamond, You see how they reflect off the light and you put them all together, you have this great thing of beauty. And that's how the Beatitudes are supposed to work. They're not separate characteristics that are isolated from each other. They're characteristics that are supposed to work together to see the whole of something. character is true really what God truly values. That's what we're going to see. If we want to ask the question, in other words we will ask the question, what does God value? And we're going to see in this passage What God truly values. And that's important for us to understand. We also need to understand that there are three parts to each of these beatitudes. You'll notice, for example, in verse 3, it says the word blessed. That word is is is a pronouncement, if you will. It's a praise. It's sort of a congratulations. Blessed. That's the first in each of these beatitudes. That's the first um the first part of each of these beatitudes. The second part of the beatitudes is uh is this is the beatitude itself It says, for example, the first one, blessed are the poor in spirit. And there is some quality that it's talking about here, a particular characteristic. And then the third, and this is very important for us to understand, is a reward. Would you notice it says, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Notice the second one, verse 4. Blessed are those who mourn. What does it say then? For they shall, do you notice the future tense? They shall be comforted. Then notice the third one, blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. You have this present tense phrase And then you have a future tense phrase. In each one of the Beatitudes, you have a pronouncement, you have a present tense characteristic, and then you have a future result. Just keep reading, you'll see this shall be, shall be, shall be. The very fine the the the the uh second phrase in each of these Beatitudes is a result And if you have any question about whether or not we're really talking about results here, you can see, or rewards rather, results, rewards of the Beatitude. Each one of these are rewards. We pick up in verse 12 and we see that. It says, rejoice and be exceeding glad, for great is your what? Great is your reward in heaven. heaven. For so they persecuted the prophets who were before you. So when we're looking at the structure, we have what we've decided. Number one, we understand that these beatitudes are different facets of one moral character. We want to see that. that we need to understand that. We want to see that there are three parts. The first thing is happy, blessed. The person who is this is happy or blessed. The second part is the actual characteristic itself, the virtue, if you will, itself. And then the third is the reward. That comprises each one of these Beatitudes. And it shouldn't surprise us because the book of Matthew talks a lot about a lot about rewards. For example In Matthew chapter 20, verses 1 through 16, you have the laborers in the vineyard, and it is talking there about rewards. In Matthew 24, verses 45 through 41, that section talks about rewards with the servant ruler. Do you remember the parable of the talents? That's also in the book of Matthew. Matthew 25, verses 14. 14 through 30. And in each of the cases, when the talents or the resources were given, it was actually the master's resources that were given. To these stewards, they had to steward these things faithfully, and as a result, they would have rewards for what they were stewarding. So the book of Matthew as a whole talks a lot about rewards. And in Christ's Sermon on the Mount, he begins with these Beatitudes, and these beatitudes have this idea of rewards. And we need to understand this as well. That part of what it is needed in order to apply these beatitudes. is faith. Hebrews chapter 11 verse 6 says this. Without faith it is impossible to please him For he who comes to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of those who diligently seek him. It says in that passage that you you you can't please God without faith, number one. Number two, that That if you want to please God, you're going to have to have faith, and that God is a rewarder of them who do what? Who diligently seek Him. Now there's, I want to return to the question I began with, and that is, are you happy? This passage is talking about happiness, but I want you to notice, and this is so important. That happiness is not a reward in this passage. And happiness is not something that it says you need to pursue in the passage. In fact, the way the passage reads, it indicates in Christ's sermon here that happiness is not something that you can pursue. That's important. Doesn't mean that nobody can be happy. In fact, the Bible is clear that you can be blessed, that you can be happy. But happiness in its own understanding and its own definition is not something that you can pursue. Let me illustrate it this way. Have you ever really wanted something that you thought would make you happy? Maybe it's a material possession, maybe it's a relationship. And when you got that material possession, maybe you had temporary happiness, but it's not long before you realize that material possession doesn't actually give happiness and you want something else. Or the relationship, you're looking to happiness, and the relationship that you're in, maybe it's a marriage, maybe it's a girlfriend or boyfriend, maybe it's just a friend, and it brings some level of happiness, but after a while it seems as though the happiness is not really there. You're really not feeling completely fulfilled. And again the discontent sets in. Maybe the loneliness sets in, and again, again, you're not, you realize you're not really happy. It's amazing how we go through our entire lives attempting to be happy, trying to be fulfilled, and yet in our souls, if we're really honest with ourselves We really aren't happy. And we can live our entire lives with attempting to pursue happiness and never really being able to gain it So what are we supposed to do? Well, what we need to do is actually sit at the feet of Jesus and allow him to teach us. how the the kind of person who is happy. Not that we're going to understand the road to happiness by this passage. But if we can understand the kind of person that is happy, then if we can be that kind of person, then we can be happy. But then the question is going to remain, can we be that kind of person? And you're going to find out in the passage something that might be might be something we have to work through and think about. So with all of that in mind, we're now ready to come to this very first beatitude. And we have about 10 minutes to do that. So let's pick up here and look at the very first Beatitude. It says, verse, chapter 5, verse 3: Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of God. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. What does that mean? Well, we've already discussed what blessed means, so let's let's get in on this poor in spirit and let's identify the particular What does it mean when it says, blessed are the poor? Well, the the original Greek word meant to uh gave the uh in a uh in the classical Greek, right prior to this, has to do with the idea of crouching together. And it gives us this picture. Imagine a group of men or women or a group of people around the fire, warming their hands, and they're all crouching together for warmth Have you you got the picture the mental inner picture in your mind? The thing that is common about all of those people that are crouching together for warmth in the middle of the wintertime, perhaps is that is that they are all they are all poor. And that's the picture that you have here. of someone who is poor. By you get by the time you get into the common Greek, the com common original Greek of the time, it has to do with someone who has the inability to work. and who really is a beggar and lives on another man's alms. Now, we need to understand a little bit about the culture back then We need to understand, first of all, that there was no help if for someone who was poor, who couldn't work, perhaps they were lame, perhaps they didn't have the ability to work because of a physical problem, perhaps a mental problem, whatever it was, but they w weren't able to work. Realize, first of all, that in such cases the government was not there to help in any way. That's just That was just the society they lived in. Right or wrong, that was not something that they did. This particular word poor though actually has to do with someone who is destitute Because back then the way that someone, a poor person who couldn't work lived was actually they were supported by their family. But what happens if you have no family? You don't have anybody, there's no really nobody that you can rely on because perhaps some they're all they're all all passed away for whatever reason, there's nobody to rely on. So you can't work and you are poor and there's no one you can rely on. That's this word, and so you are literally dependent upon the good, the alms of someone who just chooses to take pity on you. That's this word. It is someone who is absolutely, utterly destitute. I would guess that there is no one listening today that physically is in this kind of a situation. But then that's actually the picture that we have is someone who is utterly destitute. But let's add then the two words next in this passage. Blessed are the poor, and what are the next two words? In spirit. So this is talking about somebody who is absolutely destitute. Who is completely poor, who has no means of his own to provide for himself, who is dependent upon the generosity of others entirely, who has nothing in and of himself to give of anything. But it's in spirit he is poor. This is a person who has realized that he in of his own spirit is utterly destitute And we would add to this utterly destitute before God. Now just think about it for a moment. Just give it some thought here. This passage is saying that the person who is truly happy is the person who sees himself as utterly destitute spiritually before God. That's very different from the interpretation of some of the people that I mentioned in the beginning, their interpretations of this passage. Their interpretation of the passage has to do with, well, if you just be who you really are, be who you you you be the kind of person this passage, if you can be that person then you will be the blessed person of the passage. No, God starts off by saying that the kind of character That describes a follower of him is actually the person who realizes he has spiritually nothing to give. that in and of himself he is spiritually destitute. And it says of that person, that person who is spiritually destitute, theirs is the kingdom. Of heaven. Did you catch that? Well, what's it saying when it says the king theirs is the kingdom of heaven? And again, at the very last beatitude, he's going to say that there. Theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Well, what is a kingdom? A kingdom is one who rules. A kingdom is one where there is a ruler and one who of people that are ruled And it says, theirs is the kingdom of heaven. God actually says that of certain people, they will take part in God's future eternal kingdom. They will be a part of God's rule in the future. Who are these people? Well, the first thing we need to understand One of the facets of the diamond of the character of a follower of Christ in this passage is someone Who is poor in spirit, who is utterly, who realizes that he is absolutely, utterly, spiritually destitute before God. I think perhaps one of the best illustrations of this and what we're really talking here about is the character quality of humility. God says essentially that in order to come to him, we must come to him as a little child, Matthew 18 says, we must come to God. in humility. God greatly values humility. I think of the Old Testament illustration of a man by the name of Isaiah. In Isaiah chapter 6, we have this prophet, who is a prophet of God, who actually who actually sees, he's in the midst of the throne room of God, and it says this in Isaiah 6. Isaiah 6 verse 1. I saw the Lord sitting on a throne, high and lifted up, and a train of his robe filled the temple Above it stood Seraphim. Each one had six wings. With two he covered his face. With two he covered his feet. And with two he flew And one cried to another and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. And the posts of the door were shaken by the voice of him who cried, and the house was filled with smoke. So he said, and so Isaiah sees God in his glory. He sees Christ, very likely it's Christ here. He sees the seraphim. He sees all of this, and he looks at himself for a moment and he says, Woe is me, for I am undone. Because I'm a man of unclean lips. He realizes his own destitute sin before God. And I dwell in the midst of people of unclean lips. For mine eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts. That is the kind of humility that this passage is talking about, where I realize the very first step. To having the kind of character that's necessary in order to be blessed And to find reward from God is actually to understand that I'm nothing in and of myself. That there is a total, that I am totally spiritually destitute. And the reality is this Everyone that is born is born this way. Did you know that? And this isn't popular. It's not popular at all. But everyone is born spiritually destitute, spiritually, actually spiritually dead before God. The Bible says, and that is because of sin. Now, all of us have sinned. The Bible is very clear about that. You have sinned, I have sinned, everyone has sinned. And frankly, if anybody says he hasn't sinned, well he's actually lied, so he has sinned. And we we we we the Bible actually says that our sin is inherited from others, uh from our ancestors, basically, starting from Adam and working his way down The Bible says, wherefore as by one man sin entered the world, and death by sin, therefore death passed upon all men, for all have sinned. And that sin put us into a place where we our hearts are destitute before God when we are born. We are born that way. The problem is our hearts tell us that we're something when actually we're nothing without God. And what we have to learn is that we are nothing and we need God. And we are going to learn more, and frankly, we need Jesus Christ We're going to learn more as we go through this. This is not the only facet to the diamond of the character that God values. There are other facets, and we're going to learn about these other facets. As we go uh in in the coming weeks, we're going to see what the other facets to this these are. And what we will find as we go through this, and we'll we'll cover several Beatitudes next week we are going to then be able to see what God really expects of us, what what he's really, what his character is really like and what he wants from us. and how we can be rightly related to him. And for those of us who know the Lord is our Savior, it will remind us really of the great rewards that we have But how important it is for us to continue to realize these things, that we are spiritually destitute before God. that we are born that way, and it is only by Christ alone that we have any kind of spiritual rich riches that we certainly So that's the that's the lesson for a day, uh the devotional for a day, if you will. I thank you all for those of you who have who have logged on to watch. I really appreciate it. I hope it has been helpful for you, beneficial for you. I'd encourage you maybe to to to if you came in in the middle, I saw some of you who came in the middle, maybe uh I'm gonna post this afterwards. You can You can watch it from the beginning. Also, if you'd like to message me, maybe you have questions about the Bible or questions about spirit your spiritual life or Um just just you're really not sure where you would spend eternity or you're just really not there's you just have questions. Can I encourage you to message me uh uh uh private message me there and I will be glad to help you with any way that I can. um spiritually to help you to have a a relationship with God or a better relationship with God. I want to be a help to you. Also if you want to find more messages like this or sermons, that kind of of thing you can go on to our website i on the pastor Bethel Baptist Church and you can go on to our website at bbcofmd. org and click on the sermons area and you can listen Also, what I'd like to do is to encourage you, if you will just put your your email address in And if you if you want to I I'd like to send out a outline of what we're going to be uh of the of uh what we're doing here and give you an introductory outline if you'd like like to have it. And um if you will put your email address in a message to me, uh uh just just uh Facebook message me your email address, uh I will send you um the outline to this to this the or at least the the introductory outline of the study as well. And I might be able to send you other material in the future, or probably will send you other material in the future. I'll collect all of the emails and then and I'll send you out material as we go through this. So I just want to let you know that those are available. I hope that this has been a helpful helpful to you and a blessing to you. And we will see you, Lord willing, next week uh to to look at more at these beatitudes. Take care.