All right, welcome everyone tonight. Um we are going to get into the Bible again in Matthew chapter five. Um I wasn't able to be with you last uh last week because I was out of town and um I really wanted to be here but wasn't able to and so we're gonna start back up where we were before. I'm gonna give uh give people a few minutes to to log on. I see Claudia's watching. Hi Claudia. Um and uh uh Carol's watching. That's great. Great to have you guys. And um Aga's there, that's great. So um so I'm gonna give it a little time to sort of to sort of log on and uh and Give everybody a chance here to log on. You can have for your Bibles open to Matthew chapter 5. That's where we're going to to be tonight. Um this is all kind of a new experience for me still. What I'm gonna do, I'm gonna try to this time is is about 15 after or so I'm gonna sort of pause, look at the screen and see if I have any questions. It's sort of an interesting dynamic being having people uh I'm trying to concentrate on what I'm doing and then people are asking questions, which I I really want people to ask questions, and but what I'll have you do is if you can ask questions at any time while we're going through this, but I'll sort of stop, look at the screen, and see if I can figure out what the questions are about halfway through. And and then um and then um answer the questions and then we'll keep going. So hopefully that makes that makes sense to you tonight. I hope you had a good day. Um I had a pretty good day, pretty, pretty busy with a lot of things going on. Um and uh so but I hope you had a good day as well and are able to join. Thanks for joining, those of you who are joining. And um uh hopefully, you know, my I really am burdened to do this for a very s uh there's a couple of reasons, but one of the major reasons is we are bombarded by so much um so much error and um worldly thinking throughout our day, every single day um of our lives and through different media and people and all kinds of things. And I just feel like as much truth as we can get a hold of, it can't be anything but helpful. Good to see you as well. And um uh hi Julie, good to see you. Um so anyway, I hope hopefully it will be a a really good thing to um hi Sandra um to to be able to to meet together tonight and and uh to join in all right I actually want to do something that seems a little bit strange I have something I need to click on here. Alright. Well that's really strange. Um okay. Um so so I do want to go ahead and open with a word of prayer. Uh it's help you know, I don't feel strange doing that. that because people are actively listening right now and so I can I can lead people in prayer. So I'm gonna go ahead and do that and then just to ask the Lord's time blessing on our time together. And then we'll get into God's word here. Father, we do come to you and we thank you for the privilege of gathering uh via Facebook today. And I pray that you'd even prompt more people to come online and and uh and uh to uh take a look at what we're doing here and looking at your word tonight. I pray that you would guide me as I uh explain your word, that it would really be helpful for all of us. uh in understanding it and um and that you would just use it the way you would choose and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Alright. I want to begin by asking a pretty simple question. Um do you Would you prefer fake or real? Uh whether it's people, whether it's situations, whether it's um whether it's um uh uh uh material kinds of things. I think all of us would agree that we don't like fake. We want people, for example, people to be authentic. We don't want it to be fake or or uh or plastic to us. In fact, we we we dislike fake so much That when in in in decorating terms and other times when you're using something that's not real, they don't even use the word fake. They use the word faux. instead of using the word fake. Isn't that not true? Uh I don't watch a lot of dec uh I don't I don't watch a lot of uh of decorating kinds of things, but I've seen enough of that DIY stuff that they always use the word faux, they don't use the word fake when really what it is is We're talking about fake. We don't like fake. We want real. And and uh whether it's you know, uh nobody w nobody when you go to propose to a young lady, do you you know, I never even considered using cur cubic cubic zirc zirconia when I uh wanted to propose to my wife. Uh I wanted the real thing. And if you recall from our study we we were talking about the importance of what God values. What does He value? And the fact that in Matthew chapter 5 we have three parts to each one of these Beatitudes. The first part of the Beatitude is blessed, which means happy. The second part is the actual quality. And then the third part is the reward. And we likened each one of these beatitudes not to separate ideas or even separate as separate characteristics, but but but different different aspects to the same quality of what is a real, authentic follower of Christ. And we likened that to like a diamond And a diamond is a great illustration to help us understand how these beatitudes work together. For one, because a diamond has different facets. look at the different facets of a diamond, you can see its beauty as you see the different facets. And each one of these different beatitudes are a different facet to a diamond, essentially. But also, I think it's a good illustration because it helps us to understand that what we're dealing with is a matter of quality, a matter of value. So let's ask this question What does God value? And we talked about this a little bit last time as well. What does God really value? See, if we're going to really understand what a true, authentic follower of Christ is, well, the person who decides that is Christ. And so if we're going to understand what an authentic real follower of Christ is, we're going to have to understand what Christ values. The more we understand what Christ values the more we c are go are going to understand what a true follower of Christ is. And I can tell you that what what the world values, I think you're gonna find, is a little different, or a lot different actually, than what what God values. Now, in talking about real people, an authentic person, somebody who's not fake, but somebody who really who is real. Um let me ask you this question. How do you know? How do you think you know? Well what is? Let's define it for a minute, just practically. What's the let's define what a real person is? Well a real person person is someone who has a good heart. Have you heard that before? You know that person's rough on the outside, but he's got a good heart. And there's essentially, you know, essentially we would all agree that a real authentic kind of a person, a person of value, is not a person that's just that's just looks good on the outside, but someone who's got a heart that's that's good on the inside. Nelson Mandela said it this way. A good head and a good heart are always a formal combination. The Dalai Lama said it this way. It is very important to generate a good attitude, a good heart, as much as possible. From this, happiness in both the short term and the long term for both yourself and others will come. Well, that sounds great, except for one simple problem. The Bible has something to say about our hearts, and unfortunately, it's not good The Bible says in Jeremiah 17, verse 9, it says, the heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. The Bible says in Romans chapter three verses ten through seventeen, There is none righteous, no not one, there is none that understands, there is none that seeks after God. They are all gone out of the way, they are altogether becoming profitable, they there is none that does good, no So the Bible says that our hearts are not good, they're bad, they're wicked. So we have a problem. What God values, and actually what we value, is a good heart, and yet And yet, the Bible says we're born without a good heart. Well, how then do you know what a good heart is and what isn't a good heart Well, you know by a person's attitude. Wouldn't you say that? You know by a person's attitude. Last week, or I guess I should say two weeks ago We looked at the very first beatitude, which was, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. This week we're going to pick up on the second beatitude. Which is in verse 4 of Matthew chapter 5. It says, Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Now let's just pause. Do you value people that mourn? Do you think, boy, that person is such a great person? He is one who mourns. No, we don't. The world values people that are strong, that are that are resolute, that aren't um affected by things. the that that aren't, you know, don't wear their emotions on their shirt sleeves, so to speak. That's that that's what the world often values. But God says, blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Well, what does it mean when it says here, uh, blessed are they that mourn? I think we may have mentioned this last week, but what it's really talking about here Is a kind of moral bankruptcy. The Bible says in Luke chapter 4, verse 18: The Spirit of the Lord is upon me because he hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor. He has sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives, to recovering and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised. Mourning is something that happens as a right response to sin. Now catch that. The Bible says that our hearts are wicked, that we're born that way What God values is that when we will mourn, when we see sin, that we mourn over it, that the right heart response to sin is mourning. Mourning is a ris is the right response to personal sin. James chapter 4, verse 6 says, Be afflicted and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be Turn the mourning and your joy to heaviness. That's in the context of of personal sin, of of sin that's in the heart, of covetousness, of that kind of thing. And mourning is the right response to others' sin. 1 Corinthians 5, verse 2 says. There was a man who was in constant sin in 1 Corinthians chapter five and and instead of responding to that person in uh with with with mourning, with grieving over the man's sin, they became prideful and they did not do they did not have the humble spirit in mourning over someone else's sin that they should have. So God says that what he values and what how we know a true follower of Christ is when someone mourns over sin. Personal sin and the sin of others. That's blessed are they that mourn. And there's this great there's this great promise. What's the reward? They shall be comforted. Do you do you value comfort? Do you appreciate comfort? I think all of us do. What is it talking about when it says, Blessed are they that mourn that for they shall be comforted? Well, if mourning has to do with our response to sin, there is going to be a day. This is a day. There's going to be a day where there will be no more sin. There will be a day when we will be with the Lord in heaven where we will not have to deal with sin any longer. We will not have to mourn over sin any longer. We will be free if we know Christ is our Savior. We'll be free from the power of sin, but we'll also be free from the presence of sin. We'll be with Christ And that is the greatest comfort of all to look forward to the day where we will be with Christ. For now we mourn over our own sin, and we mourn over the sin of others. What it does to people, the the the destruction that causes the harm and heartache that it causes. But one day when we go to heaven, we will be comforted. If we'll moor now, we'll be comforted in the future. We are already at 9. 15. I'm not seeing any questions so far. Does anybody have questions so far about this beatitude of mourning? Any questions at all? If not, then I will go ahead and continue. Good to see some of some of you some other folks joining us now. That's great. If at any point you have a question, that's great. Just type it in and And hopefully I'll be able to see that. But we're going to point ahead and continue. And what we're going to do is actually turn then to the third Beatitude. the next one on our list. And that is, Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Now, if you just think about what the world values, the ver the world values people that are that are the kind of people that are winners. We value winning. I actually I like to win. If I'm gonna play a game I might I might as well win while I'm playing it or why play? I mean, you know, y y y you kinda hear some sometimes people say it's not how whether you win or lose, how you play the game, and I really have a hard time with that. I'm like, why would you play the game if you're not trying to win? The world values winning. The world values someone who is able to win. You might even hear somebody say that person is a winner. But but it says here, blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. A meek person is not a weak person But a meek person is one who is mild in his manner, and his strength is harnessed Jesus said this about himself when he was on earth. Matthew 11, verse 29, take my yoke upon you, Jesus said, and learn of me. Learn of me, for I am meek. and lowly in heart, and ye shall find rest unto your souls. Psalm 37, verse 11 says, But the meek shall inherit the earth. And shall delight themselves in the abundance of peace. The word meekness is a word that that uh give you kind of a little bit of a let a word lesson. In the New Testament The original language of the New Testament is not English. The original language of the New Testament is Greek. And the kind of Greek that was written in the New Testament was something called Koine Greek. Prior to Koine Greek, that was the period in which the New Test was written, there was a kind of Greek called Classical Greek. pretty simple, several a couple of years before, was called Classical Greek. And in the classic that's when this word meekness, uh in the Greek the Greek word for meekness came up. And it had a really it was used originally to talk about a horse that is strong, but has to be bridled, has to be broken, has to come to a place where he is meek. That's this word. This word is strength is broken strength. And you might think that those two things are not, those are contradictory. Somebody who's broken is not somebody who's strong. But in God's economy, the way that God sees it, the person who is broken is strong. The person who is broken is the person that can receive strength from God. And what does it say? Blessed are the meek, for they shall what? What's their reward? They'll inherit the earth. We don't think of it that way. think the person who's strong, who's braggadocious, who's gonna handle everything and who's gonna tell everybody what to do and ha deal with everything themselves and that kind of a person, pull yourself up by your own breech, that's the person That is it inherits the earth. That's not what God says. God says the meek, the broken person How does he inherit the earth? Well, they're when we those who know Christ as their Lord and Savior, who are true followers of Christ. Well one day they will. The Bible says they'll rule and reign with Christ. That our inheritance will be able will be that we will be with Christ, we will rule and reign with him. Next beatitude here that I think we have, yeah, we do have a few minutes for this, so that's great. The next beatitude is is verse is in verse seven. It says, Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be filled. Blessed are they are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be filled. A man by the name of D. A. Carson, who wrote a commentary, quoted a man by the name of D. Martin Lloyd-Jones, and this was his statement. It was an excellent statement. He referring to this idea of hungering and thirsting after righteousness says I do not know of a better test that anyone can apply to himself or herself. in this whole matter of the Christian profession than a verse like this. If this verse is to you one of the most blessed statements in the the whole scripture, you can be quite certain you are a Christian. If it is not, then you had better examine the foundations again. Well, let's unpack this. It says, blessed are those who hunger and thirst after righteousness. Notice this is hunger and thirst after righteousness. It doesn't say hunger and thirst after happiness. Those who hunger and thirst after righteousness will be happy. But those who hunger and thirst after happiness will never be happy. So what does it mean to hunger and thirst after righteousness? The word hunger is not the, you know, it's not like I missed a meal and now I'm hungry. That's not the word. That's not what it means. The word hunger has to do with absolute starvation. If you think of someone who's emaciated, who hasn't eaten for a week. That's the person in this passage. It is someone who is starving for something. That's the picture that w that God wants us to see here, that Christ, as he preached This sermon wants us to see. Righteousness must not be something we merely work at or occasionally something we kind of want or something we it must be a consuming passion and a desire. Righteousness is something that we must thirst for. It goes together with the others. You think of mourning. mourning over sin and thirsting after righteousness. These are all facets to the same kind of quality that God says is true of those who truly follow him. So what is it talking about when it talks about this righteousness? Those who hunger and thirst after righteousness? Well, we've already said it's not talking about happiness. It's not talking about um uh it uh it's talking about it's not actually even talking about morality What is it referring to here when it's talking about righteousness? To put it very simply, In this passage, when it's talking about righteousness, another word that we find in the New Testament is the word justice. In fact, the word righteousness and the word justice are interchangeably used in both the Old Testament and the Old Testament. and the New Testament. The word righteous and the word justice. That that colors it for us a little bit, doesn't it? Righteousness, justice. true rightness. Now just think about this. Is is there not in if you're a follower of Christ, is there not a desire for this of justice in the world? Of righteousness? You see the injustice. You see the the the problems in the world, the sin, the corruption, and you want it to be fixed. It's just there's a there's a thirsting and a hungering for this. That's this word, righteousness. But more practically, righteousness is simply someone righteousness is conformity to the will of God. Do you remember in Matthew chapter seven? In fact that's two two chapters later in the book of Matthew. Matthew in the Sermon on the Mount, as part of the Sermon on the Mount, he's going to end, Jesus is going to end the Sermon on the Mount this way. He says there's two roads. You've got a wide road that leads to destruction and a narrow road that leads to life. In the same passage he says, there are many that find the broad road, there are very few that find the narrow road. And then he says, how, essentially Jesus says, how do you know the difference between someone who is really, really knows the Lord versus someone who doesn't? He says, well Not everyone who says he knows the Lord knows him. Not everyone who says Lord, Lord, knows the Lord, according to Matthew chapter 7. He says, but those who do the will of my father, those are the ones who really know the Lord. See There is within us a a hunger for if if we know the Lord our Savior, if we're truly a follower of Christ, there is a hunger and a thirst for righteousness in our souls. We want it. Now, that doesn't mean that we don't struggle with sin. Doesn't mean that we don't have a, that we don't succumb to temptation sometimes. But in our souls there is a desire, a righteousness that we desire. We hunger and thirst after. And it says there's this there's this reward here, this wonderful reward. It says they'll be filled. They'll be filled. Those who hunger and thirst after righteousness Well, the Bible actually says that when we come to a place of understanding that Jesus died to pay the punishment for our sins, he lived a righteous life. And he fulfilled all of the demands of the law. He lived a righteous life, a life that we couldn't live. We if you try to be righteous for very long, you'll find you can't do it. And if you think you can, you're deceiving yourself. The Bible says that if you think you have those sin, you're deceiving yourself. The truth is not in you. All of us have sinned. All of us have come short of God's righteous glory. All of us are come short of those things. Well, that's why Jesus came and lived the righteous life that we couldn't live. And then as our representative, he goes to the cross and dies for us to pay the punishment for our sin. So that when we will accept that by faith, when we will depend upon what Jesus did for us on the cross, then he declares us righteous. That's what justification is. is. Then, as we live out this life, we are practicing what we are what God has already declared us to be, righteous before Him. And then one day when we see Christ, the Bible says we'll be like him, 1 John, for we will see him as he is. And when we see him as he is, and we are like him, then we will not only be declared righteous, we will be entirely righteous. You know, I think I remember when I was a uh a young man growing up in a church and thinking about heaven, I thought it was kind of of a boring idea. I I I didn't really look forward to heaven. I thought to myself, well, it j you know I'm it it just seems like it's gonna be more fun down here. The idea of sitting on a cloud with a a pilly white cloud on a harp, I mean it it just doesn't appeal to me. Well frankly that's a misconception of heaven. Uh we we w won't necessarily be playing harps and we will not likely at all be on clouds. But the longer the longer the Lord as the Lord grows us in the in the faith and helps us to understand understand who He is and has gives us the right kinds of desires. We just long for righteousness. We know we fall short of the of the declared righteousness that we have and we long for it and we thirst for it and we know it's not there and we want it and we grow and we're growing to we're growing in Christ to be more like him. We want it but one day we'll be filled with righteousness. There will be no more sin. There will be comfort because there will be no more sin. There will be righteousness. That we will be filled with, that we're desiring now and enjoy and delight and hungering and thirsting for now, but one day we'll be filled with it. See, if you're listening to this and you're going through these beatitudes, these are the kinds of qualities that a true follower of Christ has. Am I going over time? No, I've got two more minutes. These are the kind of qualities that the true follower of Christ has. Blessed are the poor in spirit. Someone who realizes he's destitute before God. Blessed are those who mourn over sin. Blessed are the meek, the ones who are broken. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst after righteousness. And do you know what will happen? Those who have that kind of perspective and attitude in this life, do you know what's going to happen in the next life for them? They're going to be comforted. They're going to inherit the earth. And they're going to be filled with the righteousness of the desire of this life. And folks, the question really is at this point, and as we go continue to go through this we'll you'll see this, are you a f a genuine follower of Christ? Or are you, can we put it this way, are you a faux follow follower of Christ? There's a lot of faux follower of Christ followers of Christ out there. A lot of people that are going through the motions. They're sort of faking it till they make it. They're they're And they're try they're they're doing the best they can, but they've never really understood that they are destitute before a holy God. They are not, they don't understand they're spiritually destitute. They don't understand that they are that they are they need to mourn over their sin. They don't understand the weakness, the brokenness that needs to occur in their lives. the hunger and thirst after righteousness. Those are the facets of the diamond of a person who is a true follower of Christ. And that and with that we will we will get into the next Beatitudes next week. We'll look at the blessed are the pure in heart, which is just an amazing concept of pure heart. And blessed are they are those who are called the sons of God. We'll look at those, and those blessed are those who are persecuted. We'll look at those next week. Now I am finished with my with my time, but I wonder, do you have any questions over the things that we talked about? I would love to just answer your questions. If I see any questions Questions popping up in the next couple of minutes. I'm finished the study, but I would love to answer any questions you have. Is there anybody that would just want to type in a question and I could see it online that has a question about these feet a question about these beatitudes. The question might be about about the first beatitude, which is poor in spirit. The next question might or question might be on blessed are they who mourn. Or on meekness, or on hungering and thirsting for righteousness. Do you have any questions about those Beatitudes and how and what they look like? how these can be used to help us to see whether or not we are truly a follower of Christ. Do you have any questions? All right, I'll just hold for just a minute. If you do, I'd certainly like to hear from you. All right, I'm not seeing I'm not seeing any questions right now. That's fine. Something to really just think about and pray through these things. Hopefully this has been a helpful thing for you to go through these Beatitudes. I I I'll tell you personally, it's it's just it's just a joy to be able to to do this myself and just to think through these things and talk through these things with you. If you have any questions at any time, please feel you say maybe I I I don't really want to be on Facebook. I don't really want to be on Facebook Facebook Live with my question. That's certainly understandable. Feel free to PM me to message, private message me your question. I'd be glad to take a Bible and and and either uh uh and just answer your question over over messaging that would be fine. Um or if you if there's a call or something like that that um that that would be be fine is uh that would be you want me to call you I could probably do that as well potentially. And so so uh feel free to ask any question that you pa that you would like to ask uh on on this um uh in the in the private messaging. Hope you have have a good rest of your evening. Hope this helps you just in in a little bit of spiritual refreshment in the middle of your week. And uh Lord willing we'll see you s neck next time, Thursday, nine o'clock. Have a great rest of your evening.