All right, good evening everyone. Uh hope you had a good day today and um I want to take a few moments to look into God's Word in Matthew chapter 5 tonight. Uh this is another segment in the series on Facebook Live and uh we'll be looking at the Beatitudes in Matthew chapter five. I don't know about you but I've had a very busy day and uh I hope That this can be a time of refreshment uh for us um as we just take a few minutes to look into God's Word. Um I wasn't uh able to do this last night because of Valentine's Day and one Um and uh she she's not she's a very gracious kind of a person. She didn't a ask me to do this or ask me to spend time with her Or certainly not demand it, that's not the way Elizabeth is. But uh thought about it my when my kids actually said, uh, hey, are you gonna spend some time together tonight? and I thought I probably should do that. And wanted to do it too, and I just felt like I should. So So Matthew chapter five is where we where we are tonight. And And uh let's go ahead then and get into the passage. We're looking at the Beatitudes, which are Christ's own words, his own teaching. And the question we're really asking is what is a true f follower of Christ look like? Um and if you look you know there's there are many people in the world that That are religious and they think that they know the Lord, but they don't really know the Lord because what they have instead of a true, genuine relationship with the Lord is empty religion. It's a religion that makes them feel good about themselves, but really never actually changes them. And we absolutely have to be changed from the inside out in order to have a relationship with God because we we begin, we are born in sin. The Bible's very clear about that because of Adam's sin that was passed on to every person in the human race, except for Christ, because uh he was of course conceived of the Holy Spirit. But um so as a result of that we all need have a sin nature and we all need Christ. And uh hi Jenny, good to see you tonight. Um glad you're able to log on here. And um I see others as well that are watching. That's great to have you guys tonight. So we're in Matthew chapter 5, and we'll begin reading verse 1 of this passage. And what I'm going to do tonight is we're going to do a little bit of reviewing as we go through this. of of the different beatitudes that we've looked at already. And I I'll I'll ask you to recall that we've we've used the various beatitudes, we've talked about the various beatitudes in And we've used the illustration of a diamond to help us to understand how they're all how they all work together. A diamond has various facets, and it's the beauty of the various facets that make it make up the whole uh the beauty of the diamond. And each one of these Beatitudes are not a distinct characteristic that are not related to the others. They're all related together. to give us a full picture of what it looks like to truly be a follower of Christ. So with that in mind, let's go ahead and pick up in Matthew 5. It says And seeing the multitudes, he went up on a mountain, and when he was seated, his disciples came to him. Then he opened his mouth and taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Well let me pause there and just remember in verse 3 it says, Blessed are the poor in spirit, and we noted a couple of weeks ago that poor in spirit has to do with spiritually destitute, utterly destitute before God. And it says, blessed, there's three components of each beatitude. The blessed pronouncement is the first component. And the word blessed means happy. It says literally, happy is the person who realizes that he is spiritually destitute before God. And it says, theirs is the kingdom of heaven. The second Beatitude is, blessed are they that mourn, for they will be comforted. And we noted that for the follower of Christ, there is really very little that in the Christian life that would cause someone to mourn, except for sin. And both the personal sin of ourselves and the sin of others are the two th things that would cause us to mourn. And certainly in this passage, what we have in view here is is mourning over our sin. And it says, it's interesting, it says, happy is the person who mourns over a sin. almost sounds antithetical, but it's not. It's it there is a a a the mourning over sin results in joy in Christ. And it says, they shall be comforted. Again, that you have the present pronouncement of blessedness. happiness, you then have the mourning over sin, and then the future result, they shall be, future tenants shall be comforted. And the and as we noted uh in the past, sh shall be comforted has to do uh with the fact that one day when we see Christ, when we are with him, when we are in heaven, there will be no more sin. We will no no there will no longer ever be any reason to mourn whatsoever again. And for the Christian, the true follower of Christ, who is poor in spirit and realizes it and mourns over sin. has a remorse for sin in his life, there's going to be a day where there will be will no bore there will be no more mourning and and and there will be a comfort. Um and we are all looking forward to that day. The next Beatitude is blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. And we noted that meek has to do with strength under control. It is not a weakness But it is a strength under control. Although it does tend to have the idea of gentleness. It carries that idea with it. And it carries the idea of of um of someone who is who is harnessed in his in his strength. So strength under control. It says that person is blessed, and it says they shall inherit the earth. That is, those who those who have strength under control will one day be used of God to rule and reign with Christ. Then we said, Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be filled. The hungering and the thirsting for righteousness is someone who who feels as though he is starved for it. This is not just uh I feel like a little righteousness here and there. This is someone who is who is hungering and thirsting for it. He realizes his need for it. There is a desire for it. It's a strong um overwhelming desire for righteousness. Um there's an understanding of this person that he has no righteousness of his own. He is entirely destitute of any righteousness of his own, but he wants it. There is a desire for righteousness. And it says they shall be filled. That's future tense as well. And so we are declared righteous before God now. We are practicing righteousness as we live in Christ. One day all of that will come together and we will be righteous. before Christ. The Bible says, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. So that's the s that's that's verse six of chapter five of the Beat attitudes. The next one that, and now we're in the new material now, verse 7. It says, Blessed are the merciful. For they shall obtain mercy. Another facet of this of this follower, this true, genuine, authentic follower of Christ. is one who is, he is genuinely, he is merciful. So what does it mean to be truly merciful? Well the Bible says that that um let me let me get it here Um see what does it mean to be merciful here? Um There are a lot of different uses of the word merciful in the New Testament, but uh the closest to this word is found in Matthew chapter 6 verse 4. So if you have your Bibles there you can turn, it's just one probably one page over. Matthew chapter 6 verse 4, it actually actually says that your cher charitable deed may be done may be in secret, and your father who sees you in s in uh secret will will himself. reward you openly. And so this this word merciful actually has to do with a complete trust in God. If you remember in Psalm 37, we find that this is the case as well. So in talking about mercy, merciful is someone who is not occupied with looking at other people's sin. The person is occupied with mourning over his own sin. A merciful person tends to be one who is n so here's what we usually do. The natural thing is to look at other people's sin and and and to see their sin first and not to observe our own sin. That's the natural person. But the person who is a genuine follower of Christ doesn't look at other people's sin first. He actually sees his own sin first. That's why later on in Matthew chapter 7 it's going to actually say that before you have the ability to be able to s take s take any kind of sin out of somebody else's life, you have to notice the the beam in your own life. Look at that first. So a person that knows Christ as their Savior, they're quick to recognize their own sin. They mourn over it They realize they're spiritually best to before God. They desire righteousness, but they are merciful in the sense of of of At other people's sin, looking at it and realizing that that their sin is what they need to be be more focused on than other people's sin. As soon as you begin to look at scriptures and you don't you don't see other your sin first, you just see everybody else's, you have you have turned into a Pharisee And the Bible actually, this is Christ is dealing with this in Matthew. He's dealing with the Pharisees. This can happen with a, this can easily happen with someone who teaches the Bible all the time a preacher of the Word of God or a teacher or someone who is who is discipling. It it I can I can be guilty of this where I begin to look at scripture and see what everybody else needs Rather than first seeing how this applies personally to me, and then it also applies to others. And so the person who is genuine in his spirit before God and is and is And his heart is one who is merciful toward the sins of others, and he is he sees his own sin first. And those people, the Bible says, will obtain mercy. Well, it shall obtain mercy future. When will that be? Well, it'll be at the judgment seat of Christ. 2 Timothy 1, verses 15-15. through 18 talk about the fact that we will all, those knowing Christ as the Savior, will all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. And those people will obtain mercy. Next Beatitude, which is also incredibly important, and probably probably more literature, particularly in the Purit Puritan era, has been written on this than any other than any other um of the Beatitudes. And that is in verse 8 it says, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for they shall see God. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for they shall see God. Well, what does it mean? Or I'm sorry, but blessed are the poor in heart, rather. Blessed are the poor in heart, for they shall see God. So let's break this apart and see what does it mean to be pure in heart. I think I think it's a real deception of Satan to think that that that you're we just are sort of naturally pure in heart. If you read m if you listen to many of the pop songs of our culture It'll be talking about how you need to be true to your heart and how the how you need to follow your heart. And it the assumption is that our heart, our pu heart is pure. We've talked about before how that's not the case. Our heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. So what is the heart? Well the heart in the New Testament particularly refers to the center of a person's personality. It is the core of a person's very being. It has to do both with the mind as well as the heart in this context. And it was something that that Jesus pointed out was not true of the Pharisees. The Pharisees, he would say, are white sepulchre with dead men's bones. They are their externals are pure, but their internal heart is not pure. That is not a true follower of Christ. A true follower of Christ is not pure on the outside and And and not and uh it is not pure on the outside, but lacks purity on the inside. That's not a true follower of Christ. So what does this word pure mean? In Matthew chapter 23, verse 26, it says, Thou blind Pharisee, cleanse first that which which is within the cup and flatter. That the outside of them may also be clean. So it says that our first concern should be what's on the inside, not on what is on the outside. Matthew 27 verse 59 it says, and when Joseph had uh taken the body and wrapped it in clean linen cloth, this idea of completely clean. Is this word pure? 1 Timothy 1 verse 5, it says, Now the end of the commandment is charity out of a pure heart. And out of a good conscience, and out of faith unfeigned. 2 Timothy 2, verse 22. Flee also youthful lust, but follow righteousness faith, charity, peace, with them that call on the Lord out of a pure heart. Titus chapter 1 verse 15. Unto the pure all things are pure. But unto them that they're defiled and unbelieving is nothing pure. But even their mind and conscience is defiled. I want to circle back around and look particularly at this con at what it says in the very first verse that we read in this section here. In Matthew 23, verse 26, God Christ tells the Pharisees, he says, Cleanse first that which is within the cup and platter, that the outside then may be clean as well. Now, let me let's let's focus it on this for a moment. This what empty religion attempts to do is to clean us up from the outside and in hopes that it will begin to cleanse the inside That's why empty religion depends on forms and sacraments and practices and and those kinds of things. Rituals. Empty religion focuses on those kinds of things instead of real heart issues. So so this pure and heart When Christ says focus on the internal first and then the outside will be what it ought to be, that really actually gives us, by way of application, uh some some direction as to how we ought to disciple someone. When someone comes to Christ, what is the thing that we ought to focus on? There is a kind of thinking that suggests that when someone comes to Christ, the very first thing we ought to do is we have to talk about all of the external things that they need to change. They ought to change the way they practice certain things and they ought to go into and and just have it. The focus ought to be on You need to do this and do that, and if there are things within their lives um that are are uh are not con in conformity to the to the the the typical Christian way of thinking things that should be, then you ought to change them. That's not what Christ teaches. He doesn't teach that when someone comes to him, that the that the focus ought to be on external things. Um even I people have suggested that when someone comes to Christ, well then they need to They need to be taught to listen to different music and they need to be taught to to um uh to wear different clothes and and all of these different practices and things. And it is true that some of those things will change over time for a new believer as he grows in Christ, but the focus ought to be on internal. on the heart as very, very clear from what it says in the passage that the goal should be inward heart purity. not external forms of empty religion. And that is something that we need to be very, very aware of, very mindful of So the Bible says that if if you want to see what a f a true follower of Christ is, it is someone who is pure in heart. Now I am actually having a problem with the with the battery on my uh uh on my iPad. I thought I had plugged it in, but apparently it is not. Uh I'm gonna have to I don't even know how to pause Well, I'm not exactly sure what's happening there. Hopefully I'll be able to finish this before the battery on my iPad goes up. Oh there. Alright, so pure in heart. Now, um it says here, so we're talking here when it talks about pure of heart, talking about not having hypocrisy. It's talking about not being it's talking about lacking defilement. Psalm 86. 11 says, uh unite my heart to fear thy name. Make me free of hypocrisy. And this idea of pure in heart is exactly that. Now it says that those who are pure in heart will see God. Did you notice that in the passage? And that's a future tense. So you've got this present tense idea of blessed or happy are the people that are pure in heart. And it says For they shall see God. So let's talk about that for a few moments. Do you remember the Old Testament? A man by the name of Moses, who was who was the most revered man in the Old Testament by Jewish people. Moses was a man who was very close to God. You'll find a story in Exodus chapter 33, verses 18 through 23, where Moses asks God, to show him his glory. God says, God replies by saying, Well, I can't show you all of my glory. You can't see the you can't see the full the full impact of my glory, you would be consumed. I will show you my back. I'll show you uh the uh uh essentially some of it but not all of it Do you remember in Exodus chapter 15, for example, it actually talks about the fact that that Christ or that that God was with them in the cloud uh by uh by day and the pillar of fire by night. They could be with the presence of God, the nation of Israel could. And you remember in Exodus chapter 24 that many are invited to go up to the mountain to see God in that passage, but they they aren't uh they don't you they don't actually go up. Moses does though. There's then in Matthew, or then Exodus, Exodus 34, Moses is called up even further, and he comes down and his face is shining. Do you remember that passage? His face is shining Everyone and what this shows us, this progression from Exodus 15 to Exodus 24 to Exodus 34, is that there are different levels of seeing God. That that some the the nation of Israel saw God in the pillar in the cloud That when Moses went up to the Mount Sinai, he saw the glory of God to some extent. Even more so later on in Exodus chapter 34. No one saw the fullness of the glory of God because they would otherwise be consumed. What does this tell us? It tells us this. That that that The level of purity that we have in our heart is the level to which we will see God. Now, let's sort of ask this question: who has a pure heart? Does anybody have a pure heart? Well the answer is no. No one has a pure heart. I'll just remind us, remember the very first beatitude. The very first beatitude was It was, blessed are the poor in heart and spirit, those who realize that they are spiritually destitute before God. That is antithetical to having purity of heart. How is someone to be able to have a pure heart? Folks, the answer is that you have to have a new heart The old heart that the sinful heart that all of us are born with, I mean the fact that we all have a sinful heart is is is absolutely um verified by experience. Just just just take a few moments and consider the deceitfulness of your own heart or consider the deceitfulness of other people's hearts. We don't have a pure heart. We have to have a new heart in order to have a pure heart. And that's what happens when we accept Christ as our Lord and Savior. He gives us a new heart. which is also a pure heart. And that is the heart with which we actually see God. We are able to experience God. And frankly, we will experience God most when we no longer have the sin nature, this old sinful heart that we have now. But when we go to heaven and we're with Christ, we will be able to see God in a much more pure way because of the pure of the pure purity that is in our heart and the absence of sin if we truly know Christ as our Savior. This is quite an incredible reality that that there seems to be and and by way of application there seems to be a link Between the level to which we see God and the level to which we have purity of our heart. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Ah, there's more I could say about this, but I think we're going to go ahead and go on to the next one, and that is Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God. We don't have time to go through the whole through all of this one, but I'll just mention this. Just pause and think about what it means to be a peacemaker What is a peacemaker? How can somebody be a peacemaker? The Bible says that it's it asks this question in James chapter 4 From whence comes wars and fightings among you? Like if there's fightings and wars among you, it says, come they not hence That you may consume it upon your own lust. The idea is that when there are wars and fightings externally, it's because individuals have fighting in their heart. Um and just think about how much fighting there is in the world. Everybody's fighting about everything. There's all kinds of wars and fightings and problems. and struggles and difficulties. There's not peace, and there's very few people that are peacemakers. Instead, there is warring in the heart And if you have two people, both who are warring in their hearts, if they spend any time together, any amount of time together, it isn't going to be long before they're warring with each other. It's no wonder that if you go to your job workplace day after day, eventually you're going to start getting into arguments with your work co-workers. It's no wonder that if you spend any time with uh even a spouse uh somebody that you married, somebody that you you say you love. If if two people have inward hearts that are that are warring in their hearts It isn't going to be long between b before there is warring among those two people or three people or four people or however. Why is there so much drama in the world? Why is there drama in the home? Drama in the workplace. Drama in our neighborhoods. Drama in our political system. Talk about drama in the political system. I mean there is so much drama everywhere. Why? Why are there wars and fightings? It is because of the heart. But the person who's pure in heart, the person who's merciful, so he looks at his own sin rather than seeing first the sins of others, he's always first seeing his own sins. The person who mourns over his own sin, the person who is understands that he is spiritually destitute before God. That person that makes up all of the different facets of this this these beatitudes that is the follower of Christ, that person is also a peacemaker. Now my time is up apparently Looks like I've I've I'm I've reached 9. 30. And so we will stop here at chapter 5, verse 9 of the Beatitudes. We will be able to finish up the Beatitudes next time we meet. which hopefully will be next Thursday at 9 o'clock. I do want to thank you all for joining me this evening. Several people that that logged on tonight that had hadn't logged on before. I don't know, maybe I'll do one on every once in a while on Friday nights. I let me encourage you, I'm not what we're doing here for those of you logged on for the first time. What we're doing here is we're just simply taking God's word, taking the Bible, and we're for a half hour just going through what right now, we're just going through the teachings of Jesus. We're just going through step by step the teachings of Jesus in Matthew chapter five called the Sermon on the Mount, and we're going through the Beatitudes. And we're trying to learn of learn from Jesus so that we can understand what God really expects of us and what a true follower of of Christ looks like. And if you have any questions at all, I definitely encourage you, please, please message me. Uh you can private message me and just ask me a question that you'd like to ask me if there's any any any any question at all about anywhere in the Bible or what we talked about tonight, I'd be glad it glad to glad to um to to um answer any questions you have. Also if you'd like to look at w at previous you say, well I'm kind of interested the study that you're you talked about tonight and you want to look at previous um previous segments of this. You can go to uh our church, my church, the church website, the church I pastor at, it's BBCOFMD. org. And then if you could if you scroll the bottom, you'll see sermons. Click on that, and it will take you to our sermon audio page and Uh Pat Ignazak, one of our our uh head um A B guy, uh has been nice enough to take these and and put them in a format that can go I don't even know how this works, but put them put them in a format that can that can be uh archived there so that any time you can download them, you they're free of course. You can download them, you can listen to them, and also there are other sermons on there as well from our church that you can listen to as well on a variety of topics and subjects and things like that. that and really want to if you if there's anything you that can be of useful to you uh there that would that would be wonderful. Uh so that's it BBC O F M D And I think actually you could just forward slash sermons and it will go there. Now this is not a sermon, this is a devotional, but it it's all archived there so that you can you can look at them uh Again, so they're recorded there and you can watch them a coup more than once if you'd like, uh and and get as much of the content out of them as as you desire. Well, I hope uh hope to see you next time, next Thursday, 9 o'clock P. M. Um, and uh and we'll continue our study in the BI. Have a great evening and have a great weekend. And let me just say this. If you if you uh we're you got tomorrow Saturday, the next day is Sunday, if you don't have a place of of of of worship that you go to that you are you are regularly attending. We'd love to love to have you at Beth at uh at our church at BB at Bethel Baptist Church. and uh just come uh we'd love to have you and uh come visit us but um anyway uh you have a great night and uh and a good weekend take care