All right, take your Bibles, if you will, or tap away at your phones and turn to the book of Malachi. Book of Malachi. I have to I have to realize the day and age we are in, and we're not always making this sound anymore, are we? So that's good Turn to the uh should be turning to the book of Malachi now. And um you might be asking, wow, Malachi. That's not a a book I've gone to in a long time or anything. I I'm curious and and be honest. I mean, sure, you should be you probably naturally be honest with me, right? Do you remember a message that you heard from the book of Malachi? Raise your hand. Go ahead and raise your hand. I want to see you I got four, maybe five. There was a half-hearted one over there. I cannot myself. I cannot remember. That doesn't mean I I haven't. Because I don't remember everything I've ever heard, much like you, I'm sure. But I don't. Nothing stands out to me that I've ever heard a message preached out of the book of Malachi. A while ago, and by a while I mean many months ago now, Pastor Jim asked me to consider doing uh a series on a minor prophet. And uh to begin preparing for that. While this is not a series in and of itself, he asked me to preach about two weeks ago, and I didn't have a whole lot of time And so I asked, well could I could I break out my Nalachi notes that I have for this series that I Lord Welling will do at some point, not sure what the plan is for that exactly, but so what you're getting tonight is, uh or this morning rather is uh is an overview. Of the book of Malachi. We're not going to get very deep into the nitty and the gritty, but you're going to see, I think, that through this book. There there are a lot of challenging aspects for the human heart to consider. I will say that as I've gone through this this book and I've I think I've read it about twenty times through now. It's not very long, so it doesn't take very long to do that. But as I've as I've studied it, it has struck me And shown me in many cases my own heart and my own motivations and my own deficiencies at times. And I think it will be a challenge to all of us today as we go through that. So let's go ahead and go to prayer because we need his help with for this time together And we uh will get into his word after that. Father, we thank you that uh you have given us uh all of Scripture. Uh even those books and of the Bible that are perhaps a little less frequented by our eyes. Lord, it is all truly profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction and instruction in righteousness that we can be fully equipped, lacking nothing when it comes to the life that you've called us to live. And so I pray, Lord, that you'd help us as we consider these truths from your scriptures. And Lord, I I ask for your help because I I cannot in and of myself deliver your truth in my own strength So I pray, Lord, for a measure of grace and strength from you so that your truth can go forth clearly. And I pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. So let's get some background to the book of Malachi. Malachi, as you would well notice, probably, is at the end of the Old Testament. And in my Bible, I've got a blank page and then a page that says New Testament and then a blank page and then Matthew. We are at the end of the Old Testament. He, Malachi the prophet, ministered sometime in the 5th century, likely about a hundred years after Cyrus had issued the decree. That permitted the Jews to return back from their exile into the Holy Land. If you're familiar with the books of Ezra and Nehemiah, Those two books recount a lot of what went on during that time. And Malachi, in fact, is either a contemporary of Ezra and Nehemiah, or Maybe it crossed over a little bit too after Ezra and Nehemiah because you see a lot of the same issues, same heart issues, same sins in the people as you do in those two books. We also need to look at the structure of the book. For our purposes today, this will help us as we go. And I think we have the slide up there that shows this. So you'll see there the structure. And you might say, oh, that's a strange thing, A, B, C, C, B, A. I'm pretty sure that's not the alphabet. Well, what this is, is either, I've heard it can be called a chiastic structure or a mirror image structure. And what that means is that the first indictment and the sixth indictment are linked. The second indictment and the fifth indictment are also connected And the third and the fourth are also connected as well. And what do I mean by indictment? Well, what God is doing in this book is he has certain grievances. Certain accusations that he has towards the people of Israel. And he does it in this structure It's called its mirror image or chiastic. The idea of chiasm is is based off of the Greek letter chi, which is looks exactly the same as our letter X So you can kind of see with the A, B, C, C, B, A, it's part, one half of the X. Except it doesn't say X, it says key or chi, depending how you wanna how you want to pronounce it So it is the last book that is written in the Old Testament. Written, I saw a variety of dates, but probably somewhere in between 460 and 424 BC. It happens, uh we mentioned the the those pages in between the Old Testament and the New Testament in your Bible. If you were to take Your Bible and flip through those blank pages, and one probably says the New Testament. When you have gone from Malachi to Matthew, you know you have advanced about 400 years. That's what those pages in your Bible represent. 400 years about have passed during that time. Think about it for a second. It is 400 years where God has nothing to say to his people. Amos, another minor prophet, predicted this, that this would take place in Amos 8:11. It says, This: Behold, the days come, saith the Lord God, that I will send a famine in the land. A famine. But he says, not a famine of bread nor of thir a thirst for water, a famine of hearing from the words of the Lord. He predicts that there's going to be a famine of God's words. And those 400 years are often called the 400 silent years. And that is the fulfillment of that prophecy during that time. So in my mind, I look at that and I think, wow. If God is about to say nothing for four centuries, maybe plus, the last things that he has to say to his people are probably pretty important. Probably really important. It's probably really important for those people hearing Malachi's message. And and and those later that would read it. And for us today, it's probably really important for us to consider the things that are written in this book. Can you m imagine a time where and perhaps you have experienced a time like this, perhaps you are experiencing a time? like this. But can you imagine a time where things in your life aren't as bad as they used to be, but they're also not as good as you want them to be? You say, well, that's like my entire life. Well, that could be. But I mean, let's let's break it down even more detailed and say you you're coming off of a really rough time And it's not as bad as things were, say, maybe when you lost that job or when you lost that loved one or something of that nature. And so you've come out of that and you're years removed from that. But you're still not Where you want to be. There are goals that you have not achieved yet, whether they be spiritual or financial or physical or whatever. And so that's where you find yourself. Well, that is very much where the listeners of Malachi's message find themselves at this time. Because things aren't as bad as they used to be, but they aren't as good as they want them to be. And what do I mean what do we mean by that? Well They this was a time where, yes, they weren't in exile anymore. They weren't scattered abroad like they were when the Babylonians came and took over. And when the Medes and Persians came and took over and and scattered them. And you remember, you remember uh in the book of Daniel how Daniel and those four others Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego were mentioned by name, and many other Israelite young men were taken in multiple places. And it's because they were dispersed, they were thrown out of their homeland. And we have here a time in which they are allowed to come back and are allowed to self-govern themselves for a little while. And you may even remember that Nehemiah did act as a governor for a time. In that period. So while things are aren't like they were when they were captive and strewn all over the land, They're still not a prosperous people. They still have to answer to a foreign king. They, yes, the the the temple is back. So they can worship God now as God expects them to, which is good because they hadn't been able to do that before. And the walls, they are either being can reconstructed or they have been rebuilt by now. So that's good, there's a measure of protection. But they are not what we would call a prosperous people. They are really just getting by, and the mundaness of life has sort of taken over. And because of that, they have lost their zeal for God. And I think all of us could relate to that. You and I, we have routines, we have schedules, and a lot of them mirror each other day after day after day, with maybe some kind of different thing happening on Saturday and a different thing happening on Sunday, and then maybe the same thing again on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday. And so, and we're all striving for things, and we all have goals, and man, we're not where we want to be, and man, I have goals and I have plans, and they're not there, I'm not there yet either. But what can happen? A danger. It doesn't have to happen. But a danger in a situation like that is that we can become discontent with where we are in life And we can lose our spiritual zeal for God. Does that make sense? Because we're so caught up And what we have to do, and what needs to be done to survive, to pay the bills, to accomplish those things. This is really where we find the people in Malachi's day. Because they have lost their zeal for God. We're going to see in multiple passages here that they are just merely going through the motions of religion. Yes, they've got their temple back. Yes, they have protection. Yes, priests are back doing the offerings, but boy, is it lacking. the heart that God has wanted. A true commitment to God, a true relationship with God for these people is severely lacking. So why was this message given to the people? And why is it preserved for us today? One commentator summed the purpose up like this. He says that The Book of Malachi was designed to restore the Jewish people to a right relationship with God by exposing the causes of their spiritual deterioration and setting forth the steps through which the community could be renewed. Malachi presented God's case against Israel as well as his promises for blessing. Well we're going to focus on I like that description. I think that's an accurate description. Today we're going to focus mainly on the spiritual deterioration of the people. They were holding back. They were holding themselves back from God. In a variety of ways, and we too have the same type of tendencies. If we're not careful, we can fall into that And as I study this book and look at it and read it, I am faced with these indictments that God has for these people because I see them as true in me as well. So, if you're taking notes, here are the main points, main aspects that we're going to cover today. The Book of Malachi displays for us three main ways that we could hold back from God. One, just real quick, we'll we'll get to each of these, but each one is when we misunderstand God's character and actions We hold back when we restrain our giving, and we'll get into what exactly our giving means there. And when we limit our commitment to Him. We hold back from God when we misunderstand God's character and actions, when we restrain our giving, and when we limit our commitment to Him. So we see then that these with the structure of the book, what we're going to do then for sake of time and for sake of clarity is We're going to handle the first and sixth indictment all at once. We're going to handle the second and the fourth all at once. We're going to handle the third and the fourth altogether as a unit. So that does mean that when we're in Malachi 1, you're eventually going to need to be turning to Malachi 3 and some of 4. You're going to need to be flipping a lot. But it's not a big book, so we should be able to do it. Or get your fingers ready as you start tapping away, okay? So let's get to the first indictment. First indictment that God has is this. God's people challenge God's love for them. Because they see the prosperity of the pagan and the wicked and their own lack of prosperity. They are challenging God's love because what they see in their world around them Doesn't match what they think should be happening. Okay? But there's a real problem behind this that God exposes. The real problem, or the reality Is that the people's they they have a lack of understanding about who God is and how He works. The real problem, or the reality, is that God still loves them, but they don't understand who God is and how he works. Let's look then at Malachi chapter 1. We're going to read verses 2 through 5. I have loved you, saith the Lord. Yet you say, Wherein hast thou loved us? Was not Esau Jacob's brother? Saith the Lord, yet I love Jacob. And I hated Esau, and laid his mountains and his heritage waste for the dragons of the wilderness. Whereas Edom saith, We are impoverished, but we will return And build the desolate places. Thus says the Lord of hosts, they shall build, but I will throw down, and they shall call them the border of wickedness, and the people against whom the Lord hath indignation forever And your eyes shall see, and ye shall say, the Lord will be magnified from the border of Israel. People challenge God's love for them, but God shows in his sovereignty that they were his choice. And they were his choice based on no conditions of the people. They were his unconditional choice Jacob there refers to the basically the nation of Jacob or the nation of Israel and the descendants following, and Esau represents the is Esau and his descendants. God is saying, I rejected Esau and I accepted Jacob and worked with that people group specifically. So God is saying, how can you say that I have not loved you when I have chosen you? When I have revealed myself to you, when I've given you my laws and expectations, I've given you all of these things, how can you say that I don't love you? So then look at chat turn to chapter three now in verse thirteen. It says this, Your words have been stout against me, saith the Lord. Yet ye say, What have we spoken so much against thee? This is what the people say in verse 14. Ye have said, It is vain to serve God. And what prophet is it that we have kept his ordinance and that we have walked mournfully before the Lord of hosts? Verse 15, and now we call the proud happy. Yea, they that work wickedness are set up, yea that tempt God are even delivered. Another translation translates verse 15 this way. And now, these are the people talking, remember, and now we call the arrogant blessed. Evildoers not only prosper, but they put God to the test and they escape. The people see the prosperity of the wicked, and they have detailed, specific accusations towards God. They are basically stating that God is unjust. God, you are not just. You are not acting righteously Because we who claim to be your people, we're not prosperous. We're just scraping by. All these evildoers around us, they're prosperous. They have riches. They are wealthy. And it's not fair. But God says in verse one In so many words, he's saying, Well, according to your timetable and your standard, I'm not fair. But let me show you my timetable and my standard. Look at verse chapter 4, verse 1. For behold, the day is coming, burning like an oven, when all the arrogant and all evildoers will be stubble. The day that is coming shall set them ablaze, says the Lord of hosts. so that it will leave them neither root nor branch. But for you who fear my name, the Son of Righteousness shall rise with healing in its wings, you shall go out leaping like calves from the stall. What is he saying? He's saying there is going to be a day of judgment when all unrighteousness, wickedness, and evildoers are going to get their just rewards. Likewise, verse 2, and those who do fear my name, those who do practice righteousness, those who do honor me, and follow hard after me. When that day comes, it's going to be like healing in your wings, it says. And you will go out leaping like calves from the stall. We talked about this uh just a bit ago in in um in the theology class. It's interesting how these things correlated. But They were confusing, the people of Malachi's day were confusing God's delay and injustice in acting justice. They confused it for injustice and unrighteousness in his character. God says all will be made right, but I don't operate on your timetable. I operate on my timetable. In the theology class that we've been going through here for the last few weeks, part of the discussion has been in regards to how people tend to deviate doctrinally. And all you have to do is misinterpret God's actions or what God says he is, and then misapply them to your life, and all of a sudden you get to be a heretic because now you're believing a heresy. About God. And that is what the people of Malachi's Day are doing. They are viewing The truth about God through the filter of their experience and what they're seeing. And it's causing them to misunderstand who he is and not understand how he is operating and what he's doing in the world around them. And you know what it's doing? It's causing them to hold back from God. It's causing them to not be fully devoted and dedicated to Him They see all this injustice and they say, you know what, I don't know if really living like God wants me to live is totally worth it Is it possible for us today to hold back, to hold back ourselves, to hold back our devotion to God because we believe something about him that isn't true? What about if we have a lack of trust, for example? If we don't believe that God is truly trustworthy, how could that affect our day-to-day life? Any misunderstanding that we have about who God is will affect how we carry out our lives. What if we misunderstand His love? What if we misunderstand his wrath? What if we, as these people did, misunderstand his justice, his sense of righteousness? What if we misunderstand his expectations for us? What if we misunderstand his desires for our lives? If we get any of this wrong in our thinking, anything else about God wrong, it will throw us off the track that God wants us on. You know what this means? This means that it is of utmost importance that we know who God is. We know who He is and we understand how He works. How do we do that? We he's revealed himself to us in the pages of his word. We need to be students of it. And we need to be mindful not to consider God in the light of our experiences, but consider who God is based on what he says about himself. Because therein lies the truth. Our experiences are flawed. Our experiences can twist things. Our emotions can mess with reality That's why we need to stay focused and secure on the truth of God's word, of how He has revealed Himself to us. Because we don't want to be misunderstanding him. We don't want to misapply things to our lives because it will derail us. In times of trouble, in times like the people of Israel are at at this time, where we're just not quite satisfied with where we are. We want to be somewhere else. We want to be doing something else. It's not as bad as it once was, but it's not as good as I want it to be. So we see here then that we can be prone, just like these people, we can be prone to believing lies about God We need to be careful of that. We can believe lies about God. We must know him personally and intimately with how he reveals himself in his word. And this now leads us then to the second indictment that God has towards these people in this time period. His second indictment is this. God's people believe that they are revering his name. They believe that they are honoring his name with their forms of worship and their ritual, their religious rituals, and what they are doing. They believe that they are doing that. But the reality is, the reality is this, God's name is dishonored and despised by his people through their mediocre worship and mediocre giving. The first part of this section begins in Malachi 1. 6. Malachi 1. 6 says this, starts like this. Listen to how God starts this indictment. He says, A son honoreth his father, and a servant honors his master. If then I be a father, where is my honor? And if I be a master, where is my fear or where is my reverence? That is a difficult way to start. God is implying you would treat your masters, your earthly masters, your earthly fathers, naturally you'd treat them a certain way. With respect, with honor, with reverence. And if I'm like that to you, which I am, God is saying, then where is my honor? Where is my fear? Where is my reverence? And so he then describes how he's being dishonored, how they are being irreverent to him in verse 7. Ye offer polluted bread upon mine altar. And ye say, Wherein have we polluted thee? In that ye say the table of the Lord is contemptible, or to be despised. Look at verse 8. And if ye offer the blind for sacrifice, is that not evil? And ye offer the lame and the sick, is that not evil? Offer that now to thy governor. Will he be pleased with you? Or accept your person, says the Lord of hosts. Do you see what they were doing? Do you see what they were doing in the temple? How they were treating the sacrifices that were offered to the Lord? We could go over dozens of texts. regarding the type, what the people of Israel were supposed to bring to the altar. But we'll highlight just a few and you may want to write these down. In the Old Testament, it talks about the people giving the first fruits of what they had to describe what the Israelites should bring to the worship and the feasts. for worshiping God. Here's just a few. In Exodus 34, 26. Exodus 34. 26, it says this. The best of the first fruits of your ground you shall bring to the house of the Lord your God. Leviticus 2. 14. If you offer a grain offering of first fruits to the Lord, you shall offer the grain offering of your first fruits, fresh years, roasted with fire, crushed new grain. Leviticus twenty three ten. Speak to the people of Israel and say to them, When you come into the land that I give you And reap its harvest, you shall bring the sheaf of the first fruits of your harvest to the priest. What is God really saying here? He's saying God expected them to give the best of what they had. Give them the best of what? Give him the best of what they had. But according to this passage that we just read in in Malachi 1 They weren't even giving their average to God. They're mediocre. They were giving their worst. Weren't they? What did it say there? It said that they were giving the animals that were sick, that were blind, that were lame The sickly. That's what they were giving to God. Continue now on in Malachi chapter 1. Look at verse 13. He said also, Behold, what a weariness it is. And ye have snuffed at it, says the Lord, and ye brought that which was torn, and the lame and the sick. Thus ye brought an offering. Should I accept this of your hand, says the Lord? A little bit ago he mentioned the fact that try bringing that kind of thing to your governor. Try that. See how that goes for you, God says. I mean that is that is an astounding thing to say to those people. Such a rebuke, such an accusation, and such a reminder to get them to think. You're treating me worse than you would people around you. Think about that, Israel Look at verse 14. It really he brings it brings it home here. But cursed is the deceiver who has in his flock a male a male and vows that male, but sacrifices unto the Lord a corrupt thing. For I am a great king, says the Lord of hosts, and my name is dreadful among the heathen. He's leaving no wiggle room here Is what God is doing. He's saying, you who have who have the best available, and you actually vow it to bring it to the temple But decide at the last minute, you know what? I'm actually going to give this leftover here instead. He says, you are cursed These are such strong words for the person who is able to give more and the best to God, but withholds from him and just gives him the leftovers. Gives him the worst that he has. It brings to my mind, those of you who have dogs and and other uh natural vacuum cleaners around the house. Who what what do we do? We give the leftovers to the dog the stuff that we didn't even want, right? And that's what these people are doing. They're giving to God the stuff that they didn't even want anyway It does it's not a sacrifice for them to give the sick lamb and the lame lamb and the lame goat and whatever it is that they're bringing. And it's important to understand that, you know what, in a in a person's flock, they might not have the best flock or the best animals. And God even made provision for that in his word. Maybe you don't have goats and lambs. Maybe all you have is a quail. Well guess what? Bring your best quail. That's what God says to do. It reminds me of the story, and you'll remember it well, of when There's that scene when Jesus is with his disciples and they're in the temple and the very wealthy individual comes and drops all of this money and it crashes into the plate and and And then a poor beggar woman comes and gives this might, right? And what does Jesus say to his people, his followers? She gave more. Because she gave all that he ha she had. And monetarily speaking, that's not true. The rich guy gave a lot more. But God's economy doesn't work on those standards. God expects us to do with what we have, not with what we don't have. He's just and fair in that way, isn't he? So God wasn't asking something unreasonable of his people. He was asking, just give me your best. Give me the best that you have. Skip over now to the second part of this section of this second indictment in chapter 3 starting in verse 8. Chapter 3, verse 8. Look at kind of the conclusion to this matter that God gives. It's very interesting what he says to his people here. Says, will a man rob God? Yet ye have robbed me. But ye say, Wherein have we robbed thee? God says, in tithes and offerings. Look what he says here in verse 10 now. Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be meat in mine house, and prove me now herewith, says the Lord of hosts. If I will not open you the windows of heaven and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it. Verse 12, and all nations shall call you blessed, for ye shall be a delightsome land, says the Lord of hosts. What is God saying there? Look what he wanted to do with the people. You see, the people were holding back from God. In this case, they were holding back in their giving. And what does God say here? It says there, improve me now herewith. Another way to say that is: go ahead and put me to the test. Go ahead and just try obeying me. And see what kind of blessings I will give to you. And he says he will bless them so much that all the nations that you're worried about right now that are so prosperous, they're going to look at you and say, Wow. Something's going on with the people of Israel. Something about their God. I mean, they were they were not that long ago, they were just scattered all around. And they've only been there a short time, and now look, they're a prosperous people more than us. That's what God wanted to do with them. But instead they were content to hold back from God. You know, I have to admit personally that this indictment Against these people has been the most impactful to me. Because while you can certainly uh the the obvious correlation here is to talk about our financial giving, and certainly that is part of it. But that's not all that God expects from his people. And I've just for clarity and for help, there's probably more ways to divide this up, but I've divided giving into three separate areas. And I've done it in uh it's not going to be up on the screen, but it's it's giving of our funds, our money, giving of our time, giving of our energy. Those are all those I believe if I look at all of us except for maybe some of the very little children, we all have all three of those things. We all have money, we all have time, and in varying degrees we all have energy Every day, all three of these things, we give in disparate different aspects of our life, do we not? Our money goes certain places every day. Our time is devoted in certain places in certain ways every day. Our energy is spent in certain areas in certain ways every day. And this text, I can't get away from it. It demands us to ask the question: how much of these areas are we using for God? And is it the right amount? I'm floored by that question in my own life Because as I think of my time, my money, my energy well, I can I I'm I'm still fairly young, although I feel it every now and then, but I've got energy. I I I I put as much effort as I can into work And then after that work again. And I put as much energy as I can into into a lot of the exercise routines that I do. And I I mean Just just as by way of illustration, I I've been working my way up to running longer and longer. And I've gotten myself up to five and a half miles with some okay not feeling terrible afterwards. Okay. And it takes a lot of effort and it takes time. What kind of hypocrite would I be? If I devote all that energy to my physical well-being, but I don't spend any effort on God and what He wants me to do. That would be very hypocritical, wouldn't it? And I'm I'm faced with that, and I I face that just about every day, I think. And I think you might too, if you stop to think about it. What about our time? Our time is a gift from God, is it not? So is our energy for that matter. However much we've been given, however much we have, that is a gift from God. But our time, our time is a gift from God. How much of it do we spend doing what God wants us to do? What about our funds? What about our money? What about what God has blessed us with? Is it just going to what we want, or is it also going to what God wants? I can't answer that for you, and I have I struggle with being honest enough to answer that for myself. But here's, I think, the best place to start. With all three of those areas of giving, are we giving God our first fruits of those things? Or are we just giving God the leftovers? The things that we don't really care about anyway Are we just giving God the leftovers of our funds? Are we just giving God the leftovers of our time? Are we just giving God the leftovers of our energy? We can see that God, in his holiness, in his goodness, in his justice, he demands from us our best. He really does. You know, this is the God of the universe That wants to be in a relationship with you and with me, don't we owe him more than just our leftovers? Absolutely. He does deserve our best efforts when it comes to serving him with opportunities that we have. He deserves for us to prioritize our time correctly. So that we don't just give him the time that we have left, if we end up with any time left at all. And of course, he deserves for us to give back to him what he has blessed. us to have in our finances. He deserves the very best we have to offer with our lives, not just the bits and pieces that are left over And that leads us to the third indictment. You're going, that was enough. That's enough for me too, trust me. But God's not even done with these people yet. Because there's another way that they are holding back. So God's third indictment against these people Is that God's people believe that their commitment to God is sincere and true. They believe that. How do they believe that? Well They are doing the activities, they've got priests, they're doing the activities of a good Jewish person. They are following the religious rituals. But the reality is this the people's unfaithfulness to God is proven through their lack of commitment to their own wives. Say, well, that's a very specific thing for God to deal with. Well, let's look at it. And I think it's going to make sense here. Let's start then in Malachi chapter 2, verse 13. And this ye have done again, covering the altar of the Lord with tears. With weeping, with crying out. What is he saying here, real quick? He's talking about their attitude towards their worship of God. their attitude towards obedience to God. What does God say about this? He's saying, you're you're coming at it like this Second half of verse 13, insomuch that ye regardeth not the offering anymore, or receiveth it with good will at your hand. God is not accepting their offering. Why? Why is he not? Well, I think we can all we can we've already can imply based on what the first indictment was that or the second one rather the the type of offering that they're bringing is unsatisfactory and not what God expects. It's not their best. But it's not only that God has more to say about this. He says, Because the Lord has been witness between thee and the wife of thy youth, against whom thou hast dwelt treacherously. Yet she is thy companion, and the wife of thy covenant. Verse sixteen, skip down there. For the Lord, the God of Israel, saith that he hateth putting away. Or another way of saying that is, this is where it says, that God hates divorce. God hates divorce. For one covereth violence with his garments, saith the Lord of hosts. Therefore take heed to your spirit, that ye deal not treacherously. Look at the way verse 16 is translated in another translation, the ESV. It says this: For the man who does not love his wife, but divorces her, says the Lord, the God of Israel, covers his garment with violence. says the Lord of hosts. So guard yourself in your spirit and don't be faithless. Don't be unfaithful. They say, look, we're giving our offerings to you, but God says in no uncertain terms, I'm not accepting any of it Not just because it's irreverent and dishonoring, but you aren't even committed to each other. And the scenario here that's going on, by by just for clearer understanding here, is that These people, these men, were seeing the pagan women and the pagan wives intermarrying with them and ditching the wife that they had at first. And so that's why God has such strong language that you are dealing treacherously with your spouse. You ought not to be doing that. You should not be doing that. And what is he saying? Your lack of commitment to each other? Shows, it demonstrates that you're not really committed to me either. You're holding back from each other. And likewise, you're holding back from me. God, in a sense, here is telling us that if we want a barometer for measuring our commitment to Him, our Father. We can also check our relationship with others and see how those are, especially those that are closest to us, our wives, our husbands, our children, our mothers, our fathers. Those that are closest to us, if our commitment to those people and our familiar relationships are only skin deep, it probably shows to us that our commitment to God Well, it might not be where it needs to be either. The question though that comes to mind, and you wonder, how could a people group Treat other people like that. I mean they had to know it was wrong. You it I mean the pagan people probably wouldn't have even treated their wives like that What happened? God gives us an insight into their thinking in this book. Look at Malachi 2 and verse 17. So we just continue there. Verse 17 says this: Ye have wearied the Lord with your words, yet ye say, How have we wearied you? When you say, everyone that does evil is good in the sight of the Lord, and he delights in them, or when you say, Where is the God of judgment? Or judgment, another word for justice. You see what they're saying there? See the accusations that they have against God? It goes back to their perception, once again, of the nations around them But here's the the link. Here's what how it's all coming together. See, the people here, they don't see the importance of being faithful to God. Or being faithful to their wives, or being faithful to others. Because while externally they are going through the rituals of commitment and dedication to Him, there is no real faithfulness To him. What are they doing? This is what they're doing. They are confusing outward, external submission to God for true commitment to him. They are saying, we're doing all the stuff. Look We're back at the temple. We've got everything going on. The priests are here, and we haven't covered it, but boy, the God has some strong words in this book for the priests. Because they are allowing it to take place. That's all I'll say. That's all we have time for. But he says to them You the the people the people are thinking they've got it all together and they're doing what they're supposed to do and that's enough. But all this outward submission, outward obedience does not equal a true commitment to God. God exposes then this truth to them here. Their thinking can be summed up in this way. Why would they deal treacherously with their spouses? This is why. Their thinking can be summed up this way. There is no point, their thinking is this, there is no point in being what God wants them to be, really, because they say that God calls evil good He actually delights in wicked people. There is actually no justice with God, so we might as well live how we want. And outwardly we'll look the part, but inwardly and with our actions we're not, and it's not going to really matter. Because God obviously God obviously doesn't treat people fairly in this world. And so you see how they they Did not ascribe to God his true character. They did not view God for who he really was. And so how they applied that to their lives, oh, devastating consequences. for them. Listen to the paragraph from one commentator. He describes the people of Malachi's day this way. Malachi's contemporaries may have been relatively orthodox in their beliefs and free from blatant idolatry. But theirs had become a dead orthodoxy, or dead religious practices. They were all too ready to make ethical compromises and to dilute the strenuous demands of proper worship. In response to the cynicism and religious malaise of his fellow Israelites, Malachi's prophecy comes as a wake-up call to renewed covenant fidelity to these people. You know, this this serves as a significant warning to every one of us as well. Because we too, just like the Israelites of Malachi's day, we can lose our zeal for serving God and living in light of his truth. We can too also fall into the trap of just Having dead religious practice. And on the outside, it may look like we have a true commitment to God, but inwardly our hearts are turned away and far from being devoted to God. I know I can fall into this and I have to have I have to be guarded because I know I have in the past. I know I have to guard against it now, and I know that I could still be prone to it in the future. If you're human, this this is possible for you. It's possible for all of us So let's bring all of these indictments together and conclude this way. In conclusion, from the first indictment, we see this. We must know God. We must know him. Who he is and what he does so we avoid having wrong thinking about him. We need to keep learning about our God every day. Every day. We cannot undervalue The Knowledge of Our God. There's a little book, some of you may know, by A. W. Tozer, The Knowledge of the Holy. Super small, super short. I've read it twice. I it's probably time for me to read it again, to be honest. It's it brings across to you the attributes of God and the character of God and who he is. That book or books like it, so important. So important to know God because it keeps us from straying in wrong thought, in wrong practices, and wrong beliefs about God. Number two, we must give of our first fruits, or we must give of the best that we have to offer to God. We should not be people who give the leftovers of of God uh of our lives to God. We should give our best. There's no doubt about it. God is worthy of our best. He gave all for us, did he not? On the cross. The only reason we have a relationship for him is because he gave his only son as a substitute to take our place for the punishment of our sin. So that we can be in a right standing with God. He did for us what we could never, ever do for ourselves. We could never have gotten out of that pit of sin on our own steam. Our righteousness, the Bible says, is like filthy rags. We don't measure up. Even the righteousness that we do practice falls short of the glory of God. He did for us what we could never do for ourselves in saving us. Should we not give our best back to Him? Number three, we must not deceive ourselves into thinking that our commitment to God is right. When our devotion to others is severely lacking. This might not be true across the board altogether, because relationships with each other is a two-way street, right? No doubt about that. But as much as in you, you should have a right standing with other people If not, if you don't, it may be an indication, not necessarily, but it may be an indication that, well, you know, this lack of commitment to someone in my family or close to me might be a revealer that my walk with him isn't how it should be, isn't as close as it should be. Number four We must not confuse outward obedience as equal to true heart devotion to God in our lives. And this is a consistent theme throughout Scripture, but boy, is it ever screaming from the mountaintops from the book of Malachi. And we must beware, fifth and finally, we must be aware of the trap that the Israelites fell into. That living God's way isn't actually worth it. We must beware that the trap of the trap, that living God's way isn't actually worth it. And this isn't up there, but uh I I I think it's valuable to say that you know what, as as we've gone through this And it's been kind of a a boxing match where we kind of, you know, we we get hit a few times from God's word. It's important to note that you know what In Malachi's day, I don't think it would be right to say that every Israelite was like this. Every single one of them was far from God and not devoted to him. No, I mean you had Malachi at least, right? You had possibly contemporaries like Ezra and Nehemiah, and there certainly were others And so as I consider that, I also consider the fact that, you know what? When we look at at a challenge like this, you know what the word that is that comes to mind? It's balance. Because I don't think any of us here today want to deal treacherously, want to not be devoted to God. None of us want to be like that. But you know The cares of this world are many. And we all have responsibilities. And so the balance of that is the the hard part. You know what? To balance things out, I think it's important for me to say this. Sometimes it is right to say no to a ministry opportunity. Because you would be stretched too far and other responsibilities would not be taken care of. God-given responsibilities. But here's the fact that I come up against a lot, and more so recently, is that I can be stretched a little bit farther than I think I can. And you know what happens when I say yes to something that I'm not sure if I can really do? You know what it causes me to do? Causes me to lean on God more and depend on Him more. I like you have weeks that are just insane. And Most recently even, I have found, I've come to a Saturday. It's usually when things seem to wind down. And when I need to get everything done, because I might have some stuff here to do that needs to get accomplished before Sunday, I come to Saturday afternoon, or maybe Saturday evening, or maybe Saturday night. But it gets to that point where I say, wow, God, you did it again. You helped me again. You got me through this week. And I can maybe, okay, this didn't get done, and that didn't get done. But man, those really weren't important anyway. Not as important as the seven other things that you were able to help me do. And you know what? It's okay. It's okay sometimes to say yes to God about something in our giving, in our in our giving of our time, our energy, our Um our our uh money. Uh it it's it's it's it's okay to say yes sometimes too. Because we we we should sometimes need to be stretched by God. So let's wrap this all up By saying this, those of you who do want to commit to God, want, don't want to get these imbalances in life. Keep going. Don't be weary. Yeah, tomorrow, later today even, that balancing act is going to start again. It's going to start for me too, starting this afternoon. But you know what? Rest in the God that is going to help you. Keep going. Don't be weary. Because failure to apply these principles can lead to us holding back from God. Holding back from God in ways that we see the Israelites have done in Malachi. You know, I encourage you, as we finish up here, I encourage you, take a look. Read through Malachi. It's just four chapters. Read through it maybe this afternoon. And just take a look at these things. Let God's word speak to you. And I think you'll be blessed because of it, encouraged by it. And maybe challenged by it, but it's good for us to have a heart check like this from time to time. I know it is for me. Let's pray. Father We thank you, Lord, that we have your help. And Lord, I think I echo all the sentiments from everyone here. We don't want to be Like these people in that are that are in Malachi's day. We don't want to hold back from you. And Lord, I I pray that while While there were set certain sets of circumstances that these people were dealing with, I pray, Lord, that if if any of us See threads or shreds of these attitudes in us. Pray, Lord, that you would help us to address it and deal with it today. Lord, help us as we go forward. We want to be people who are devoted to you. Help us as we do that. Help us to find the balance in life. Help us, Lord, to not hold back in any areas of our lives that we could be giving more to you in. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen.