Looking at several different passages ton different verses and passages tonight as we begin a new study. If you did not receive a handout, um it is a selected bibliography and it's kind of upside down. I've printed it kind of wrong, but it you can still read it. Um and there's a literary structure on the front. Um anybody not received that? If you put your hand up, Harry can get that to you. Okay, we've got Sam up here and Beth. Beth. Um This I have I am really excited about this series and about this book. Uh it is it's and I I'm praying that what this will do tonight will get you excited about it. I also um we're uh we're going to have to be a bit academic, and introductions usually are, because uh we need to go through some some some technical material to make sure we're going the right direction. And so you'll just have to bear with me as far as that's concerned, but I think I think it can be it will be helpful for all of us to go through. Ecclesiastes is is a book that is just the very interpretation of the whole book in in general is is A lot of people have different views on it, different approaches to it. There has been a lot, probably maybe more than any other book in the Bible. Outside of there's a few others, but this is the top five books of the Bible that commentators tend to express frustrations over interpreting, in fact. And so I don't think it's that difficult once you actually learn a few key things. But um commentators over the years have found it very difficult to to figure out what the structure is and understand uh the the flow of thought and everything of this book. It is a difficult book because it's got a lot of Hebrew Hebrew poetry in it and it's got parallelism and there's some things that are but bit technically difficult about the book, but overall I there is such great truth in the this book and I'm I'm really looking forward to us learning uh learning from this book I want to begin by just looking at the importance of the validity of the Solomonic authorship. Um there are there's actually some debate over who wrote this book, but I want to firmly s uh argue that Solomon was the one who wrote it Uh it isn't somebody else as has been suggested, and it was not a late date after the the exile as um as Uh some commentators are suggesting I think it was right uh during Solomon's later reign. Uh after more than likely after uh the temple was inaugurated. uh and uh and dedicated to the Lord. After all that, Solomon had come to the end of his life and he had some reflections on some things with regard to his life. Uh it is true that the author of Ecclesiastes never explicitly names himself as Solomon. Instead, uh he as he does in Proverbs 1-1. Proverbs 1-1 he says it's from Solomon. Instead he calls himself Koales, and it is a parsible from the Hebrew kahal. It means to gather an assembly. So you see in Ecclesiastes chapter 1 there, verse 1. It says the words of the preacher, the son of David, King of Jerusalem. Or you could say the words of Koaleth. Now the reason that it was translated preacher is because the Septuagint, which is the Greek translation for the Hebrew, uh is the word ecclesia. You might be familiar with that word. How is it translated in English usually? Ecclesia is translated Great, church, okay. And so it means to gather or it means an assembly, and so when it came when it carried over the English, they they translated it preacher is how they chose to translate that. So the question might be why did they do that? Why did he name himself that? Here's one possibility. This is just a guess by a man by the name of Ran Randy Jangley. He says this. Perhaps the name arose from the occasion of a dedication of the temple, undoubtedly the most glorious day of Solomon. So if you can imagine, the temple was a place where people assembled. And the and this was prophesied from the Davidic covenant, in fact, that Solomon would uh uh set up the temple. And so maybe this was a way of Solomon saying this w this was the thing that was most significant in his life that he He did what God had had uh said that he would do in fulfilling the Davidic covenant, at least that part of the Davidic covenant, in in uh establishing the temple. And so he was the one who brought people together, the one who was uh uh the assembler. So I think for for la for sake of understanding this, we shouldn't think of We shouldn't really think of Solomon as the preacher so much, as as he was a king, and we see we're going to see the content that is going to bear that out in Ecclesiastes. He was the one who brought people into the assembly, which was at that time uh the temple, and so that's why so we're gonna use the term coalesce essentially for most of the time rather than rather than use the term preacher. uh because it gives a a different connotation than what we're really trying to um than what Solomon was getting at. There's really nothing about preaching in this pa in this book. Uh there's not really much about churching churches. The word Ecclesiastes, in fact, came from that Greek transliteration, Ecclesia, but there is no significant connection to the church to this is not talking about the church. really much at all. Um the words of Koaleth, the son of David, king of so so why is this Solomon? First of all, it says he's the son of David and he's the king in Jerusalem. Well who was that? Now the word sa sons can sometimes be translated grandson or great grandson or some sort of offspring. The word son, the Hebrew word is can be translated that way. But in this particular instance, more than likely, the way that this is this phrase is used, more than likely it is direct biological offspring of David is is in view here. The phrase appears nine times in the Old Testament and it includes exclusive of its uses in Ecclesiastes. Six of these nine uses refer to Solomon. So the vast majority of the time this phrase is used, it's referring to Solomon. So we have no reason to believe Within the text itself, I I say no reason. There are reasons the commentators suggest it's not Solomon, but um I don't find a particular good reason to believe it's not Solomon. The other two uses refer to Absalom and Amnon uh in second cr second Samuel and Jeremath. Uh they're called uh but only Solomon is is ever called the son of David king in Jerusalem. Jerusalem. Another evidence for the Solomonic authorship appears in Ecclesiastes 112, in which the writer dictates Koaleth has been king over Israel. Look at 1 112 there for a minute. I the Koalh, or I Koaleth, was king over Israel in Jerusalem. So he says he was king over Israel in Jerusalem. Only two kings, David and Solomon, reigned over the United Kingdom of Israel in Jerusalem. I mean, after Solomon, what happened? Okay, you have Jeroboam and Rehab, you have the kingdom split. And so it was only Solomon that did that. Comparing Ecclesiastes 1 16 and 1 Kings 3, 4 through 12 will bear something out as well. So Ecclesiastes 1 16 says I command with mine own heart, saying, Lo, I am come to a great estate and have gotten more wisdom. Now what does he say? And have gotten more wisdom than all they that have been before me in Jerusalem. Yea, my heart had great experience of wisdom and knowledge. So this, whoever's writing Ecclesiastes is claiming to have greater wisdom than anybody else. Well, take your Bibles for just a moment and turn over to 1 Kings. And I think recovering these verses will be helpful for us in understanding the significance of Ecclesiastes as well, because we're going to find that Ecclesiastes is going to have a lot of wisdom for us. Ecclesiastes, so 1 Kings chapter 3. Let's look at what it says there. Ecclesiastes 3, verse 4. And the k king went to Gibeon to sacrifice there, for that was the great high place. A thousand burnt offerings did Solomon offer upon me at that altar. And Gibeon the Lord appeared to Solomon in a dream by night, and God said, Ask what I shall give thee. And Solomon said, Thou hast showed unto thy servant David my father great mercy, according as he walk before thee in truth, and in righteousness and in uprightness of heart with thee, and thou hast kept for him this great kindness, and thou hast given him a son to sit on his throne as it is this day. And now, O Lord my God, thou hast made thy servant king instead of David my father, and I am but a little child. I know not how to go out or come in. Very very humble he is he is being, isn't he here? And thy servant is in the midst of thy people, which uh thou hast chosen, a great people that cannot be numbered nor counted for multitude. Give therefore thy servant an understanding heart. Now, when the term heart is used in the Old Testament, it is not used really in the same way that we use heart today. If I say son today somebody has a good heart, what I'm really saying is that they that they have good motives. and that they might have I have good feelings toward them, they have good for or something like that. It's uh usually has something to do with motives. Heart here is really talking about the whole bill the whole being and would include the intellect. So it would be the the the intellect, the will, and the emotions is the heart here. He says, give me an understanding heart to judge thy people. that I may discern between good and bad, and who is able to judge this thy uh so great a people And the speech pleased the Lord, and Solomon had asked this thing. And God said unto him, Because thou hast looked this thing asked this thing Andest not ask thyself long life, neither ask rich uh ask riches for thyself, nor ask the life of thine enemies but a but hast asked for thyself understanding to discern judgment. Behold, I have done according to thy words. Lo, I have given thee a wise and understanding heart, so that there was none like thee before thee. neither after thee shall any arise like unto thee. So we have in this passage clearly Christ bestows on, or God bestows on him this what he asks for, and plus so much more. And you're gonna find that whoever wrote the book of Ecclesiastes has accumulated great wealth. He's a created accumulated great great experience. I mean to me when you start reading seeing these parallels There's no question that this is talking here about Solomon. It's hard for me as I read these different commentaries who try to argue against this being Solomon It's hard for me to understand because it seems so clearly and obviously from all the different parallels to clearly be Solomon. The resume, so so so if you think of Solomon, first of all, he had great agricultural experience, which is going to come out in Ecclesiastes 2. I'm not going to take the time to go through all this. There's a lot there. But just suffice it to say that he did, and that parallels first 1 Kings 4, 22 through 23. If you want to jot that down, you might want to look at that later. Solomon had great wealth as well. In 1 Kings 10, verse 14, well he we see in Ecclesiastes 2. 8 he amassed great great amount of gold and silver. And in 1 Kings 10-14, he had 666 talents of gold in one year. 2 Chronicles 9. 20 states that the gold was so plentiful that Solomon uh during Solomon's reign that people of the day of that day hardly considered sil silver valuable at all because there was so much gold in the land. And you think of Solomon's intellect, which when you read Ecclesiastes, you you know that a man with with significant intellect wrote this wrote this because of the way that it's written. And we have here it says in 1 Kings 4 29 that God gave Solomon wisdom and understanding exceeding much and largeness of heart, which would include intellect. even as the sand that is uh on the seashore. So suffice it to say a couple of things about this. Solomon is the author of Ecclesiastes. Of course, God is the divine author. Solomon is the human author. And that's greatly significant for us because God gave Solomon great wisdom, greater than anybody uh that was in Jerusalem or that was at that had would that was of that time period. Solomon was the wisest man that was that was that that was on the face of the earth at that time. So So, whatever he's going to write in here, it's going to be pretty wise stuff. And and what you're going to find is that in in Ecclesiastes is He is going to deal with a lot of experiences that he's had. A lot of the truth that you find is a mixture of two things. of empirical evidence of what he's looked at. He's looked around, experienced various things, he's pursued different things, and then he brings it under uh theology. He under he brings it under what God i what God's saying about this, or what God's perspective is, or what it's like to be to have this in view of God. There is a lot of difficulty of interpretation when it comes to this this book. For example, uh Fran Franz Dailich of Kylan Dalich, how many of you have heard that commentary before, Old Testament commentary? Okay, fairly fairly well known uh old testament commentary, even though most of you didn't raise your hand. I've got I've got it on myself to be able to look at. Um All attempts he Dalit says this all attempts to show in the whole not only the oneness of spirit, but also the genetic progress an all-embracing plan or an organic connection have hitherto failed and must fail. That's what he says about Ecclesiastes. Seems a bit frustrated with the book, doesn't he? But the problem is this is this is exactly the opposite of what it says in Ecclesiastes 12. 9. Look at 12. 9 for a minute. He says, And moreover, because the preacher, or Koaleth, was wise, he still taught the people knowledge. Yea, he gave good heed, and sought out, and set in order many proverbs. This is someone, this is he set in them in them in order. There is some sort of um sort of well-thought-out order to this book, according to its own internal evidence. And so that would be exactly the opposite of what Dalitch is saying. This is Schofield's view. All right. And by the way, I don't want to diminish Schofield's contribution on theopy. and understanding of Scripture, but in this particular case he falls short in my opinion. This is a book the book of man, he says, under the sun. Reasoning about life, and it is the best man can do with the knowledge that there is a holy God and that he will bring everything into judgment The key phrases are under the sun and you you you see there, I can't read that here very well, so I'm going to go over here. Under the sun, I perceived, I said in my heart Inspiration sets uh down accurately what passes, but the conclusions and the reasonings are after all uh man's. He says the conclusions and the reasonings are man's Do you see any problem with that? Is when when you read God's Word is the conclusions and reasonings man's Well, some of it the reasonings might be but uh just a little bit suspect there. Um he says um That those conclusions are just in declaring it vanity and view of judgment to devote life in earthly things is surely true, but the conclusion is legal, the best that man uh apart from redemption can do, and does not anticipate the gospel. Okay, that sounds pretty depressing about Ecclesiastes, doesn't it? Longman's view is a little bit different. It's a little more sophisticated, but but he says this. Temperal Longman, have you ever heard of that one? Okay, he is a more modern um uh he's still still alive today, more modern uh commentary. And very good usually a very good old testament old testament scholar. He says this He thinks that the book of Ecclesiastes was written by a frame narrator who presented some major themes from Koal's teaching. in 1, 1 through 11, recorded Koes' long monologue in 112 through 128, and when warned his son in 12, 8 through 14 that he was to reject Kohless's and embrace the true concept of the fear of the Lord. In Longman's view, only the last two verses of the book offer orthodox teaching. All the rest of Ecclesiastes presents dangerous, speculative wisdom. Do we see a problem here? Uh at least I did when I'm reading these things. The key to correctly okay, you ready? So that's that's all the diminished and inferior Just not good enough ways to interpret Ecclesiastes. I love what uh Randy uh Jangli says here. More than perhaps any other book of the Bible, but certainly other books as well, correct interpretation of the book of Ecclesiastes requires a thorough understanding of the overall theme and purpose of the biblical author. In other words, the failure to interpret individual verses in Ecclesiastes in light of their context within the framework of the entire message of the book can be disastrous. Okay, now that makes sense, doesn't it? What's he saying in that? What is he saying here? Any ideas, Josh? it ahead of time. Okay. And taking the whole framework, the whole body of it. Yeah. And coming to your conclusion based not on the one script Yeah, understanding the main message and structure of the book, seeing the big picture first before you go in and look at the details. is absolutely necessary in this particular book. It's the case really with any book of the Bible, but it particularly is necessary in this book. It's like if somebody drops you in If if somebody blindfolds you and puts you in the middle of a forest and expects you to identify a tree, but you don't know what forest you're in, and they've dropped you in the middle of the Amazon and you don't know it. How what likelihood are you going to be able to actually identify the tree that's in front of you? If you don't even know what forest you're in? I mean, when I went over to Hong Kong, I didn't know any of the trees over there. There's a reason. You know, I'm like going I trying to identify trees. There are very few trees I knew what they were, and the reason was is because I never I didn't know anything about trees over there And so it's the same thing when it comes to God's Word. You have to look at the forest and see what forest you're in before you're going to be able to see what identify the particular in details. And and that's really what some of these guys, particularly um particularly Schofield, failed to do. He didn't look at the overall structure of the book first. And so he kind of came to a a difficult conclusion Now a man by the name of Garrett came up with this view a little bit later. He said, the teacher's arguments drive the readers not to self, but to God as the only giver of permanent worth. Not simply to doctrines about God or to the teachings of the wise, but to the very person of God. Ecclesiastes tells how persons now made weak and mortal should live. Okay, that's a little more refreshing, right? How about this is and I would just highly commend for you, I put it in your bibliography on the back there, I would commend for you this particular man's work uh this this particular work uh by the name of Reitman. He identifies the main section of Ecclesiastes, Wisdom's Frustrations from 112 to 612. So in verses 1 through 11, you have an extended poem, basically, that it's really a lamenting uh uh uh a description of what it's like to be disillusioned. By the way, have you ever been disillusioned by something? How many of you would say, yeah, I've been disillusioned by something in my life? Every one of us. I mean if we've lived any length of the time, if you've not been disillusioned, you're really young. Okay. We y the uh what's that? And so uh th it is something that you really it's something that we all have experienced. Well Solomon's coming to the end of the life and he have he has experienced many disillusions. He has been disillusioned a lot. And so verses 112 through 612 is dealing with this wisdom's frustration. And then verses chapters 715 through 127 is accountable stewardship before the work of God, wisdom's advantage. So you have two major sections of the book. And this is the structure we're going to follow, and the structure that you'll see there on your handout that you can look at a little bit more in detail later. These two sections are separated by this adversity at the crossroads, he says, and we're going to look at that 7-1-14. That's going to be an important section in the book as well. So when you begin to put some structure, when you start seeing the forest here, you see the big picture, you'll be into begin to to sort of dip into the trees, and it won't be so hard to understand. You'll see that in a minute. Reitman says this. This is a great statement. He says, in in just looking at the overall message of Solomon in this book, he says this. By reflecting with the unparalleled wisdom on his futile search for lasting satisfaction in life, and conveying his conclusions with careful, carefully selected proverbs. Coales traces all disillusionment and despair in life to our natural pension, that means natural inclination. for self-sufficiency and the constraints of our innate human depravity, uncertainty, and mortality. Okay, that's a lot that's a lot to swallow. What is he saying there? Somebody boil it down for me. How'd you boil that all down? size no matter how rich, famous or wise you are. Okay, well the part that we re that's true, but the po part that we read is he is considering That we try to deal with disillusionment. Don't we do this? What does he say? How do we deal with it? He's saying we have a natural inclination to toward what? So when we're disillusioned about something, what do we want to lean toward? Oh, none of us do that Don't we do that? We have this natural inclination towards self-sufficiency. Solomon knew this. This is wisdom here, and he knows that's the way we are. So self-sufficiency and constraints of our innate human depravity, uncertainty, and mortality. Do you ever feel a bit depraved? Yes. How about uncertain? Mortality are those things that you contemplate. So on one by the way, aren't there c aren't those two contradictory? On one hand, we are inclined towards self-sufficiency, despite the fact that we're constantly concerned about our own uncertainty. and mortality. That sounds like a lot of vanity and confusion, doesn't it? Which is what we're going to find in the book. And he says, so that we might mourn, here's what he says we need to do, and you're going to see this in the passage, that we might mourn our inability. And find lasting fulfillment in our God-given portion by fearing God and enjoying his favor as valued agents of his uh his i inscrutable work. Now would you take your structure your literary structure here that you have and I want you just to see something right in the middle there You've got this adversity at the cross right in the center of this of this sheet. Does everybody see that? It says adversity at the crossroads. And that is chapters 7, 1 through 7, and 7, 8 through 14. And you have two sections in verses 1 through 14 there. You have the instruction of mourning. and the inheritance of wisdom. Alright? Now what I want to do at this point is I want you to see this. Now let's let's presuppose something here. Take your Bibles and turn to Ecclesiastes chapter 7 Now let's we're going to presuppose something. I'm going to presuppose that you've read Ecclesiastes before. At least the first six chapters. Now let me ask you, those of you who have perhaps read the first six chapters of Ecclesiastes, generally what is it talking about? Somebody said Okay, you see vanity all over the place in that. Futility. Alright. We're gonna go through this whole book. But let's just broad brush strokes say that the whole thing is really about man experiencing life and becoming disillusioned. Chapters 1 through 6 is basically he goes through I pursued pleasure, I pursued I pursued riches, I pursued wisdom, I pursued knowledge, I pursued all of these things. And they all end up vanity. I am very, very disillusioned about all this. And what does he say our inclination? What did Ray Reitman say our inclination is? And Solomon's going to say this too. Our inclination is when we become disillusioned about something. I'm gonna pull myself up by my own bootstraps. I am going to become self-reliant even more. I am going to do this myself. And what does God say we ought to do? He is going to say, let's just find out what he says. Ecclesiastes chapter 7, verse 1. A good name, he says, is better than pre- Now what we need to do, by the way, let me just say this. We need to read through this and don't get so caught in the details that you miss the big picture. So what I want you to do when we're reading this is to sort of let it sort of wash over your mind and and you're thinking about the flow here. What general attitude is being conveyed here? A good name is better than precious ointment, and a day of death than the day of one's birth. A good death, the day of death. Okay, in fact, I'm just gonna keep reading. It's easy for me to get caught in the details too. It is a it is better to go to the house of mourning than to go to the house of feasting. Feasting being happiness and those kind of things. For that is the end of all men, and the living will lay it to his heart. Sorrow, he says, is better than laughter. For by the sadness of the countenance, the heart is made better. All right, let's just pause here for a minute. What is he talking about? Okay. When we're when we're laughing and happy we're not as likely to think of God, but when we're excited Okay, so so when we are in we are disillusioned about life, life is to pits. Life is Life is for the birds. You're disillusioned about life. Our tendency is to do two things. We're self-reliant, and we tend to medicate ourselves for what? Pleasure, just happiness, the next party, the next feast, the next way the next thing I can go to. Right? And he says, God says through Solomon That when we come to disillusionment, he says morning is better. Okay, so so that's basically what he's saying here. Um Verse 4, the heart of the wise is in the house of mourning, but the heart of the fools is in the house of mirth. It is better to hear the rebuke of the wise than for a man to hear song of fools. For as the crackling of thorns under a pot. So is the laughter of the fool. This also is vanity. Surely oppression maketh a what's it say there? A wise man mad, and a gift destroyeth the heart. Now he's going to change tunes in verse 8. Notice what he says. Better is the end of a thing than the beginning thereof. And by the way, so is the book of Ecclesiastes. The first six chapters are very depressing. Many of you have never gotten past this first six chapters. You're like, I don't want to read this book. I've gotten through the first three chapters and I'm and I'm just ready to throw the towel in. Well you've got to keep that's why I'm starting in the middle here. Okay? Um that's actually not the only reason why I really want to show you the structure of the book. Okay Now notice what it says here. Verse 8. Better is the end of the thing than the beginning thereof, and the patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit. Oh, so better is the end than the beginning. And better is the patient than the proud. So now we've turned the corner. He first says, you've got to mourn. You've got to lament over your disillusionment. You've got to bring yourself, instead of covering it up and medicating yourself and trying to pursue everything to cover up the hurt and the pain of disillusionment, he says, mourn over it. And after you've done that, then he says, verse verse, we'll keep going, verse 9. Be not hasty in thy spirit to be angry. Oh, that's a temptation, isn't it? For anger resteth in the bosom of fools. Say not thou what is the cause that the former days were better than these? For thou dost not inquire wisely concerning this. Wisdom is good with an inheritance, and by it there is profit to them that see the Son. For wisdom is defense, and money is a defense. But the excellency of knowledge is that wisdom giveth life to them that have it. Okay, verse 12. Look at this. He says wisdom is a what? It's a defense. And he also says something else is a defense. What else is a defense? What is he saying when he says money is a defense? Yeah, money is okay, good. Money is a security. It's like a defense or a security. And he says wisdom is a defense too. And then he says, one's way better than the other. Because what does one do? Wisdom gives life. You want money or you want wisdom? Choose wisdom. Did Solomon do that? He did, didn't he? We read that in 1 Kings. And he also got a lot of money and that about I mean that really did cause us a lot of problems for him in his life and he realizes that and it's a lot of vanity but he is able to come back to wisdom is what gives life he says. Consider verse 13. Consider the work of God. For who can make that straight which hath made crooked? In a day, now, by the way, you don't know this yet, unless you've really studied Ecclesiastes. Who has made things crooked according to Ecclesiastes? God. He's going to say God has made things crooked in Ecclesiastes. Boy, that'll blow your theology. God made things crooked? Well, did not God allow the fall? Okay. Now how much We won't get into all that at this point. But who is the only one that's going to be able to make things straight? The one who allowed at least allowed, and we'll talk more about his sovereignty in the future, but at least allowed at this point Things to be crooked. So he says here, consider the work of God, for who can make that straight which he hath made crooked? Verse 14. In the day of prosperity, be joyful. So he says, enjoy prosperity if God gives it to you. But in the day of adversity, consider God hath set one over against the other to the end that man shall find nothing after hims after him Okay, we've got a lot of details to go over, but basically you see the main thrust, that's like the linchpin in the whole thing You've got this link between chapter the first six chapters and then the s the last chapters there. And this is the the the the thing that holds it all together. And he turns the turns the tide and we begin to see what life is like under the throng with God in view in the net in the last uh part of the book, the second part of the book. Now let me just go over a few things just to whet your appetite about the value of this book A man by the name of Talbert Layton Talbert wrote an article and he said there are four things that are foundational here. He says the foundational truth that God is the sovereign and judge over life under the sun. The realization that vanity characterizes life under the sun. The imperative of a settled contentment with the enjoyment of your God-given lot in life. A settled contentment with an enjoyment of your God given lot in life. But first you've got to recognize number two. That the realization of vanity characterizes life under the sun. You really can't get three until you get two first. Number four, the capstone of living life in light of one's accountability to God. Here is here is where we're all this is all the value of this is going to be significant. He's um Yangley says this, he says, businesses have goals and specific plans to place for meeting those goals. Universities have mission statements that guide in the development of curricula and teaching strategies. Churches develop philosophies of ministry to meet the needs of various ages and categories of people. Parents develop a philosophy for the instruction and discipline of their children. But if one were to randomly ask a thousand people who professes to know Christ as their personal Lord and Savior, probably only a small number for perhaps or perhaps none at all would be able to clearly enunciate a biblical coherent philosophy for how to live in a world that sin has so severely marred. I'm talking about a life philosophy. Now, sometimes philosophy scares people, the word philosophy. I'm not talking about, you know, Kant or Immanuel Kant or or you know these guys I'm talking about approach to life. We all need to have a biblical life approach. And Ecclesiastes is is going to help us. So let me give you some major themes. Number one, we're going to see that proper theology is foundational to life in a fallen world. Don't be afraid, teenagers, don't be afraid of that word theology. Just don't. Okay? Theology just means the study of God. You'll be doing it for the rest of your existence. Okay. Vanity is the state of life in a fallen world. Did you know, teens, you live outside of God and you have vanity? Adults, we live outside of God, we have vanity Vanity is the state. The state of the fallen world, apart from God, is vanity, it's futility. Enjoying life is a gift from God in a fallen world. Well, that's good, right? Enjoying life is a gift from God. We got a lot of Christians that are just stuck in the mud. God wants us to enjoy life, and that's a gift from God. So on one hand, the state of life in a fallen world is vanity. Enjoying life is a gift from God. And the fear of God is essential to life in a fallen world. Those are some of the major themes. And even wisdom, we're going to find this as well, even wisdom has limits in a fallen world, which is really going to point to Christ. So those are some of the major major themes that we're going to see as well. While self-reliance seeks pleasure to placate impending despair, it only fosters angry impatience and corrupts the heart with entrenched bitterness But authentic mourning edifies the heart with wisdom, which gives life in adversity by patiently considering the work of God In sum, we are well advised to release our grip on ambitions uh ambitious dreams and life's inevitable adversity and accept both the bad and the good and the work. of God. That's a good summary for the the main message of the book of Ecclesiastes. And what we're going to do because we now have at least a an understanding of the main message of the book of Ecclesiastes and we have at least a rudimentary understanding of the structure of Ecclesiastes, we're then going to be able to go into some of the details of Ecclesiastes and we'll be able to match them up and it's going to it it will make sense to us now. Alright, and that is an introduction to Ecclesiastes.