Well you may now take your Bibles and you can turn to the book of Exodus, please. The first chapter of the book of Exodus. Many of you know that I operate a side business, a metalworking side business, and I have something to show you that I made. Yesterday. You might be thinking this is gonna be a very cool thing, but I'm here to tell you right now it's not. I uh I had the same conversation with my kids this morning. As we were yeah, what what is it? I have decided to call it a rickety clink. This is my rickety clink. What does it do, you ask? Nothing. What is it for, you ask? Nothing. You may say, well what is it per what is its purpose? It has none. I mean I can go like this. And uh I don't know what this might do, but you know, it could come in handy for something. I don't know. And these I just put them on there because I felt like it. This is my rickety clink. Let me ask you something, and I I guarantee you that you have never been asked this question before. Have you ever felt like a riggedy queen? Not not I don't I don't mean if you ever felt like a strange metal object with a pedal and a couple of things hanging out and a wheel. I mean, have you ever felt like you really didn't have a reason? A reason to be. Have you ever felt like you don't know what you're really supposed to be doing? Maybe you've asked yourself What am I here for? I mean let's be honest. At times, or maybe maybe all the time Life can get fairly monotonous, can it not? Do the same thing every day. 365 days a year Maybe you've asked yourself, is this really all my life is about? Or is there supposed to be something more to this? What am I doing here? Now you we all probably know some of the typical Christianese answers, right? Well, I'm here because uh I I am to bring God glory. And you would be right. We would be right in saying that. We are here for God's glory, no doubt about it. But what does that mean? And I don't mean what does that mean in general, I mean what does that mean for you? Because I would venture to guess that the way God has for you to bring Him glory in your life is going to differ. From perhaps the person sitting next to you. Or even myself up here. Well, why is that? Well, we have been given by God's grace Different roles, correct? We have different responsibilities. Our lives are different. And that isn't just because the way the atoms fell and it's all happened by accident. I would submit to you that there is purpose behind that. These questions, what am I supposed to be doing? Am I doing the right thing? Should I be doing something else? Maybe we feel at times as though we lack direction. What direction do you want me to head in? Sometimes it feels like maybe we're in a bit of a fog. These are legitimate questions that we wrestle with from time to time, are they not? How do we find the answers to those questions? questions. Lord Willing, our time spent this morning will bring clarity to this common thread that we all feel and are subject to in our lives. But before we do that, let's pray. Father Lord, we come to you in uh desperate need of your help Lord, you say that the natural man does not receive the things from your word. Lord, help us to be spirit-filled this morning. To hear your word, to receive it, and to act upon it. Father, I pray that you would remove me from the picture And instead, bring the truth and the clarity of your word to the forefront, that it may be received. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen. This morning we are going to dive into a portion of Israel's history that, to say the least, is Well, very very turbulent. It's mixed with much confusion I believe that this portion of Scripture will provide for us help that we need at times to deal with the burning questions that come up in our minds. In chapter one of Exodus, we are given the outcome to Jacob's descendants. We see here that they went, as you see there, it gives the descendants. It says in verse 7 of chapter 1, the children of Israel were fruitful and increased abundantly and multiplied. And waxed exceeding mighty uh exceeding mighty, and the land was filled with them. I skipped ahead a little bit too much. Look at verse five. And all the souls that came out of the loins of Jacob were seventy souls. Seventy. That's how many are there in Egypt when Joseph is is second in command. Seventy of them. But it says here that they have grown exceedingly. They have grown considerably in the previous four hundred and in in in somewhere in between a four hundred year period But we find here that although they have grown to a multitude, their quality of life is poor. Look at this. Says In verse 8, Now there arose up a new king over Egypt, which knew not Joseph. And he said unto his people, Behold, the people of the children of Israel are more and mightier than we Come on, let's us deal wisely with them, lest they multiply, and it come to pass that when there falleth out any war, they join also our enemies and fight against us. And so get them up out of the land. Therefore he did they did set over them taskmasters to afflict them with their burdens, and they built for Pharaoh treasure cities. Or storage cities called Pitham and Ramses. But the more they afflicted them, the more they multiplied and grew. And they were grieved because of the children of Israel. And the Egyptians made the children of Israel to serve with rigor. And they made their lives bitter with hard bondage, in mortar, and in brick, and in all manner of service in the field. All their service wherein they made them serve was with rigor. Imagine an entire people group who many believe at this time at the at its peak in Egypt to be around two million people. They are forced to be nothing but slaves. They are subject and subservient to their masters, who as described there, are often cruel. Why? I mean for those people living in that time period, would they have not asked why? For those people in that time period, wouldn't they be asking, why is this our life? And for centuries. You know what they received as an answer? Silence. Silence. You know, this situation, from the people's perspective Is silence, no answer, maybe even little to no hope. But why are they in this situation? Well, as we read, the purpose behind this enslavement of a multitude Is number one, Pharaoh sees the prosperity of the people. And although they only began with a minority of 70 individuals, the nation of Israel grew so quickly that it says that they filled the land. They were full of them. And this caused no small amount of anxiety for this pharaoh that rose up that didn't know Joseph. It causes him concern that if there happens to be a war of some sort, that this multitude would join Egypt's enemies and fight against them. So, the reaction from Pharaoh, then, is that he decides to enslave the multitude. To lessen this threat of Israel's growing strength, Pharaoh enslaves the Israelites, forcing them to build these storage cities. But it says there in our text that in spite of this persecution, they continue to grow in number and in strength So seeing that that doesn't um that doesn't really work. This this isn't really defeating them fully. Pharaoh takes it to the next level. Verse 15, and the king of Egypt spake to the Hebrew midwives, of which the name The name of one of was uh Shiprah, and the name of the other was Puwa. And he said, When you do office uh when you do the office of a midwife to the Hebrew women, and see them on the stools, if it be a son you shall kill him. And if it be a daughter, then she shall live. But the mere midwives feared God, and did not as the king commanded them, but saved them, the children alive. So The Pharaoh orders infanticide to the male children. And it says there that the Hebrew midwives, being God fearers did not do this atrocity. They wouldn't obey the commander. They would obey their God. And refused to obey the king and allowed the boys to live. So seeing that this doesn't work, Pharaoh then takes it to the next level. And the next level is that he or he has this his order to the masses. Finally, Pharaoh orders his people to throw all Israelite male babies into the the Nile River. From the outside, looking at this story. It seems as though there is just no reigning in this Pharaoh And it's just out of control. And he's giving order after order that to to the human emotion and and mind makes no sense. The cruelty is is awful. And you might think, where is God in all of this? I mean, it was bad enough, right? It was bad enough. They were enslaved, and now they're seeing their children, at least some of them, being murdered. And yet God is still silent. God is still silent But, let me ask you a question, if God is silent, does that mean that he is inactive? No. Just because God is silent, and I would say silent from our perspective, does not mean that he is currently in action. In fact, it may be that when he is silent is when he is at his most active Think about that. We see here the reasons behind Pharaoh's decisions and actions, and and they are are mindless almost. But does God have a purpose behind this time in Israel's history? There is more behind this cruelty. Then meets the eye. Yes, to the people of Israel there is silence, but to God there is guidance and there is purpose. There is God there is there is we have here then from God's uh the we have here the situation from God's perspective and Purpose. Yes, from God for God there is guidance and purpose in this. Number one, we see here that God is placing his people In a position where his promises to his forefathers will be fulfilled. God is placing his people in a position where his promises to the forefathers will be fulfilled The other aspect from God's perspective and purpose is that He is placing them in a position to eventually be able to conquer the land of Canaan. Remember. Remember the promises that were given to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Number one Abraham was given the promise that his descendants would become a multitude. And guess what? It is in Egypt that that promise is fulfilled. To think about this. To think that the man who had no children and a wife that was unable to bear children Would have a multitude of offspring such as this. What a miracle. It was something that God did. God did this. And really, although there was slavery, they were put in a place of protection that had they been placed in the land of Canaan at that time, as seventy people, It would have been vulnerable. How easy is it to wipe out seventy people? Well, you get enough of an army or enough of a battalion, and it's not hard at all God placed them in a place where they could prosper, where they could grow in number. So that part of the promise could be fulfilled, but there is yet a portion of his promises to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob that have not been fulfilled. At this time in history, and that is to conquer the land that He promised to Abraham and so forth. So God is placing them in a position to be able to conquer the land of Canaan So, while it seems like God, in this situation in chapter 1, is doing nothing, he is actually, in fact, doing everything the people of Israel could never do for themselves You know, when thinking about our own times of trouble, when there seems to be inaction on God's part, What should our mindset be? Do we believe in those times that God is not at work? Do we believe that He is not guiding? Just because we do not see God working doesn't mean he is not working. But that gets harder to believe as time continues to go by, right? I mean the longer the longer you are waiting on God, the harder it gets. It's one of the reasons I chose uh Psalm 27 to be our Scripture reading because it says at the end, two times, wait on the Lord. Wait, I say, on the Lord. There is benefit for waiting on God's timing. This is the state though that the Israelites are in. So much time has gone by. Many of them, if not all of them, at this point in Israel's history, were born a slave, were living as a slave, and they had no other hope but to die as a slave. When would God act? What would God do? Well the truth is none of this was happening by accident. Because not only is God guiding and directing in the way that we just said with um That he's placing them in a position so the promises can be fulfilled, and he's placing them in a position to conquer the land of Canaan. But this whole scenario is by God's design. Did you know that? Did you know that the slave labor and in the time in Egypt for Israel was ordained by God hundreds of years earlier? In Genesis 15. Abraham speaks me, God speaks to Abraham and he says this, and he said unto Abraham, Know of a surety that thy seed shall be a stranger in a land that is not theirs. And shall serve them. It's a nice way of saying you will be slaves to them. And they shall afflict them 400 years. And also that nation whom they shall serve will I judge, and afterward they shall come out with great substance. Imagine that. This period of time in Exodus was planned. It was all part of what God was planning to do with his people. Now we know that. And it's possible that that that element of the of prophecy was not passed down to the Israelites at this time. It seems as though God is not communicating that truth to them at this point. Nor is he telling them how their deliverance will come about. Can you imagine with me if that was the world that you were born into? It's hard, isn't it? I mean, I would assume that none of us have experienced a life like that Perhaps not even close to anything like that. What would life be like? I mean can you imagine growing up as a kid, as a teenager, growing up and becoming an adult You still are a slave. You're still doing what you're supposed to be doing as a slave. You're trying not to make anybody mad so you don't get hurt. And then let's say God brings on your path uh A person of significance, let's say. And you decide to marry this individual And you have kids. And you bring children into this world that we just described And let's say you have two kids and a third one on the way, and while you are pregnant with your third child, Pharaoh issues this decree. All male children who are born are to be put to death. And and then it turns into any male children living are to be thrown into the Nile. Can you imagine? Well, that is exactly the world that Moses is born into. And it is exactly the situation he is born into. It is at this point in chapter two of Exodus that God's guidance kicks up into another gear. Because God is going to reveal, begin to reveal, and begin to mold an individual. To become the vessel to deliver his children from this place that they are in. Just hitting the major points of chapter two here, for sake of time, and many of you know these details already Moses is born to two uh to a Levite couple. We know the wife's name is Jacobed, and later we find out from Exodus 6 that his father's name is Amram. And they hide him from Pharaoh for three months. And after they can hide him no longer, they place him in a small basket. And they make it waterproof. And they settle along the bank of the Nile River. And it seems as though that this is a deliberate plan from on the mother's part. They are hoping that something good is going to come out of this But they have no control over this. In fact, they have no control over the current of the Nile and where the basket will go They have no control. If the baby is found, what will happen to that baby? It just so happens that Moses ends up where the princess, the royalty, bathed. And Moses is rescued from the river there. And not only that But the children the child needs to feed and Miriam who has been watching and waiting to see what would happen brings an opportunity and says, Shall I go find one of the Hebrew women to nurse the child? And she agrees. And who else would Miriam cho choose? Right, but her own mother. It's undisclosed how long this period of time is, but Moses gets to spend his early life with his own mother. And when he becomes a certain age, he then lives in the palace full time. But there is an aspect in the beginning where he is raised by his own family. And then we jump ahead in the text, and it says in verse 11 of chapter 2, it came to pass. In those days when Moses was grown, that he went out unto his brethren, and looked on their burdens, and he spied an Egyptian smiting in Hebrew, one of his brethren. And he looked this way and that, and when he saw that there was no man, he slew the Egyptian, and hit him in the sand. And when he went out the second day, behold, two men of the Hebrews strove together, and he said to them, uh to him that did the wrong, why are you smiting your your your brother, your fellow brother? He said, Who made thee a prince and a judge over us? Intendest thou to kill me as thou killest the Egyptian? And Moses feared. And he said, Surely this thing is known. You know, This is a period in Moses' life. He has been living in the palace now for some time. We know from portions of Acts that he is at this point 40 years old. 40 years old, 40 years as an Egyptian, living in that way and that custom, and not culture. And we find out from Acts chapter 7 some of the motive behind what he is doing. Acts chapter 7, verse 23. It says, When he was forty years old, came into his heart to visit his brothers, the children of Israel. And seeing one of them being wronged, he defended the oppressed man and avenged him by striking down the Egyptian. And listen to what he is thinking here in verse 25. He supposed that the brothers would understand that God was giving them salvation by his hand. But they did not understand. You see, really what we have here is Moses getting an idea of what he could possibly do. What he could possibly do for God, what he could possibly do for his people. Unfortunately, he did it the wrong way and at the wrong time. He did it the wrong way at the wrong time. Well, when Pharaoh heard this, he sought to slay Moses In verse 15 of Exodus chapter 2, and Moses decides to flee. He decides to get away as fast as he can, as far as he can. You know, the acts, the the consequences of this act would have made this time in his life so stressful, turbulent. Full of doubt, confusion. I mean think about it. He's been living the life of royalty. And in one act, he has given it up. We find actually even more insight into his thoughts and what he was thinking from Hebrews chapter 11. In his account in the hall of faith, it says in verse 24, By faith Moses, when he was grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. Choosing rather to be mistreated with the people of God than to enjoy the fleeting pleasures of sin. He considered the reproach of Christ greater wealth than the treasures of Egypt, for he was looking to the reward He made a decision. Although his acts were incorrect and they were ill-timed. He began to understand what was really important, and he couldn't bear to see the sight of his people being oppressed anymore. So he lived with these consequences. And we find now in verse sixteen of chapter two in Exodus, it says this Now the priests of Midian had seven daughters, and they came and drew water and filled the troughs to water their flocks, father's flock. And the shepherds came and drove them away. But Moses stood up and helped them and watered their flock. And when they came to Ruel, their father, he said, How is it they are come so soon today? And they said, An Egyptian delivered us out of the hand of the shepherds, and also drew water enough for us and watered the flock. And he said to his daughters, Where is he? He's almost asking, where is this superman? I want to meet this guy. Why is it that you have left the man? Call him, that may he may eat bread And Moses, listen to this, Moses was content to dwell with the man, and he gave Moses Sepporah his daughter. She bear him a son, and called his name Gershem, for he said, I have been a stranger. in a strange land. Can you imagine some of the confusion in Moses' mind in this time of life Do you see it? Do you feel it? Again, he goes from being royalty to now a shepherd in rags. This is the life that providentially he has ended up with. He has gone from the highest of the high to the lowest of the low, but even more than the position that he lost. Can you imagine the confusion he is facing regarding what he is supposed to be doing with his life? I mean he had an idea, right? He thought at one point, maybe I'm in this position, this high position in the royal court. Perhaps I can help my people. Perhaps I can do something to benefit them. And he goes about it, and what happens? It blows up in his face. Whatever he thought he was going to do, those plans are destroyed He thought he could help his people. And verse 21 says, now that his life has transitioned, it says that he was content to live with faith. with his new family. From this passage and others that we have read and commentators, I get the impression That Moses at this juncture is resigning himself to his new life. It's not what he would have chosen for himself. It's not what he was really passionate about But he comes to this point and says, okay, I guess I will live a normal life. with normal people. But you have to think that certain thoughts crossed his mind. 'Cause he was forty years in Egypt and we know also that he spent forty years now as a shepherd. In those 40 years, it must have crossed his mind, why am I here? Why? Am I really here to simply watch over these stinky, smelly, dumb sheep? Is that really all life is going to be about? Is that really what my life is going to be about now? Have you ever been there? Have you really thought to yourself at any point, is this really where I'm supposed to be and what I'm supposed to be doing? Have you ever been discontent with the role that you have been given? Are you even presently discontent with the role that you have now? Even at this strange turn in Moses' life. God is guiding this man to become exactly who he needs him to be. But Moses doesn't Now it says this At this point, if you don't know the story, you might think that Moses has chosen this life of ease and he's never going to return to his people. And if God did not intervene, He most likely would have. But take a hard look at these verses that we're about to read. In this narrative, these verses act as a hinge. And they are a hinge to a door that we are opening. And when we go through that door, things will change. In a dramatic, dynamic fashion. Look at verse 23 of chapter 2. It says this, and it came to pass in process of time that the king of Egypt died. And the children of Israel sighed by reason of the bondage, and they cried, and their cry came up unto God by reason of the bondage. And God heard their groaning, and God remembered his covenant with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob. And God looked upon the children of Israel, and God had respect unto them. Verse 23 there, it says uh in the process of time. Another way of saying that is during those many days that we've just discussed in in Moses' life The Pharaoh that wanted to kill Moses has died off now. And someone else has taken his place. And not only that That phrase there where it says, God had respect unto them, one translation says this: God saw the people of Israel, and God knew God knew. There is, frankly, a stark contrast here At this stage in Moses' life, he really doesn't know what is going on at all. God does know perfectly what's happening and what's happening. What's going on? In this end of this chapter, it is like the calm before the storm, the moments before a skydiver jumps off their plane. Something is about to happen God is getting ready to act. And the basis of these actions that God is going to take are the promises that He made to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And how God sets things in motion is really quite like any other scenario we've seen in Scripture. Now looking at chapter 3. It says, now Moses kept the flock of Jethro, his father-in-law, the priest of Midian, and he led the flock to the backside of the desert, came to the mountain of God even to Horeb. And the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush. And he looked, and behold, the bush burned with fire, but the bush was not consumed. And Moses said, I will now turn aside and see this great sight why the bush is not burned. And when the Lord saw, he turned aside to see, God called unto him out of the midst of the bush and said, Moses, Moses, and he said, Here am I. He said, Draw not nigh hither. Put off thy shoes from thy feet, for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground. Moreover, he said, I am the God of thy father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob And Moses hid his face, for he was afraid to look upon God. And the Lord said, I have surely seen the affliction of my people. And have heard their cry by reason of their taskmasters, for I know their sorrows. There's that term again, I know. And I came down to and I come down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians, and to bring them up out of the land, unto a good land, with a lar and a large, unto a land flowing with milk and honey, under the place of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites. Now therefore, behold, the cry of the children of Israel is come unto me, and I have also seen the oppression wherewith the Egyptians oppressed them. From Exodus chapter 2 all the way to chapter 3, verse 9, I would submit to you that for two-thirds of Moses' life, he has no clear idea who he is supposed to be. Or what are you supposed to be doing? And not only that, he doesn't really know God intimately. We find out later in in the chapter that he is not even sure what he should call God if the Israelites should Ask him who has sent him. He doesn't know about God's character. He doesn't know about his power, his strength, his glory, his wrath, or his mercy. He doesn't know about his judgment. He doesn't know about his love, his compassion, his patience, his majesty. He doesn't really know the God of his ancestors. In the course of the latter third of his life, he's going to learn all about that and more. I'd like to bring some clarity here to this point. Notice what is absent in the light in the life of Moses. Notice what is not there. He does not have any interaction with God until this moment. Burning bush when he is eighty years old. And unlike certain individuals like Isaac, like Jacob, even Samuel and Samson and John the Baptist, there was nothing Told about this boy when he was born. There was no promise of what he was going to be, or he who he was to become, or what he was going to do. But he is a baby that grew up to be a man who is providentially guided by God, step by step, for this very moment. If all of this taken place and God had not intervened, Moses, and God had not been guiding, I should say, Moses would have just been another guy. But that is not what happened. He saw a bush burning that wasn't being consumed, and he had to go see what was was going on. And that is how God drew him to that place to speak to him. Now I must say, and we need to make this clear, Chapter 3, verses 1 through 9. When God speaks to Moses and discloses the plan that he has for his people, what do you think Moses' response is at this point? This is good. This is the answer to our prayers. This is what we've been waiting for. Yes, God, I want you to do this. But I believe by the time we get to verse ten, the excitement starts to dwindle. And the anticipation of this it begins to be removed because God discloses Moses' part in this plan. He tells Moses what his role is going to be. And in so many words, Moses really doesn't like it. He doesn't like it. God's plan For the deliverance of his people is found in chapter 3, 9, verses 9 through 4, 17. Chapter 3, not verse 9 through chapter 4, verse 17. And we see, number one, that Moses is selected to be the deliverer. He is God's choice. No one else. God chose him. But through that portion, Moses seeks to avoid being chosen. And he gives one reason after another why he doesn't think he's the guy for the job Until finally he says, Isn't there someone that isn't me that could do this? And God doesn't even acknowledge that request. Now we will, Lord willing, delve into a discussion of Moses' um excuses and God's responses in the African I think that'll be a profitable time. But we're going to save that for then. Instead we'll we'll deal more with with what we've been talking about. You know, as a younger man, Moses jumped at the opportunity. To try and help his people. But after 40 years of being a shepherd and growing accustomed to that life, he shows great reluctance to God's selection for this role Now, some would say that Moses is simply giving some legitimate concerns. And I would say Okay, but I think that idea gets blown out of the water when he essentially says, pick someone else. He doesn't want the job, he doesn't want the role. He keeps looking for a way out, but eventually he does embrace this role, as most of us I'm sure know. He is the man for the job. He doesn't realize it yet at this point. He doesn't realize it yet. But all the questions that perhaps plagued his mind For 40 plus years about his role and what he's supposed to be doing. Those questions are being answered in this dialogue with God. His role is becoming clear. And it's all because of how God has guided him to it. It isn't an easy role by no stretch of the imagination. In the pages of Scripture, I can hardly think of a harder job than the job that Moses was given. Save maybe for the job that Christ was given. Moses was given a difficult job. His role was finally revealed to him after eighty years. For us today, I'd like to consider four positions that we take in regards to the roles that God has planned for us. Four positions that we take in regards to the roles that God has planned for us. Number one We can sometimes be in a state of confusion about what role we should have, or in other words, uncertain about what we are to be doing. Do you ever find yourself in that position? Or maybe you can think in the past of times when you just weren't positive how you were supposed to be living this life Now you may say, well what do you mean, Enrique? And I will admit that I typically, I'm just being transparent here, I typically like to give very specific application. And I am not doing that today. Because I do not want to limit the scope of what kind of roles there are out there. In my finite mind, I could probably only think of a handful that I could present to you today. But you know what? There are roles that I know nothing about that you do. So when I say the word role What comes to your mind? What do you think about? That's what I want you to think about. Perhaps presently, perhaps in the past, perhaps something in the future. What comes to your mind when you think of roles that God has given you, is given you, or wants to give you? of view. So one position is that we are confused about what role we should have. Or another position, number two, is that perhaps we have been given Roles by God that we are either discontent with, or worse, we are rejecting them. Perhaps we are we have been given a role by God or roles by God that we are discontent with, we are not happy with it. Or worse, we are actively rejecting the role that we are. being given. And let me make this clear. If we are being given a role by God and we reject it, that is just a nice way of saying we are sinning against God. So we could be in a state where we are confused about what role we should have and there's uncertainty there. Or perhaps we are in a state where we have been given rules by God, but we are discontent with them or we are rejecting them. Number three. Perhaps we are in a state where there are prospective roles that God is pushing us towards, but we are reluctant to go where God is guiding. At first, that is exactly the state that Moses is in. He's been an Egyptian culturally, he's been a shepherd And now God reveals to his him his role and he's not willing to take that step initially. There's reluctance there. So there are possibly prospective roles that God is pushing us towards. But we are reluctant to go where God is guiding. And fourth, this is the easy one Fourth, is that we know what our role is, and we are embracing it fully. Or we know what role we are supposed to have in the future and we are embracing that role for fully. I believe that all of us fit into one of those categories, if not maybe more than one at a time. Let me ask you, are you willing to trust God to guide you into the roles and positions that He has If you are uncertain Are you willing to wait on him to disclose that information to you? It will be worth waiting for It will be worth waiting for. My friends, we can be used by God in great ways if we submit to his timing and guidance. And genuinely seek His direction. We can be used by God in great and mighty ways if we submit to His timing and embrace the roles Or the role that He has given to us. Are you confused about the role you are supposed to have? Wait. And embrace the role that He has given you now. So, in other words, do what you know to be right, and let God, in His timing, work out what you don't know. Make sense? Do what you know to be right while you're waiting, and let God in his time work out what you don't know Let me ask you, is there a role that you have now that you aren't content in? My friends, if it is a God-given role, embrace it. There is no better place for you to be. Is there a role that God wants you to take on, but you are reluctant to pursue it? For both of these, we can't focus on the excuses that we perhaps make for ourselves. What are the factors in a person's life that bring them to this frame of mind of making excuses for the roles that God has given to us? Well, number one, is possible that sin in your life has placed you in this position, and God is working on you to bring you back to Him. But it's also possible that you aren't content in your role or you're reluctant to take another role because you are believing a lie about that role. What kind of lie could we believe? Well, you could believe something like it isn't important It isn't valuable. It's not profitable. But my friends, if the role is genuinely of God, then it is the most important thing that you could be doing. It is the most valuable thing you could be doing, and it is the most profitable thing. And my friends, that spans every aspect of your life In the church, at work, wherever you are, and whatever you're doing, it's not necessarily a spiritual thing, although that certainly falls into that category. But it's every part of your life. So it's possible that you aren't content in your role because you are believing a lie about it. But also, it's possible to be making excuses for the role that you uh that you aren't content in or you aren't willing to pursue because you are believing something. Catch this, watch this, this is a little tricky You are believing something that is technically true, but you're not including God and His power and His grace into the picture. Perhaps you just think I can't fulfill this role. You are probably right That's true, but it's not an excuse. Not a legitimate one. And honestly, as we'll look, this is exactly what Moses does in the following verses. Are we willing to embrace the role that God gives us? That's the question. You know, perhaps we we sometimes feel like a rickety clink Because we aren't obeying the voice of our God. Why is there doubt? Why is there there confusion? Why does it seem like I have no purpose? Maybe it's because he's put you in a role that you've decided not to be content with. He's given you purpose, but you're not happy. Maybe it's because God is pushing you towards something, but you are pushing back. I don't want that role. I'm scared of it Well, maybe that's why there is unfulfillment because you actually aren't doing what you're supposed to be doing. Be doing. Think about these things. Store these things into your heart. As I said before, when we embrace our role. Or we embrace a role that God is about to give us. And we take it as a gift from God and his good hand. Recognizing that if it's from him, it's the most important, profitable, and valuable thing we could be doing. Then we can live life to the fullest that He has given us. Let's close in prayer.