We're going to be in Ephesians chapter 3 this morning, and we're going to be looking at verses 1 through 21. Ephesians 3, verses 1 through 21. For this reason, I, Paul, the prisoner of Christ Jesus, for you Gentiles If indeed you have heard of the dispensation of the grace of God, which was given to me for you. How that by revelation He made known to me the mystery, as I have briefly written already, by which when you read, you may understand my knowledge in the mystery of Christ. which in other ages was not made known to the sons of men, as it has now been revealed by the Spirit to his holy apostles and prophets, that the Gentiles should be fellow heirs of the same body and partakers of his promise in Christ through the gospel. of which I became a minister, according to the gift of the grace of God given to me by the effective working of his power To me who am less than the least of all the saints, this grace was given that I should preach among the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ And to make all see what is the fellowship of the mystery, which from the beginning of the ages has been hidden in God, who created all things through Christ Jesus. To the intent that now the manifold wisdom of God might be made known by the church to the principalities and powers in heavenly places. According to the eternal purpose, which he accomplished in Christ Jesus our Lord, in whom we have boldness and access with confidence. Through faith in him. Therefore, I ask that you do not lose heart at my tribulation for you, which is your glory. For this reason I bow my knees to the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, from the whole family in heaven and earth is named. That he would grant you, according to the riches of his glory, to be strengthened with might through his spirit in the inner man, that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith That you, being rooted and grounded in love, may be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the width and the length and the depth and the height to know the love of Christ, which surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God. Now to him who is able to do exceedingly and abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that works in us. To him be the glory in the church by Christ Jesus to all generations, forever and ever. Amen. I think you're already in Ephesians chapter three. We'll be looking at the end of the chapter, but we just got the whole context there. We're going to start this morning with a quiz. I'm a missionary and I love missions history, and so I'm going to see how well you know some missions history. history. So let's let's do it's a one question quiz, so it's not gonna be that hard, right? Who was the first American missionary? Does anybody know? I'm gonna give you multiple choice. So you're gonna have four answers, four possibilities here. My children know the answer. They're all grim You may not tell. Here's your first choice. William Carey. There's a famous name in missions. You may have heard of him. That's choice number one. Choice number two: Adonaiam Judson. So a famous name in missions. Is he the first American missionary? How about this one? George Lael. Maybe you've never heard of him. But you've probably heard of this George. Choice number four, George Washington. Okay, if you don't know much about missions history, you probably know that choice number four is not very likely. But let's see. Let's let's vote here. Let's do this Uh kind of a public quiz here. Number one, how many of you think the first American missionary was William Carey? Raise your hand, nice and strong. Yeah, he's the father of modern missionary missions, and he was British. So he is not The right answer. Number two. Who was the first American missionary? If you think it's Adanaim Judson, raise your hand. Aha. We got a lot a lot more people going for Adonai Judson. And you know that is an excellent, excellent answer. He is American. And uh he was the first American sent as a missionary to an overseas place. George Lale, how many of you have even ever heard of George Lale? Some of you you have. My children have. How many of you wanna you want to choose George Lyell? Not not Adam Judson or William Carey. Some of you are voting every time, I just noticed. You're gonna be right one of these times Actually, it is number three. Although there's a fine distinction here. George Lyell, 29 years before Adonim Judson left New England for Burma, and ten years before Kerry left England for India, George Lyell. Left America for Jamaica. Now he wasn't really sent by church, as you'll see in just a moment. Let me tell you a little bit of his story. George Lyell was an African-American slave, born, well, we think he was born in 1750 in Virginia About 20 years later, his master moved his entire family down to Georgia. And Well, yeah, we don't know much about his childhood. But in Georgia, he went to a church along with his master. Both colonials and slaves went together to the same church. It was called the the Buckhead Creek Baptist Church. And there he heard the gospel, and there he got saved And when he got saved, his life dramatically changed. In fact, later on he reck he thought about the time when he got saved, and this is what he said about that time. He said, I full well recollect, I requested of my Lord and Master to give me a work. I did not care how mean it was, only to try and see how good I would do it. He wanted God to use him. God had saved him. Jesus had died for him. He wanted to live for Jesus Christ. And so he immediately even shared began sharing the gospel that he had heard at church He shared it with the people in the fellow slaves in the plantation. And then he started traveling whenever he could get the time to do so to go to neighboring plantations. And the Lord really blessed his work. He led many fellow slaves to the Lord, and people began to notice the hand of God is on this young man. He looks like he's been called to preach the gospel. And his master, who was a believer, saw this. And he freed George Lyell so he could have freedom to go wherever the Lord led him, from plantation to plantation, preaching the gospel all along the border of South Carolina and Georgia. He did this until the American War for Independence. And when that happened, well at first nothing really changed. He kept traveling, he kept uh sharing the gospel. He actually was instrumental in ch in planting the first African American church in the United States. And uh but but the war started coming closer and closer and closer to where he lived, and so he couldn't keep traveling. It wasn't safe. He moved to Savannah, Georgia. And in Savannah, Georgia, he continued working, and that's actually where that first African American church was. After the war, though Uh some unscrupulous men came and they tried to recapture him and re-enslave him. And this scared him, and so he decided he's getting out of here. At the same time a lot of uh British uh loyalists were getting out of America. Um and so he joined one family. In fact he indentured himself as a servant to pay his and his family's uh uh passage from America, uh the United States of America, up to down to Jamaica. When he got to Jamaica, you know what he did? He started doing exactly what he'd been doing up in Virginia and in Georgia and South Carolina. He began going to the different plantations and sharing the gospel, leading people to Christ. Not only that, he began planting churches in these different uh plantations. These African slaves had never heard the gospel, and so he was the one taking it to them. God really blessed his work, and not only was he Sharing the gospel, planting churches, but he was training men to do what he was doing. He was duplicating himself, multiplying himself. In fact, he'd already started doing this in South Carolina. He had led a guy to the Lord whose name was David George And uh David George actually became the pastor of that first African-American church in in Georgia. And then after the war, he went north to Nova Scotia. Started churches there, and then finally went actually back to Africa, to Sierra Leone. In Jamaica, George Lael led another guy named George to the Lord, George Gibbs. I don't know why everybody's name is George. That's why I got the urge to throw George Washington in there But this guy, his George Gibbs, he led him to the Lord. He grew in the Lord. He trained him to also go with them and plant churches among the plantations of Jamaica. He led another guy, not named George, Moses Baker, and then and then the numbers just kept growing. By 1791, Lyell wrote a 500 Professions of Faith. That's a lot of people coming to Christ through his ministry. By 1832, after his death, 20,000 people in Jamaica claimed to be Christians. His life sounds a little bit like that verse we read at the end of our passage there. Romans chapter, I mean Romans, Ephesians chapter 3. Verse 20. Now to him who is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that works in us. Exceedingly abundantly above. For a man with George Lyell's background, nobody could have seen this coming. He probably didn't even see it coming. But God used him in a great way. How can we see God do exceedingly abundantly above all we ask or think? How can we see God working through us, maybe not to the extent of a guy like George Lyell, but how can we see him working in us? Romans, I mean Ephesians chapter 3, verse 20, we could pull that out of context and make it say all sorts of things, but we need to look at it in its context. What is this promise that God has given to us here? And so that's why we read the entire passage from Ephesians 3, verse 1, all the way to the end. In the book of Ephesians, Ephesians is divided actually very clearly into two sections. Chapters 1 through 3 is doctrinal. And in this doctrinal section, we see a lot of really deep truths about election, about grace. about faith, about unity. We read about the mystery, Jew and Gentile, together in the body of Christ. Chapter 4 through 6 is very practical. It talks about our walk. It tells us to walk worthy of the Lord. Tells us to walk in love, walk in light, walk in wisdom. It gives us practical teaching about how we should live in our families and our marriages. Because practical teaching, what you should do as a child, what parents should be doing. And it ends with very practical teaching about spiritual warfare, how to have victory over sin in your life. But between the doctrinal in chapter 1 and 3 and the practical in chapters 4 through 6, Paul prays a prayer. A prayer for those who are reading the book. And that's what we're going to look at today. Luke chapter verse 14. Ephesians 3, verse 14. For this reason, I bow my knees to the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. From whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named. He's praying to God the Father through Jesus Christ. He's praying for who? He's praying for all of them, all of these believers. He says, the whole family He just talked about Jew and Gentile together in the body of Christ. This was a mystery, something that was not revealed in the Old Testament, but now it's been revealed in the New Testament. That's what in the Bible you see that word mystery, that's the meaning there And so he says, I'm praying for the whole family, Jew and Gentile. Together, the whole family in heaven and on earth. They all serve under the name of Jesus Christ. What's he praying for? That he would grant you, according to the riches of his glory, to be strengthened with might through his spirit in the inner man He begins talking about their spiritual lives. Notice in this passage so many times he's going to talk about Our inner life. Verse 16, we just read it. Talks about the inner man. If you scan to verse 17, that Christ may dwell in your heart. Once again, your heart. That's in you. He talks in verse 19 about being filled with the fullness of God. Once again, your inner life. Then, of course, in our verse that we're headed to in verse 20, he talks about the power that works in us. If we want to see God work through us, God must be working in us first. As we look at this prayer, we also see that God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit are all intimately involved with our spiritual life. First, we see the Holy Spirit. We just read verse 16, but let's look again. That he would grant you according to the riches of his glory to be strengthened with might through his spirit in the inner man. If you want to see God work through us first, the Holy Spirit must strengthen us. In fact, there's two words here for strengthening. He says, strengthened with might, which seems a bit redundant. Strengthen with might. Of course you need might to strengthen you. But there's two Greek words here. One has the idea of like physical grasping strength, like holding on to something really tight. And being able to, you know, hold it there like a father here playing a game with this kid and holding his hand holding their hand and they can't get out and they pull and they pull and they pull and they pull and they can't get out. And like, wow Dad, you are so strong. No, I'm just stronger than you. Grasping strength. The other word for strength, the word might there, is the word dunamis, which means ability. So you have two different aspects of strength. But here, of course, we're talking about spiritual strength, inner strength. These same two words are used in a very more famous verse, Ephesians chapter 6, verse 10. God says, Be strong in the Lord in the power of his might. Actually, there's three-word for strength in there, but our two words are right there. If we're going to be spiritually strong, we need God's Holy Spirit working in us. We need his strength, not just our strength. If God's going to work through us, he's not going to work through us because we're strong, no, he's going to work through us using his strengths in our inner man. It reminds me of Galatians 5. Galatians 5:16 says, walk in the Spirit. And you will not fulfill the lusts of the flesh. If we want to not do the things that we shouldn't do, So that we can do the things that we should do, the things that God wants us to do. We need the Spirit strength. We cannot do it on our own. Too often we try on doing it on our own. We think, you know, I've been a Christian a while. I know what I'm doing I know what I got the I got the list, Ten Commandments. I should do these things and then not do these things, and then I'll be a good Christian. But that's not what the Christian life is about. It's not about lists that do this and don't do that Christian life is a relationship. A relationship that begins the moment you trust Jesus Christ as your Savior He wants to work in you so he can work through you. God the Spirit must strengthen your inner man. If God's not working in you, He's not going to be working through youth. He might be working in spite of you It's kind of like electric current in your house. You go to your house, you flip on a switch, light turns on. Why does that happen? Is it because the lamp there that is is is so powerful? No, it's because there's electricity in the wall. As long as that thing's plugged in, the electricity comes through from outside from you know it's in the inside the wall, comes out of the wall, through the through the through the the core into the light, then boom, you get light shining. If it's not plugged in, does the light shine? It does not. If there's been a storm And your the electricity is going out in your neighborhood. Even if it's plugged in, does the light turn on? No, there's nothing magic about actually plugging it in. Where does the power come from? It comes from inside, inside the wall. If there's no power inside the wall, there's going to be no power going out of that lamp and spreading light in the room. The same is true in our spiritual lives. If we're not being strengthened by God's Holy Spirit, we're not going to have the strength to not do those things we shouldn't be doing. He says, walk in the Spirit, you will not fulfill the lusts of your flesh. If we're not being strengthened by the Holy Spirit in our inner man, we're not going to have the power to do what he wants us to do, to do that exceedingly abundantly above all we ask or think. We're not going to have that strength. So it starts with God the Holy Spirit working in us. The moment you believe in Jesus as your Savior, the Holy Spirit comes to indwell you. But through our life, He wants to more and more and more work in us and through us. It starts with God the Spirit. But then notice God the Son is also involved. God the Son, look at verse 17, that Christ may dwell in your heart. By faith, through faith. What does it mean for Christ to dwell in your hearts through faith? Maybe you read that and you think, oh, I know what that means. I heard this since I was a child in church. Ask Jesus into your heart It's a phrase that's used. Everybody knows it. They've grown up in church. Ask Jesus into your heart. How do you get saved? That's what you do. You ask Jesus into your heart. Is that what this verse is saying? Who's this prayer to? Well, it's to God, but who's it for? He's praying for believers. People who have already come to know Christ as their Savior. He's not asking that God that Jesus would would come into their hearts. In fact, there's another problem also here. Nowhere in the Bible do we see that kind of terminology used for someone getting saved. What's the condition for our salvation? The condition is not, ask Jesus into your heart. The condition is to believe. The Philippian jailer, he in Acts chapter 16, he asked Paul, What must I do to be saved? What did Paul say to him? How did he answer that question? What's the condition for our salvation? Did he say, Ask Jesus in your heart, and you will be saved and thy house? He did not. He said, believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. Believe. Put your faith in Jesus Christ alone. That's the condition for salvation. Not ask Jesus into your heart. So if that's not what this verse says, what does it mean? That Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith. These are already believers. But Paul wants Christ to dwell in their hearts This word dwell means to be at home there, to be in control, for you to be aware that he is there with you. Harold Honer, in his excellent commentary on the book of Ephesians, describes it this way, that Christ may be at home, that is, at the very center of, or deeply rooted in believers' lives. Christ must become the controlling factor in attitudes and in conduct. He's at home there. He lives there. That was Paul's prayer for these believers. Their heart, your heart, that's the your control center. That's the kind of like the very center of who you are Our heart's very important. Proverbs says, keep your heart with all diligence, for out of it is the issues of life. God says we're to guard our hearts. A heart's need to be right with him. But even more than that, he wants, he says, I'm praying that Jesus would dwell in your hearts, that he would be there. You're aware he's there. He's at home there. You're walking with him. He dwells there. He's in control there. Reminds me of another verse that talks about Christ dwelling in us Although you might not make the connection because it uses a different Greek word, but the same basic kind of meaning. John chapter 15, Jesus says this Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself unless it abides in the vine, neither can you unless you abide in me. I am the vine, you are the branches, he who abides in me, and I in him bears much fruit. For without me, you can do nothing. Abide, this word could be translated dwell. Dwell in me and I in you. This is Paul's prayer for them. This is the same same desire that Christ had Paul has. It says, dwell in me. Stay connected with me. May Christ dwell in your hearts by faith. Because when that happens. Then God can use you. In fact, he says the opposite here in this verse, in John 15, he says, without me you can do nothing. We need him. If we want to see God do exceedingly abundantly above all we ask our thinks in our lives, if we want to see God work through us. He must be working in us. Christ must be at home in your heart. The Holy Spirit must be strengthening you with his strength. We must learn to rely on Him, not on ourselves. And what's the result? The result of abiding in Christ, the result of walking in the Spirit, the result is fruit. What's the first of the fruit of the Spirit? Love. The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long suffering. The first one there is love. What's the fruit of a body in Christ? We see it one of the fruits there. Actually we see a lot of the same fruits. John chapter 15 says, as the Father loved me, I also have loved you. Abide in my love. A fruit of abody in Christ, it's love. It also mentions joy in that passage, too. In our passage today, Ephesians chapter 3, once again we see love. Look at what he says. After talking about the Holy Spirit's work and Christ dwelling in your heart through faith. He continues in verse seventeen, that you being rooted and grounded in love, may be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the width and the length and the depth and the height to know the love of Christ, which passes knowledge That you may be filled with all the fullness of God. He says, I want you to know his love. I want you to comprehend his love. You're already rooted and grounded in his love. Because when you got saved, that's a result of Christ's love for you. We love him. Why? Because he first loved us. And as we grow in him, and as his spirit strengthens us, and as he more and more dwells in our hearts, And controls us. We more and more experience the love. He says, notice there's two different words there. First he says that you may be able to comprehend, that that's kind of more like understanding. And then in verse In verse 19, he says, to know the love. That's a different word there. It means to experience, experiential knowledge. First you understand it, or at least you're beginning to understand it More and more and more being understands you talks about the scope of that love, the the width, the length, the depth, the height In fact, he says it's it passes knowledge. Like more and more you're growing to know and know more of his love, to experience more of his love, but you're never going to get to the end of it. It's so much He says, I want you to know it, to always be more and more understanding his love. But also, I want you to experience it, to live it, to know the love of Christ, which passes knowledge. But it's not just a personal thing. Because notice what he says. Back up to verse 18. May be able to comprehend with all the saints. There's this emphasis in this passage of all the saints. Why all the saints? Because once again, in context, he talked about this ministry, Jew and Gentile together, in the same body, working together. One in Jesus Christ. You've got these vastly different cultures, Jewish and Gentile, together. How are they going to be unified? In Christ, saved by the same love, growing in that same love. Love for Christ first, but also love for one another because of his love for us. Because I want you to have my strength to be able to love others. I want Christ to dwell in your heart By faith, as you rely on him, so you more and more love like God loves you. This is a supernatural love. And when people see this love, they know it didn't come from you. It came from God. Didn't Jesus say by this you'll know that your men will know that you're my disciples? Because of your love for one another, it starts with Jesus' love for us. But as we get closer to Him, we better understand it, more experience it. And more others will see it also. God must work in us before He can work through us. He's going to change us from the inside. And you know what? If he's doing that work, we'll know it, and others will begin to see it. Do you want to see God work in you exceedingly abundantly above all you ask or think? You can't do that yourself. You need God's strength. The Holy Spirit empowering you. You need the Jesus dwelling in your heart by faith, more and more controlling and guiding you. You're aware that He's with you. And leaning on him, abiding in him. And this all culminates now. First the Spirit's work, then Jesus Christ's work. Now we come Once again to God the Father. He was mentioned already in verse 14, but now at the end of verse 19, Paul prays that you may be filled with all the fullness. Of God. What does it mean to be filled with all the fullness of God? To be filled, I look up it in the lexicon, it means to be of people. It's filled with powers, filled with qualities. If we think filled with power, it's strength, we talked about earlier, filled with qualities, God's love, to be filled with the fullness of God. Means his character is seen in you. Starting with love and moving on to those other fruits that we saw. If you're filled with the fullness of God, we're talking about complete conformity to God. You doing his will, doing what he wants you to do. To be filled with the fullness of God is to be accomplishing God's goal. Him working in you and through you and other people seeing it. If you're filled with something, there's nothing lacking, it's filled up. There's less of you, more of him. Or maybe if you're filled with God, it's none of you, all of him. Maybe the best way to describe this concept of being filled with the fullness of God is to use an illustration. And so we'll look at these three beverages here. First, we have Coke. A lot of people like Coke. If you were offered one of these three beverages, how many of you would choose the Coke? You don't know what the other three are yet, but you already know you want the Coke. Forget those other two. We're going with Coke. Some of you probably have Coke memorabilia all over your kitchen. I've seen it, I've seen this before. Second choice. Second choice. I see apparently we'd like three choices today. I know it's four choices in the first one, but three. Second choice. That there is Hong Kong milk tea. Maybe some of you are more adventurous and you want to try something different, something with even more caffeine than coke. In Hong Kong it's very popular and I think in the boba shops around here now people are stu they are starting to be carried. How many of you would say, no, I'm going for the Hong Kong milk tea? There'd be some adventurous people here. Excellent. Last choice. That's a glass of coffee. Cold brew coffee. How many of you are going for the coffee? I I knew we had some addicts among us. I think some of you have raised your hand for all three. It's whatever you give me, I'm taking any any one of these three here. But you know, you look at these three beverages here and you don't go and say, huh. That's a glass, that's a glass, that's a glass. Nobody does that. What? You say no no, that's a Coke, that's a milk tea, that's a coffee It's what's in the glass that counts. You don't speak of the glass. You speak of what's in it. What fills the glass provides the flavor. What fills the glass defines what it is What fills the glass gets the glory? I don't know. I saw a lot of fans here. But the same is true in our lives. If we're filled with the fullness of God. It's not the glass that counts. We're the glass, believers are the glass. What's inside, that's what makes the difference Does your life have the flavor of God? Can others sense him in you? Are you filled with the fullness of God? Can other people see it in your love for him and for others? If you're walking in the Spirit and abiding in Christ, this leads to being filled with the fullness of God. God must work in you before He can work through you. in exceedingly abundant ways. We look at this passage and we see, wow, that's what I want to see God do. I love verse 20. It says, now to him who is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all we ask or think according to the power that works in us. Oh, so often we say, I want to see the exceedingly abundantly above all we ask But look at, look, don't forget the according to the power that works in us. That's the key. That's what he's been repeating over and over in this prayer. It's not about you, it's about him. It's not us that does the exceedingly abundantly above all we ask or think. No, it's God who does it in us and through us. And so often we are egocentric. We're focused on ourselves. I can do it. But we're distracted and not even not even aiming for this goal. Paul's prayer for these believers was that God would work in them and through them And because of this, that he would get the glory. Look at the final verse, verse 21. To him be glory, not to us. We don't want people looking at us. We're just the glass. To him be glory in the church by Christ Jesus to all generations forever and ever Amen. He's praying for us, he says, to all generations. Not just back in Ephesians 10, back 2,000 years ago. Up to this day, our job as believers in Jesus Christ is to glorify him, to make him look good, to make him known, for others to see him, not just in what we say. But in what we do, not just on Sunday mornings, but every day of the week. Surrender to God's work in you so he can more powerfully work through you. There's no other way. God wants to use every believer here today. We're all different. We have different talents. We have different abilities. God gives us different spheres of influence. Today's Mother's Day. Mother, God wants to use you in your family. Even after your children grow up, He still wants to use you in your children's lives, in your grandchildren's lives. Some of you have great-grandchildren. God's not done with you. He wants you to use you in their lives. Your children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren need to see God in you We look at churches. I have a chance to travel to many different churches. Some churches I walk into and I see only older folks. Where are the younger folks? Some might see all the generations. Each generation needs to be proclaiming the glory of Jesus Christ. Each one needs to be Demonstrating to the next generation what it is to know God, what it is to be rooted and grounded in His love. What it is to walk with him. They need to see that lived out by those who've gone before them, those who are older than them. That's one of the wonderful things about the church. Christianity, our walk with God, it's not just an individual thing. It is an individual thing, but it's also a corporate thing. We have a chance to see God work in and through others around us We can deceive those who are more mature than us and say, I want to follow them as they follow Jesus Christ. It's a huge privilege. It's also a responsibility. Do others see Christ in you, that He dwells in your heart by faith? Can they see the evidence in your love for them and for others? Can they see it in your love for God and your faithfulness and commitment to Him This morning, is God working in you? Or are you getting in his way? In 1 Corinthians, Paul told them, I'm not limiting you. You're being limited by your own affections, by the things that you love more than you love me, more than you love God. Are your own affections limiting God's work in your heart? Are you getting in your own way? There's too much of you, not enough of Him. Is God working in you this morning? If we want to see Him do that exceedingly abundantly above all we ask or think. It's not about us doing great things. It's about him working in us, his power in our inner man. Think of a man like George Lyell. Think of his testimony. We don't know much about him. There is no biography of George Lyell. If you want to look it up, I can't find one. I had to do lots of research of little articles here or there. One of the few quotes we have from him is this one, but there's a lot there. Look at his heart there. Soon after he got saved, he said this, I full well recollect. I remember when I got saved. I requested of my Lord and Master to give me work a work. God, I want to serve you. Is that your heart? God, use me. Work in me. He says, I didn't care how mean it was. Now maybe the first time you heard that quote, you're like, what? He wants to do mean stuff? God doesn't want us to be nasty. What's he saying? 200 years ago, words changed. The word mean means like lowly. He was willing to do the stuff that other people weren't willing to do. He says, God, I'm a slave. I'm willing to reach out to slaves, and I don't have any aspirations to go beyond that. Now God gave him abilities to go beyond that. Freedom But then what did he do? He kept working with the slaves. He didn't say, no, I'm too good for that now. No, no. He's Christian, I'm willing to do the job nobody else wants to do. Is that your heart? God, use me. I'll go wherever you want me to go. I'll do whatever you want me to do. And notice how he said he's going to do it. Even if it's really lowly, even if it's something that other people despise, he says, I don't care how mean it was, only to try and see how good I will do it. Sounds like the spirit of Colossians 3. 23. Whatsoever you do, do it heartily as to the Lord, and not unto men. Or 1 Corinthians 10 31, therefore, whether you eat or drink or whatsoever you do, do all to the glory of God. Whatever God puts before me today. I'm going to do it my best for him. When you do that, other people are going to see God's work in you. They're going to see him. He's going to get the glory. Is that your heart today? Surrender to God's work in you so He can work through you. And when you do, he gets the glory. Maybe this morning you're thinking, I'm kind of in a rut. I've been in a rut for a long time. I'm in this pattern where I'm not really living for God. Or I've gotten to a certain stage and I just kind of am stuck there and I've been stuck there for a long time. This whole exceedingly abundantly above, that's an awful lot of superlatives in a row. That's not me Maybe it's not. But can God do more through you than what he's doing today? I bet. He can. I know he can do so with me. I need to be more surrendered to him. I need to allow him to work more and more in me. I need to always be taking that next step closer to him. Is that your heart and your desire? You can get out of the rut. Not because of your strength. No, because of his. It's according to the his power that works in us. Get into his word each day. Walk with him. Memorize it. Learn to pray without ceasing. Draw closer to him. These are all aspects of walking in the Spirit. Abiding in Christ. And as little by little you learn to rely more on Him on your day-to-day life, little by little. He will begin to fill you with his fullness. And little by little others will start seeing more of him and less. of you. This morning, what kind of glass are you? Are you a glass that's totally clouded and you can't tell what drink is in there? Or you're one that's clear, and others can see God in you This morning, there may be some in whom God has not been working. You don't know Jesus Christ as your Savior. Maybe this morning he's begun working in you. The beginning of his work in you is the Holy Spirit's conviction when you realize, hey, I'm missing something. I'm missing God and I've got a problem. I'm a sinner. That's where God begins to work in people's hearts. The Holy Spirit convicts them of sin, of righteousness, of judgment. Hey, I'm a sinner and I'm headed for judgment. I'm not righteous. The Bible says, for all have sinned, come short of the glory of God. We don't measure up to his standard. No matter what you do, you can't reach it. But this morning, if God has begun to work in your heart and you begun to see that you need him because you're a sinner and headed for just judgment. Don't ignore his working in your heart. Don't say, well, yeah, I don't want to think about that. Maybe some other day. Maybe when I'm older, I'm having fun right now. Later on, I'll get right with God None of us know how long we have. Today is the day of salvation. If God has begun to work in your heart and you know that you need Him Come and talk to me after the service. I'm probably going to be up here putting my trumpet away, but I'd much rather talk to you than put my trumpet away. If you've got questions about salvation, I'd love to talk to you. Pastor Jim would love to talk to you. There's only one way to know God. It's through Jesus Christ. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man comes to the Father but by me. God wants you to be grounded in his love. In Romans chapter 5, verse 8, he says, God demonstrates his love towards us in that while we were sinners, Christ died for us. He knows you're a sinner. He knows you're headed for judgment and yet he died for you. He took your punishment on himself And God promises that if you believe in him, you will have everlasting life. God wants you to be rooted and grounded in his love For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son, that whoever believes in him shall not perish, but have everlasting life. That's not just talking about a home in heaven, which is that's what you get if you believe on Christ Talking about your life now, not just quantity of life, but the quality. He begins to work in you more and more. You get to know his love in this life. And he begins to change you, as we've been talking about in this passage this morning. But it all starts by knowing God through Jesus Christ. Do you know him? Have you trusted him alone as your salvation from sin? Have you believed on him? God promises you, if you believe on him, you will have everlasting life. Not later. You have it at this moment that you believe. If you have questions about that, please come and talk to me or Pastor Jim afterwards. God wants you to know him. Let's pray. Dear Lord, thank you for your word. Thank you for your work in this world. You're not some God that is somewhere far, far from us. But Lord, you're among us today. You're working in hearts and lives. Lord, I pray for the believers today that we would be more and more conscious of your work in this world, and especially your work in us. Lord, work in us in a greater and greater way. Lord, we want you to be seen through us. There's nothing more important than this. Use us. Lord, if there are roadblocks in the way, things in our heart that we're not willing to give up, selfishness, pride, lust, greed. Lord, help us to repent of these and get back on your road. Lord, you want to work through us. But you must first work in us. Lord, I pray for those who have not yet trusted you as their Savior. Lord, if you're beginning to work in their hearts and convicting them of sin, Lord, I pray that He wouldn't try to cover that up, wouldn't try to run from that. But instead, they'd run to you, because you were the only one who can save. Thank you for Jesus' death on our cross, on the cross, doing for us what we could not do, paying for our sins And then proving your power by rising from the dead. In Jesus' name, Amen. In my life, Lord, be glorified. Um But I was thinking as thank you so much, uh Matt preaching. thinking as he was preaching, how many of you all have one of those ember mugs? A few of you have that. I have one of those. I got a it's a very, very fancy mug from la uh I got it locked two Christmases ago. It does everything It it heats it it'll it'll keep the the thing hot. That's what the main point is, like keep your coffee hot. It has you can it can connect to so you can see exactly how hot your coffee is. Not sure why you need that, but anybody has that. You can charge it. It tells you how how when the when it's charged and when it's not. It's just really fancy mug. But it's useless if you don't put any coffee in it. And I think sometimes we are so focused on what kind of mugs we are, what kind of people we are, what we can do. I can do this and I can do that and I I do this and that and this type kind of thing But who are we filled with? And we are essentially useless to God if we're not filled with the fullness of God. So are you filled with the fullness of God today? If you don't know, we should ask this question. Do we do we are we loving God and loving others? And if we're struggling with that, do we know the love of God that passes knowledge, which is what's clearly in this passage. So if you want to be filled with the fullness of God, you must know the love of God, which comes in Christ. We see it in the in the in the work of Christ on the cross. Know the love of God. We love him because he first loved us. So now we love others. Love him and love others. We're filled with the fullness of God. So that what we do reflects Christ. And uh very helpful, one of my favorite passages actually in the whole Bible. And uh And one that's really helpful reminder. service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.