On millennialism and I appreciate you all coming out tonight in the it's not cold out, so that's not an excuse, right? It's actually like summer or something. Uh I almost put a sweater on tonight and I said I don't think I can do that's it's it's time for that. And uh but people are getting are still sick even though it's it's warm out. Uh we've got sickness running around everywhere. Um and so Yeah. Yeah, the cold air is not killing not killing germs. Yeah, that's probably true. So anyway, so um be in prayer for those who are who are uh sick. Um one I one I did want to make a This announcement, be in prayer for Rick. Um he uh had, I believe, if I remember correctly what Jason told me today, he had a blood clock this past week. Now it's been resolved. But he was in the hospital uh this past week. So he's home and he's fine. But uh be in prayer for his his recovery. It was in his leg, I think. And uh so I I guess they caught it in time and and things so that's was good so I'm gonna try to get a couple of visits I need to make this week. But um to be in prayer for him, be in prayer for Mr. Smith as well. And uh with his his sickness. So on millennialism and what we're going to do tonight, we we look we started off and we're going to continue interacting with uh this one uh gentleman whom we probably should recover what his name is. Let's back up here. There he is. Oh hold on. Oh boy, I'm all which way is it? There he is. Robert B. is the uh gentleman's name that we are we are getting a lot of our information about ominialism from. And we're interacting with him. And what we're going to do, let's just recover a couple of things as far as um What are some of the main issues where dispensationalists or or or mil premillennialists, let's not use the term dispensational, although they tend to go go together. But where would premillennialists and omillenalists differ? Where would they differ? Where were some s like key points where they would differ? Besides, let's let's uh keep the obvious obvious out. Yes, one doesn't believe in a thousand thousand year millennial kingdom, the other one does. But outside of that, where would where are the points of of difference be? Yes, Carol? Literally Okay, good. That is actually the sort of the central issue is what do you believe about Israel versus the church? What is there Is there a significant discontinuity between the two of them or is there is there primarily continuity and what does that mean? So that's really the issue that's going to flesh out in your theology on those two things. Good. But what else? What are some other issues? We've mentioned them before, most of them. The m yes, Rose? Oh, because I'm not taking everything. I'm not taking very much literal. Okay, well particularly the Old Testament. That's primarily what they don't take literally. Um they'll take the epistles literally the same way we will, but but when it comes to the Old Testament, it's different. Right, revelation as well, prophetic pro prophecy. Um yes. I'm looking back at my notes. Yeah. Yeah, so they look at God's revelation as something that is um That the it's the Old Testament concealed is the New Testament revealed. In a sense, they're they're right about that. But the problem is, is what they say essentially is that the Old Testament can't be understood in and of itself, that you must have the New Testament in order to understand the Old Testament. And so the original interpretation of the nation of Israel and what they interpreted these things as was entirely wrong. Now we would say it was incomplete for sure. Um th they didn't understand the second coming versus the first coming. Frankly, in the Old Testament, just reading from the Old Testament, it looks like there's one coming, not two. So there's a lot of things they didn't understand. We would say there it's an unveiling, but we wouldn't say that they were wrong necessarily about their original inter interpretation. Yes, yeah, just in general where they would prove prophecy. But let me let's let's nail down a couple of things. One is um because they see a distinct they they see n they don't see a distinction between Israel and the church, the land is a major issue. Okay, the promise of the land given to the nation of Israel. And so that's going to be an issue. Another one is the temple. Okay. Um what what do we do with the temple? The nation the uh a person who believes in the millennial kingdom is essentially going to say the temple and the ceremonies of the of the the the sacrificial system to some extent, according to the new covenant in Jeremiah, is going to be reinstituted. Probably one of the most difficult things about the premillennialist position that to to sort of get around. Okay. Um that's that's one of the things they say. Ah, you really think the sacrificial system is going to be re and and but if you look at Ezekiel thirty eight, it it's it's gotta be. If you're gonna take a literal position on it, you've got to take But the land, the temple, the Jerusalem, those are some of the things that that we would differ in on prophecies concerning those specific things. And so what Robert Stripple is going to do is he's going to help us understand the omnial perspective. And I want to mention again that our per our objective in doing this is not to to come to the conclusion that they are off their rockers, but but that they we we need to understand their approach to understand our approach and to understand the differences and to know why we believe what we believe and to know why we approach Scripture the way that we do. Um but it isn't necessarily to just um come down like a you know hammer on them. Yes. I will say this after the last time we did this. It didn't it didn't change my thoughts. But it almost it it did make me see how they could arrive at Right. Yeah, and there are some times when I'm reading certain texts and I go, Man, I really see where they're coming from. Today I would say Like like the message this morning, when when you see a total difference in the baptism between John the Baptist and and Christ, they would not want to see much distinction. It's like how do you get around that? I mean it's right there in scripture. So when you there there's so many things they don't like the covenant theologian, although this is changing among newer covenant theologians The older covenant theologians don't like to think that there was any any major difference or change in what is occurring uh between um what we would call dispensations. Now, that is changing, by the way, though. My friend who's a non-millennialist w does has conceded, yes, there are dispensations. We have to we have to observe that in scripture. We have to observe that God administrates differently throughout time in different ways. We can we may not agree on every dispensation, but he sort of and and and he used like say he likes the term epoch rather than dispensation, which I mentioned. Now, so we're going to take Stripple's approach and we're going to read what he has to say about these things and we're going to interact with them. This is how you really begin to know why you believe what you believe is interacting with the other with the other viewpoint. And of course, what I want to mention here is we're not talking about heresy here. This is not heretical teaching that we're we're going over. This is a different approach to biblical prophecy. But I would not categorize this as heretical. at all. It's under in my opinion, frankly, it's understandable why they take the approaches they take, though I don't I don't all ultimately agree with with the approach So when we're thinking about all of this, we really, it all starts with the Abrahamic covenant. And Genesis chapters 12 through 15, where God told Abraham that he would do a few things. What did God tell Abraham that he would do? Okay, he would bless them that bless thee. What else would he do? And what else? Yeah, he would give them land. What else? And he would of them make a great nation. He would make Abraham of Abraham make a great nation from them. And then finally he says what? Right. In thee all of the families of the earth will be blessed. So all people will be blessed by them. And of course we know that is a fulfillment Christ is the fulfillment of that prophecy in his first advent. We know that because of Galatians and Romans that says that when Christ came and and and came to earth and died for us, that that's a fulfillment of that particular part of the covenant. So how does a abr a a omnielist approach this? He says this. Understand then that those who believe are children of Abraham. The scriptures foresaw that God would justify the Gentiles by faith. And announce the gospel in advance to Abraham. All nations will be blessed through you. So those who have faith are blessed along with Abraham, the man of faith. You are all sons of God through the faith in Jesus Christ, for all of you who who were baptized into Christ Have clothed yourselves with Christ, if you belong to Christ, then you are Abraham's seed and heirs according to the promise. Um any problem there? Not really. No problem here. Okay. So we would agree with the all millennialists about that particular aspect. What they do, what the all millennialists do is they say the Abrahamic covenant is that. That's all it is. Abraham and thee all the all the families of the earth who will be blessed. That's the promise. And they sort of they sort of have this monolithic approach. The whole ball of wax is one covenant. And that's how they take this. Here is what they cite, he cites as the major biblical point of conflict between the name between Omillenalist and Premillennialist. It's in Hebrews chapter 8 and 10. And he says they have presented great difficulty for the pre for the premillennialist interpreters, leading to a variety of explanations. I'm going to pause here. When he says leading to a variety of explanations, it almost as though he's saying, well, obviously they don't know what they're talking about, because there's a variety of explanations. There is a variety of explanations on everything. So if you look at a covenant theology, their perspective, they're going to have four or five views on a particular passage, just like we have four or five views on a particular passage. So I don't know, I just thought that was interesting. Because the writer here quotes the New Covenant prophecy in Jeremiah 31, 31 through 45. four thirty four and seems clearly to say that the new covenant prophesied through ab through Jeremiah is the better covenant founded on better promises of which our Lord Jesus Christ is the mediator. and which is enforced now, bring blessing to both Jews and Gentiles. Okay, so let's ask the question. What where how would you let's interact with this a little bit. How how would you how would you approach this? This is so just to give you a little bit of uh Hebrews 8 and Hebrews 10 are talking about the Abraham or the the new covenant. The New Covenant, the Old Testament passage in the New Covenant is found in Jeremiah 31 as well as Ezekiel 38 and several other passages in the Old Testament. And so he says that Hebrews 8, which um you know what, let's take your Bibles and turn there. Might be a good idea to look at the Bible tonight. Um He says that that Hebrews 8 is a major point to that supports his omnialist view. And let's see where what the the the there's a lot here actually, but um so for example Um let's there's a lot of where do I start? There's just uh trying to narrow it down. Okay, you know what, I'm just gonna write a few couple of verses here. I'm gonna start off here in verse one Now of the things which we have spoken, this is the sum. We have such an high priest who is set on the right hand of the throne of the majesty in the heavens. a minister of the sanctuary of the true tabernacle which the Lord pitched and not man. For every high priest is ordained to offer gifts and sacrifices, wherefore it is of necessity that the man have somewhat also to offer. Let's look at verse, we're just going to just for the sake of time, look at verse five, who serve under the example and a. You see the word shadow? They really like that word Okay, the shadow of heavenly things, as Moses was admonished of God when he was about when he was about to make the tabernacle For see, saith he, thou make all things according to the pattern shown to thee in the mount. For now hath he obtained a more excellent ministry by how much he is the mediator of a better covenant, which is the establish which is established upon the better promises. Alright, so what is what is the the writer of Hebrews saying? Well, he's saying that the physical tabernacle that's set up through Moses. is a is a picture of a he a seven something heavenly. There is a bigger pic there's a something else going on besides just this. this practic practical tabernacle that's on earth, and that the Old Testament tabernacle is a shadow of things to come. Okay? So that's basically what he's saying here. And he says that there's this new covenant or this better covenant that Christ is the mediator of. Alright. So let's I just wanted to get you your bearings on this. And so he's saying that this is a strong emphasis, this is a strong support for his viewpoint Here's what he says. Many premillennialists have insisted, however, that this new covenant is not fulfilled, at least not fully fulfilled, as God's covenant with his church now. But rather will be fulfilled during the millennium. Is that true? That's true. Okay? Why? Because God says in Jeremiah, and is quoted in Hebrews 8:8, that this new covenant is one that He will make with the house of Israel, with the house of Judah, and clearly the Jews, for the most part are not enjoying the benefits of the covenant now. Is that true? That's true. Um I'll move on to the land in just a minute. So what is he saying is is he is saying that the the premillennialist does not see the new covenant as as fully being fulfilled now. Alright. Why? Because the premylonialists would see the new covenant as being primarily to whom? Who is the new covenant in Jeremiah 31, too? To Israel. Alright. Now, what's the answer to this? How would you answer this almoinist who says this? Any ideas? Are we all stumped? Well, Carol. It goes back to the difference of the way we see prophecy. Okay. We would say that the prophecy has has been partially fulfilled, but has not yet been totally fulfilled. Okay. And it will be because we believe in that liberal morning. Okay. Okay. Well, you'll be thankful that I wrote a fairly extensive paper on the New Covenant in in in seminary because I knew that this was a serious issue. And I'll give you the nutshell of the paper. If I can track it down, I'll email it to you. But anyway, that might be more than what you are looking for. for. But but um at the basic basically here's what it is. The problem is is they're viewing the Abrahamic covenant Their view of the new covenant is is is the same as their view of the Abrahamic covenant. It's all lumped into one thing. We have no problem making a distinction and saying, okay, you've got three essential promises in the Abrahamic covenant, and two of them, and one of only one of them has or Two of them has been fulfilled, not completely one of them, but one of them through Christ in his redemption has been fulfilled, so so we get that blessing. But we don't lump it all in there. So all of the Abrahamic covenant has not been fulfilled And we would say the same thing about the new covenant, that all the new covenant has not been fulfilled. So this it it really has the bottom line has still more to do with our general approach to the covenants So this isn't going to help or hurt us. This is just going, it depends on how you take this passage. Your presupposition is going to determine how you approach this particular passage We would not deny that the Old Testament is a shadow of the things to come. That's not an issue. We agree with that. The question is, is When are these things fulfilled and to and through whom are they fulfilled? That's the issue, which is what Carol essentially said. And we say, okay, some of them have been fulfilled through his first coming But some of them are yet to be fulfilled and will be fulfilled after his second coming. Now, the Omnialists will agree that there are two comings, so that you have the first coming and the second coming of Christ. They won't disagree with that But how much has been fulfilled in the first coming versus how much will be fulfilled in the second coming, that's the issue And our distinction is we take it literally. We say if if it hasn't been literally fulfilled, then it will be in the second coming. And they say, no, it's all spiritualized to the point that there really isn't anything left to fulfill in a second coming except that he comes. Okay, does that make sense? Rose. will cover the or you know as the seas cover the or the offer says here they shall they shall not teach every man's neighbor, you know, know the word, but everyone will know the word from the least of grace. Are they saying that's fulfilled spiritually somehow? Yes. They would say that that's that's the second coming. They would say that's going to be fulfilled in the they would they would say that would be fulfilled at the second coming. No, we're in the middle of fulfill we're we're in the process of fulfilling that right now. But that will be done. Once the second coming comes, that's the final final uh the final fulfillment of that. So so that's why I say this. It isn't exactly correct to say that the non-millennialist doesn't believe in a millennium. They do believe in a millennium. They just don't believe it's a literal thousand years, and they say it's going on right now So that particular thing where everybody believes that is the second coming. In other words, in their mind, the second coming is the final thing, then you've got the judgment, and then we're on into eternity Okay. That's that's how they would they they're just they don't really say it for all the time. No, not no, no. It's all gonna be fulfilled through Christ, but none of it's gonna be fulfilled in a future millennium after Christ. Literally. So what do we do with this land? I mean this is a major thing. Land is pretty concrete, you know, it's pretty literal. I don't know how you get around land, right? So how how do they deal with this? They say he uh he says this. In the New Testament, we also learn that Canaan, the land of promise, was but a type of that fuller and richer inheritance that is to be Abraham's And all his children in Christ. The whole world, heaven and earth, renewed and restored in righteousness, 2 Peter 3. 13 as the home of God's new race of men and women in Christ Jesus, the second Adam. For example, in Romans 4, 13, well, let's just first interact with that. What is he saying essentially there? He's saying yes, God will give the church the land, he'll give everybody, all of his people the land with a new heaven and new earth. That's how that's going to be fulfilled. That happens at the second coming. Right. So the last it's not it's not it's it's it it's it's it's it's representative of something Yeah, so right. So they're not he's not so the way that he's handling this, this is a this is a modern twist on this, by the way. They they hadn't come up with this until recently But but basically it's the idea that the new heaven and the new earth that is the fulfillment of the land promise in the Abrahamic and the new and the new covenants. Okay, and that's going to happen after the second coming of Christ. Well, essentially that's kind of true. However, he it doesn't mean that Christ is not going to rule over the land. Yeah, I don't think they have any issue with that. Yeah. Yeah, at least not the not the ones that are really trying to interpret scripture correctly. I don't think they'd have any issue there. Is that literal or is it that figure? Yeah they probably take that part. I don't know. you get with the with a lot of the interpretation of things is it's very figurative and so y you know what what do you it's an inconsistent hermeneutic right so what what do you you know pick Right. Okay. Because uh the New Heaven is uh was a fifteen hundred miles square queue. The new the New Jerusalem, yeah. Jerusalem is up in the air. Yeah. Space. Alright, so so a couple of examples of this. He says this in Romans four and here he's gonna get into something that is a bit It's interesting. In Romans 4. 13, it says, It was not through law that Abraham and his offspring received the promise that he would be heir of the world. But through the righteousness that comes by faith. No problem there, right? Where in the Old Testament, where in the Old Testament do you find the promise that Paul refers to here? He says, nowhere. If you insist on strict literalism, but you find in jer in Genesis seventeen eight the whole land of Canaan, I will give as an everlasting possession to you and your descendants after you. If you see that, that this is inspired apostolic interpretation of the Old Testament promise that Paul is giving us here. What is he saying here? Let me give you generally what he's saying. He's generally saying that the Apostle Paul is interpreting Old Testament in a non-literal way. And Christ, and other argument that other people would make this argument. And Christ is interpreting the Old Testament in a non-literal way. So you have this new revelation with Old Testament basis. That then the they didn't know and couldn't have derived, couldn't have come up with that without the New Testament. So he's making these arguments that he's essentially the point is we ought to be interpreting Scripture. The same way that the apostles were interpreting the Old Testament when they penned down the New Testament. And there that is that is a compelling argument on their side, if I'm really honest with them, with myself on this. That is compelling. I think I have got some good answers for that, but but but it is a it is a compelling argument. Let's just continue here. The point to remember always is that it is inspired apostolic interpretation that is authoritative and normative for us. Hebrews 11 also reflects on Abraham's promised inheritance. This passage speaks of that which is heavenly But this must not cause us to deny that Abraham's inheritance is also earthly. So as such it is not promised to Abraham and his children to be two children for a thousand years only Isaiah, Peter, and John all speak of that inheritance in terms of a new heaven and new earth. So he's continuing that argument. The future home of Christ and his people will be earthly as well as heavenly. Amillennialism is often charged with ignoring the fact that there are prophecies regarding the restoration and renewal of the earth that is yet to be fulfilled. But Omillennialism does not ignore such prophecies. It simply recognizes that there are to be un there are to be understood in a lot of these those references in terms of a new heaven and new earth. They picture that which will indeed be earthly, but eternal, not merely for a thousand years. The scope of Christ's redemptive accomplishment will be truly cosmic, and it will be as complete and as perfect for humankind's environment as it will be for the human beings themselves. Alright, did you follow all of what he's saying or some of what he's saying there? So, yes, Carol. Sure. When he says not nearly 4,000 Is he implying that we think it's just worth it? Yes, that's what he's implying. Good. Good. All right. So that's number one, he's putting up here a straw man. Okay. And he is suggesting that what we're saying with the thousand-year millennial kingdom is that we believe only it's going to be fulfilled for a thousand years. And that's not true. What we believe a premillennialist, at least a yeah, at least a reasonable premillennialist believes that yes, there's a thousand years where all of these uh the new covenant, the the literal uh prophecies of the new covenant given to Israel and the Abrahamic covenant are all going to be fulfilled there But that the land is theirs forever. And that Christ will reign forever, for into eternity, forever. And so he's putting up a straw man. It's not really How do you interact with that? You interact with it by saying, hey, pre-pre-millennialists don't believe that. He's implying something that premillennialists don't really believe. So that that's a that was a very good good observation there. The other thing is When he is saying that these New Testament authors are interpreting the Old Testament in the way that they are, how would you handle that? How would you handle that issue? Yes. Well they have the slight advantage of slightly an inspiration when they were doing that. Uh-huh. Um we don't really have that Okay. So they would then argue, I'm gonna play devil's advocate with you, they would then argue that well you're just you're just this is fear then, it's just uh you're you're afraid. Is that what the problem is? Don't you Don't you have more confidence? I I actually agree with what you're saying, but that's how they would handle it. Any other any other thoughts on that? You're down you're going down the right road for sure, Enric. I would say yeah. I am a little bit fearful right now. Okay. I don't want to get scripture wrong. Okay. I think it's I I believe I'm a fail a failable human being Okay. And I feel there may be too much subjectivity in interpreting that way. Good. Okay. Fair enough. Rose? spiritual meaning. So it means it's not also literal. You know, we if we believe that God made the world. Well they wouldn't disagree with that. They they wouldn't disagree with that. They would say that that you have some things that are both Okay. So you would appeal to God's character on that. I think that's reasonable. Here's how I would handle that. Um I wrote a paper on this too. Um and here here's what I would say If Christ and the Apostles always interpreted the Old Testament allegorically or figuratively, then they would have an argument. They don't. Christ sometimes interprets the Old Testament very literally. And the Apostles sometimes interpret the Old Testament very literally. They are, I don't mean to In any disrespect, they are essentially a bit inconsistent. If you look at all of the different occurrences, they're inconsistent in the way they interpret the Old Testament. However, they ha can be, can't they? Why can they be? Because they have they're under the influence of the Holy Spirit. So what I would just simply say is I would say it to it to a non-millennialist who is using this argument And saying, well, we ought to interpret the same way they do. I would just simply say, well, wait a minute. They interpret literally sometimes too. There's some very clear passages of scripture where they're interpreting literally, so why do you think, why should we take the allegorical approach when when God's when they're they're doing it both ways. Yes? Well that basically goes back to if the literal sense makes kind of Well and that's that's really our approach. For sure. They would though, I will say this if we're gonna be honest, our argument uh uh just just trying to be uh intellectually honest here. They what they do is they want to say, they'll they'll say, well we don't believe in a l we we don't have a problem with literal. We want to take the normal or the normative approach. And we all I always say, well that's what we want to do too. We just have a different way of coming at it. Yeah, right. That would that would be the problem. Anybody yes, gee? to look at is God meant certain passages to be interpreted not literally and therefore he covered those passages in the New Testament. So if you didn't cover it, then it would probably stay literal. Good point. Yeah, that's a very good point. So if we believe and and and this, this is my strongest argument for why we stick to the literal normal interpretation of scripture is because we believe this thing is complete It's done. We do not have to read more into what's there. It's done. As soon as you start saying there's stuff that's there that's not there And I've got to figure out what's not there. You are essentially, you're essentially, I mean they're not meaning to do this, but you're essentially sliding into this God's word really isn't complete. So the strongest argument in my mind for staying with a a literal normative approach to Scripture Prophecy or otherwise is we're gonna we're gonna compare scripture with scripture. If scripture says it's a certain way, it's a certain way. If scripture says it's a Type in the Old Testament. Fine, it's a type in the Old Testament W but but God's word is complete. It's all that's there is there. And I don't need to come up with anything else that's not there. And I really think that is that is probably that is in my mind the strongest argument um for sticking with the the the the this approach. Well you get stuck in the mud if you don't do that. Yeah. Eventually you're gonna wind up sitting here, well how do you know this is what it's supposed to be Yeah, and they do. I mean if you read how many of you ever read Arthur Pink? I mean he you would not um you cannot believe how much he can come up with on a tent stake in the temple in the Old Testament. I mean he has paragraph he has pages on What did I say? Oh yeah, that's a little wrong. Okay. Yeah, t temples don't have tent states. Yeah, tabernacle. I mean, can you imagine Yeah, yeah, right. Yeah. He really came up with something strange. Right. No. A tenth stake of the tabernacle. I mean he has like like a whole chapter on what the tenth stake means Well in my mind the tent stake's a tent stake. Right. So so uh it they they it does end up uh sometimes becoming that way Alright, what do they say about the Holy City of Jerusalem? He says, now in one sense, we are still waiting for the heavenly Jerusalem We are looking for the city that is to come, Hebrews 13, 14. Consummation Day, the full manifestation of the heavenly Jerusalem, still lies ahead. But we thank God that in a preliminary but real sense we have already invited arrived at that city. You have come to Mount Zion in the heavenly Jerusalem, the city of the living God, Hebrews 12. twenty two. The biblical distinction between the earthly Jerusalem and the heavenly Jerusalem is not the distinction between the literal and the spiritual, using spiritual in the sense of the non literal. Do you guys catch that? Let me read it again. The biblical distinction between the earthly Jerusalem and the heavenly Jerusalem is not the distinction between the literal And the spiritual. Using spiritual in the sense of non-literal. It is the distinction between the copy and the real thing. Is he right there? What do you think? Think of Hebrews 9, 23-24, where we read that the elements of the earthly tabernacle of Moses were simply copies of the heavenly sanctuary of God's own presence. The heavenly is the true, the genuine article. Let's continue. Think of John's emphasis on true true in his gospel. Jesus is the true vine, the true light, the true bread. Jesus is the reality to which the view the vine is the temple wall, the light of the lampstand. And the consecrated bread in the sanctuary of all uh all appointed. or an image giving us an idea of what's really gonna happen and has no other meaning. Well, I don't yeah, I mean, yeah, I I don't know if they would go so far as to say it has no other meaning, but that really is essentially what he's saying. He's uh he's and he's pointing out all of these different examples of this. Now there isn't any question that Hebrews eight is a tough passage. It's one of the more difficult passages in the Bible. Hebrews six, uh I'll have to tell you this is this is great. This is a rabbit trail, but it's worth it. There was uh I I went and visited Miss Mary this past week. She is sharp as a pack. That lady is so so I sat down and I I said um oh this is two weeks ago I guess I I visited and she said so so first of all I want to say point blank why are you here? She goes to That's what she said to me, I said. She said, Do you have a po a purpose? And I said I said, No, I just wanted to come come see it, Miss Mary. And she said, Okay, all right, all right. Okay, so she said, I've got three biblical questions and I've got them all figured out here and I want to go over these things with you. And one of them was Hebrew six. And she she said, I came across in my devotion, I didn't understand Hebrew six. I said She said, I gotta get this. And I spent a good forty-five minutes discussing Hebrew six with her, going through all four views of Hebrews 6. She wanted to know every view and why they weren't the case. So I went through I I wrote a paper on that in college too. And and uh and so I went through through uh I wrote that was forty seven pages that paper uh on Hebrew six And then I and then I changed my view in seminary. I didn't even believe in my own paper anymore. Okay. Anyway, so so I went through the whole the whole thing. And uh and sh I mean anyway, so that she was really sharp. But Hebrews is a very difficult, difficult book of the Bible, and Hebrews eight is a difficult book of the Bible, a difficult chapter. And so Is there, I mean, some of these things that he's he's he's referencing are difficult things. How would you deal with that Here's how you deal with it. When you're looking for your overall approach to Scripture and how you're going to interpret God's Word, What do you use? Do you use the difficult passages or do you use the simple passages? Okay? In other words, folks, if you are trying to interpret Scripture, you go with the simple ones and allow those to dictate how you're going to approach the more difficult ones. Okay? For example, Hebrews 6, though it may look like you'll lose your salvation, we know you can't lose your salvation. Why? Because we have some very clear passages that clearly uphold eternal security. It's one of the most verifiable doctrines in the New Testament. So to say that Hebrews 6 Trumps all those very clear passages. No, no. The clear, simple passages are the ones that are going to we're going to use as guides to make sure we don't go into error for the complicated passages. And he's doing the exact opposite here. What he's doing is he's saying, the approach that I'm taking, I'm taking the most difficult passages in Scripture, and I'm using them as my as my point, as my my template for how I'm going to interpret the rest of Scripture. The problem with that is that it really does not appeal it it really it to me it doesn't it's not um It it flies in the face of God's approach in this way. And I would ask this guy this question. Does God, in his character Does God desire to reveal himself or to withhold himself? Just as a general rule, what is God's desire for his people? To reveal himself. Okay? So if that's the case, if it is God's desire to reveal himself, not to veil himself. Which approach should we be taking? Does that make sense? And so if Hebrews 8 is hard to understand, why is Hebrews 8-8 hard to understand? Well, because God doesn't want to reveal Himself, He wants to avail Himself No. God's Hebrews 8 is hard to understand because the concepts in Hebrews 8 are heavenly things. And you remember what Christ said about heavenly things? He said to Nicodemus, they're hard to understand. Okay? So you're not going to take to take Hebrews 8 and impose your view of this on everything else. is really a mistake. It essentially is assuming that God is bailing everything. And that would be my general my general concern With taking a allegorical approach to the entire Old Testament. You're essentially saying that God really didn't want to reveal Himself to the nation of Israel. Yeah. Salvation, it doesn't get any simpler than that. Sure. Right. That's a perfect example of why the mountain out of a mold bone. Right. The things that God really wants to you know, and that's why I mean Deuteronomy twenty-nine twenty-nine comes in. mind. And the Bible says the things that are revealed are for us. We're supposed to delve into them. But the things, the hidden things, the secret things belong to God. So there are things we can't get. But if you want us to get them, they're here. So um it really is that's a lot of the approach that we need to take. All right, let me um there's a lot more examples uh than than are um I want to go through I mean there's a lot here that we could go through, but I do want to finish up tonight. Um let's hit the Kingdom of David that you guys are talking about that um in the in Sunday school. With regard to the promises to David, we may first note that the way to which Luke presents the coming of Jesus as the fulfillment of those promises, Luke 1:33-33. But the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary. You have found favor with God. You will be with child and give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High. And the Lord God will give him to the throne the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever. His kingdom will never end. The kingdom of David's greater son is to be the eternal kingdom, as promised in 2 Samuel 7:16 and Isaiah 9:6. Just as the promise to Abraham of the land He's consistent, let's put it that's true. Just as the promise to Abraham of a land forever cannot be fulfilled on this present, sin cursed earth So also the promise to David of a throne forever cannot be fulfilled in any mortal human being. Okay, so how would you interact with that? Any ideas? Alright, so so what is it first of all, what is he saying here? He is saying that the Davidic covenant, which you all went over this morning, hopefully. Um the Davidic I mean not hopefully I know you did. That the Davidic covenant is not to be fulfilled literally. Okay. Why? Why? Because the Davidic covenant it he it says that it can't be fulfilled because you have to s what's that? Covenant cannot be fulfilled for the covenant. Right, right. So he says, well, just like the Abrahamic covenant can't be fulfilled literally in having a forever land, the Davidic covenant can't be fulfilled literally in having a forever king. Okay, so how do you interact with that? Yes, Miranda. Yes, that's exactly Why can't we have both? Why can't we have a thousand-year-that's really my answer. Why can't we have a thousand-year millennial kingdom and then Christ continues to rule forever? Because that's exactly what's going to happen Okay? So it's not it's not either or, it's both. And so what you have here again is he is not really on is as smart. This guy's top of this guy's top notch He is a he is the the uh I'll r just remind you that he is the um the the founding dean of the of um Westminster Theological Seminary over in California. He's very, but but his his concern is essentially he's saying you can't this can't be literally fulfilled because it couldn't be forever. And we're s and we're all going here. Why not? Why not? Yeah. Well the thing is though, why can't there be a thousand-year millennial kingdom just like God said, and then Christ still rules forever? So how do you how do you deal with the four hundred years of silence? How does he deal with them? Yeah. How is an omillennialist? How do you how would you deal with that? Oh how do I deal with it? Yeah, so a hundred year break without a king uh Because nobody sat no no one no king from Israel sat on the throne. The Babylonian captivity, when God talks about ruling, he's talking about ruling. And so when the Assyrians came in and took over the nation of Israel and they went into exile, from that point on they never had a real king. They were never ruling anymore. And so even by the time Christ you know Christ comes on the scene in his first coming, yeah, he's a he was not a real king. And so the way to handle that and and all the nations of it and they and the Jewish people knew it. They knew they wanted somebody to come and overthrow the Roman government. So the way to handle that is that that that there's not a real king there's not a real king sitting on the throne in the first century, uh the throne of Israel, and there's really not a real king now. We would not look at it that that way. uh before well actually during the crisis before became on the scene where the these so called messianic uh uh uh people rose to uh yeah yeah zealots they were called zealots right there But there were several different uh different ones. Yeah. And the last one pretty much uh that was the end of Jerusalem. Yeah. So that that's the answer to that. Um all right. So here's I got Man, I just have too much material here. Uh you know what? You guys have probably had enough. Um let me go to the temple let me let me hit the temple of God, how he deals with this. Is not only the reuniting remnant of both Israel, he says, and Judah that are to be redeemed The Gentiles are included, Isaiah 2 and Micah 4. The outcasts of other nations are gathered with the captivity of Israel. Their sacrifices will be accepted on God's altar, Zechariah 14. From the gathering Gentiles, God will choose priests and Levites. The key to the fulfillment of such wonderful promises is the coming of Christ. Jesus himself declared, one greater than the temple is here. Jesus spoke of raising up the temple after three days, John 2, 19. And John tells us that Jesus was referring to himself. Perhaps the passage in John 2 is so familiar to us that we read it too quickly and pass by it without appreciating its full significance. I don't think we did that when we went went through Roman John 2. We might think, isn't that an interesting figure of speech? Jesus refers to his body as the temple. Pre-millennialists have often raised the question, but what about the hope of Israel? Does not, well actually, you know what, that's on another subject sort of soon, but okay, so so how do you hand how do you interact with this? He actually has a decent point here. This is one of his better points. Because Christ does, he does say when he cleans out the temple He does use that temple there as a picture of something much greater, which is himself. And then if you recall over in Ephesians, which we looked at in detail a while back, what else does it say is a temple? Yeah, well right, and and right. Uh it actually says that the the church is a temple. Okay, it says it's the it's the habitation of God uh at the end of s uh Ephesians two. So is it true, is it true that the temple represented represented a physical form of something that was heavenly, Christ being that, and also the church being being the temple or the habitation of God in this dispensation. And the answer is yes. There's no way of getting around that. Sure it is. It's true. So how would you interact with it? In other words, everything he said there was essentially right. So how do you inter how how do you interact with you? Black can I be both? Yeah, that's the answer. Why can't we c why can't we have both? Is there a reason we can't I think they have just have a hard time understanding that we just don't see a problem with with their being both. They really have a hard time with there being a literal temporal temple set up for a thousand years Uh but um that would be my answer. Cliff? Just one? Oh okay. So yeah, I I think the answer is why why could it be both? There's no reason. Now, I am going to deal, when we get to premillennialism, I am going to deal with how do you rec how do you deal with the sacrificial system being reinstituted? Okay, that is a good question. And we're going to deal with that when we come to during the millennial kingdom. And I am going to answer that question when we get to the get to premillennialism, so stay tuned for that. Future of Israel, he says, premillennialists have often raised the question, but what about the hope of Israel? Does not the omnialist understanding of biblical revelation rob Israel of her hope? No, the hope of Israel is that which the elect of Israel, as well as the elect of the Gentiles, have obtained. That is the clear teaching of the Apostle Paul in Romans 11:7 What Israel sought so earnestly it did not obtain, but the elect did. And that is nothing less than the fullness of God's salvation in Jesus Christ. in whom the Emmanuel promise of the covenant is pre uh is preeminently and finally fulfilled, I will be their God and they shall be my people. Okay, what would you say about this? I say no problem. Fine. I don't have any problem with that at all. And and so he's trying to make an argument Um I don't think it needs to be made. There's no there's no problem with Christ being the fulfillment here and being the hope of Israel. We'd agree with that. Christ is the hope of Israel. The question is is how is he going to mediate his kingdom? Is he going to do it literally or not in the thousand-year kingdom? That's really the question. Okay, he wants to give you a final illustration. I'll give you this final illustration. Perhaps a simple illustration will help highlight the point that the fulfillment may transcend the terms in which a promise is presented. And really So listen carefully. Consider a young man looking forward to entering a local college in the fall. An appreciation for his good work in high school, his father promises that he will give him wheels for hi for his upcoming birthday so that the boy will have transportation as a as a commuting student. The son is overjoyed thinking that dad is going to buy him a motorcyc motorbike Birthday morning arrives and dad asks him whether or not he's been out in the driveway yet. The son hurries outside, but there is no motorbike there. Now there is a hundred thousand two hundred thousand dollar Ferrari sports car parked in the driveway. But there is no more motorbike. Does the son come back to his father crying, You have robbed me of of my hope? Obviously not. This is rather materialistic illustration, but surely with regard to the reality of our spiritual blessings in Christ, the fulfillment of the fulfillment by God's grace, both now and in the day of the consummation in the earth internal state far transcends the terms in which the promise has been revealed. How would you react with how would you how do you react to that? How do you respond to that Is God specific in the Old Testament about his promises to the nation of Israel, or does he say things like, you're going to get wheels? We've got more material in the Old Testament with prophetic literature than we do in the New Testament. So he's very specific. He gives you he actually gives you land dimensions Exactly how much they're supposed to be. Okay? And so it's not the same as as It's it's it's a it's the illustration is problematic. It's not the same as a dad saying I'm gonna give you wheels and he gives you a Ferrari when the guy's expecting a motorbike. It's like saying I'm going to give you a you know a a I was going to say Harley Davidson, but I'll say goal. I'm going to get in trouble with either one of those. I'm going to give you a Suzuki motorbike with two wheels and and and and then gives you a Ferrari. There's a problem. Okay Because the Old Testament prophecies are so specific. Okay? And that's really the answer to his to that's really some of the problem. I mean if you look at it. And then the other issue is this. If you want to give me a Ferrari in addition to a motorbike, no problem. And that is the reality as well. I would say, fine, yes, God's going to give a motorbike, the millennial kingdom, and a Ferrari afterwards, the eternal state. We're gonna get it's gonna be both. And so there's really no problem. Yeah, yeah. Well, actually he does he does the old testament science. But um anyway, but when he does it's divinely inspired and this isn't so so anyway, um all right. That is a s I think that gives us at least a a a decent picture of the approach that the Omnialist takes to Scripture, how he comes to his view, and I would just say this, we've interacted with this enough that you know my approach to this. But I do hope that we understand it enough that when you interact with a non-millennialist, you don't think he's got a screw loose. He he may uh what what bothers me about this going through with this guy is it's like he thinks we have a screw loose. Okay. But but that's really not that that's not the case. They are really trying to do their best to understand Scripture in the way that they see they see it. And they want us, they see Christ as the fulfillment of everything. And so do we We both see that. We both see Christ as the fulfillment to the all of the Old Testament prophecies. It's that's not a matter it's a matter of how he's going to fulfill them. Does he fulfill them literally or does he only fulfill them spiritually? Does he fulfill them spiritually? Yes. Are there spiritual promises in the Old Testament? Yes. But God's going to fulfill all of it through Christ, both spiritual and literal. And that would be the approach that we would take. in premillennialism. That is essentially uh all millennialism. Any final questions before we get into premillennialism in the future here? Any questions or thoughts finally about Amillennialism? Yes? the interpretation side of things. We want to take things literally unless the Bible says say the type or an analogy or whatever. Correct. Is the flip side then Correct. Yeah. And that's why we can have some agreement with them. So l again, the new t here's how they would take it. They would essentially say that the New Testament Unless it sounds like the Old Testament, the New Testament is to be taken literally. Okay, so the revelation would be accepted from that. They would take that. But because of the genre of literature with Revelation. And look, we all have to admit Revelation is written way differently than the epistles. There's no di I mean the genre is extremely extremely different. So they would say, okay, that gives us a cue that we're not going to take that literally, we're going to take it figuratively. But when it comes to epistolary literature, we would be taking it the same way as they would. Except that Paul talks about the the kingdom. And there is kingdom theology in the epistles, and we're going to end up with a different approach. But I I really appreciate omnialists commentaries on Ephesians, for example. I I read them. I have no problem with that and and uh you know I so I interact with uh I don't just read premillenalist commentaries. I I I interact with on millennialists all the time with various commentaries and and and writings. Um so that's not really So yeah, but basically yes, they will take epistolar literature as literal. Yes. Just just one of the my observations is that is that what our millennials um uh especially over the last century in the seminaries. Many of those schools are not across there. You know, um um and and and w uh with and because there's there's just The this allegorical approach to to scripture. Yeah, in the nineteen twenties that would be the fundamentalist um argument why an omildist would not be a fundamentalist. They would actually say that they're There was a there was a um I know of uh of a uh Woodrow Spro uh was it Kroll. Woodrow Kroll. Wood not Kroll. RC Spro. R. C. Sproul, right. R. C. Sprohl and I guy I work with his name is Sam Holfreeder they went to school together. Yeah. They're both Presbyterian ministers, both ordained Presbyterian church. And there are uh Sam is the the most liberal uh the Bible is not true, the only parts of it are true or or you know, he picks and chooses what he wants and of course that's not the case with the case with the other guy sproll for sproll but it they uh it's still they they they had the same in that in the it same building is it's in the seminary the There are two camps. Yeah. And they exist side by side within the seminary. And so that's that's the kind of thing that breeds through uh to to this Yeah, and I I tend to agree with that uh as a whole, although it doesn't have to be that way. In in the more modern times we have seminaries like Southern Seminary that most would be omillennial, although they're not categorically that way. Some would be premillennial in there. And they tend to they tend to be able to hold the line with with the integrity. integrity of scripture. There there are a lot of omnillenists now that are are holding a line with with their the integrity of scripture, but I do see that as a I I I I see I I understand where you're coming. I I tend to agree. I understand the that that line of thinking. So let me ask you this question. This is where it really the the rubber meets arose. Well I've just I've seen it where forgot the word the world is not literal and they think that in different ways but we also view people as each nation and that's got the ground and well that's an entirely different uh subject that's the c a Calvinist kind of a thing. But people S most sometimes, not always. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, they they do tend to come but not always. They are two separate issues. Calvinism and non millennialism are two different different things. But but you can be a Calvin you can be a Calvinist and be a five you can be a classic dispensationalist and be a Calvinist. Or you can be a non millennialist and not be a Cal uh cabinet. So they're not the same thing. But you are right that you know um usually a Presbyterian is both ammo and and And a five-point Calvinist. And a child of God, many times. Not always, but many times. And so we have to sort of remember all we have to remember that. I have good friends that are that I would disagree with on on this on these issues, but I I they're godly people. I'll tell you one of the things I appreciate about a lot of the literature of the Omloinalist. of somebody on millennials or postmillists. Um I I am very well blessed by the devotional literature, a lot of it. And um sometimes um I mean it it really it's it's kind of amazing sometimes that it's that way, but they they tend to have a higher view of who God is, um, which is kind of an amazing thing. Um because when you get into their theology you wouldn't think that. But when you're reading you're reading their devotional literature, I I've been very m much edified by it. So I don't throw the baby out with a bathwater, you know, chew the meat, spit off the bones. I just So be careful there. So let me ask you a question. Our Constitution says that that we are premillennialists. Should we pull that out of our doctrinal statement? No. Yeah, we don't want to pull that out of our doctrinal statement. Okay, because we can we can have a Thanksgiving service with an omnialist, but but the problem is is that you know two-thirds of the Bible is prophetic literature You can have a real hard time in a Sunday school class, frankly. Uh I mean you could have a class where it's just very eclectic and you have all these different views, but But usually it's just going to be there's going to be a bit of a disunity in the body, in the local body, if you have people in the body, unless there's no other option You know, if you're in the boondocks and you have one choice, then go go to the Omillennial Church. I mean that that's what I would do. But if you don't i i if you have other options then then uh really i it would be wise to to uh I think, you know, if somebody comes in and says, you know, I'm strongly omillennial, I'm gonna send him down to my friend's church. I know he's a godly man, I know he loves the Lord and he's gonna and he's gosp he preaches the gospel. So I'm gonna say, Hey, you know what, I think you'd be better off somewhere uh a a at this Church and we can be friends and if you ever need anything call me but why don't you head down ha head down to End of our Baptist and that's that's my approach And so I think so. I think that this is one of those things where you say, okay, no, this does not it's not heretical. Omillen is not heretical. But for the sake of cooperating on a close level in a local body, local assembly, we ought to keep that. That's something that we want to retain. Now there may be other things we don't want we are quite you know I'm not sure about, but that one we really want to we want to retain And uh I think it's important for us to retain to to to keep that in mind. Premillennialism will be next time. We may just do that in one sitting because you all are more familiar with that uh than that on millennialism. And then we will get into the timing of the rapture and the different views of that. And when we get into the timing of the rapture, I'm just going to tell you ahead of time it's should be interesting because I don't know. I I I I I have a view, I have an approach, but there's some other decent options. Let's put that that way to that particular subject. So anyway, we'll get there eventually. All right, let's go ahead and close. We're 12 minutes over time. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you, Lord, just for the time that we could spend together interacting. and thinking through rather more deep, uh in-depth theology, de uh in-depth truth, Lord, and uh and and sifting through things and And I pray that through this you would give us the ability to be able to have a discernment about these things. And thank you for the attention of your people tonight that stayed with me on this and stayed focused. I know some of this can just can be a little bit tedious, but I pray, Lord, that it would be beneficial to us to really understand why we believe what we believe and to know it, to be able to interact with these folks to have confidence in the approach up to scripture that we are taking. And uh we pray all these things and pray that you just dismiss us with your blessing, keep us healthy, keep I Lord I do want to just take a few moments to pray for a few people. I pray for Kim as he is not feeling well and has a stomach flu. We pray for Rick that you just be with him And uh help him to recover from the blood clot that he has. Pray that you'd be with uh my niece Terolyn, that you would uh uh heal her and and be with the doctors, give them wisdom. I pray that you would be with um uh with Mr. Smith and and healing for him. I pray for um Kristen and thank you that she's And uh pray for others, Lord. I know Pat was saying he wasn't feeling well. So we just pray for different physical needs in our church, Lord, that you'd just bring them to full health, bring them back to us, and help us to be able to know how to pray. minister to them in their time of uh of sickness. Be with our deacons meeting as well. Thank you for these men, and I pray that you would give us wisdom with that as well. And we pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen.