Uh because it's just obvious that we're not getting better. And even in among uh scholars and commentators you still have them. with on millennialism and he and he and he cites, in fact he cites a couple of these other books. And how they came to cr how they came to ac having access to God is that they believed in the revelation. I mean, overall, this isn't incorrect in what in what covenant theology's basis is. And then when you have a new covenant, you have then a further fleshing out, a better version of the covenant of grace. You've got the Noaiic covenant, okay, you've got then the Abrahamic covenant and the Davidic covenant, or uh I'm sorry, the Abrahamic covenant, the Mosaic Covenant Okay. But the rest of it's all kind of been done, or it's we're in the middle of doing it now, because the New Testament is the final word on the thing. And even even the gospels are not going to say, except for the points that are sort of Old Testament sounding, they're not going to say that they're that they're non-literal or spiritualizing those. I mean, try to explain that to the nation of Israel. Let me ask you a question. Just because something is height doesn't mean it didn't really happen. Right. In other words, they're free to make the connections in their minds because of the methods that the apostles take. I'm not sure that makes a big difference to most people, but anyway, that's what they say. Because you can narrow down now in our culture and our church culture, you can narrow down most Christians to one of those two views. With people living through it, what do they do? And so they sort of infer that from from that, even though it never says God made a covenant with Adam prior to the fall of works. you you'll they'll put that they don't usually talk much about the covenant of works unless they're in Genesis. It's looking forward, not back. I'm not saying that we can't choose but I don't expect to have the same understanding of the Old Testament prophecies as the apostles, who's God directly He's going to answer that. Well it it wouldn't mean those row notation. You know, you take everything as spiritual and have picture and different things like that, you then you're you're covered. Pray for that tonight as well. Like you said in case of rafter this car movie on manned. in in that way. And I thought, no, I'm going to do Amilialism first because it will cause us to think harder and will actually it will cause us to learn more so that we when we we'll work through it, we'll struggle through Amillonialism and then we come to premillenalism, everybody will go, ah. will be it will be you'll have to work at it a little bit. getting so much better and most you don't have a lot of postmillenists anymore because of that. Things gotta get worse before they get better, kind of kind of kind of an attitude. One. says Charles, Charles Feinberg, and it's entitled Millennium, and there is a subtitle that goes along with that. I not now, B. the Palestinian covenant, the Davidic covenant, you've got all these covenants, and what they and then you have the new covenant. There there is progression in revelation to his people. And they say it is unequivocally foretold that the that the external ceremonial more ceremonial nature of the religion will become spiritual and internal. extreme dispensationalism or hyper-dispensationalism. Okay, and so so they so some of what you'll see in covenant theology is is to some degree reactionary to that, um that extreme dispensationalism. They are basically inferring that you've got this covenant of grace, and therefore there was something before that you had man's creation before that, so you had this covenant of works before it see that as a problem as well. Foresee, saith he, and this is uh foresee, saith he, that thou shalt make all things according to the pattern shown to thee in the mount. And Hebrews ten one, for the law having a shadow of good things to come, and not the very image of the things, can never with those sacrifices which they offered year by year continually make uh make comers unto perfect. pictures of Christ and tithes and all those kind of things. Continues to be shadows. It reads like Old Testament. what we would believe and what they they would. Okay. in the book of Revelation. They're not going to look at the book of Romans and say that's figurative. Sadly, the Jewish Zionist, for example, has no other meaningful principle of interpretation with which to operate. Scripture in the Old Testament, they do it very literally. When he said that we read the Old Testament with a veil over our understanding until we read the Old Testament in the light of the fulfillment of the revelation that has come in Jesus Christ. What do they do with the land prophecies? Because they're going to use what the people would understand. Th right, that is newer concepts and of course are clearly fulfilled in the new in the New Covenant. understand the new covenant. What he said here. Which is what his point is. So he says this, he says, yes, we agree there will be a new heaven and a new earth. Okay. millennial. So no wonder we're not understanding we're not we don't exactly see eye to eye with the amillennialists, but for somebody whose presupposition they are saved and the person that leads them to Christ is all millennial. due to the the sacrifices are a type, which it does, then we'll take it as a type. take the Old Testament and you just make it spiritual and things like that instead of looking at it and seeing that certain things ours has certain things aren't. And so this should be a lot of new information tonight. That's going to be what we're going to do tonight. Okay, so that's premillennialism. millennium currently because the church's influence is spreading and things are getting better. detail. um in in depth. Okay, and so postmillennialists are now moving to omillenalism. So follow what they're this is what the covenant theologian says. That's how man learns. That's covenant theology in a nutshell. So you really only have two covenants, the covenant of works, covenant of grace, and then you have this new covenant that's sort of a further that's how they would look at the thing. Is very vague, but there is some provision, and as you go through the Old Testament, you see more and more detail regarding that. Okay. Tony's question there. And you're saved in the New Testament by grace. And so they're saying, no, no, no, no, no. We're going to see it as figurative. You're always looking for the New Testament fulfillment has already occurred by now. Well, it is true that the New Testament is the final word. Dr. They believe in a non-literal hermeneutic. What portions of scripture would they see as non-literal? So they're sort of lumping all of the Old Testament by the examples that they have in Hebrews and in some other examples he's going to show you, and they're saying, okay, this is all shadow Old Testament. future millennial kingdom that Christ was established on earth on this earth at the second coming. To answer that, he says the crucial question the Christian must ask, of course, is this. That what is the new the in the Old Testament contained is the New Testament explained? Referred back to the Old Testament, how they interpret the Old Testament, and follow their example. The city of Jerusalem, the temple, the sacrifices, and the throne of David. So familiar to the Old Testament covenant saints or the old covenant saints. In order to communicate God's uh to God's people still living under the old covenant, the prophets by the Spirit's inspiration spoke of the blessings of God would pour out under the new covenant in terms of the typological images Are accustomed to viewing the Old Testament sacrifices and feasts and ceremonies as being types. Why then should the elements that we that we will consider now, the land of Canaan, the city of Jerusalem, the temple, the throne of David, the nation of Israel itself for the Old Testament and it actually had to do with God's presence. Surely the Old Testament saint, as he or she studies the servant songs of Isaiah, had to be puzzled. is that Christ is Israel. was specific to Israel as far as the land and things we have. And which is enforced now. And seems clearly to say that the new covenant prophesied through Jeremiah is that better covenant founded on better promises of which our Lord Jesus Christ is the mediator. Yeah. Where in the Old Testament do you find the promise that Paul refers to here? on this. that. really happened too. but they actually happen also. not literal. interpret. That we, as we work through these things, that we would understand what we believe and how to approach Scripture in the right way. being um understanding toward Christians that perhaps have a different view than us on these things. settled about our uh a right approach to your word. They're all millennialists. Is not to um draw have you come to a conclusion that omnominalists are just stupid. My opinion is that our churches in this country, we are just intellectually lazy. What are somebody give me a view or two? And things are getting better and we're, you know, we're the church militant and we're going to usher this thing in. It's a combination uh called um well actually don't worry so much about that first one. Yeah. So keep that book in mind. That last name there. In our own day, Feinberg says this, in our own day, many of the post-millennialists have gone to the, I should, I forgot the A there, to the Amillenalist camp. You know that it's some provision being made, but you don't know a lot about it. what God is doing in prophetic in his prophecy. The organic and progressive revelation of God consists in a unified plan of salvation through a covenant relationship. three covenants, but they would say, or three covenant, they would say three or two or three covenants is what they would say. Okay, until it culminates in the new covenant, which is the final covenant. Okay, the dispensationalists would look at the New Covenant and they'd say it takes all of the conditional problems of the Mosaic Covenant and makes them unconditional in the New Covenant. Now, you still have some covenant responsibility within the community of Israel, which is the church, but now there is more emphasis placed on the responsibility of the individual is better than the old covenant. Okay. Hebrews chapter 8 and Hebrews chapter 10 become very, very, they'll often talk about these two passages. who serve it as an example and shadow of heavenly things. Alright, now do you understand? And he served as the founding dean and president of Westminster Seminary in California. And so let's look at what he says and interact with him. But that we think through this. Is it right to take all of these Old Testament prophecies that we that have not literally been fulfilled and to see them as being fulfilled after the second this during the second coming, after the second coming of Leon? In the New Testament, Christ's Church has been given by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit that post-resurrection, post-Pentecost revelation that is absolutely authoritative. Such a principle of prophetic interpretation as the premillennialist one that says we are to interpret Old Testament prophecy literally whenever possible is understandable Very literal. As we read the New Testament, we come to understanding that the Old Testament prophets spoke of the glories of the Messianic age that was coming, the age inaugurated by Christ in which the church now lives. In terms of their own age, the religious blessings of God's people in the old covenant age. The omnialist approach, isn't it? You know, to say, to use here's what he's saying. Okay, and we and he wasn't expecting okay, so very good. Not to be understood using the same interpretive insight that we use in interpreting the sacrifices and ceremonies. sacrifices and all of that was a picture of what Christ would do in the future. Why then can't other things be that way? You do have a bit of a problem if you only take it as a type in the Old Testament. What do you do with Ezekiel thirty eight that says that the money that it will be reinstituted during the millennial millennium? All right, here's an explanation that he gives. He is the suffering servant of the Lord, this one who is wonder of wonders, the Lord Himself. Here Israel is called by God, his chosen one. If we were to go on reading here in Isaiah, we would see the movement back and forth, the cause for puzzlement, clear statements that the nation of Israel is the Lord's servant. But also veiled hints that the servant is an individual. that God is using, Christ is essentially is is the is the perfect Israel. All nations will be blessed through you. For all of you were baptized into Christ, have clothed yourselves with Christ. leading to a variety of explanations because the writer here quotes the new covenant prophecy in Jeremiah 31, 31 through 41. What do you do with Hebrews 8 and Hebrews 10 that both quote the new covenant which is given to the nation of Israel, and it says in that In Christ. That Abraham and his offspring received the promise that he would be heir of the world. But you find Genesis 17, 8, the whole land of Canaan, I will give as an everlasting possession to you and your descendants after you. use the Old Testament in a figurative or quote-unquote spiritualized way. opinion about pre-Lomonialism. But if I were, if I, but but that's my presupposition is premillennialism. And apply it to the Old Testament, but not run too far with things that the New Testament doesn't say. then what we're going to need to do is we're going to have to take what the New Testament says And we'll say, okay, that serpent in the wilderness in the Old Testament, that's a type, because Christ says it is. about a man with the help of God taking land. uh help as well. And so that's a a good older book as well as uh Wine Garden um as well. that last time. If you look at Genesis 49, you see more detail, 49-10. And that was didn't work. this. Yeah, I would say that would be the other problem I would have with it prior to we I mean to to actually formalize it as a covenant when God didn't say it was a covenant. that's developed into another one of new c basically you got like one covenant throughout the Bible. It's figurative. further revelation on what's going to happen in the future beyond the church age, at least that's the way we would take it. at uh Westminster uh that's Westminster Seminary in in California. So the folly following excerpts all come from this book and this guy. You follow that? He's saying that when you read the New Testament writers and they refer back to the Old Testament, he says we need to look at how they interpret the Old Testament and follow their example. Okay? So I think we've interacted enough. That would be his that would be the Amalenialist the really smart Amalenialist approach, okay, is that Christ replaces Israel and thereby by extension we're linked to Christ and so we re we replace Israel But the problem here is that there again what we talked about last week is is that we've got three we've got more than one promise in the Abrahamic covenant. I mean, if I'm really intellectually honest with myself, I grew up with premillennialism. Alright, now that's going to take some time to get into. Except that they would see all kinds of pictures. Even when the New Testament doesn't. Right. Okay? And what we're going to do now is we're going to explore in detail two major views. The sec second one on there is we're going to be interacting with a lot tonight. Not too much. But but it's not a distinct covenant, it's a further development of the same covenant, they would say But there is a lot of discontinuity between the Mosaic Covenant and the New Covenant. How many have ever heard of him? to ominialism. But my goal is that when we get to premillennialism, we'll be prepared for it because we've we've interacted with the with the opposing view. Her infallible guide in all matters of faith and life, we would agree with that, including this vitally important matter of how to interpret the Old Testament prophecy. His argument from communication, he says this. Understand that when we wish to describe to a friend something that he he or she has not yet experienced, we do so by appeals to what the friend has already experienced I mean we the church is not a building. Alright, see what they're saying is this is really where the debate comes in. The explanation he says from Abrahamic covenant, I'm going to summarize this. Seed and heirs according to the promise. But this, by the way, is is the only way you'll really understand all of it is if you interact with the words of someone who believes this. My church believes I'll I believe that I'm not going to change. We don't find a New Testament writer doing that. I pray that it would really that this study would challenge us. uh sh uh uh a diligence in thinking as we work through this Lord tonight and that ultimately would cause us to be more grounded um Uh I do want to mention that at the outset of this that we uh my hope tonight is not to because you have some ver I'm millennial they're not stupid. And so I'm not going to go into detail about this, but um because we're going to cover omillennialism in detail. That they're just further, further blossoming, further revelations of the same covenant. Gentiles had access to God through the nation of Israel, but not like Christ in the New Covenant. But those two would probably be in this sort of camp where they say that the Old Testament saints were saved by works. So the covenant theologian says, look, if you look at Hebrews, what you see in the Old Testament is a shadow of things to come in the New Testament. This guy is really, really in intelligent. thing after this and I sort of sort of said this is tedious. Okay, if we're looking at Romans the same way, as literal. to interpret the Old Testament in the same m with the same method that the New Testament writers did? You've got in the all the earth the families of the earth will be blessed, so that would be but you've got the land, okay, and you've got that he will make of him them a great nation. So he says, yes, there is a fulfillment. Let me ask you this question. Amillenalism. Okay. basic level you just say a millennial no millennium no thousand year kingdom but but um they would not say that they would say we are in a millennium it's just not literally a thousand years The amillennialism, the basis of it, is covenant theology. Let's just move on here, and I'll give you the next point. There are a lot more than two. More stress is laid upon the faith of the individual than upon that of the nation. Okay, so so we've got a guy who's pretty authoritative when it comes to omillonialism. Oh, not sure about that. Alright, so basically he's saying, essentially what he's saying is, should we not, he's asking the question, should we not look at how the New Testament writers But you do you you do in communication you have to start with what people know, not start with what they don't know, right? So we'll use land as the promise, even though he means something else. We wouldn't disagree with that. Well, let me go ahead and read it. That's a tough one. But if someone takes an all-millennial approach and they come into our church and they want to join our church, And so it does present a bit of a difficulty. And let me just argue this point. giving us the opportunity to gather together tonight and to equip us, Lord, to know your word more and to be in our understanding of your word and knowing how to study your word and navigate it correctly and comparing scripture with scripture. Really a continued discussion of what the millennium is going to look like and will there be a little literal thousand-year millennial kingdom? To the Old Testament many messianic prophecies from Genesis 49, 10 on through the book of the prophets, each step along the way presupposes that which has gone before and then adds something more. Shrimple retired. But anyway, Jewish commentators to this day are puzzled. And I think that we can interact with them, we can pray with them, we can thank the Lord with them, we can cooperate to some level with them. We're gonna go through the rest, we'll take we'll we'll cover um omillennialism the next time, we'll we'll cover the rest of it, and then we'll get to pre-pre-millennialism. It really does help to do this. Let me point this out. that would take the omillennial position. Is um Feinberg, Douglas Feinberg, I think it's Douglas. Um B. B. And you could start with the first seed, first prophetic seed being John Genesis 315, which is not a lot of detail. When that was broken and abrogated, God made another covenant, the covenant of grace, with the last representative of that race being the last Adam. What they say is the new covenant deal deals with the issue of the Mosaic Covenant. They wouldn't say that quite that way, but they would say that the new the new covenant does this tenets of the new covenant. So if you talk to a a and I'll give you a couple of names, Peter Ruckman. And read. I mean, wouldn't there have to be some limitations? Uh let me ask you this question. So that's Genesis three fifteen and then it moves but then if you look at Genesis um uh So now everybody gets a chance to to know the Lord. How, well, you know what? So this is how that that's how they're seeing it. Okay, that's a good question. Are there limits in ministry and cooperation? Right. Um how many of you are friends with a Presbyterian? that uh we would we would have a clarity of thought in our minds as we go through this that um there would be um Okay, so the millennium millennium has not taken place yet, and it is a literal thousand year reign of Christ, and we have the it ca it happens after the second coming. Warfell's dead, but back when he was alive he said that. So with seed thoughts in the Bible. Um and so and so we would not argue on that point on those points. Rose. But what is, I'll just ask you, what is the problem with it? And the nation of Israel didn't know what they were reading. Could there potentially be problems there? And um I I I don't think we have good excuses for laziness when it comes to God's Word. And what he's going to do is he's going to show in all of these points where where dispensational says, Hey, Israel never got their land. And then it's not going to be long before we can now say the church is Israel. He says in the New Testament we also learnt that Tin, the land of promise, was but a type of that fuller and richer inheritance that is to be Abraham's and all the children's in It's still literal. Um and they get this idea, or they'll they're they'll cite two references. Well the church is full of sin too. Um let's move on. So you have guys like Jonathan Edwards and those folks, those are they're the Puritans, the pilgrims, they're all postmillennial. Okay, so scriptural support just in basics, okay, um is the real issue is going to become They then say that Israel is the church spiritualized. So you haven't probably had discussions with omnialists on their on their belief system and on their not so much belief system, but on their system of understanding scripture. Just as there is a gr is gradual growth from a b so this is what um um they they'll say. They're not, in other words, they're not going to see, and then there's going to be some other points that he's going to make throughout, but they're not going to see the epistles, for example, as figurative. Um it is in opposition to modernism. The future of the kingdom in prophecy and fulfillment. Yeah, Old Testament prophecy and the book of Revelation. Okay. The whole world, heaven and earth, renewed and restored in righteousness, 2 Peter 3:13, as the home of God's new race of men and women in Christ Jesus, the second Adam. And there are some they're saying that the sun, moon, stars fall from heaven, those are people, those are leaders. All right. But sometimes we take a position and we think that everybody else is just dumb when we don't when they don't have the position we do. In fact, we're going to be looking at mostly excerpts from this book tonight from one particular man who does the treatment on ammonialism. Okay. Okay. In that chapter, that Christ is the better way. Okay. He says too often in the media media I just basically I'm going to move on, but too often in the mediating of this truth we omit the all-important chain of redemption. Alright. Now, what we need to do before we get into Ammonialism is to discuss just in introductory thoughts covenant theology. Right, so let's let's talk about what's good here. And this is from that book, The Three Views on Millennialism, by Daryl Bach. Is there, and we talked about this last week a little bit, is there limits to our cooperation with an OM1? So they're they're changing that for revelation. But um interacting with these things I think is is you what we want to do is understand why we believe in what we believe it. And we pray all these things in Christ's name. Yeah. I want to just give you a couple of sort a few four sources that I've been working from. Um yes. He points, he says the point of conflict, you'll see it again here, Hebrews 8 and verse 10, and 10, chapter 10, he says, have presented great difficulty for the premillennialist interpreters Like the circuit one's lifted up on the So in Revelation they're not saying they're saying the opposite. Not they don't have to be, but more than likely they are. It starts off small and you get bigger. Okay, so so there is differences between the New Covenant and the Grace, the covenant of grace in that whole covenant theology. So you have other things here. So you've got this idea of shadow. Yeah. And they're right about that. Yeah, that would be a disagreement with most amonialists essentially. That's the toughest one. Covenant premillennial. Let me just give you a little background on him. But they're not going to say Romans. He's going to answer that. Good. But when you begin to look at these kinds of things, you begin to realize, wow, if I was, if I grew up in this, I think I probably would be a non-millialist. Is compromised that we can't go there, but when it's not, that there might be some flexibility. And what I really want us to do, we will learn a lot if we'll interact with him on what he says about this whole issue. Here's what he says. Right. So um so uh we all know we all are not we all, but several of us know know some. Okay? Okay, good. You got salvation by grace from the b from by the time Adam fell and the provision was made. And you'll hear them when you read their writings you'll hear old covenant, new covenant a lot. Understand then that those who believe are children of Abraham. Progress what do you mean by progressive creationists? Oh yeah? Literally F has the row notation. My point is saying this. So tonight we're going to work through this. Um let me just begin by a few introductory thoughts. That is part of the problem, is that there are distinct differences between the Mosaic Covenant and the New Covenant where there's not a lot of con there's some continuity with all the covenants. Now here's what Elsie says. There's not, there's not. Not just say what they say. Um question. No, they would consider a covenant of race. Bring blessings to both Jews and Gentiles. What is what is um what is post-millennialism? B. But if you look okay, so so what their argument would be of that is if you look at the literature of the of the book of Revelation He says, for a zealous Jew has not received the Christ received Christ, and for whom therefore the veil remains unlifted whenever the old covenant is read. And are we not to take advantage of this? But Christian believers live in the full light of the New Testament revelation. So right. Let's talk then about the land with four minutes we have left. And it'll it will become you you'll become much stronger in your approach, uh in your in your understanding of of scripture, and you'll become more confident in your study of scripture. And there's no New Testament fulfillment. I also want to mention that the approach that we're going to take tonight is we're going to look, we're going to interact with and with our millennialists. I just mentioned two of them. Okay. What we're going to do here though is we're going to take the actual words from a man by the name of Robert B. Okay. And before you say we're not Abraham's seed, Galatians 3 says we are Abraham's seed. Yes. Yeah, you just take everything in spiritual and it's explained, you don't have to go anymore. Warfield pointed out that and his he he says this that the omnial view has the best right to be called the historic Protestant view now. But um he he said this and it is that that does seem to be the case. Sure. I'm going to bypass this and I'm just going to move on. Okay, good. So it's not they're really not saying it. Alright, so a counter question to his question is, do we have the ability So he's going to make some initial arguments here for his approach beyond what he's already said before he gets into this. And we want we like to be comfortable. Like Abraham did start to sacrifice his son and a lamb was there, a real lamb. But anyway, um so so let's let's also so I want to m sort of This is where. I mean you read it, it lo it's it's like it's re reading the Old Testament again. Okay. And I'm not going to do so much trying to disprove everything tonight, although we can talk about it, we can interact with this. Does is it under is it almost reasonable? If you want further study, that's a good one. We often are pretty inconsistent as dispensationalists with how we approach Scripture. That was abrogated. That is near near heresy. Would they also be uh progressive creationists? And we we we we take the approach that Hebrews is taking here, and so when you look at Old Testament prophetic revelation, Well I think of where Jesus specifically talked like about knowing everything and Alright, so we can find examples where where the New Testament writers and Christ himself are are approaching it literally. And then it was a picture of what was okay, so the Bible tells us that. No, I don't mean Christmas. Good. No one was never saved by us. Oh I'm sorry. What do they do with the the Davidic covenant? He says this, the true Israel is Christ, he says. Was there anything that caused you in your own hermeneutic, your approach to scripture, to sort of question it? They're going to say that's literal. So it's it's simple it's an oversimplification of the Abrahamic covenant. It just doesn't look of the land, it just doesn't look the same. The problem, however, is that you have this book of Revelation that gives us further You must have Googled it or something. He's also uh served the Orthodox Presbyterian Church on theological study committees and as moderator of the fifth fifteenth century general There was a practical reason and but we'll get into that for the sacrificial system in the Old Testament. Okay, and covenant pre-premillennial is basically that somebody that believes in covenant theology, but they do believe that there's a thousand a thousand year millennial kingdom. Yeah. But what he's going to begin to do is he's going to give several examples of how the New Testament writers I mean two one to two-thirds of the Old Testament are is gonna it's gonna it's gonna present a little bit of difficulty with that So here's what we're going to do from here. Gotcha. He is essentially Israel. How many of you are we would say you're friends with somebody more more more clearly. That is illustrated by the first prophecy of redemption to be found in Genesis 3. So there is some sort of grace involved here after after the fall. How many covenants in the Bible are there? And what they would say is, I mean, if you go through the list of you've got the Adamic covenant, which they would say is the covenant of grace. A hyper-dispensationalist says that you were saved in the Old Testament by works In fact, you do find passages where it's very descriptive in that way, actually, later on in prophetic revelation toward the end. My amillennial friend said, Yeah, if you're into that sort of thing. So we'll okay, so omillenalism is one, premillennialism is another. God dealt with Adam in the Garden of Eden under a covenant of works. He retired in 2003 after 41 years of teaching. Now, let me ask you this question. So I mean there are plenty of that would be a good argument for the opposing uh to oppose this. We'll cover that in premillenalism. We can have a Thanksgiving service with them and thank God for his character. I'm almost I'm almost ready to tell how much I'm not sure what Falmway is saying. It's just just the approach to studying scripture. I just want to emphasize this point. So those who have faith are blessed along with Abraham, the man of faith. Kim? What would you see perhaps that might be right about that statement? But some. But God put it down there so that when the New Testament came about we would understand it. Good good interaction. What's the problem with what he says here? Let's we're gonna move on from that. Right. Um but um on millennialism and and premillennialism are the ones we're gonna get into in in more detail. Right. Is it incorrect, he asks the question, is it or is it correct to interpret such Old Testament prophecies as descriptions of the What do you suppose? Well, I mean there's the whole argument that the types in the Old Testament, you know, if there is the type of something, but everyone knows it all that Let's talk about uh here's what I'll talk, let's talk about the problem with dispensation the the problem with Any questions about yeah? That's what we're all about. I'm just going to tell you up front this all comes from this book from this book and I think I've done enough I think if I do that then I'm citing things enough to be intellectually It's this community of believers that are worldwide, that are all been baptized by God's Spirit into His kingdom. I don't think we need to be militant against our millennialists. If we're going to be consistent premillennial dispensationalists. Daryl Bach is the editor of this book. Perhaps even Isaiah himself was puzzled. Yes, all the things you mentioned, the Bible says are types. Amen. We're going to interact with their writings. After that, you've got the second covenant, the covenant of grace. We're thinking, aren't we? He says this. Just because it says land in the Old Testament, well, how else are you supposed to describe it if they don't know anything else? Well should one reason is because Christ, for the New Testament itself, says that uh God There really could, because they're going to be approaching so much of the Old Testament in a different way than we are. Okay. They are just not very practical people if they are, um, but you do have them out there and they just think that some day it's all gonna get bet it's gonna we're just on the downswing, you know He says that God's revelation is like a kernel of is like a seed that's growing over time in Scripture. What do you guys think about that? They're saying that in the Old Testament they would admit that there are many types of things that were said that they were types later Uh do you discuss have you well I mean I guess I I actually know the question answer that because there's only two people here that knew that we knew someone that was not millennialist We're going to interact with it and struggle with it a little bit. And then what's the other one that we discussed? By the way, he did kind of mess up his argument, the communication argument before just in We talked about this last time. Alright, let me ask you another question. And that's true. They were still saved by grace. Shadow is not concrete, is it? So now we're going to look at the Old Testament prophetic literature and we're going to see shadows everywhere. And he was um he was, you know, the uh press for theology at Princeton Seminary and and he was conservative uh back before Princeton As we read, so here's the statement of his approach. And what he's going to do is he is going to give his approach. I pray, Lord, as we look tonight at Okay. In other words, if someone is all millennial, it is very likely that they're going to have a covenant theological approach to Scripture Okay. We like to be right here. There's no direct New Testament fulfillment of it. I think that's where I get tripped up with it. And we'll learn a lot from this. Okay, he says, and what he's saying is it's universally understood by all Christians, essentially, that the sacrifice in the Old Testament were a picture of the New Testament Most of this will be things that you have not really, that perhaps you haven't really looked at before, at least in into the detail that we're going to look at tonight. Um is what? We talked we discussed that a little bit more in detail last last time, so I won't go over that again. Well that I mean we're heirs to the promise of of all people being blessed through Abraham. Which is actual. Both uh both omillenism and premillennialism are, and postmillennialism for that matter, but postmillennialism has become a bit passe now. That's how they would look at it. The reason they take the Old Testament as figurative is what they see literally in Hebrews is that they're saying it's all supposed to be a shadow. Here Israel is called by God, his chosen one That's the land. Massalink is another one. So those are the those are some of the resources that getting into this issue of the millennium that would help you if you really want to delve into this Right. And then also another book that I didn't um I should have included on this That that's been abrogated. They're not going to say Romans and Ephesians and all these other epistles Nowhere. The covenant of grace became the new covenant with Christ's advent. That's basic covenant theology. They would say no, it's not really looking beyond this age. So he is he is saying not only is Israel Israel, but Christ is Israel. If God says in the New Testament in Hebrews, or like like Christ said, that the Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so the must the Son of Man Well we'll take it that way. That is difficult and we're not really getting that So that means that we're going to agree on the major points of the gospel with these folks. Are we not to see that what is the Old Testament concealed is the New Testament revealed, as Augustine put it? Yeah, so what he's saying essentially is, okay, the nation of Israel back then, try to explain the church to the nation of Israel It seems as though the Ameliaist is right. It's not the same as what they're saying Revelation. Okay? And so you know sometimes we we when we when we have an opposing a position, I'm definitely a premillennialist, I I'm I'm definitely firmly on stand And there is more detail given as time goes on. So then that's toward that's in Jeremiah and Ezekiel, so that's further on in prophetic revelation, and they would agree I mean they would they would recognize that that's All right, so tonight we're going to be look we're going to look at on millennialism. And that's all from Charles Feinberg. As Moses was admonished of God when he was about to make the tabernacle I can't remember, it was what I was going to study or something. So what is he saying there? Alright. And frankly, all of us here, our presupposition is premillennialism. Father, we thank you, Lord, just for the privilege of coming together tonight, and we pray that this has been helpful and um and And then as time goes on throughout Scripture, you see more and more and more revelation, more and more detail of Do they believe in a non-hermenliteral hermeneutic if we're going to be honest and be clear on this throughout the whole Bible? It is a necessary feature of effective communication which we have all experienced You get the whole world Well I just kind of think they if they look at their own Hebrews 85, it's pretty clear. Last name is Feinberg, and it's just the entitled Millennium. Is there truth to that? He studied at Westminster Theological Seminary in Philadelphia, surprise, surprise, and he um Um or in the in the in the New Testament. Do you see the see what he's doing there? So I've been steeped in it. He's going to answer that. Yes. And I'm fine just being comfortable. But what we want to be careful of is coming up with things like that and saying, okay, well this is what this means when we don't find the New Testament is doing. Okay. Yes. Right. Alright, and we had a lot more hands that wait raised then. Okay? So what we're dealing with then now is Okay. If you belong to Christ, then you are Abraham. Yeah. That is an excellent book on he is premillennial but he treats he deals with You have all these covenants and what they would then say is that they're all one covenant And by the way, they did in the Old Testament, but it wasn't it wasn't to the extent I mean they They'll say old covenant and by that mean they mean the covenant of grace and new covenant. In other words, this is no slouch. The Bible tells us it is a picture, although it also tells there is there was another reason, a practical reason. All nations of the earth will be blessed, it says in that covenant, and so that then is of course opened up to the whole world. He gives an example here. Okay? Using these old terms because a Jew would not understand Okay, you just have now more than likely Well the problem is that they see in order to maintain this singular covenant idea To answer that, so in other words he's saying let me put it this way, he's saying You follow what he's saying there, by the way. That is, teaching tools pointing forward to the work of Christ. Okay. Okay? If you insist on strict literalism, Is it understandable? And one particular man we're going to look at his his how he he One is on millennialism, we'll do that first, and then premillennialism. Okay, and so we're ushering post millennialism is the idea, yes, we're in the we're currently in the millennial kingdom and we are going to usher in the second coming. I thought about doing premillennialism first and then omillenalism So yeah, it definitely is the case. They believed in the provision that was going to be made, even though they they didn't know all the details. Are there more than two? Enrique. So they say that the new covenant, old covenant, you have national responsibility. You have this new covenant that that fixes some of the How do you respond to that? It is a type. And I would ask for clear thinking tonight. You might not even know if they're omeless. And that is heretical. But now to say that the New Testament, the book of the Revelation, mm-hmm How does the New Testament teach us to interpret such passages? So what is he saying here? It's not that we're not smart. Now, my point in doing this is not necessarily that we um we disprove every point. And the reason I'm going to I say that is I I started trying to footnote every single He's like He's like the the replacement for Israel. What do you do with this? The tevent what are the tenets of covenant theology? Okay? Okay, he would think he he would say that. Because we're going to get into the problems basically in a few moments here. Okay. Um what do you do with this one? And so you're beginning to see, are you not, are we not beginning to see how the omnialist comes to his conclusions about things? So I think that's oh I wanted to review from last week. So would come in the emotion considered the most Shadow is what? That's really it. But kind of hold on to that And so um I just would encourage you to really be diligent in your thinking tonight. So they would that would be their sort of argument to what they're saying here. Was not the Apostle Paul, by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, telling us something important What do they do with the throne, uh, with the with the temple Alright, no, interacting is good. Sure. Tony? It's called Three Views on the Millennium and Beyond. Okay. May we have just a balance in these areas, Lord. Any problem there? Okay? They say, no, no, that's more shadows, that's more imagery of what is occurring during the New Testament age. Okay. That's probably not pronoun I'm not probably not pronouncing that right. Okay. Alright. Central to those blessings were the concept of the people of Israel. What's the problem with what he says here? And um and and uh that'll be good for us. No. Well that's not what he really meant. But somebody define them for me. Why Thousand Years? And that's what you have. But through the righteousness that comes by faith. I think we can have friends that are millennialists, uh millennials, amillennials. They're just saying this is a fulfillment. That's really more has to do with the rapture, so don't worry about that one. All right That's when grace starts. So far, we're not seeing a huge amount of problems with covenant theology at its basic in its basic form. In other words, church is Israel spiritualized. He's a he's a pretty he's a he's an authority on the subject. Wouldn't they have understood this whole I will make it Remember how Peter spoke of the prophets trying to find out In Romans four thirteen, for example, we read, it was not through law Yeah, except that you have all kinds of different you end up with all kinds of functions. Uh not usually. He is making the contribution to the That's Jewish people when they interpret Somebody tell me what is he saying? What is he saying there? That's the problem with it. So help us, just give us some wisdom through all this, and we pray these things in Christ's name. And they are right about that, by the way. Prophetically literal. All right. But they would look at all kinds of things in the Old Testament and say they're pictures. No no. Post millennialism was the most prominent view in early American history. Which brings us to the next slide. The limitation of redemption to the nation of Israel will be replaced by universalism of the new of the New Testament. The redemption is offered to the whole world with the covenant blessings available for all. But if you only take it that way, that's all it is, is a picture of the New Testament revelation of Christ's coming. That's great when you got the whole Bible in front of isn't it? Now they may say it's some fulfillment during church history, but they would that's essentially the essential disagreement between between The revelation of the Christ of God. So what do you do with this land that's promised by the Palestinian Covenant, the Abrahamic Covenant? That's the view I was taught the book I was talking about, millennialism, the two major views. Turn, for example, to Isaiah 41. Um Um we're either past or in the They would say, you have one covenant, the covenant of works Oh, okay Old Testament prophecy. And you look around, you say how wonderful things are and how things are Well it it does as far as right with it So in that respect, yeah, that that makes sense. Alright. So we don't have a lot coming up except the second coming. So so anyway, we'll get more into this and then we'll also see the primonial position as well that will help that will help. And and they're no so what you're saying is there's no but it's not literal. So so that's how they look at this. Um do they bel no, it's not throughout the whole Bible. He is saying that the way he would interpret Isaiah in this passage 41 But Christ is not. Yes. He was professor emeritus of systematic theology. We we talked about this last week. If you see, this is an inspired apostolic interpretation of the Old Testament promise that Paul is giving here. I think it is. Um 15. Colatians 3 is very clear about this, Romans 3 and 4 is clear about this. I know the ins and outs of it. And I but and I don't but if you don't interact with an opposing view, you'll never really understand why you believe what But also I pray, Lord, that you would help us in being But this is within, omillalism is within the orthodox options. What is premillennialism? Um if you come to that conclusion, I've not done my job tonight, Oh, as far as the book of Revelation is concerned. It's not that we walk around dumb people everywhere. You've got two covenants Jewish commentators to this day are puzzled The n the Old Testament saint did not have all the revelation that we have today, there's no question about it It's like you said Genesis 315. I mean it depends ever but there wouldn't be any direct connection between covenant theology and that. Now I'm going to back up and show you these references. But I don't think we are heirs to the promise because the promise So there's a picture to Abraham of God and And they are right about that. You've got one covenant, or you've got two covenants, but you've got one that's in in And they'll say this, Hebrews 8. So what's your question exactly? Let's interact. Yeah. Or do we have the authority to do so? I mean he created man. Okay. That still needs to come to pass. Good, good, good. Um Like it's yes there's types but they're saying they don't Okay, yeah. But to understand omillennialism, you kind of have to understand the basis of it, which is covenant theology. I mean it's really even hard to understand what's what he's talking about if you just isolate that verse and what Just as there is gradual growth from from a blade to the ear, then to full grain to the ear. He's probably most prominent. Let's let's learn to interact with this. Okay? Argument from common ground. Well that's it depends. In other words, if if God says that the They make the connections. And so that that is that is not explicit in Scripture. You are all sons of God through faith in Jesus Christ. And I just have a I want to open up with this question. So I had the bumper sticker on my phone. It is the most one of the most effective ways to really learn. It gets the juices, the mental juices going. Okay. Oh, to take it the way the automatics are taking it. Okay. If you want to think of it on a on a um And it is a very good book. I I can put raise my hand with ton anybody else in here that would say I am friends with an omillennialist. What do you think? First, what is he saying? What do you do with it? There wouldn't there have to be But let me I really, when I look through this, and by the way, I'm not changing, don't worry, I'm not changing. I mean clearly the book of Joshua was worth Now, you do have post-milenists out there still. The the thing about it is is it does seem in that passage that Okay. Okay, so it would be a logical argument to say that the Old Testament Remember somebody, I think Enrique asked, well, what do they do with the land? You know what we like to do? Or What's wrong with that or what's right with it So you essentially have That's the better way to put it. And may we know clearly where the gospel is is It is an excellent book. That's the other error in the in the in the whole idea is You see Okay So we would Somebody tell me. One is um uh a Okay. What do you suppose they're going to be getting into Okay. 5. Here's how it's all fulfilled in the New Testament. What is he saying? All evangelical Christians What's that? We talked about four different general views. Sec second coming occurs or at the beginning of the second coming. I guess my thing is like you counteract that He's going to give his approach to this. There are plenty of places in the Old Testament that the Old Testament writers didn't even know what they're writing. It's that we are lazy when it comes to these kinds of things. We know that's to come. He started in that position. We've got three other promises, two other promises in the Abrahamic covenant And um They don't see it that way. And I just explained that. Well, what they would write Lisa? I don't know where Jack Hiles comes in on this We like to stay in our box. It will be good. Um I'm not putting this on the bottom level. So this is correct. The church is Israel spiritualized. Or do we have um do we have the prerogative to do so? Strumple. All right. And that's kind of speaking to Tony's Sure. Israel is full of death How many of you know a Christian Okay, interact with that a little bit. Um You're going to see I'll tell you this that that my Which is what they would say. The land of Canaan Did you notice a couple of things about this? Okay, and we mentioned We would all agree with that, right? And uh and we'll You know, I'm fine in my preliminalism, I got it, I understand it. No, it's not Douglas. So they understand land. I've done a lot of interaction And it was shadows of the So and I would see that as errant. What do you do? Kim? Okay. Amen. But we disagree with that. So just Yeah. They would agree with that for sure. Is that correct? So this is going to be very informative for us and understand. So that's how he would look at it. How does how does the Omnialist deal with this? Yeah. It will not be that way. What do you think about that statement? Of course we would. Okay I would say I would say I have very strong I'll just end Okay.