We're gonna we're gonna go through the different views of this and and um see where we we come. Um let's review though before we our our journey through inesthetology has really been we started off with just looking at all of Bible prophecy and saying, what do we believe about this? There are different views, the preterist view if you recall, and the historic view and the futuristic view. And we came to the conclusion that the futuristic view was definitely the view that would be most consistent with a normal literal interpretation of scripture. And then we went into the next sort of area we looked at was between premillennialism, omillenalism, post-millennialism, and then we narrowed in on particularly Premillenalism and amillennialism. And I think we had some really good discussions on those, on those two, the difference between amillennialism and premillenalism. and the views of both. And I will tell you personally after having, every time I study this out more, I learn things I didn't know before, or different different perspectives I didn't I didn't understand before. I've all I've known about, you know, of course I've studied preliminalism prenumenalism before, but I always try to do deeper research than I've ever done before basically when I study these things. And I will tell you, I've come out stronger premillennial than I was even before I started the study. I just am very strong on the importance of taking a premillennial approach to to Bible prophecy. Do we need, can we, what, what, so let's review pre-millennial millennialism. Why would it what what problems would we run into with those who are amonial What struggles might we have with those who are omnial when it comes to when it comes to, let's say they were members of our church. What would the difficulties be? First of all, can we fellowship with an homologium? Sure we can. They believe in the deity of Christ, the substitution substitutionary atonement. Some of them do. Um and and uh you know we believe uh what you know just because they're omillenal doesn't mean they don't they don't ha believe in the gospel. And certainly the gospel is our dividing line as to whether or not we can fellowship with somebody. Now Roman Catholics are omillennials So we have a little bit of uh s really a serious break in fellowship with Roman Catholics, don't we? Because they're they've compromised the gospel. And so we can I can go out to breakfast for the Roman Catholic, but my goal would be to l bring him to Christ actually. It would be a different goal. But when it comes to but there are many good, solid Christians that love the Lord and know the gospel and believe the gospel that are all millennial, and I have friends that are. But what are the problems that you might run into in a in a situation where you where a person is on millennial and we're premillennial? Yeah. Literal version 7. Right. So their approach to scripture, particularly Bible prophecy, is going to be quite different. They are going to take a much more allegorical figurative approach. We're going to take a much more literal, normal approach. Okay, and so that would be a significant difference. What else? Kim, were you going to say something something similar? That's the main problem. The other problem is just in studying scripture, two-thirds of the Bible is prophecy. And so you're going to run into a lot of disagreements as to what entire passages meet, uh mean in the Old Testament and the New Testament. So you're going to kind of have you're going to kind of run into problems there. And so for that reason, we want to we can certainly fellowship with them on, you know, we can do a Thanksgiving service with somebody that's homeland, for instance. But on the same At the same time, if somebody comes in to our church and wants to join our church and and they are obillennial, I usually Very c very just graciously say, hey, we love ya. We'll we'll we'll look forward to seeing you someday in the heaven. We we I I'm your friend. That's not you know, there's no problem with that. But uh I have a church for you that may may be better suited for your appro for the approach that you're taking if they are strongly clearly ammonial. Now if they're waffling back and forth, that's you know a little different. That just means they're they're able to be persuaded probably, which is what I'm going to try to do. But if they're if they are if they are firmly one way or the other, that's the approach that I think you it's wise to take. Uh but when it comes to so that's premillennialism. What is premillennialism, by the way? What's premillennialism? Okay, that is not premillennialism. My dad got it wrong. Okay? It is not the rapture before the tribulation. That is not premillen. I want to make sure we got our terms right. This is extremely important. Premillennialism. Now my dad is uh the reason I can say that is he teaches scripture all the time and he gets most things right. That's the only reason I can say he got it wrong on this. Alright. Okay But premillennialism is not the rapture before the tribulation. That's not premillennialism. What Kim, what is premillennialism? Yes. That's what premillennialism is, that there is a literal thousand-year kingdom. And that the coming of Christ happens prior to the millennial king to the millennial kingdom. Does it compromise the gospel if you don't believe that? No. Does it really compromise your approach to Scripture? Yes. And so we would not consider it to be a fundamental doctrine But we would consider it to be a pretty um uh being a an important doctrine for the sake of unity in the body. Does that make sense? Uh particularly, I mean I I mean our local body So that's different than what we're going to look at tonight, which is the pre-trib rapture position, I think is what my dad was trying to refer to. Which is a different thing altogether. What we're looking at tonight is different than whether or not something is pre-millennial or amillennial or post-millennial. What we're looking at tonight is within premillennialism. Okay, we've got that figured out. We're all in agreement we're premillennial. Now you're premillennial. Everybody's premillennial, and there are three possibilities at least Three possibilities within premillennialism. Where do you put the rapture? Is it post-trib? Is it pre-trib? Or is it somewhere in the middle Okay, which would be mid-trib or or pre-rath, which we'll look at. Okay? So that's the timing of the rapture. Does that make sense? And we do have to make sh make the difference, make sure we understand the difference there. Premillennialism is very clearly taught, I'm just going to say this at the outset. Premillennialism, I think, is very clearly taught in Scripture. Pre-Trib Rapture, I'm not so sure is. Okay? And we'll go over we'll go over all of that. Yes? Yeah, oh yeah. Yeah, I oh there's all kinds of stuff. Um I I gave l a couple of them A couple of w lessons ago I gave a whole list of books and charts on on that. So if you check out uh a previous just go on the Eschatology and Sermon Audio, you can as a whole list. Or I can give them to you later, but um that is a whole list of them Um yes. I don't even think of cover, but before you get started on three, what does our millennial believe concern? Yeah, they would say that there is a rapture. They would combine the rapture with the second coming. They would say it's the same thing. So essentially they don't make a distinction between the rapture and the second coming of Christ, which is what the post-trib premolinist will do, which we'll talk about in a minute. Right. So well it does, that's true. Most of our hens do that for a reason. You'll see why. Our older hens do that. Okay, most of the elder hams make no distinction between the rapture and the second coming of Christ. Because they're written before a certain time period. So we'll we'll look at that. So on premillennialism, I don't have the book with me, but there's a couple of good books on that, because that wasn't what our primary treatment is today, is on the rapture. This is the best book I can get I can suggest on the timing of the rapture. It is called The Rapture, Pre-Tribulation, Pre-Rapture, or Post-Tribulation. It's in the counterpoint series And it is written by there are three contributors of the book. The main editor is Alan Holtberg. But there are three contributors of the book, Craig Blazing, Alan Holtberg, and Douglas Moo. We're going to look at all three of them tonight. Okay, but I I would I would h this if there's any one-stop shop book I recommend on this, it's this book right here because it refers to a bunch of the other books. It gives you an entire history, which we're gonna learn tonight. We're gonna look at the whole history of this So this is a book on this. Now premillennialism and non-millennialism, there is a great book on that, several great books on that too that I would recommend. I have them in my office and I can and I've uh previous previous lesson I I uh shared with that, shared you with with that but I'm not prepared for that tonight. But definitely um this is a good um this is a good source for what we're looking at tonight. And many of the quotes and many of the references that we'll use tonight are from this book, just so you know where where I'm coming from. The truth of the matter is many times when I'm studying a subject or a topic, I'm usually pulling from many resources To be very honest with you, there's sometimes I find a resource and I go, this it has it all. And that was with with this book. I mean it kind of had everything. I didn't I have other resources, I've read other resources, but this had everything in one in one volume, which is is actually pretty helpful. And so I would encourage you to if you're really wanting to get into delve into this, this is a great book to read. It is, I won't it's not for the faint of heart though. It is hard reading. I can't I'm not gonna lie to you. Take it take it. This is for free, but when you're reading a difficult book, don't let it intimidate you. Let me tell you how you read a difficult book. If you're reading through a chapter of a book that's difficult, The first thing you do is you read through it quickly and you get the headings and you get the general idea. And then after you get the general idea of where he's going and what he's doing with that particular chapter, then go back and read the details You'll find it far much far. Don't get choked up over a word or a, well, what does that mean? Just read through the chapter, kind of get through it. You'll have a general gist of what he's talking about, or maybe you'll say I have no clue he's talking about. But but you should have a general gist of what he's talking about, and then you go through and then hit the details, get the forest first, and then the trees that will really help you when you come to a book like this. I had to do that with this. And so I'd encourage you to do that. Alright, so we're going to get into the timing of the rapture. There are essentially three possibilities pre-trib, which we've already looked at. Okay, so let's set up our timeline real quickly for you. You've got the tribulation. What's the tribulation? Seven years. Seven years. We're going to do a little pop a little questions real quick here. Seven year tribulation. How do you know it's seven years? Does the book of Revelation ever say it's seven years? Daniel. Good. Daniel says it's seven years. Revelation never tells you it's seven years. Where in Daniel? You don't have to give the real chapter, but what concept in Daniel? Who knows? Daniel 70 weeks, the 70th week. You remember that? Okay, it actually gives you the days. All right, in Daniel. We won't take time to do that tonight, but Daniel's 70th week, that's where you get the seven years. You don't get the seven years book of Revelation. So you got the tribulation period, okay? And on the front end of the tribulation period, you have the church age. And on the end of the tribulation period, you have the millennial kingdom. Okay? So we're all premillennialists, so we're all agreeing on this so far. Okay? And the question in the middle of the tribulation you have what's called the abomination of desolation where the where the um Where the Antichrist breaks his peace treaty with Israel. Okay? He has a peace treaty, which is kind of a false peace treaty for the first First three and a half years of the tribulation period. He breaks his peace treaty with Israel, that's prophesied by Christ himself in Matthew 24, and it's also mentioned in Revelation and several other places So you have, and then the second half of the tribulation is this time of fierce wrath. Okay, it's called, normally it's called the Great Tribulation, sometimes it'll be called that. It's the the second half of the tribulation. First half is relative peace, but you've got, you know, seals and you have some judgments going on, sealed sealed judgments in the uh And then but then as you go into the into the second half of the tribulation, you have much more intense, much more frequent judgments. Okay, so I'm giving you sort of this basic timeline of so we are we're understanding where we're where where we are. The question is, is the church going to participate in any of this? When does the rapture happen? And that's really the question we're asking now. So we've already established the timeline. You have no problem reading the book of Revelation. You would have no problem, and we're going to go through these, pre-trib, mid-trib, which is also Pre-RAF would be the newer name for mid-trib. Midtrib had some ish problems that were just sort of untenable and it was fixed with a new thing called pre-pre-RAF. So these are the different views. And we're going to look, we're going to go through these views. Now, I think that's what I really need to get through. And we're going to, I'll try to sort of help you through this as we go through this as far as making sure you understand and I'm bringing you along. I'll try to make it as clear as I can. But let me ask you a question. Out of these three views, which one is the oldest? Yeah, post-trib is the oldest view. Okay? It goes all the way back to the third century, in fact, or second century. Okay, we have writings from it. It is the oldest view. I bet you didn't know that. Okay? It was not pre-trib, uh it was not the view uh uh and mid-trib. Those came later. Alright, so um let's go through this and take a look. This is the book I'm talking about, three views on rapture, pre-tribulation. This is the book that I'm talking about here, so um I would recommend this one. So what we want to do first is we're going to go through a history of how these views came about. Okay, and we're going to start at the earliest points. The earliest Christian writings we possess after the New Testament indicate no real question in the first three centuries of the church regarding the timing of the rapture. So first three centuries, not even questioned. Nobody ever questions the time of the rapture. The basic futurist or premillennial eschatology appears to have been taken For granted by most. Now, so let me make clear. Premillennialism was taught in the first three centuries. Okay But this the timing of the rapture was not even a question. It was not even discussed, as far as we know from any of the writings of the first three centuries. The rapture, when it was discussed at all, was assumed to be contemporaneous with the return of Christ. Okay, that would be then post-trib The return of Christ to earth to establish his kingdom. The anti-Nicene fathers consistently maintained the church would witness the abomination of desolation and experienced persecution under the Antichrist. Okay? So the church fathers, the earliest church fathers, this is prior to the third century, or within the first three centuries. They they all said it was all they seemed to be understand that we were going to go we were at least gonna experience the abomination of desolation. We were gonna go first through the first at least the three first three three and a half years uh of the tribulation, that was not ever really in debate at all from any of the writings that we have. And we have actually quite a f more writings than you would realize. I have some in my off uh uh copies in my office um of the writings from the first first century and or from the third second, third, and fourth centuries. Let me just say here that My general approach to this is I tend to value early church history writings. There comes a point where I I have a left I devaluing in history. They might know where that might be. Where would I suddenly, this is my own personal approach, but where would I suddenly say, I'm not so comfortable anymore with the writings? of church history. Any ideas? Yeah, when the Catholic Church began to do most of the writing, I start getting uncomfortable. When was that? Yeah. Augustine was the fur really the first person. So if you if you mark the writings prior to Augustine Although you have to be careful because like Origen, who was a church father, he was sort of a precursor to Augustine. But a lot of the writings of the Church Fathers prior to Augustine are really helpful. Augustine and after, Augustine's writings are sometimes helpful, but sometimes they're not, because he takes a very allegorical approach to Scripture. And then that is really where you get the ability to for the Roman, the Roman Empire to infuse their paganism into Christianity, and you have the Roman Catholic Church. And so I suddenly start not trusting them after that. But in the be and what, I already said it, what what view took hold in the Roman Catholic Church? Om millennialism. Okay. So in Omillennialism, you're not even discussing the the time of the rapture at all. It's not even a discussion at all. Okay, so you so anyway, actually I'm kind of getting ahead of myself here. From the Middle Ages to the op uh to the opening of the nineteenth century, other eschatological opinions were ascendant including it and especially Omillenalism and historicism. Omillenalism being prominent historicism just means that any Bible prophecy has already happened, that there's not that there's not um you know the the book of revelation it's just out it's just sort of figuratively taken it's already happened that's historicism And that's that's during the Middle Ages. I'll be honest with you, most of the theology in the Middle Ages you could throw out, in my opinion. Uh they call the Dark Ages for a reason. A lot of mysticism, a lot of lot of lot of allegori allegorical stuff, Catholic churches coming in, papal decrees are happening all over the place. You have a lot of, I mean you can wade through and find some valuable things, but but um it's it's definitely heavily heavy weighting at that point. The issue of the timing of the rapture was a non-question in these traditions. I mean you get all the way to the 19th century and you don't have you're not discussing the timing of the rapture. They're essentially a non-issue. By the beginning of the 19th century, however, premillennialism enjoyed a resurgence with a futurist reading of Daniel and Revelation. Why do you suppose at that point uh uh the futurist position or premillenalism position began to resurge. Any idea What happened prior to the 19th century? Well, you have the you have the Reformation that's really way prior to the 19th century. But that really starts this, oh, we need to take the Bible for what it says kind of approach, you know, solo scriptura. And from then on, people start taking the Bible for what it says more and actually delving into the words of Scripture And when you the more you do that, we've already learned this, the more you come out premillennial. And so premillennialism becomes popular again. a futuristic reading of Daniel and Revelation become something that is that people are are seeing as valuable. By the 1920s, pre-tribulationalism won the day almost, not entirely, but a lot, but but heavily. So when you think of pretribulationalism, which is what most of us are, I grew up with, what most of us are used to. That was really a s became the norm around the 1920s or so. The minority positions of post-trib and mid-trib were productive in the middle decades of the twenty uh twentieth century. You've got two books, George Eldon Ladd and The Church of uh of the tribulation by Gundry. These are two books that were also also this what these ideas were they were minority positions but they were they were making some they were making some headway In 1981, Trinity Evangelical Divinity School, which is a really good school, published a debate with a a treatment of all three views. My Greek teacher in seminary now is a professor at Trinity Evangelical Divinity School. He went on to he went to get his PhD there and then I believe he teaches there now. It's a solid school. And so they said, you know what, let's debate on it. Basically, this is the last version of what started with these this school really raising all of these and let's debate these. Let's really delve into these and and try to try to look at the look at them as as objectively as possible. Alright, let let me just pause for a minute and ask you before we get into these views and explain them. So far, what observations would you make about the history of the timing of the rapture. What what's going through your mind right now? I'm just curious. Yes, Kim. I would just kind of say that given the timing and everything that the early church was more focused on the gospel and getting the gospel out and And maybe they weren't as into prophecy. You know, and and I mean kids really you think about it even when I'm thinking that and this is just my view But um they had gone and they had seen persecution. I mean they had gone through persecution, so it was normal for them to assume that More tribulation, what's the big deal? But then I for me anyway, yeah it's just the two things obviously that when you're gonna talk about where it ru in in um Revelation where it it doesn't mention the church Which I don't think is a strong one, but the other one is the judgments. And Christ said there will be no condemnation for them. Okay. We're gonna get into that, yeah. W other other observations about the history. It does it does seem The events in time, that's in the last two thousand years. Uh course Catholic Church uh brought it in the starpes literally. I mean they I mean the the fact that the earth is round was was known by the Egyptians, but yet, you know, that knowledge is destroyed by the body capital churches oppressed dramatically. Uh and the fact that uh uh because they they were steeping the mysticism and so on, it went on for a long time. The Reformation brought about the you know the uh book that's work out as it is. And then what happened is you had certain things happen. World War One happened. World War One uh was the war you know the first world war and that was an apocalyptic vision, you know, uh for unfolding in front of people. And it got them thinking of as the topic Yeah, that's what caused people to start being future really more future concerned. Yeah, and we talked about that in the past. Right. There was a cultural shift in World in the World Wars that caused people to think, what's in our future? And then people started studying eschatology more. That's true. Um when you read the different passages of the coming of Christ, just just if you you know you're reading through your you're doing your daily Bible reading and you're coming across passages in Thessalonians, for example. and other places where it talks, 1 Corinthians 15, other places where it talks about the coming of Christ. Do you ever say, well, which is it? Is that the coming of Christ or is that the rapture? Have you ever said that to yourself when you're reading through these different passages? I've done that many times. I'm going, well I am not sure. Sometimes it really looks, when you're reading those, it looks like it's the same event It doesn't seem that Paul is necessarily making a difference, making a differentiation between those two events. And so I could very easily see the early Christians reading these reading these and saying and seeing them as this one big coming. It's almost like you have to see it as a two-phase coming. In order to consider the rapture to be a separate time from the second coming. In other words, the most it could be argued that the most natural reading of all these texts would be that it's it's not the same it's not two different events. Yeah. Usually what you hear is which second coming Yeah. So um so anyway, that's that that would be some of my observations on this. All right, let's look really, we're gonna have to work through these kind of quickly, but let's first of all look at the pretrib rapture position. The Bible promises children of God exempt that should not be lowercase, I'm sorry. Exemption from divine wrath. Okay Revelation 3. 10 promises removal from the earth prior to Daniel's 70th week. Can somebody turn to Revelation 3. 10? Okay. And uh when you get it, let me know and you can and and read it. We're going to keep going 'cause we do have to move through these. The biblical requirement for non-glorified believers entering the millennial kingdom Necessitates an interval of time between the rapture and the return of Christ to earth to establish his kingdom. So he says there you've got to have an interval of time there. I've got it. You got it? Can you read it for me? Revelation three ten. Because thou hast kept the word of my patience, I will also keep thee from the hour of temptation which shall come upon all the world to try them to dwell. Okay, so this is this is to the church at Philadelphia, and he says, Because of your faithfulness essentially, I'm going to keep you from the out he says, the hour of temptation. Which will try the world. So it's a little nondescript what he's talking about, but it is in the book of Revelation. Not long, you know, a couple chapters later, where the tribulation is is kicking in. And so Revelation 3. 10 becomes a pretty strong proof text of the pre-trib rapture position, which is why I wanted to mention that. A comparison of the Rapture and Second Advent passages in the New Testament demonstrates the distinction between the two. So he says if you read all these passages, you can see a distinction between the Rapture and the Second Advent of Christ. Okay, so that's really the pre-trib rapture position. I'm not going to spend a whole lot of time on that position tonight because that's what we're used to. That's what most of us grew up kind of grew up with. We're pretty familiar with that with that approach. The basic premise, the basic approach is that we will not go through the tribulation period because the tribulation is a time of wrath, and God has exempted his people from a time of wrath. But let me ask you, can you think of any problems with that argument? There's numerous mentions in the Bible about Yes. Okay. So you have all kinds of passages of scripture saying you'll have tribulation. And uh that is actually one of the things that the post trib people will point out. Okay, that's early in the book of everything. Yeah. Well we'll be in the judgment seat of Christ. He he says we have judgment, but but not wrath. But um yeah isn't there also a distinction There is. So here's another problem. Do you have Christians during the tribulation period? You do. No question about it. You got 144,000 Jewish witnesses going all over and leading people to Christ. So it's during this time, so are they gonna be under this? Well we're not, but they are What do you say about that? I mean that is an art that is a that is a bit of a problem. It's like so why would we be exempted when they're not? Yes. I think the majority will end up in Israel, okay? And uh right that that's their the the best place for them to go. And there'd be a remnant, there'd be very multi-moml Well, so what you're almost saying what you're what you're essentially yeah, but they got they're getting killed through persecution, through God's w through wrath. I mean up until that point. And then then they'll uh then but Oh, okay. So if those people are protected from God's wrath, why couldn't we be protected from those that God's wrath in that in that time period? What? We can style the land of Israel. Um we can't migrate to Israel. I mean I I'm not sure that So only in the land of Israel will people be will be people be protected if they're Christians in the in in the tribulation period. I don't know. Okay. So so I'm just pointing out that there are some weaknesses in the argument. Okay? That's all I'm pointing out here. Okay. Um mid shred uh a position. Ready? What's that? Okay. Seems to so Gleason Archer, this he kind of bases his approach, this is sort of a re recoil, a uh a response to uh some of what um free free uh Feinberg said He seems to generally have accepted these, the thesis in essence, basically accepted what Feinberg had said. Though he disagreed with Feinberg that the divine wrath would be executed from the entire seven-year period of Daniel's 70th week. Maintaining instead that the structure of Revelation indicates that God's wrath will be poured out only in the second half of the week while the church will experience the wrath of the Antichrist during the first half. So so the mid-trib position essentially says, yes, we agree. that that God's people are are going to be exempted from God's wrath, but God's wrath really doesn't start in the second half of the tribul in the first half of the tribulation. It really starts In the second half of the tribulation, the first half is really the Antichrist that's that's that's exacting his wrath. Archer's case. The emphasis on the first three and one half years of the Antichrist activity in Daniel and Revelation indicates a significant shift and the Antichrist's focus after the abomination of desolation, presumably implying that the rapture's occurrence at this juncture best accounts for the shift. Revelation 14, 14 through 16 is a picture of the rapture that is followed by the return of Christ with his saints, Revelation 19, 12. Alright, so I don't want to spend a lot of time on this. We're going to kind of move through these quickly just for sake of time. We could delve into them. But what would you see as problems with the mid-trib approach? We're looking at their arguments and saying, okay, we're gonna what what's the problems there? Any idea what what we would say maybe the problem? Well they don't they don't address the question uh about where the church has been supposedly taken out before this period. Well that's um yeah that the I I think what you mean is I think the way I would take what you're saying is So they're saying the rapture is in in Revelation fourteen. Right, well that's in chapter four. But we don't see the church 2414, it kind of looks like a rapture, but we don't see the church actually being taken out. We see Christians being being taken out at that point So so it really doesn't establish a c there's not clarity about that Revelation 14. Between Christians and the church. Right, so right. Um that would be the other pro the other issue is that if you are a really i um If you take an approach where this is the church age and the tribulation period, how you view the tribulation period has a lot to do with how you approach this too. Generally speaking, the tribulation period is for what purpose? Generally speaking, it's to chasten the nation of Israel, according to Daniel. That's generally what the purpose of it is. But does it mean that the church couldn't be here? And if the church isn't here, then what are those Christians? Are they proselytes of Israel? Is that how we would take it? Possibly. I mean I don't have a problem with that. But you have to ask the question, what are where are these where for instance, let's just be a little imaginative here, where are these Christians fellowshipping? Are they fellowshipping in a synagogue at this point? I mean we don't have the establishment of the sacrificial system until Christ comes back in the millennial kingdom. So what's going on here? Are they fellowshipping like a church or they ha what is this going to look like for the Christians during the tribulation period since we know that they're going to be there. So there's a lot of there's a lot of fuzziness about this. Alright, let's go to the post-tribulation uh view. Was there a question or something Post-Tribulation View. This is by Douglas Mu. He says this. Moo objected to the notion of the rapture and the second coming being two different events. Mu argued against any theological necessity. He says there's no theological necessity of the church being removed from the earth in order to be protected from the m machinations of the Antichrist. And the wrath of God. Since, on the one hand, God has allowed his people in the past both to experience tribulation at times experience divine protection in the midst of an outpouring of divine wrath I mean if you think of if you think of his people, the nation of Israel, for example, you can go all the way back to the Old Testament. You can go, they were under under They're under all kinds of things where they were pr like like you think of the the the plagues in Egypt and they're protected from these plagues But when God's pouring out his wrath on Egypt, they're there. It's not like they've been removed from the whole situation, although they are protected from it. So he's sort of saying, couldn't God do that rather than removing. Do they have to be removed completely? Is is is kind of what he's saying. And on the other, will manifestly do so even under the pre-tribulational schema of the tribulation saints. He says, even if you take a pre-tribulational approach, We have to assume that God's going to protect in some way the tribulation saints. So that would be that's essentially why one one of the things So let's look at Moose's case. What's his case for his pre-post-term? Now let me just remind us, this guy's premillennial. He is a solid I I've read many of his books, many of his commentaries and things. He's very, very solid. So th this guy's in our circles. He's this is not he's not like outside of he's like not you know he's He's really a sod solid literal interpretation of scripture kind of a guy. There are no necessary theological reasons. We've already said that. He says that the church cannot be Present during the final period of God's wrath. The language of Christ's second advent in Scripture demands a distinction between the rapture and the church. No, I I think actually when he meant I I wrote that wrong. He he doesn't think there's a distinction between the rapture and the church He says clear rapture texts, John 14, 1 through 4, 1 Corinthians 15, 51 through 55, 1 Thessalonians 4, 13 through 18. Do not indicate the timing of the rapture. You might want to write those down and look up those later, but what you're going to find is he's right about that. You read those texts and you don't see a clear indication of the timing of these things. Okay. Whether related texts, 1 Thessalonians 5, 1 through 11, 2 Thessalonians 1, 5 through 7, Matthew 24, 1 through 31, various He said, I'm not sure these apply the timing of the rapture The concept of eminence in Scripture remaining an any moment rapture. He says, I don't see there, one of the arguments for a pre-trib position is it's it upholds the eminency of Christ's return. Like if you have all the these events before it this is probably the strongest argument for preacher of rapture in my opinion. You have all these events before the the rapture, well How is it then in any moment? Is it truly imminent? The counter-argument to that is that Christ said he didn't even know when the coming of Christ is And yet he told of all the events in Matthew 24 prior to the coming of Christ. Prior to his coming, he says. So and then he says after he gives all these events including the abomination of desolation and he says and then the end comes and he's got all these events and then he says and then and then the son of man will come and then he says but the son of man doesn't even know when this is So, and that's where we get our doctrine of eminence of Christ from Christ. So I'm not sure I I understand Moose's point basically when he says this. Then you have, so, well let's just keep going. Then you have the rise of the pre-RAF view. The pre-RAF view is basically a mid-trib view. Okay, and this is becoming in the last 20 years very very popular. Several of my friends are really deciding that this is this is where they they land on things And it's and they it goes something like this. Archer's attempt attempt to tie the rapture to the very middle of of Daniel's 70th week failed for lack of evidence. He he kept trying to tie it right to the middle, and there's no very little evidence of that. The pre-rath integrates the pre-Trib's position that Christians will escape the outpouring of God's wrath. But will encounter the Antichrist and his persecution along with the abomination of desolation. So they'll encounter the Antichrist, they'll encounter the abomination of desolation, and then they'll be removed. Pre-rath um equates the biblical concept of the day of the Lord to begin sometime in the mid midst of the second half of the of Daniel 70 weeks. So the pre-reposition is not just directly in the middle. It's somewhere in the middle of the second the second half of the tribulation period. Rosenthal was a man that really came, really began to study Scripture, and he was pre-trib in his approach. And he began to really delve into the details of Scripture, and he said, you know, I'm just uncomfortable with this approach as the more he studied it. And he came up with these. He said that the day of the Lord or the day of God's wrath begins sometime sometime during the half of Daniel's 70th week, immediately following the cosmic disturbances in Matthew 24-28 through twenty-nine. So what Rosenthal did was he took this Matthew 20 and we're not studying these. You guys need to I can email this to you to you all. But um What he did was he took some of the events. Are you all familiar with Matthew 24 that Christ actually names the abomination of desolation and some of these events in that passage? That's all you really need to know but uh for for you to understand this. And what he does is he corresponds these with Revelation 6, and he's he sees the he lines them up. And I'll tell you, you read these passages and you go, wow, they really do line up pretty well. It's actually fairly compelling what he does here. The rapture will uh occur immediately prior to the day of the Lord, he says. The day of God's wrath, he says, is in Revelation 6. 17. Somebody look that up. Could somebody look up Revelation 6. 17? And he summarized in the seventh seal and summarized the seventh seal and corresponding trumpet judgments. Anybody have it? Dave? For the great day of his wrath has come, who shall be able to stand? Okay. So I mean it says it right there that that's when the day of his wrath is. Revelation 6. 17 Okay, so he takes that, which is a pretty direct, clear reference, and he says, that's when the day of God's wrath is, because that's when it says it is Daniel 12, 1 and Matthew 24, 15 through 21 begin after the abomination of desolation, he says. 2 Thessalonians 2, 1 through 4 provides corroborating evidence. He's arguing that it does. And Matthew 13, all these pass those passages there indicate to the church. age ends prior to the outpouring of God's wrath in 1 Thessalonians 5. 9, which promises the church deliverance from the coming wrath. So what he says is there's enough evidence to say that the church does escape the wrath of God, this day, the day of the Lord, this event which is, you know, not just a day. Um and that the church does escape this. There seems to be enough evidence that that's the case. So that's the that's the pre-RAF view. Alright. Um and I'll tell you, so Where do okay, so when you know there's a lot of information here. We didn't even get into all the passages. I'm looking at the time clock and trying to keep it in time as well So where do we come down all this? Well let me suggest that you consider this quote. Can you all read that? Yeah, I think you can. The issue debated, Mu says, should be seen by all sides as a relatively minor matter. No significant doctrine of the church affected. No text is interpreted so differently that its general theological and practical teaching is obscured. The very reason a volume, and he's talking about this volume here, the very reason that a volume such as this is needed is because the scriptures are not clear about the timing of the rapture. Any view, including certainly my own, involves an attempt to construct an overall picture from disparate and uh And at times contradictory pieces of evidence, we need to add a strong dose of humility to our defense of these views. And that when I read that, I thought, there I agree with. I said, that I agree with. I don't agree with Moo I don't know that I agree with Moose Moose point, but what I do agree with is, you know, you start thinking about where this is gonna h where the timing of the rapture is And you start thinking about all the passages that this is going to compromise. And you find out it's not. And you think all the doctrines it's going to compromise. And it doesn't. It really is not something that is going to compromise anything real significant. We know that God will protect his people from his wrath, whether or not we're here. Okay? From his we we we won't we're not going to be under God's wrath because of God's protection, one way or the other. But doesn't mean we won't be persecuted or t or torch under tribulation, though. That's there is a difference But I just really appreciated his approach, and I said, you know, I really think that we need to think through this a little bit. What how important is this really? Premillennialism, yeah, that's really pretty important. A futuristic view of Bible prophecy, yeah, that's really important. But you get into these kinds of things and you sort of go, I'm not sure this is all together that important. When Christ comes, he's going to come. And until he comes, I'm not sure how confident I can be. So here's my inconclusive conclusion. Number one, I'm very unsure. I can see all three points of view, and when I'm delving into the explanations of one point of view, I'm very much persuaded. Until I read another point of view. I mean that's just the truth. I lean toward a pre-trib position, but admittedly, this is what I want to believe. I grew up in a church that held this position, though it was not included in their doctoral statement, and went to schools with professors that took that position, with some exceptions, and many of my friends hold this position, but many don't. We tend to believe what we want to believe. I have uh I have no good reason to convince everyone of this position. And see no reason why people, even within a local church, need to agree on this issue. So there that's really my inconclusive conclusion on this issue. What did you wrote this? What do you mean by that? So yes, Patreon for office. Oh boy. Let me go back to uh this, which we've talked about several times, this illustration. The very beginning we looked at this, and I want to point this out. When we think of Oh, I'm missing something. This should be, there's biblical support on this side. There should be something that says biblical importance on this side. What I have found through scripture, and what I found when it comes to Bible prophecy, is that the more biblical support you have something, the more biblical verify biblically verifiable it is. the more important it is. And the less biblically verifiable it is, the less important it is. That's where I come down on this. So I look at the premillennial position, I say, well, that is really, in my mind, very biblically verifiable. I look at some of these other things and I say, yeah, these are biblically verifiable. I lean pre-trib, but I know well that I want to lean toward pre-trib. But I I lean that way, but can I say dogmatically that that's the case? I can't. I cannot be dogmatic on this And so that's where I would end up on end up on on this. So you know you know you know my answer to the timing of the rapture? I have no idea. But by the way, somebody else said that. Christ Himself said, I don't know when. He said even the Son of Man doesn't know when the coming of the come his coming is. Only the Father knows that. So I actually think that an inconclusive conclusion, we're in pretty good company if that's what we have. And so I would just encourage you, on this issue, let it go. There are people in our church that don't have a strong inclination toward the pre-trib rapture position. They don't. And they they've actually talked before they joined and they said, you know, uh uh do we have to ha do we have to actually believe that? I don't really have a view. And I went to the deacons and said, do they need to need to have this view? And we all agreed, no, you don't have to have the view. You just don't want to teach against it. Okay? Now some of you might be saying, well that's what you did tonight. I didn't teach against it. I just brought all the views to you. And I said, I'm really unsure. However, if I'm going to lean somewhere, I would lean pre-trib. And uh I would continue to lean lean that direction. Any comments or questions