Um we we um uh last couple of weeks w how we're going over on millennialism. So somebody tell me what omillennialism is, essentially. Okay, there is no thousand literal thousand year millennial millennium. What kind what um um system of theology holds to uh millennialism? Usually they're connected. Right, covenant theology. Now let me ask you this question. What is the strongest argument What's the strongest argument for covenant theology and non-millennialism? What would you say is the strongest argument? I I think I said it fairly clearly What is okay, what are some of the arguments? Let's put it that way. Yes, Yvonne. Um at times when Jesus or Paul referenced the old Yes, and that is what I would suggest to be the strongest argument as well. So you got you got them both correct. Um so yes, uh the strongest argument is probably that when Jesus and the disciples used the Old Testament, they did not always reference it literally. They did not always use it in a literal They have they sometimes use it in an allegorical or figurative sense. What is the answer to that argument? What's Carol? Okay, look what do you mean? That Okay, I think I know what you mean. We're getting there. Okay. Yeah, I think I know what you mean. So so let me ask the question again. So so covenant theology takes an allegorical figurative approach to the Old Testament. They say we should do that because the apostles and Christ did it sometimes in Scripture, and they cite lots of times. Yeah, I just tipped my hand there What what is our argument for saying oh no we should not that is not a strong enough argument. What's the rebuttal for that? Yes. Yes, other times they took it y literally two. Right? So sometimes you have the disciples and Christ taking it uh uh allegorically or figuratively. Other times You have the disciples and Christ taking it literally. So it is true that they have a they have an inconsistent hermeneutic. Was that what you were going to say, uh, Joan? We're going to add anything to that? Because there's one step beyond that, then you then then to continue that rebuttal of that argument, what what what else would you have to say about it? and therefore need to add to it by uh good assuming that other things are also um not literal figurative uh allegorical yeah yeah yeah um then we're technically adding to it as we go, whereas if we assume that anything that was allegorical, Christ and the disciples have all rightly interpreted for us, therefore it may Exactly. Did you all hear what he said? I'm not sure everybody did, so I'm gonna say it again. So so Rebuttal number one to this idea. Number one, you've got the disciples and Christ who have a bit kind of an inconsistent hermeneutic. They're not always interpreting scripture literally or allegorically. Sometimes they do it one way, sometimes they do it the other. Number two, that's okay because they are under the inspiration of God's Spirit when they're doing this. Number three, we are not under the inspiration of God's Spirit when we are interpreting Scripture. Number four, God's word is complete. So why would we need to do any more, do take an allegorical approach to Scripture? Why would we need to read into something that's not there if God's word is truly complete? Okay, that's the argument for ma for taking a literal normal approach to Scripture rather than an allegorical figure approach, particularly to the Old Testament. Everybody follow that? That that's really, really help really important as you're thinking. Thinking through whether you are covenantal or dispensational or omillennial or premillennial. Okay, good. Alright, so now we're going to get into premillenalism, and that this is what our church holds to. It's it's in our doctrinal statement. And it's something that I think is important to be in our doctrinal statement. And um so and we could kind of discussed that last night at the end there as well, that that that we feel like this is this is important Um what I'm what I'm gonna do is I I decided to take the same approach, some a similar approach, not exactly the same But a similar approach that we took to omillenalism by taking sort of an authority on premillenalism as well. We had an authority striple on uh uh last week, uh last two weeks on omnialism. Now we're going to look at a guy by the name of Craig Blaising, who who is really an authority on on um on on eschatology as well, and he takes a premillennial approach. He is the executive vice president and provost of Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary He is a recognized authority in patristic studies and eschatology. Okay, who knows what patristic studies is? You get an you get like a cookie or something at the end. No, if you know that. I don't I don't have a cookie, but uh patristic studies. Anybody know what that is? Pastoral. Not pastoral. Yeah, okay, good, right, right. So so it's the study of the patriarch. It's the study of what is what would what are the church fathers, what what did they do, what did Origin do? What did um con uh uh uh Augustine do who how what was their theology, those kinds of things. He th he's sort of an authority of that. You're gonna see that come through in some of what he says about premillennialism. It's really, this is excellent stuff. I will tell you, I learned some things. Usually when I a lot of times when I'm doing theological studies, I'm just reviewing Well when I studied this I was doing some reviewing and then I ended up looking wow that is really a good point So I I was excited to learn some new things Here. Served as the president of the Evangelical Theological Society as well. He's a member now, but he did serve as the president. Okay, so this guy really, really knows what he's he's really well established in in the field of study that we're looking at. So he gives a brief definition of pre-premillennialism. I know you might not think that's brief, but that he actually says it's brief, so we'll just take it as The two most central convictions of premillennialists about the future can be stated in Did we pray yet? I don't think we prayed yet. Let's pray because we'll need it before we get into this. Let's pray there. Father, we do come to you and ask your blessing on our time together. It is encouraging when we when we look at the coming of Christ. And it is and we're going to be looking tonight at some some heavenly things. May this challenge our hearts and may this just encourage us about the about the things to come. And encourage us about the life that we will be living after this life. And may it challenge us in this life and may it encourage us in the next life. May it do what you want it to do. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Alright. So the two most central con uh convictions of premillennialism premillennialists about the future can be stated in relation to the word premillennial. The foremost conviction is that Jesus is coming back. All hopes and expectations for the future are focused on his return. His coming will be pre, that's prior to a millennial kingdom. Okay, now the all-millennialists will have no problem with Christ coming back. They agree, they would we would agree on that. just to to be clear about that. But we do see this as the the the hope of the believer. Millennialist would would too. But of course it's also prior to the millennial kingdom. Obviously, then a second central conviction has to do with the millennial part of the premillennial. This is the belief that after Jesus comes He will establish and rule over a kingdom on this earth for a millennium, that is, for a thousand years. We can fill in the picture of premillennialist beliefs about the future by asking how they relate to the resurrection of the dead, the final judgment, and the eternal destinies of the saved and the lost to the second coming and millennium, and he's going to do that. Premillennialists believe that Jesus comes, that when Jesus comes, he will raise the dead in two stages. First, he will raise the dead to participate with him in the millennial kingdom After the millennium, the thousand-year period is over, he will raise the rest of the dead and institute the final judgment. Then will come the final and eternal destinies of the saved and lost. These future expectations are common to the premillennialists. Now here's what I want to do at this point. I want to show you a chart. This will help help explain what he what he explain what he just said. If you look at the top of the page you see a diagram of historic premillennialism. Do you see does everybody get one of these? If you didn't get one of these, um raise your hand and is there any extras? Yeah, if you could just they got several hands raised. Just keep your hands up and Eric and and the Maya can pass or Zach, I think it was Eric and Zach can pass them around a little bit. All right. Well what are so take a look at this chart here and and what you find here as you look at it is you you see the big thing in the center millennium, it's actual a thousand years. Satan's bound during that time. So we'll sort of take that as the focal point. Okay? And for the historic premillennial position, what he's saying is that prior to that, you have, you see in the lower left-hand corner of that millennium, you have an arrow pointing up, righteous, dead. uh raised, okay, the resurrection there. And then after the Millennial Kingdom, you have again the the uh uh an a final a final resurrection of those who are saved during the Millennial Kingdom. Okay. So in the pre in the historic premillennialism, all of everybody, the church and everybody that knows Christ is raised from the dead. And and uh and during uh uh uh at the same essentially the same time as the second coming. So you have a rapture and then a second coming that occurs. Okay, all around the same time. They would not deny the rapture, but they would say that the rapture and the second coming are basically the same event. We're going to get to that in a minute. So that would be the historic premillennial position. That there is a little literal millennial kingdom, that there is a thousand years, uh, that there is a second coming. And that's what you have here. Any questions about, we're going to get into a few things here, but any questions about the historic premillennial position? Yes. What is great cost to people? Okay, so yeah, they believe that there is this there is a great you have the church age and prior to the tribulation you have great apostasy that occurs. That kind of lines it up, doesn't it? Anyway. Okay. What what is what do you see that's missing here from what we would be used to? Okay, you don't see a rapture before the second com before the tribulation and this in this diagram. Okay, now that is because the idea of the rapture being separate from the second coming did not occur until dispensationalism came about. So this view came about very shortly after the Reformation. But the idea of the rapture being separate from the Second Coming, they're all the same event in the historic premillennialist mind. didn't come until Darby and Chaeffer and those guys began to develop d dispensationalism. That idea really wasn't I mean you might be able to find it in some book somewhere, but it certainly wasn't a a common idea. Okay. And so um so we're going to look more at more at that in a few moments here, but I just want you to understand what we're dealing with here. What we're dealing with here is the is a is is a is the pre- the historic premillennial position. So Craig Blazing would or would not necessarily Uh may or may well actually I'll show you what he says here in a few moments here. Let me just see what he says. One major difference among premillennialists today concern the doctrine of the rapture. This doctrine is taught in 1 Thessalonians. Now let's go ahead and do this. Let's take our Bibles and turn to 1 Thessalonians 4. Alright, so take your Bibles and turn there And also you'll find the rapture found in 1 Corinthians 15, 51. But let's look at 1 Thessalonians first. 1 Thessalonians and chapter 4. So I'm just going to read these verses, verse we'll pick up here in uh in verse 13. But I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning those things which are asleep, that ye sorrow not, even as others who have no hope. For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so them also which sleep in Jesus will God bring with him. For this we say unto you by the word of the Lord, that we which are alive and remain unto the coming of the Lord shall not prevent them which are asleep. For the Lord himself shall descend from the heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with him in the Lord uh which shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord, wherefore comfort one another with these words. Alright, just we're probably gonna sidetrack here for a minute. But what you have here is a description of the rapture. You also have the same kind of description in 1 Corinthians 15. It is talking here, of course, about Christ, those rising from the grave that are already dead, that know Christ, and also those who are alive meeting Christ in the air. Okay? And so what we have here is a description, 1 Corinthians 15 is very clear, a description of the resurrection of the saints. Alright, now in the premillennial idea, in the historic premillennial position, you still have two resurrections. You've got one before the millennial kingdom, and then you've got another one after the millennial kingdom. Okay? So you still have two two phases of this resurrection. Alright, so keep that in mind. What you don't see in Thessalonians or in Colom in Corinthians Is where the timing of this is. You don't find the timing of the rapture in either one of those texts. Those are the only two texts that you can clearly identify as the rapture There are other ones that you could possibly identify. But those are the two texts that you would clearly identify as a rapture, and you don't have the timing in those two texts of when they are going to happen. It just could happen anytime. Okay. So so that's sort of important to understand. Um so he says this. Being caught up with the Lord, per se, is not a matter of dispute among evangelicals. That's not disputed. The existence of a rapture is not disputed at all. The issue has to do with whether the rapture is temporally distinct from or is temporally in phase with or is a phase of the second coming. Only certain premillennialists make this distinction. There are two such positions, pre-tribulationalism and mid-tribulationalism. Which hold that the rapture will take place either before or in the midst of the period of apocalyptic woe and distress prior to the second coming of Christ, a period known as the tribulation. Since all premillenalists believe that Christ's second coming will occur after the tribulation, that's not in debate at all. Pre-tribulationists and mid-tribulationists necessarily affirm two comings or two stages of the one second coming. Post-Tribulationalists are premillennialists who believe that the rapture and the second coming are not distinguishable temporally. They believe that both occur in the one event of Christ's second coming, which will transpire at the end of the tribulation. These tribulational views can be illustrated as shown in the chart below. So if you'll notice the second chart there, you'll see here that the dispensational premillennial view is that you've got a rapture that occurs prior to the tribulational period or in the middle, one of the two. Okay? So that's basically the differences that he's talking about there. All right, let me ask you at this point, any any questions? What we're going to be delving into is not the timing of the rapture. That's for another study. It's going to be probably this Sunday after next or somewhere in January. Okay. But I do any questions about understanding the difference or the distinctions between a premillennial position and a pre-tribulational position? Any questions about that? I just want to make sure everybody's clear on that. You know the difference. Which one is more important? A premillennial position or a pre-tribulational position? There is no question that the premillennial position is far more important. Okay. You ha yes. Uh more clearly biblically uh identifiable. Um you can see a thousand years seven seven times in Ro and in h in Revelation twenty. Uh you have to deny, you have to allegorize the text essentially. You have to really okay, but you can't find anywhere in Scripture where it says that the rapture is occurring before the tribulation. You can't find it. So let me a I'm gonna I'm gonna delve a little more into the tribulation or into the pre-trib position and we're not gonna cover it completely tonight but just to get you thinking on this for two weeks or two or three weeks from now. What do you suppose, if that's true, that there's nowhere in the Bible that tells the timing of the rapture? How do you suppose dispensationalists came up with the idea that the rapture occurs before the tribulation? Kim. Because there's part of the revelation that basically Give the indication, but the church is not private joy of tribulation very. that identifies the church as the church. Now you have unsaved people and you have saved people in Revelation. You have the 144,000 in Revelation leading other people to Christ. So you have people that are in the tribulation that are getting saved But you don't have the church specifically identified in a in the tribulation. So that would be one one argument. The first half of the pre uh of the Tribulation is a a time of uh creative evil, but it's not a time of judgment second to half of the tribulation. Well they're both a time of judgment. Well I this time of judgment I'm saying as far as as far as the uh the second one is the second time is a time of wrath. It's a time of wrath, that's path is kind of red which uh by then uh almost just the remnant would be of the left and uh of of Christians and uh believing Jews you know, but the rest of the world would be uh punish the early you know, so that would make sense, you know, to to establish the the the rapid Prior to that. Okay, prior at least to the middle of it. And so one of the arguments for that is that we will not face the wrath. God God says we d Christian Christians don't usually face wrath, okay? Or or God's wrath, and so that's not uh on uh on us. And so the coming of Christ is not very much a a great hope for the believer if he's gonna have to to go through the tribulation period. And so there's this idea based upon that. Okay. So that's some of the where they get the the idea where dispensationalists get the idea that there's a rapture prior to the tribulation period. But, folks, you can see how it's derived from inference. It's not derived from direct scriptural statement. Does that make sense Okay? And so that that's why when something's direct scriptural statement, we either have to say, yes, that's what it says, and I'm going to take it literally Or, okay, well, I'm going to make it figurative, okay, which is what the covenant theology people do with the Millennial Kingdom. And that's really a lot more weighty than whether or not we take an inference. from scripture and we lean that direction. Now I'm I want you to say I I lean pre-trib. We're gonna get into all of that in detail in a couple of weeks. But but just in preparation for that I'll get you guys thinking a little bit about about the difference What we want to establish tonight is the pre-tribulation, it is the premillennial position and why we believe that and what what the distinctions are. Uh and he does, Blazing does an excellent job with this. He he deals with something that I did not I've never really I've never really seen before and and I it was a big help to me. I hope it'll be a big help to you tonight. He's going to draw a connection between the eternal state and hermeneutics. Alright, first we've got to define hermeneutics. What is hermeneutics? Come on folks, what is her what is hermeneutics? Yes, it's it's how you study the Bible. You gotta retire tonight. It's how you study the Bible. Okay? Alright, that's hermeneutics. Okay? The eternal state is what? Yeah. What what what you're gonna be like after you're dead. Okay? Alright? What what's what's gonna happen at the very end when everything's done that the Bible says is done, what's what's left? Okay. Um All of this raises for us, he says, the second major concern of this book. What will eternal life be like? This is really a key point. This is really good. The point I wish to make, he says, is that the question of the millennium and the question of the final state are interrelated hermeneutically. Now you'll understand what that means as we go along. The way one conceptualizes the eternal state. In other words, when he says conceptualizes, he's saying the way that one thinks about the eternal state And the way uh and the way that conceptuality is related to the biblical teaching on the on the coming eschatological kingdom Conditions how one will look at John's prophecy of the king of the coming millennium. In other words, he's saying how you view the eternal state is going to determine how you view what Scripture is saying. Okay? And they're related. So here's what he says. On millennial and postmillennial rejections of premillennialism traditionally have more to do with the pre-understanding of what is proper, fitting, or plausible in relation to their traditional expectations about eternal life than with any biblical teaching contradicting the premillennial coming of Christ. Frankly, there isn't any, I don't think there is any uh any um scriptural teaching that contradicts the pre you'd have you'd be hard pressed to find a by a Bible verse that contradicts even even if it's not I mean even uh with any kind of reasonableness against the premillennial position. So what he what is he saying here? Somebody help me with this. We're it we're interacting with this. This is good good for us to learn how to read these kinds of things. What is he saying here? Yeah. They they prefer the concept Okay, good. So Guillaume says that we're talking here is about preference. Okay. Preference based upon what? Well these fitting the plug in Does it make sense? Yeah, does it make sense to me? Is it is this what makes sense to me? Is that how most of us figure things out? It is. It's exactly how most of us figure things out. We read things and we say, well that makes sense But how do you determine what makes sense? What gives you your criteria for what makes sense what you want to make sense? Okay, some of that is what you want. And also, what else? Kim? Right. Your pre right. what you've been you what you're used to. Usually what you what makes sense to you is based upon what you are used to. Okay? And so for someone who grows up in an omillennial home Or in a home that's uh let's just use Presbyterian for example. Somebody grows up in a Presbyterian home, they're used to something in particular. Somebody grows up in an independent Baptist home is used to something And so what makes sense to them is based on what they're used to. That's basically what he's saying here. What he's now going to get to is he's going to he's going to plunge down deep into what what we're really what the real issue is of what we're used to versus what we're not used to. Okay? And this is this will be helpful for us. He's going to introduce two models of eternal life. The spiritual vision model or the new creation model. And he's going to argue that you're going to either take one or or the other of these models in what you consider what you're used to when you're considering the eternal state. Okay, when you're considering what happens after you die. I mean if you really think about it, let's just practically put this into perspective. After you die, uh we're premillennialists here, so we we we know that one day Christ is going to come back, we're gonna come with him, we're gonna participate in the millennial kingdom, but after that, what's next? I mean I mean do we all sit on pillowy white clouds with harps and sing to sing for the rest of eternity? Is that what we do? Do we work do we move into the netherworld and come back and talk to people on the other side or something? Okay No, we don't what what what what what happens after the eternal state? What is going on? And we all have sort of this idea based upon what we're used to as to what this is going to be like So that's what he's pointing out. And he says, whatever you're used to, that being, that's what you're going to come, that's what you're going to help you conclude on what position you are biblically. Alright, so let's look at this. He begins with a spiritual vision model. That's pretty small. Can you write that's not too bad. Okay. The spiritual vision model of eternity emphasizes biblical texts promising that the believer will see God or receive full knowledge in the future state of blessing. It notes that Paul speaks of the Christian life in terms of its heavenly orientation and adds to this the biblical description of heaven as the dwelling place of God. as the present enthroned position of Christ, and as the destiny of the believing dead prior to their resurrection. In the history of the church, many Christian theologians have claimed that the final state of the resurrected will be in heaven. The way in which they have described it draws not only on biblical themes such as we have mentioned, but also on cultural ideas common to the classical philosophical tradition. That tradition has contributed to the spiritual vision model and three basic convictions. Number one, a basic contrast between spirit and matter. Okay, just think about this. When you think of the eternal state, what he's saying is that you generally think that there is a contrast between spiritual and what and material. Spirit and matter. Number two, an identification of spirit with mind or intellect. Okay, so okay, spirit and matter are disconnected, spirit and mind are connected. Follow this. If you've been here the last couple of weeks, follow this. This is really interesting what he says here. How he is going to deal with this guy. Okay? And then number three, a belief that eternal perfection entails the absence of change. When you think of the eternal state, do you think of your that you are going to change? I mean just think about it. You're dead. Everybody's dead. The millennial kingdom's done. We know there's a new heaven and a new earth. We don't know what that looks like exactly. And you're just thinking, have you ever thought beyond that And if you thought beyond that, have you thought to yourself, well, at that point, I'll stop changing? How many have suspected that that's the way it works? Right? I mean that's the way we think. We're changing all the time now. We're growing all the time now. But when you get to the end of existence, but you're not you're gonna continue to exist, we're all eternal Well then after that then it'll be it'll be static. It won't change. Well let me ask you a question. Is there anything that you know will change that will never stop changing? Yeah, that's one clear, our knowledge of God will never, will will always for eternity continue. We will never exhaust our knowledge of God. He's infinite. It then it then it it assumes that we will continue to learn for all for all of eternity. It's hard to imagine that, right? You would think at some point you'd know everything. You will never know everything, and you will always continue to know more. Okay? That's something in the eternal You don't think that way very often, do you? You and I will never be omnipotent. We'll never be all, can do anything like God can That means that if we are in the eternal state, that there is a chance for development in the eternal state. Okay? And we'll never be omniscient, omnipotent, omnipresent. Well, that one's really hard to figure out. Okay, so so um You follow here, we we get used to the idea of, okay, well, life is we live life, we die, we go to heaven, we be with the Lord, and then it's just kind of Nebulous, we're just in this spiritual realm that we just can't get. But how you determine what makes sense to you What you're familiar with is going to determine where you're comfortable, how comfortable you are with your approach to eschatology. Okay, whether you take it figuratively or you spiritualize it or you do what with it? You take it literally. Alright? So here's what he says. Does it everybody everybody get that? Does it make sense Okay, we're going a little deep here, right? But but if we if if uh if you can stay with me, I I think it'll be very beneficial for you. If nothing else, you can be in awe about what's going to happen in the future. You can just be thankful for what God is going to be doing with us. It's good to be heavenly minded sometimes, to get ourselves out of the rat race for a few moments. to look ahead to all of eternity. This is healthy for us. Central to all three of these is the classical tradition's notion of an ontological. All right, let's stop and define that one. What does ontological mean? Ontological has to do with what is what is in what is essential, what is essence, what is real. That's what ontological it is, okay? What is really real? Okay. Um the ontological hierarchy in which spirit is located at the top of the descending order of being I'm going to read this and I'll explain it. Elemental matter occupies the lowest place. In the spiritual vision model of eternity, heaven is the highest level of ontological reality. It is the realm of spirit as opposed to base matter. Okay, I've got to stop explaining this. Okay. So you've got, what is it saying there? It's saying this. There's the there- he we've already assumed that there's a distinction between spirit and matter. And which one is higher? Which one is better or more lofty? Which one is higher? Spirit rather than matter. So now we've elevated spirit and we've reduced matter. So when we come to God's Word, why not it be up here? Should it not be up here? Do you understand the point? If you're going to make those distinctions, if you're going to make the distinction that the spirit is up here and matter is here, Then, if we're going to read the Bible, we better elevate it to there. Okay? Does that make sense? So that's the mentality behind covenant theology and omillennialism. It's really helpful to understand this. Okay. Um so he says this is the destiny of the saved who will exist in that non-earthly spiritual place. as spiritual b beings engaged eternally in spiritual activity. Right, we w you do right. Okay. The perfection of heaven and the spiritual vision model means that it is free of all change. This changelessness is contrasted with life on the material earth While changelessness means freedom from death and decay, it also means the absence of development or growth. It means freedom from temporal and historical change, such that the arrival of eternity, or better, one's arrival in eternity, is characterized as the end of time and eternity. Following the classical tradition's identification of the spirit with mind or intellect. Okay, well did you follow, did you follow that? Does it make sense what he's saying there? Okay? We're going deep. I think I think you're still with me, hopefully. Okay? Alright. Next next what's that? Oh, okay. Next point. The perfection of heaven in the spiritual vision model means that it is free of all change. This changelessness is contrasted with life on the material earth. While changelessness means freedom from death and decay, it also means the absence of development or growth. It means freedom from temporal and historical change, such that the arrival of eternity, or better, one's arrival in eternity, is characterized as the end of time and history. Right? Okay, so do you follow that? So he's saying basically when when considering time and change When we think of eternity future, if we're not careful, we can think that suddenly at some point, when we get into the eternal state, time ceases. Is that true? Does time just cease? Yes, Ken. Okay. We we don't know the answer. Yeah. We we don't know the answer to that completely. I have a I have a uh thought on that in a few minutes that I'll share, but but um we don't the Bible doesn't say specifically, so we we can only But we but to assume that it doesn't is also uh to assume that it ceases, I think, is just as dang is is is dangerous or to assume that it continues, to make the assumption And impose that on our understanding of scripture is going to be a problem, right? Can we have our understanding of time and we understand it? Right. Yes. does talk about time uh in script committee. So if he's talking about time even in the seven days of creation, thousand days of creation day, you have all these different things where time is is via so why wouldn't there be time continued. Yeah, that would be my arg that was what I was going to say later on, but I'll say it now. That would be my argument for why I think there probably will be continued time Because God created it. It's a cre it's God's creation. What's that? Yeah, it's God's creation. So it was created prior the fall. It was created perfect. God intended it to be. So why would it cease to exist all of a sudden? We don't know. I'm just saying if God created something perfect, then why wouldn't it continue? Yes. God is a very orderly God. relate to time a lot, especially in the old testament talks about God and his timing in contrast to our idea of time. So if time were to cease, and it could cease, but if time were to cease, then we seem to refer that God didn't have Right. That would be the inf the at least in our finite mind that would be the yes. Yeah, so one thing we do know is that who is outside of time? God's outside of it. Whether or not we'll be outside of it is is up for grabs in the internal state. Okay. But he'll be outside of it. Yeah. He is outside it. Yes. When we're forever learning, we have to be we have to be continuing within the common learning. Yeah, I agree. So anyway, good. Alright, at least we're thinking, right? I mean this is this is this is good. We're thinking we're this is good. Okay. Um some people are going, this is not good. Anyway. Um Perfect spiritual knowledge is not a discursive or developmental knowledge, but a complete perception of the whole. Okay, he's really getting deep here. Let me just move on to the new creation mod uh creation model. Okay, so we're now gonna move on to the new creation model. Does everybody understand basically what he's saying with the spiritual vision model? You're looking ahead, it's static, there's no time, there's no um uh there's no development, there's no lear you uh there's no change And spiritual is higher than material and those kinds of things. That's what you ha have. And frankly, if you really think about it, that is, would that not be the norm in people's thinking. Even in our country. Our country could even believe better than ancient things. That's not the point. Right. Well there's all kinds of theories on that uh on those kinds of things. Okay. Yes. But that's Essentially, what that would translate to is we would become another version of angels in that exact spiritual Time stops, everything stops. Right. That's essentially what we're doing is we're becoming another form of angels, human angels. Right. Good. Angels Sure they are. Yeah, but I don't think people are thinking that angels are the created being when they're wrong. Right, but we know that, but the people that are assuming that we're turning into angels don't necessarily know that. Okay. So What's that? Yeah, no wings, man. The bell is not ringing for you, buddy. Okay. The new creation model. The new creation model of eternal life draws on biblical texts that speak now you could tell which model he likes better, okay? It draws on biblical texts The new creation model of eternal life draws on biblical texts that speak of a future everlasting kingdom, of a new earth, and the renewal of life on it. Of bodily resurrection, especially of the physical nature of Christ's resurrection body, which Dad pointed out, of social and even political concourse among the redeemed. The new creation model expects that the ontological order and scope of eternal life is essentially continuous with that of the present earthly life, except for the absence of sin and death. Eternal life for redeemed human beings will be an embodied embodied life on earth whether the present earth or wholly new earth, set within a cosmic structure such as we have presently, It is not a timeless, static existence, but rather an unending sequence of life and lived experiences. It does not reject physical or materiality, but affirms that the essential both that as essential both affirms them as essential both to a holistic anthropology and to a biblical ideal of the redeemed creation. This is what is meant by creation, part of the label for this model. Alright, so let's pause at this point. So, in God's view of things, is it really that there is a contrast between material and spiritual? Does God make that contrast? I don't think he does. And is there this contrast between, and then it and then is there this hierarchy of spiritual being up here and material being down here? No, God made material. He made creation. And so when we look at pre-fall creation, we're looking at God's something that God made that was perfect. But didn't need redept redeemed until we felt we messed it all up. Okay? So to say that matter is not as good as The immaterial is better than the material. Is what he is suggesting is a false idea. It's not a true idea. Does it make sense? Alright, so this is what is meant by the creation part of the label for this model. While external life is essentially continuous with present existence. It is not simply or an ending extension of present conditions. To be sure, there will be a significant difference in the quality of eternal life. Those who share that life will be immortal, having been freed from the death through resurrection or translation. Sin will not exist. The saints will be confirmed and glorified in the holy character of the Spirit of God. As such, they will enjoy communion with God as well as with one another in the new creation. This is the spirituality of eternal life in the new creation model. Not the absence of materiality, but the full effect of the Holy Spirit's indwelling in resurrected physical bodies of the redeemed. This is also the meaning of spiritual bodies in 1 Corinthians 15. Material bodies and glorified by the Holy Spirit. Following the language of Isaiah 25, 65 and 66 and Revelation 21 and Romans 8, the new creation model Expects the earth and the cosmic order to be renewed and made everlasting through the same creating power that grants immortal and resurrection life to the saints. The non-human aspects of creation, both animate and inanimate, will be greatly blessed beyond the state of things prior to the transgression of Adam and Eve. This is the new and the new creation, the view of etern of eternity. While these two models are fundamentally different, they are not exact opposites The spiritual vision model separates and contrasts the realms of spiritual and physical reality and understands the final state of blessing in terms of the former alone. The new creation model rejects the dichotomy that is crucial to the spiritual vision model and sees eternal life in a holistic spiritual and material sense. Note that we are speaking of models of eternal and or everlasting life. Let's see. I think you all get the point. So let's let's move on to this as far as her how do how does this apply to hermeneutics and you you're probably your mind might be already going there. Having sketched out these models, two general comments can be made about the ways in which Christians have thought about them Number one, the spiritual vision model was the dominant view of eternal life from roughly the third century to the early modern period. With some variation, it still exercises considerable influence today. Ideas that have associated with the new creation model can be found in apocalyptic and rabbinic Judaism. And in second century Christian writers such as Iranus of Lyons, they would appear in Christian thought occasionally after the third century, but it was wasn't until the modern era they and modern era not in the w sense that we think of it, we're talking about like Reformation. That's what he's talking about. began to receive a broader hearing as a conceptuality that actually belongs to Scripture. And a conceptuality that actually worthy of theological affirmation. The long dominance of the spiritual vision model conditioned the way Christians traditionally and habitually think and converse about eternal life. Okay, so here's what he's saying. He's saying that prior to the th after the third century, this concept of eternal life Began to become popular. And with it, the idea of Scripture being spiritual, sort of a spiritual thing rather than material. it was also something that became popular. It was propagated by the church known as church quote-unquote father origin. And he had he wrote a s a systematic theology essentially. He wrote a way of understanding the Bible and his way of understanding it basically. And then later on you have Augustine of Hippo who adopts the same kind of approach. And then what you have there after that is you have this spiritualizing of things. To the point where you literally don't have a gospel anymore. By the time you get to the medieval time period and the dark ages, the gospel is nearly snuffed out entirely. It isn't until the Reformation, where they started taking by grace through faith alone, literally again. It isn't until the Reformation that suddenly, um, or that not necessarily suddenly, but that that We they began to have theology that was based upon what scriptural a scripture actually said, rather than ideas and premonitions and those kinds of things. So his point is that this idea of the eternal state in the way that we often think of it has long-standing history. But at the same time, you have this history of the eternal state being this nebulous spiritual non-material idea is the same time that you have um literally all kinds of weird uh um mm uh ideas in the dark ages. So that's really going to be his point. I'm I just summarized a lot so we can go through a bunch of things and you're all thanking me. Uh let's see. Even then changes in uh actually I'll just we'll just we'll just stop there. Okay, at this point, any questions about what he is saying so far? Does it help you to understand why people would take a spiritual approach to God's, would spiritualize Scripture, which is really the more fair term than just allegorized? Yes. The spiritualizing scripture and of things like the resurrection, for instance, is what's really dangerous, yeah. Okay. That's uh the the the spiritualized the the spiritual resurrection and so on and so on. He didn't it wasn't a bodily resurrection, it was just they say his body for the body advantage, things like that. They uh and that's where you're gonna run into all these uh these these problems with the spiritualizing scripture so Alright, good. But but the point that he's making here, what he what he's saying is that the reason that people do that is because it's what sits well with them. Okay, that's really the point. It's what they're used to and what sits well with them, what they're comfortable with. It's what they want it to be as somebody's Okay. I don't think it's a rebellion. I don't I don't I don't think that. I think I I don't think necessarily. I think it's just not in some cases I'm sure it is, but it's not all the time. Yes, Ken. I understand what you're saying about the overall part of the spiritual side and yeah he's talking about this eternity now yeah but is this the question yeah in the time frame between death And the resurrection. Good question. We are spiritual. Good question. So Paul is struggling with this in Second Corinthians chapter four. He says he is he is I think it's second Corinthians chapter four. So he's basically saying he's out of the body at that point. And he struggles with it. And he's saying, basically in that text, um, his bottom line is, I'm not sure how this is gonna look. What this is going to be. But to be absent with the body is to be present with the Lord. And so what we know is, yes, are we not will we at that point not have a physical body? That's true. When we die right now, if I die tonight, I don't have a physical body until the resurrection. Okay, that's definitely the case. What where am I though? The one thing I'm comfortable with is I'm with the Lord. And that that's the comfort of the believer when we die. We're with the Lord. And there is a little bit of uncomfortable comfortability about that, not having a body. But we gotta wait a w it's a waiting period essentially. But that's definitely the case. It's a good good good point. Yes, Joe. Um one thing that might help if I was kind of thought it We said several times time doesn't work the same for God as for us. He's outside of time. So when we die, we don't necessarily Yeah. We die and are at the resurrection. We possibly have to have an actual time of waiting in our spiritual body without our physical body, the two can be simultaneous to the individual while time is still going on on earth for other people. Yeah, if that's the way God wants to be, that's certainly certainly possible. And that may be a good thing. I don't know, maybe I'm out of context on this. They're talking about the martyrs being under the uh being under the the the throne of God. Yes, how much longer, how much longer Yeah. So I give me the in the indication of even even before in paradise there was an existence of understanding what's going on. Yeah, and you even have a problem with it because we'll be with the Lord. That's the main that the main comfort for us in that state is that we're with God. There isn't any question about that. That's what Paul says And um but no it yeah, no that's a good point. I mean even if you think of Lazarus and the rich man or or um yeah, Lazarus and and the rich man and that whole story, Abraham's bosom and all that, I mean I mean, um that's not just a parable they're actually it's actually named Lazarus. Christ doesn't name people in parables. So you have this going on. And and and so yeah, yeah, uh um I I but the great comfort is we're with the Lord. That's the that's the main comfort. Yes. An interim body? Well I don't I don't tend to think so because of Paul's well we can go over we're we're running out of time here. We we might hit this uh a little bit next time, but uh Paul doesn't seem to indicate that that's what's gonna happen um in in where he talks about this I think it's 2 Corinthians four three or four seconds three or four. Okay. Uh did you have something Josh? No. Okay. All right let's go ahead and uh and have it's an interim He said interim. Between when we're dead uh before we get the resurrection body that there's like an interim body. That is a theory. All right. All right. Let's go ahead and go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we thank you, Lord, just for the time that we can uh spend just thinking about the things to come. It is healthy for us to do so. Your your desire for is for us um to have our affections on things above, not on the things of this earth. So we pray, Lord, that you would increase our enjoyment of these things and that we can look forward to heaven and to look forward to what you have for us. I am thankful that it isn't just this eternal nebulous state that we're going to be learning about you and we're going to have responsibilities and we're going to be doing things. that there is um this this uh and yet apart from sin and apart from death it's going to be wonderful and we look forward to that day that we are freed from the presence of sin sin and death, and that we can experience new creation in its fullest form. And so we are just we look forward to that day. Until then, Lord, will you will you help us to be faithful to you? And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. All right.