To do is we're going to look at the millennium tonight. Before we do that, I want to just review the previous lesson, which was a while back. And I'll just do that, I'll try to do this a little bit each time just so that we're Um at least retaining a few things. Of course, we've had a week or two in between a couple weeks in between lessons here for various reasons. But But we'll try to maintain some sort of continuity. So a question, here's a question for you. We had four different views, general approaches to eschatology. Somebody tell me a view or one out of the four. Yes. All millennium. Okay, now that's that's within the millennial uh we're talking about millennium. This is review of two weeks ago. Oh Um that is true for our lesson tonight. But futuristic is one. Good. What else? Futuristic Uh Enrique? Uh Preteris. Preterus, good. What else? Historical. Historical? Okay, one more All right, symbolic. I'm glad Cheryl was taking notes. That's good. Preterist, historical, symbolic, and futuristic are the are the four views. The preterist view is that events occurred uh during the time of the writer, uh wh while he was writing. Um Uh historical view is already fulfilled in church history, so when you're reading the book of Revelation, for example, it's actually just It it's all been fulfilled in church history. Um symbolic view is the idea that they're not related these events are not related to time, and that that very statement has a logical problem. Uh events by definition of what an event is would be related to time, but they're suggesting that all of the events in Revelations and these other ones are um are basically not um They're not events at all. They're symbolic of something else. And then futuristic view, fulfillment of the events are in the future. Our church uh in our doctrinal statement would hold to which view? Okay, futuristic. Oh I'm sorry, yeah, a hand would have been good. Yeah. Futuristic, uh yeah, it's uh the futuristic view for sure. So tonight we want to look at three different um three different um well we're actually going to look at four uh different uh views of the millennium particularly You'll see that there uh Miranda sent me this, so I thought uh we'll use this for our opening pre-mill, post-mill, and omil for all you coffee lovers. Um I thought that was pretty pretty Uh cute, so I thought I'd I'd add that. So we're we're we're gonna delve a little deeper than that though tonight. Um couple of disclaimers that I would just uh point out about this, uh about just the subject One's view of the millennium is not a separation issue. This does not mean that we are not firm in our convictions. What I'm saying here is that we can be very firm in our convictions about this issue, but it's not a separation issue where you say, okay, well I'm going to separate from that Christian because I or the church churches should separate. There's ecclesiastical separation. We're going to separate over this issue. This is really not a separation issue. As I give these general approaches, please understand that there are variations of these general approaches. So if I talk about the all-millennial view, for instance, you might know somebody that's all millennial, and then you go and talk to them and they say no, he's not right about what my view is. Well I mean, I'm talking about the general omillennial approach, and each individual omillenalist is going to have a little bit slant different slant on it, just like each premillennialist will have a little bit different slant on things. We're going to look at some just general categories tonight. Don't be bothered by when I use the term system tonight. Anybody who holds a system is simply putting together things that have got they've gotten from Scripture. Here's what I mean by that. Everybody's got a system. It is innate in us to want to be consistent in our understanding of Scripture. And of course, if God's truth is all truth, then it would presuppose that one passage is not going to directly contradict another passage. And if you have that presupposition that one truth isn't going to contradict the other truth, then what you have is you have to synthesize the truths. And if you're doing that, you're creating a system. So everyone has a system. Some people say, well, I don't have a system. That's why I'm the my system my view is the best, because it's not a system. But that's really kind of a kind of a It doesn't make a lot of sense. So everybody's got a system of theology. Everybody has a system of the end times. And so don't be afraid of that word. Why would the millennium I'll just ask you this? I'll actually put this out for a question. Why would studying the millennium and knowing our view on this, why would this be important? Any ideas? I think the the ultimate reason for us um unless these things start to happen happen. The basic reason for us is that we should know that God has a plan and He is going to carry it out. And He He He's showing us But pulling back the curtain and allowing us to see some of it. Okay. Good. That's that's a good answer. More that's kind of an answer to eschatology in general, but particularly why what's the importance of the millennium? Henry? A big part of it would be there are certain prophecies that are unfulfilled that fulfilled by the rain Jesus' reign. Are all the Old Testament prophecies fulfilled? No. Okay. So when you're reading through, you know Isaiah and Zechariah and all these different you're going to find prophecies and they're not fulfilled yet. What do you do with those And the millennium is a very good place where most of those are probably going to be fulfilled. We'll talk about that a little bit more, depending on your view of the millennium, actually. Because um some people don't believe that uh we'll we'll get into that. Okay. Let's just go through these. Your view on the m on the millennium will set the trajectory for your approach to eschatology. This is Uh this this lesson and the next one are going to be crucial. If you miss these two, so I'm gonna ha like there's a lot of people who miss them looking around uh the um and I'm gonna have to encourage people to go online and watch this because or listen to it because Because you know everybody wants to listen to my voice. No, no, not at all. It's because if they miss this and they miss the next one There's these these are serious links. The millennium, what you believe about this is gonna make it's gonna set the trajectory of how you look at the book of Revelation, how you once you've once you've I mean it is really this is really important for understanding eschatology and and the approach you're taking. A lot of people, when they start teaching the book of Revelation, they begin by, okay, well let's just open the book of Revelation and we're going to take a futuristic premillennial view. Well, that's and and they don't even they don't even go why their view is that way. And they're going they just sort of jump right into the book or the typical fundamentalist independent Baptist view of things I don't know why, but I just don't like to do that. So I want us to see all the views among Christianity, Christendom, and know why. If you're a premillennialist, you ought to know why you're a pre-millennialennialist If you're on mail, you ought to know why that is. Or if you're if you have a friend that's post-mill, you ought to know why they ought to know why. Okay, and so I I'm not uh so it's not just well I am because I I you know I always have been, my family was, my church wasn't. No, there ought to be more than that in your in why you understand what you understand And so that's that's one of the reasons I'm starting at such rudimentary level, not rudimentary, but I'm starting at such um such foundational levels and then working our way up. Yeah. Well it depends on what you're doing. So, yes, it's a doctrine. It's not a f it is not a gospel centered doc it is not it has very little bearing on the go as far as in other words, somebody can believe in the gospel entirely and not believe in a literal thousand year millennial millennial kingdom. And they could in fact and I'll and I'll I might I might I'll mention it now. Andover Baptist. Shane Walker does not believe in a thousand year millennial kingdom. Well we're gonna get into that. So Okay, yeah, uh let's let's define what the word doctrine means. Let's just we'll go back up uh back up one step. What does the word doctrine mean? That's all it means. It means teaching. So anything in here is teaching. Anything in here is a doctrine. So, but there are some things that are fundamental doctrines. And there are other things that are not fundamental doctrines. So the deity of Christ, fundamental or not? Fundamental. The substitutionary atonement, fundamental or not? The timing of the rapture. The millennium. Okay. Do you see the difference? So you've got fundamental doctrines that that have bearing on the gospel. You have other doctrines that are Um there are some bearing on all I mean it's all related to the gospel some way, but you have other doctrines that are not. You have sixty-six books of the Bible, there are plenty of things in there that that um are going to ha they're just that's what a doctrine is just teaching. So it depends on how uh so basically a belief first stand every day. No, not necessarily. Doctrine. Yeah. That's what we believe. No, a d a doctrine by definition is a teaching. Okay, so uh so uh if you s if you say a fundamental do a a fundamental doctrine um then that would be something where I'm holding to this and I and there's no there's no wiggle room here. There's no there's no bare you know difference But no I uh it depends on how you use the word. You can use the word various ways, but um uh I would though that's the way I would understand it uh the word anyway, um in in that sense. Okay, really the key here is is the gospel. That's really it that's that's the determining, and we'll we'll we'll look back at this in in a few minutes. We'll we'll we'll at the end we're going to discuss how this fits into everything Your view of the millennium, this is why it's important, your view of the link on the millennium will factor into your interpretation of at least one-third of the Old Testament, but probably more. I mean if you look at the Old Testament prop prophetic literature in the Old Testament, a lot of it is is promises to the nation of Israel, literal promises to the nation of Israel, that have not been literally fulfilled Some at least many of many much has not been literally fulfilled yet. Some has been literally fulfilled in the first avent of Christ, but there are a lot of things he never did in his first avent. And so um that's why one of the reasons this is really important. Oops, let me. Although this doctrine is not t a test of separation, it does have bearing on our ability to cooperate in ministry. Now here's what I mean by that. Well, let me ask you why you think that might matter. Why would this particular doctrine It's not a s we're not going to separate from somebody over this because it's not it's not compromising the gospel, but why might it why might we not be might why that might there be limitations in our cooperation and ministry? Any ideas? Okay, sure. Yep. Really, any really that just generally ministries in general. If if somebody's teaching a Sunny Soup class on the book of On whatever book, on the book of 2 Samuel, and you're going to get to the Davidic Covenant. Well, the fulfillment of the Davidic covenant is going to look different for a non-millennial than a premillennial. I mean so so there's going to be differences. Um how that is fulfilled literally, the Davidic covenant is has not yet been fulfilled literally. For an omillennialist, he says yes. For a premillennialist, he says no Okay, he sa he says that it has been partially fulfilled, but it will not be completely fulfilled until Christ comes back and sets his throne up again, and then and then the the Davidic throne will continue and and last forever. Remember the Davidic covenant in 2 Samuel is basically your throne, your lineage, your descendants will will sit on the throne forever. They'll never they'll it'll be forever And so right now, is there any is there a descendant of David sitting on the throne of Israel? I don't think so. So that will happen again in Christ. The premillennials would say, yes, this will be fulfilled during the Millennial Kingdom. So how that's how that that plays out is going to be So these Old Testament truths, these ultimate testament things, how we interpret them is going to matter. So like one-third at least, if not more, maybe two-thirds as as much as two-thirds is going to, your interpretation of passages are going to be different. That would cause a little bit of, um, that could potentially cause a little bit of You know, if a third of what I'm saying, uh it wouldn't be a third of what I'm saying from the pulpit, really, but a third of the passages I'm preaching from you from you have a little bit different. different twists and you're listening to to me, you might might cause a little problems. Now, here's a question for you. If you go into an area and the only church that's available is a church that holds to ammonialism Sh what what do you do? Well I'll tell you what I do. I join the church. That's the only church available. If they believe in the gospel and they're good and they're solid on the beauty of Christ, the substitutionary atonement of Christ, then I'm going to join that I have to join with a local body of assembly of believers and if there's no other options I'm going to join that church. But if somebody comes here and says I'm a millennial, I send them to a another church. That's what I I usually say. Hey, I think you know you're welcome here, but I think that you'd be probably better off uh you'd be more comfortable in in uh and I'll give them another church to look to to to consider. That's how I do it because there there does need to be at least a significant amount of unity. Not total agreement. We're going to get into things, for instance, like the rapture or the timing of the rapture. where I I mean that's not even a doctrine when you're talking about the timing of the rapture. Um the the fact that there is a rapture I think is the timing of it not so much. We'll get into that later. But this particular thing, there is a lot of bearing on, so you can have some cooperation. You can have Thanksgiving service with them, but you probably wouldn't have an eschatology conference with them. Okay? So that's there would be a difference there. Four views that we're going to look at tonight. One is post-millennialism, amillennialism. Covenant premillennialism and dispensational premillennialism. Okay, you might want to write those down. Those are the four. That is going to comprise basically the four views within Orthodox Christianity. When I say Orthodox, what I mean is Those who would believe in the gospel, those who would hold to the gospel, you have those essentially four views. I don't know too much outside of that that would be included in Escope in Uh I can't think of anything else besides those four views. Or s or that or I don't have an opinion. You'll see you'll hear that. You'll see that from time to time. There was no view at all. Like like mar like Lloyd Jones says virtually nothing. about um about the millennial kingdom that I can think of in any of his writings so far that I've seen. He doesn't t he doesn't he just doesn't touch eschatology at all. He doesn't make make a make a determination at all. Back during that time in church history, it was not a it was not something that they really emphasized very much. Rose. Yeah, that's on millennialism, which we'll get to. In fact, uh y y you'll you'll this is I'm just telling you the four views, and then we're gonna go into each uh each individual. Alright, so let's first look at postmillennialism. The key adherents to uh these might be guys like this on that screen, Marcus Kick, Lorraine Boatner. You wouldn't know most of these. Ian Murray, you might know. Rushdone, Charles Hodge, you might know, he wrote a systematic theology. Shed uh John Murray, Jonathan Edwards, you would know that name. He was post-millennial. Okay, uh the Separatists and the Puritans were post-millennial. Okay, so when you think of the pilgrims coming over from, you know, uh uh from across the pond, they were they were post-millennial. Um basic tenants of the system. The fulfillment of Old Testament prophecies concerning a glorious kingdom age will come through the preaching of the gospel under the power of the Holy Spirit. They do not believe that those prophecies will be fulfilled by Israel during the literal during a literal king king. They do hold that the millennium is not limited to a thousand years. The millennium actually began with the first advent of Christ and was fulfilled during uh what they call the gospel dispensation And concludes after the second advent. So they would say there's not, there is some similarity, there's a lot of confluence between the postmillennial view and the amonial view. That it's a sort of happening, they both say it's happening now. The post-millennial view view though is that we are involved in ushering in the kingdom, our performance. What we do, who we gather, what we is going to usher in a kingdom, rather than God just having to define in his mind when it's going to happen. If you think of you know going up to Plymouth Rock and what they were doing up there, the theology behind the Puritans was that they were creating in their minds this utopia. They were creating, they wanted to usher in the kingdom in what they were doing So there the there is a theology behind what the pilgrims did and what the Puritans did. And it was post-millennialism. And so um uh So let's just uh look at this in a few stages here. Their view of eschatology had three stages. The world will be Christianized through the preaching of the gospel. There will then be a long period of peace, then Christ will return. Now, let me ask you a question. If you don't even look at the Bible, what do you see wrong with this view? It's not happening. It's like we're not we're this is not happening. I mean we lead some people to Christ and God brings somebody to himself, but this is just like never happening And so and so um in fact it used to be the prominent view prior to, I think it was World War II. After World War II, like the postmillenalists just dropped off the map. They said this is not working. How do they feel about what in Revelation were the Lord talks about that will there be any belief when I return? Yeah that's a good question actually. I don't honestly Well, um they would say that that all ha would happen in the beginning, like around Christ time, first century, second, third century, and then they would see it all getting better. It it's not a very popular view now because it's not working. But um no, there's a lot of problems with this view. Things I actually don't honestly know how they would answer those questions. Because I don't know, I don't personally know any postmillenalists, to be honest with you. But it basically, this is not happening Their view of Israel is that it was chosen by God But at some point was cast off, most likely at the rejection of the Messiah. During the Old Testament, the church in Israel were the same In the Old Testament, Israel was a state, but today it is more universal in nature. Okay, if you kind of follow this, this is a little different than Omnialism. I understand Omnialism a lot better, but Uh basically there what you're going to find with all these, and I I'm going to have a view of Israel for each one of these different approaches. And the reason that that is is that what you believe about, here's the central issue What you believe about Israel and the church is going to largely determine what you believe about the millennial kingdom and what you believe about eschatology. If you see total continuity between Israel and the church, or very, or close near near near complete continuity, then you're going to end up with an omillennial view or some sort of post-millennial view, something like that. If you see a dis a clear distinction between the Israel and the church, you will end up Or not even the clear distinction. You could you can see you could see some some um uh continuity, some discontinuity, but if you see much discontinuity between Israel and the church, you end up premillennial, and you'll see exactly how this all works I'll flush this all out for you. But their belief was that the church and Israel were the same in the Old Testament. In other words, when you're reading back in the Old Testament and you're reading about Israel, you're reading about the church. And they would say that. In the Old Testament, Israel was a state, but it is now universal in nature. It is similar. It's similar to the Amillenal in that sense. their approach. Okay? They tend to reduce the Abrahamic covenant to one promise, namely justification by faith. How many promises were there in the Abrahamic covenant? Six. Six? I didn't know there was that many. Maybe six little maybe six details. Okay. I was thinking three. Um what are the six? I'll give you three and you can fill in the rest. Okay, so and we're gonna get there in a minute, but I'm I'm jumping ahead a little bit, but you have he says in Genesis three twelve uh Genesis uh twelve He says you have the land promise. You have the indee all the families of the earth will be blessed. So you have the universal promise. And then you've got oh I'll make it be a great nation. So you've got three b three promises there. Okay, well I would okay. Okay, well okay. So it's just fast. Right, right, right. So one I guess I would say this this way. What which prophecies that need fulfilling? in some form. That one would be fulfillment along the along the way, basically. But the three the three that need fulfilling are those three. But they would narrow it all down to one. It's just about justification by faith. That is the most important one. Okay, and by the way, that gives you an indication. Are post-millennials Christians? Well, sure they are. They believe in the most important aspect of the Abrahamic covenant, which is justification by faith Clearly that's in Romans chapter uh 3, all over the place in Romans and Galatians 3. So Jonathan Edwards was greatly used of God, even though he was post-millennial. Why? Because he he knew the gospel and he preached the gospel. And probably he would not be a postmoney unless he lived today. Anyway, uh view uh he they view the Mosaic Law is not a single unit. Um And parts of it are to be held today. So they would not see the Mosaic Law as a a single un or they would they would um yeah they would not view it as a single unit and they would say parts of it are to be held today, parts of it are not to be to be held today There is just essentially little little distinction between Israel and the church in this view. Some would actually, some post-millennialists would say it's the same. Okay? Just one more quick question. Yeah, sure. The mosaic law. The mosaic law. Yeah. But you're saying that they don't view it as part of the law that they have to hold in addition to grades. Yeah. What are they holding? What which ones? Well I mean we'll why why are they holding music the mozegla significance of holding if they don't hold these No no no they wouldn't say that. They would just say that for instance so the way that we would view it the way we would view it is that that we are not held held to any of the Mosaic Law For instance, so what we would say is the Mosaic law is done away with entirely, 2 Corinthians chapter 4. uh one place. And what we have now is the law under Christ. But Christ said, don't murder. And he said, don't um I mean you go through the the commandments, he said all of them except for remember the Sabbath day and keep it holy. Doesn't say anything about that. That's why Saturday you can go do what you want. Okay. So so um so the whole my my so we would look we would look at it and we'd say, yes, there's this moral there is this mor there is Sort of this confluence between Christ's law and the Mosaic Law, we would say, yes, there's sort of a confluence there. They would say, no, no, we still have to obey aspects of the Mosaic Law. In other words, we're looking at it and saying We obey aspects of the Mosaic Law even though that's not what we're obeying because we're not bound to or I don't I don't I w I don't think I would see it that way. I I think some maybe But certainly not Jonathan Edwards. I guess I'll f you know there will be some that certainly would not would not be that way. Um but you you know, I would say that there is a possibility that some would. Any other that's a good question. Excellent question. Any other questions about post millennialism? Yes, Karen. But what are we saying is after? Okay. So so postmillennialism is is that um The we're ushering in the millennium. So post-millennium is that the coming of Christ is going to happen after the millennium. So we've got the millennial kingdom. And we're going to make it good enough for Christ to good qu that's an excellent question. And we're going to make it good enough for Christ to be able to come back, and it's all going to be set up for him. Rather than what Revelation's pretty clear about that it's a mess when he comes back and he comes down, he stamps out the wine presses presses and does I mean, you read Revelation and you don't get that view. But anyway, yeah, so it would be like we're that's the whole postmill idea is we're You would you got you get the social gospel movement out of this view? If you run it too far the wrong way. And in fact, in the 1920s, this was understood by the true biblical fundamentalists. the historic fundamentalists, they understood that this view was it wasn't in and of itself compromising the gospel, but if you if it was it was dicey, it was it was a little dangerous. Because of if you took it to its extent, to its too far to its extent, it could run you into false doctrine, like it did. The social gospel movement is a good is a good example. We're now working for reform the crit the gospel is yes, I'm going to present Christ to you. And then we're going to reform everything around us. That's why you have these New England massive reforms going on, where bars are closing, all those kinds of things. That was part of what they were trying to do. It's a different, there's a different, whole different perspective than you might see in your history books or come up with. It doesn't mean that they didn't know the Lord. Some of them did, some of them didn't. But their approach, how many of you have read the book In His Steps? That is a post-millennial book. That is a social gospel book. Read it again, with that in mind. I mean the first it looks all good. What would Jesus do? And you're reading all the You read it again, and you're going to see, and you and if you're aware of postmollenalism, you're going to see the agenda that's in that book. And so um and in uh the social gospel that's in that book Um I also my first paper in in in college was on s the social gospel movement when I was a freshman. I I don't know if I still have it or not, but I should Look at that sometime. Okay. Um, next view is omillennialism. So postmillennialism, not a lot of people believe in that anymore. You got some. You do have some, as you're always probably going to have some. But there's not a huge amount that believe in post-colonialism. Out of the four views, it's probably in my mind the most dangerous. Okay, because you have this aspect of we're going to be doing something to make this happen. It just creates all kinds of problems when you have that. So post-millennialism, I think, is a little bit is kind of dangerous. What is omillennialism? Armonialism is, here's some people that believe in it, William Cox, Anthony Hakama, uh William Hendrickson. Some more notable contemporary authors, Mark Dever, Al Moeller. Okay, so these guys are omnials. You might know those names more than the other ones. The other ones are more commentators and and and um Bible scholars. What are the basic tenets? The basic tenets are they do not deny a millennium. So on millennial you normally think of no millennium, but that's not exactly what they're doing. Yes, do you have a question? Piper al millennial or Piper, yes. Piper is omillenal. Mm-hmm. John MacArthur, premillennial. Um so yeah, big difference there. But um anyway. Okay. They do not deny the millennium. They believe in a millennium, but they do not define it as premillennialists do. They just view it differently. They do not believe that the millennium refers to a literal earthly reign of Christ. They believe the present age is the millennium. So they would say between the first, between the two advents of Christ, they believe in the coming of Christ. They believe it's on his own. We don't have to usher it in. We're not going to usher it in. Things are getting worse. They know that. They can look around and see that. But they say, okay, the mon there is no a thousand-year millennial kingdom after Christ comes back. They say it's now essentially, and they don't think it's a thousand years. Of course, it can't be a thousand years, we're over a thousand years at this point. Uh they either believe that the millennium is the reign of Christ. in the heart of believers or the reign of Christ in heaven. So some of them say, well, like Christ when he comes to came to earth, he said, the kingdom of God is within you. And so they say, well, the reign of Christ is within the heart of the believer. That's where the reign of Christ is. That's the millennial kingdom. It's in the heart of the believer. Or that Christ is reigning From heaven. So that's usually how they get around this this issue of the millennium or how they how they interpret the millennial kingdom in those two ways. They believe that Satan was bound at the first advent. Okay. Alright. But but not but I'll say this, not as though Satan is not still at work. They just think that he's not as he is not as and I'm not sure that's always the case. Yeah. Yeah, you almost have to say that if you're gonna if you're gonna see yeah. So that's that's where they get the idea. Um but they would not say, I mean they didn't s you know they wouldn't say that the that Satan has done away with, that he's gone you know, he's not been cast in the lake of fire yet, like it says in Revelation, that's still to come. But they would say, yeah, that's where they get that from. The kingdom is spiritual, not earthly, and they claim the dispensationalists base their entire scheme on Revelation 21 through 17. And it is true that Revelation 20 through 10 does say a thousand years, like seven times. So, you know, when something says something seven times, it kind of makes you think that maybe it is a thousand years. Um But there are more there is more to the premillennial view than just Revelation chapter twenty verses one through ten. Their view of Israel, the church, they say, has always existed. Israel, therefore, was a type of the church, which has now been superseded by what we call the church today. That's it. That's exactly what they they would say. All unfulfilled prop promises in the Old Testament are fulfilled through the church. Okay, so you see those all those You know, you look at the New Covenant, for instance, or you look at the Abrahamic Covenant or the Palestinian Covenant, you look at all these different covenants in the Old Testament, and you see them and you say and you see that that that um there's these prophecies that and these promises and you look at you say they have it literally been been fulfilled yet what is what do you suppose is the ominous answer They don't need to be fulfilled physically or literally, they can be fulfilled spiritually through the church That's really what they're saying. They're basically just saying that there's there's a there's a spiritual aspect to the kingdom that that that's what needs to be fulfilled. That's what Christ is really was really promising there There we go. Maybe I read it wrong, but I thought it was pretty clear that there was gonna be 144,000 Yeah, well that's during the tribulation period and they would also they would use in that particular case they probably would say that that was just Israel in general uh or something. I'm not sure how they would take that particular uh thing, but that's during the tribulation, not during the millennial kingdom. So we're still on the millennial kingdom here. No, that's a good question. How do they how do they where do they put the tribulation? I think that they I think that they say yeah, I think that they say it's already happened. think that the tribulation in their mind has already occurred. And all of those things those no, I think they say we're in the millennium. But anyway, all those details are figurative. They're not literal. So so they're they're uh they're allegorizing everything. They're making everything spiritual and figurative. And they're saying this is Revelation is an apocalyptic book and therefore we don't need to take it the literally That's going to be their that's essentially their approach. They wouldn't say that about the gospel. They wouldn't say that about it. How they get around this, I'll just say this. How they get around this has to do with their understanding of literature. And if you look at Scripture, Scripture is written in various genres, isn't it? I mean Song of Solomon is not written the same way as the Gospel of John. And Genesis Ephesians is not written the same way as, you know, 1 Samuel. Well, uh they would not want to change anything. They would just in their their approach to interpretation is is that way. Their their interpretation is is is different. We'll get more into that in the in the in the future. There is no national future salvation for Israel. It is redefined as the elect. So the church is now Israel. So there's no national salvation for Israel. We're the ones that are saved that are fulfilling that. There is some difference of opinion on the elements of the Mosaic law. Generally speaking, there are some parts that are still in effect. Yes. When they see uh promises to Israel concerning land. Yeah yeah that's one of the biggest hitches. Do I can't quite remember do they do they view that as fulfilled spiritually? Yeah. That it wouldn't be transferred physically. Yeah. Is what do you do with all these land promises in the Old Testament? You've got a lot of them And and they haven't been fulfilled yet. And God has promised the nation of Israel these lands forever. And so how do you deal with that? And they have to they really have to go spiritualizing it. They really just have to make it make it very um allegorized that well the land doesn't mean the land or the land doesn't have to mean the land, it can mean something else. Well we say the land means the land. That's what we say it means, basically. Okay. So that's that would be a a difference there. Let me what what we're going to come just so you know, we're going to come back and deal in at length with two of these views in the future. We're going to go into detail for the with the omillenal view. And the other one will be the premillennial view, which is our view. We're going to go into more detail on these. The other ones we're not going to, I'm going to cover them, but we're not going to go into more detail. We're going to cover this one in detail because the two prominent views you have now, almost exclusively, but the two prominent views you have among Christians are the omillennial view and the premillennial view. Okay? And so we want to be aware of that. Some key adherents are of this view. Okay, so this is covenant premillennialism. This is a little different. By the way, omillennialists, their theological perspective would be covenant theology. We will discuss covenant theology next Sunday night, Lord willing. Okay? So if you are a millennial, you're going to have a covenant theological perspective. If you are premillennial, you will have some sort of dispensational perspective. You may not be a seven-point dispensationalist. I'm not really a seven-point dispensationalist. You may not be a classic dispensationalist. You could be a progressive dispensationalist, but you're going to have some dispensational approach. But in this case, you've got some guys who are covered in their theology and yet they're premillennial. George Ladd is one of these, Millard Erickson. These are guys, Ladd and Al Erickson, are both good writers. How many of you read Ladd's stuff? Anybody? How about Ericsson? I know Emrix read Erickson. Ericsson has written a very fine uh the Christian theology uh book on Christian theology. I I really like it. I think it's excellent. But I would not agree with him on his covenant theology approach to covet theology. Basic tenets: Christ will return at his second advent, and then he will set up his kingdom over the earth. Okay, so he's gonna set up he's gonna return and and set up his kingdom. That would be a premillennialist, same thing. They believe Revelation twenty is virtually the only evidence for a little millennium, so they don't see that there's any other evidence for that, but they do They do acknowledge Revelation 20. It's like they can't they say, yeah, you really can't get around this. So we're gonna we're gonna believe that Romans 20 is is literal. Revelation 20. I mean Revelation 20 is literal. Romans 20, there's not Romans 20. They believe that Israel and the church are not distinct. Some of them believe that the church exists in the Old Testament. Some believe it started in the book of Acts. So they can't decide when the church started. But they hold the people of God are always one, whether it be called Israel or the Church. So they sort of have this view that yeah the church was probably started at some point Um but they're they're sort of um unsure when that is, but they also would say that essentially Israel and the church are there's a lot there's primary there's you know there's just about all entire continuity between Israel and the church and that essentially the church replaces Israel So the omillennial view would say the church is real, the church is always Israel, it's always been here. The covenant premillennial view would say the church replaces Israel Very not much difference between those two really, but well a little bit. At Christ's first kingdom, he did not offer a literal kingdom to Israel. He offered a spiritual one. That's what they would suggest. Alright, so that is covenant premillennialism. This is finally now dispensational premillennialism. This is the view that our church holds to. and will continue to hold two as long as I'm Passer here for anyway. Um Lewis Chaeffer Clarence Mason, Ryrie, Sauer, Walberg, Pentecost, Hoyt, McLean. There's those are some of the many dispensationalists that I I this is the view I know a lot better than the rest of 'em, because this is the one I hold to Uh notable adherents, Chuck Swindahl, Tony Evans, Derrick Jeremiah, DA Carson, John MacArthur, those are all guys that are that are would be would hold to this view Um any other questions about guys you like? Guys you like and you want to know, yeah. Spurgeon didn't have an eschatology. He just basically didn't didn't he was another one of those guys that didn't do much with it He said, um that's in the future. Same with um um Lloyd Jones. They both were kind of like that. They they didn't really they would believe in the coming of Christ. Oh that would be no problem. But the difference between election and what's his name? What? Well Calvin Cal uh Cow? Well Calvin was one, but then the Yeah they would not there's not much the same thing. They're not they're not really holding to eschatology much at all at that point. defining what they believe about eschatology at that point. Although although I would say Wesley Whitfield had very strong Puritan leadings. It wouldn't surprise me if he was pro postmillennial. I'm not sure about that. Wesley may have been po they mo they both may have been postmillennial. some of the uh if you go back a couple hundred years that that that that it just wasn't a big priority for the uh for the for the uh preachers of the day. And uh for what Well for whatever reason it could be because really to tell you the truth more has been revealed to us in I I believe in the last hundred years than than it was the last year you know, you know, nineteen hundred years as far as the the the what what things might look like in the future. You know, it just it it just Yeah maybe you know I th I'm saying I don't think we're getting smarter. Yeah I mentioned that in my in the first my first lesson on why why is there more interest in the subject and I think I think it really has to do with our culture Our culture is now forward moving. Back in that culture, they really valued history in the past. Western 21st century Western culture is really not that way. It's very forward moving. That's why you think of Spurgeon. Where was he pastor? In London. Where was where was um um Lloyd Jones? In London. He they these people were not in our in the in that twenty-first certainly not twenty first century, and Western mentality where they're forward, future moving. And so and so our culture values the future more. That means we're going to be more conc more concerned about this. Do you think it was true that it really wasn't in Israel back then? I mean back to nineteen fifties? Well that's true. That's another point. That's a good point. Right. So you know before nineteen forty seven, yeah. Between before that Israel wasn't an actual entity. I don't think anybody wanted to say what is going to happen. And that that may have been yeah, that's a very, very good point. Right. But I'll say this, you had plenty of premillennialists before nineteen forty-seven. You had you had in fact nineteen twenties was sort of the height of fundamentalism And fundamentalists at that point said premillennialism is something that we don't say is a fundamental of the faith, but it's something that we want to we want to make sure we understand this. Yes. well known and I can't think of any of the names now, but there were certain um certain individuals that that took a took a strong stance and even predicted the second coming up rights obviously didn't work out and I wonder if some of some of that may be for some of these people who are very fundamental in their in their uh doctrine And just sort of well those are the extremes and we just sort of want to distance ourselves from any of that. So we're just gonna escalatically wise, we're just gonna Stay say he's coming. Yeah. Yeah. And all this millennium and and timing and rapture and all that, we're just gonna leave that alone because and you know, we we have extremes that we like to stay away from Yeah, I agree. Yeah, I do. I think that's that's that's true. It's a good point. Taking it literally. We're gonna get into that. Okay. Okay. Um Crohl, back to the Bible. Rud Rudro Rudrow Kroll. Um he's uh he's with Moody. Moody m they'd be they'd be uh premillennial. Yeah. Um where Warren Wearsby is premillennial. Okay. Um a dispensation simply has to do with how God administrates affairs to the world. So we're going to talk a little bit about dispensation. We're not going to get into detail. We're going to get into detail some other time. But just it simply has to do with how God administrates the affairs of the world. God rules his household in different ways at very at different times. You've got to admit this. Is God running the world now the way he did in Eden or during the Mosaic Law? He's not. So dispensationalists essentially say no. He's not he's not running the world the same way, just by observation. Now, um it is interesting that the newer omnialists are admitting this. They're sort of going, yeah, you got a point So they've created another word. They don't use the word dispensation. They use the word epoch. God has had different epics. I read a book the other day. uh a while back. And I'm reading I'm reading through this book and I'm reading it and it's uh by um is a d guy from Nymarks, a d a Dever guy. And I'm reading it and he's like, so there's this epic and then this epic and this epic I'm going. Sure does sound like a dispensation. So there there is an uh sort of a recognition of this among among the covenant theology people now. Uh they'll they'll at least concede that At different points in history, God administrates things differently. Every dispensation is typically is marked by revelation. A test based upon on that new revelation and a reward or punishment. We'll get into that later. The the uh essence of this view is the distinction between Israel and the church. I don't estimate boy I had I have grammatical problems in this a lot. But anyway, the essence of this view is the distinction between Israel and the Church, which is developed in the Old Testament covenants. So a dispensationalist says there is discontinuity between Israel and the church. It's not, they are not the same entity. Are there similarities? There are similarities. Are there but there are differences as well. And so a dispensationalist, by the way, at least a reasonable distancationalist would not say there's to there's no difference, there's no they're totally separate and there's n there's not you know, there's nothing similar. They would not go that far. Um the millennial the millennium is a literal thousand year reign of Christ that will occur after the second coming. This is going to sound more familiar to you. The millennial kingdom will provide an opportunity for all of the physical Old Testament covenant promises to be fulfilled, and were not fulfilled, uh, that were not fulfilled by Christ in the first Advent View of Israel is they would agree that the basis of the whole thing is Abrahamic covenant, Genesis 12, 15-17. In the Abrahamic covenant, God made a series of promises to Abraham. These promises were unconditional. That's a real key. Dispensational thinking is you've got promises that are unconditional promises and covenants that are unconditional. They do not mean that there are there were not obligations and conditions attached, but that they mean mean that God has obligated Himself to see that the promises are fulfilled. God has taken upon Himself the burden of that thing will be fulfilled, that the thing of this thing will be fulfilled. So a dispensational says some of the covenants in the Old Testament were conditional covenants. Which covenant is a conditional covenant in the Old Testament? Yes, the Mosaic Covenant is a conditional covenant. The Abrahamic covenant is an unconditional covenant. Okay? And so uh So a dispensationalist would make those kinds of distinctions. A covenant theology guy would say there's just one big covenant. And we'll talk more about how they view that next next time. What I want to then so you now have all four views. Here's what I want to do in prioritizing this. Do you remember this from last time? I I put this up here and I want us to just think in terms of this particular thing. Where does this fit? What I mentioned last time is that you have on one hand eschatological issues and events in Scripture. And you have the general idea that they're, you know, you have biblical support. And then you have on the other side of this biblical importance. If a particular view has a lot of biblical support, we say it's biblically verifiable. And if it doesn't have much, it's just an idea or a thought or a possibility or an opinion. It's sort of theoretical. So on this line, where do you if this is the second coming, okay, which is like doc-that's that's a fundamental doctrine, okay? If this is the second coming, And this is something that's just very theoretical. Where does the the literal thousand-year millennial kingdom, where does it, where is it on the scale? Yeah, it's somewhere in the middle. I think it's even higher than that. Yeah, I well if uh maybe, but it's somewhere we'll talk about We'll talk about all that in the future, but but but it's gonna be somewhere in here. It isn't just theoretical. You've got a lot of support for this. It's not up here where the gospel is. Okay, because you have a lot of Christians in church history that that were were gospel preaching people that held uh to different views. God used them greatly. We do not want to diminish their their their contributions to and what current people are doing, their contributions, just because they have a different view on the millennial kingdom. We want to understand that and there there needs to be an an acknowledgement of that. However It isn't like the timing of the rapture, which is down here. Okay? Timing of the rapture is, we'll talk about how much support there is for that. But but you got the millennial kingdom, it's really up in this area. So let me so on this side, biblical importance, you would then what I'm suggesting here is you're gonna put it up in this area as well. You're not gonna put it at gossip gospel It's not, it shouldn't go there. Okay? But it's going to be up here in this area where it's it's more because of the biblical support that it has, it's going to have bib more biblical importance. Does that make sense than something that is just a preference You follow that? Okay, so that's where this particular doctrine sets. It's going to be somewhere right in the middle here. Yes? Might be worth it. to note that if you happen to speak with someone who is novel and you and you engage them in a conversation. I think Most likely the issue of interpretation will will come up. Yeah. And I think definitely find out what um what level uh of of how do how do they view the scripture. Right. And I think when if you have someone who at the very least low view of scripture and that there is um very leniency and and some say say well there may be multiple interpretations. And it's okay, you know Then then we start to go into the realm uh well they probably then don't hold to a whole they probably probably don't. So so I think we do have to Be careful of that. Yeah. But we may find in speaking with someone like that that no, they they have a a a high view of scripture and they revere it and they want to be biblically accurate. They just happen to have a different let me mention this, and and I'm going to get into this later more with covenant theology, but let me under let me help you understand a little bit of the the tension here. This goes all the way back to the very, to the to the second or third century where you have the church fathers disagreeing on this. You have on one hand origin. And you have, on the other hand, you have John Chrysostom. I'll use those two. On the one hand, you have Origen, who has such a high view of Scripture. He just considers it to be every word of God, to be true, and it is all God's words. It is a very high view of scripture. And he says, this is so much God's word that I'm going to take it spiritually. Did you just see that? Did you see what happened? Okay? It's a high view of Scripture that's making him decide that the concepts are that the words even are spiritual concepts. Origen was a church father. He believed in the fundamentals of the faith. It wasn't as though he was aberrant, but it was his view of Scripture that caused him to move into an allegorization. of prophetic literature, because he had this very high view of scripture. On the other hand, you have John Chrysostom, and he also has a high view of scripture But John Christmas says it is what it says what it says, and it means what it says. God, God in his language, God created language. And so therefore, because God created language, God can say what he wants to say in his language. And so I don't need to assume he's not, I don't need to to wonder whether he's saying something or not. If God wants to say something, he'll say something. He created the language. He can reveal it to himself. So what view do you suppose I'm going to take? Well I'm I'm on John Christmas's side of things But I do understand, I I do want I don't want to judge the motives or the heart or even the approach of this origin guy so hard that I say, okay, well he doesn't even know the Lord. That isn't the case And so you do have to have that balance in all of this, that you understand, now if you violate a fundamental doctrine of the faith, then suddenly, okay, well, I'm sorry, I'm done. I can't go there But in their spiritualizing of prophetic literature, it is often because they have this high view of scripture and they and they want they know it's God's words in there. And they want to recognize that. So that that hopefully will help you understand the two the two approaches to the thing. And what we're going to do next time, I think we just need to do this. We're going to delve in as much as possible into covenant theology. We're going to look at what covenant theology looks like. And what you're going to find, I mean, there have been many good, godly people that have held the covenant theology. I'll tell you one of the values of reading somebody with covenant the that comes from a covenant theological perspective They have a very high view of God. Some of some of the downside some of the problems with some of the dispensational, especially ultra-dispensational kinds of literature you read is it seems as though they put God on human level almost. But but some of this this um coven some of the covenant theology guys are really they just have a such a high view of who God is I'm not ever going to be covenant theology, but I just want us to make sure that we're we're balanced in this thing and that we're we're we're valuing things the way that we ought to and and and and kinds of things. So we'll look into that, we'll look into the covenant theology and the whole person that whole perspective next week. And um and then we will um We will that will help you understand our millennialism. Then the next the following time that we meet, um, which might be a little while I'm thinking actually, but but uh uh but the next time we'll be on dispensational theology and premillennialism and we'll we'll flesh all of that out in more detail. I'm spending a lot of time on this because, like I said before, this will set the trajectory of your eschatology, whichever direction you go on this. That's the direction you're going to go with every other everything else when it comes to the events of eschatology. And this is not something, I'll just tell you, this is not something I see bit I see taught in churches a lot How many of you have ever have ever gone through all of these in this kind of a way before? Okay. It's in church. Yeah, not in semi- Okay. So it's not many that have done that have done this in a church setting. All right, let's go ahead and Kim would you close us in prayer? Heavenly Father, we're thankful for this evening, Lord, and we thank you for this teaching. And Lord, we're just thankful that Um even though we don't totally understand everything that by faith we trust that however it works out the world is correct and and so we just it in your hand Lord we search your word and we try to know as much as we can about you and uh we thank you for revealing this Do your word to us. And Lord, just be with us throughout the week. And we just thank you again for all you do in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Alright, have a good week.