We'll read the entire chapter. We'll be covering the ver first four verses, but we'll read the entire chapter. That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have handled concerning the word of life. The life was manifested, and we have seen it, and bear witness, and declared to you the eternal life which was with the Father and was manifested to us. That which we have seen and heard, we declare to you, that you also may have fellowship with us, and truly our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. These things we write to you, that your joy may be full. This is the message which we have heard from him and declare to you that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. If we say that we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. But if we walk in the light as he is in the light We have fellowship with one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses us from all sin. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you this morning and we're thankful to be able to open up your word. And to realize that it is a word that reveals who you are. It reveals how we are to relate to you through the gospel and through Christ And this particular passage of Scripture teaches us about what it is to experience eternal life in Christ. And Father, as we go to your word this morning, I pray that your help would help us to put away the distractions that are so easily in our minds that cause us to Not really be able to focus on your word, that we would really just concentrate and focus on the truths that are laid before us this morning. That you be with my mouth, that I'd be able to speak in a clear way that would be helpful. And that you would be with all of our meditations, our thoughts as we go through this That they would be acceptable to you. And I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Our culture is preoccupied with creating and crafting and designing life. Instead of social media accounts, we now have profiles, whole profiles, both in Instagram and in Facebook. We have all kinds of uh ways that we are crafting our lives, we're making our lives be what they want to be. Take it a step further and you find entire uh entire um alternate reality role-playing games where we create avatars and we have virtual families and virtual relationships and virtual jobs and virtual hobbies And virtual dogs and cats. And virtual house cleaning. And virtual using the restroom. I don't know. Virtual everything. Maybe it doesn't have that. And it is true that God has made us creative people, but we probably need to be a little bit careful that we aren't running into the danger of creating our lives. Rather than living the life that God has given to us. That doesn't mean we don't make plans, but we need to understand that God is the one that is in control. And that He is the one that sets our lives the way that He wants to set them. In Proverbs 16:9, it says, A man's heart plans his way, but the Lord directs his steps. The passage that we're going to be looking at this morning has to do with life. It teaches us about life, particularly in the passage, it's eternal life. It talks to us about experiencing eternal life. How is it that it talks about that? What is it saying about this? And what's interesting is that this passage teaches us about eternal life. This passage is actually written, the whole book of 1 John is written to believers. If you go over to chapter 2, you find that he says things like, My little children, and he talks to older saints and younger saints, those who have been in the faith for a while, and those who haven't been in the faith for a while, for long. So he's talking to believers about eternal life. Why is he doing this? Why does it say in 1 Timothy 6 verse 12? fight the good fight of faith, lay hold on eternal life. Why would Paul tell Timothy, who is a Christian and a pastor, to lay hold on eternal life? Whereunto thou art also called, and has professed a good profession before many witnesses. In 1 Timothy 6, verse 19, it says Laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come, that they may lay hold on eternal life. Why would John in this passage be saying that teaching us who know the Lord about eternal life? And the answer to that is that it is entirely possible to possess something but not to experience it. In fact, it's entirely possible to forget that you possess something because you haven't experienced it in a long time. Every time I go down to my basement, which isn't well actually I go down to my basement every day, but um the unfinished side of my basement and I rifle through our storage that really needs to be organized better than it is and that's not my wife's fault, it's my fault problem And just never get to it. There's this like last corner in the You all have that, that last place in the basement that just you never get to? And that's we have that. And if you go through that, I'm I'm like, oh yeah, we got a breadmaker down there Oh yeah, they're why didn't you I forgot I own that mixer. We we own that mixer. All these things are like you forget you own because you don't use them for years Folks, the reality is we can that is it is possible to possess eternal life, but actually not to experience eternal life. There is more to eternal life than just a long life or a forever life. There is a quality of life in eternal life. And that really brings us to this passage, and we find in the first two verses this description of eternal life. The life it talks about was manifested. And it talks about here in this passage about eternal life. Do you remember in the Old Testament, in Genesis chapter 2, verse 7, it says, And the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground. And breathed into his nostrils the breath of what? The breath of life. And man became a living being or a living soul. Later on, a chapter later. Of course, you have the fall and you have sin. And sin compromises that eternal life. So that the Lord says that he's going to close off the garden of uh the Garden of Eden. It says, Behold, the man has become like one of us to know good and evil, and now, lest he out of out of his hand and make also the tree of life and eat it. and live forever, therefore the Lord God sent him out of the Garden of Eden to to till the ground from which he was taken taken. He sends him out of the Garden of Eden so that he cannot partake of the eternal of the fruit of life. And it illustrates for us the reality of sin and what sin does. It corrupts this tur pop problem of a this this this eternal life so that we really are not born with eternal life. We have life in the sense of once we're born we will live forever But the destination in which we go, whether it is heaven or hell, is up for whether or not we trust in the right person and work. This word life, this eternal life, when we come to the New Testament, is first found in Matthew chapter 7 In Matthew 7, verse 14, it says, Because the narrow is the gate, and difficult is the way that leads to life, and there are few that find it. It tells us in the very beginning, the first book of the New Testament, that this eternal life, this life are there's not many that find it, and there is destruction as a contrast to eternal life. The wide way leads to destruction. The narrow way leads to life or eternal life. But we find in Ephesians chapter 4 when we see this concept, It helps us, it colors this for us, this problem that we have. In verse 18, it says, having their understanding darkened, being alienated from the life of God. Because of the ignorance that is in them, because of the blindness of their heart. We are alienated from God's life Because of our sin. And that causes us to have darkness. It causes us to have blindness. We cannot see because of our sin. And we are we are alienated. We are separated from the life of God In John chapter 4, verse 14, it says, But whoever, so we see there about eternal life, and we see that the original gift of eternal life was removed by sin and was corrupted because of sin. God says more about this concept of eternal life. And in John chapter 4, verse 14, we find this. Jesus is at the woman, remember the story of the woman at the well. Jesus is there, and he says to this woman, But whoever drinks of the water that I shall give him will never thirst. But the water that I shall give him will become in him a fountain of water springing up unto everlasting life. And in John chapter 6, a couple of chapters later, verse 35, it says, I am the bread of life. He who comes to me shall never hunger, and he who believes in me shall never thirst. Let me ask you this question. Those two passages tell us that there is a kind of life that is given to us through Christ. And this kind of life makes it so that we will never thirst again. We will never hunger again. Now the question is, is it talking about physical thirst there? Is it talking about physical hunger? And of course we would immediately say, no, it can't be talking about physical hunger and physical thirst. It's interesting that in John 6, that's in the context of the of the feeding of the 5,000. They began to follow him because he fed them. Actually that's true of us too. We'll follow whoever feeds us. A way to a man's heart is through his stomach. I mean we'll just kind of follow And they were following him because Jesus was feeding him. But Jesus was talking about something different. He was talking about some other kind of thirst and hunger. Over back in John chapter 4, he says this to the the woman at the well. Do you remember when he says to the woman the woman at the well before he says this? He says, uh right after he says this, rather, right after he says this, he says to the woman at the well, go get your husband. Do you remember that? And what does the woman at the well say? I have no husband. But then Jesus says to him says to her, You're right, you have no husband. You've actually had three husbands, and the man you're living with now is not your husband. What is Jesus pointing out there? Her hunger, her spiritual thirst. You see, the woman at the well knows there is something wrong, and so she is trying to fill it. Fill her need. Folks, every one of us has a spiritual need. We have spiritual hunger. We have spiritual thirst. We have spiritual need. And the only thing that can fulfill that need is the Lord and eternal life. The life of Christ. Now I want us to think about this for a little bit. What is it talking about when Jesus says that he will fill us, he will keep us from being spiritually hungry? He will keep us from being spiritually thirsty. Well, he's talking about the restoration of eternal life. That's what he's talking about. That I'll give you life. I'm the bread of life. And if you partake of me, you will not thirst, you will not hunger. The woman at the well was trying to find this. She was trying to find things like belonging and acceptance and identity and love, friendship, and companionship and relationship. Those were all things that were in perfect harmony in the Garden of Eden. Perfect harmony in the Garden of Eden. But when sin came into the picture, those things were compromised. The sense of belonging, the sense of acceptance. The companionship with God, the relationship with God, all of those things were compromised. Darkness came into the picture. Thirst and spiritual hunger came to the picture. But when Jesus comes on the scene and he is born and grows up and then begins his teaching ministry, he tells people that if you'll partake of me, You'll have eternal life, and you won't have that kind of hunger again. It teaches us that there is much more to eternal life. than just forever life. And certainly we're in need of this. And I can imagine, you know, I I think I think just practically this time of year we're In the middle of January toward the end, we're getting into February, and thankfully the Lord's given us a pretty sunny day today. But it was a rainy, dreary day yesterday. It's been a dark, cold week And sometimes we begin to feel that sort of loneliness or we begin to feel some of the effects of the fall, actually, is what I would suggest we're feeling during times, you know, Christmas time, holidays, we're distracted by everything. But then we come into this time of the year and sometimes we get discouraged. We struggle. We get depressed even and and there is a a sense that we're we're just you know that's why you have snowbirds that just leave down to Florida every year because during this time of year. Well, God says that He has a way So that spiritually we'll never hunger and we'll never thirst. He says this, Jesus says this about eternal life. When he describes eternal life in John chapter 10, verse 10, he says, The thief comes not but for to steal, but to kill and to destroy. I am come that you might have life, and that you might have it more abundantly. In John 10, verse 28, it says, I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. And then he says something quite interesting. We get to John chapter 17, and in John chapter 17, we've got Jesus praying to his father, and he says this about eternal life. He says, and this is life eternal. This is what it is, that they might know thee, the true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. He says, to know me. is to have eternal life. And to have eternal life is to know God. The abundant life in Christ that we have The more we know him, the more we love him, the more we begin to experience eternal life. In John chapter 20, verse 31, it says, These things are written that ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and believing ye might have life through his name. Jesus is the way to this kind of eternal life. The question then becomes, how do you get this eternal life? Well this concept of life or eternal life that we are we're talking about, that we're thinking through, is in the book of John, and it's a very interesting, there's a very interesting verse. It says this. About the same word, the same concept of life or eternal life. It says in John 12, 25, he who loves his life will lose it. And he who hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. Did you catch that? Almost sounds a little confusing. Sounds almost paradoxical, like how in the world could this be possible? He that loves life will lose it. And he who hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. He who loves his life and wants to hold on to it and wants to keep it will lose it, and he who separates from his life in this world will have eternal life. In Luke 12, verse 15, it says this, and we remember this from last week as far as covetousness. He says, take heed and beware of covetousness. What's covetousness? Covetousness is wanting something that God never provided for you, but it is pursuing your life In contrast to God's life for you. And it manifests itself often in material things. That's why Jesus says, be careful about this. He says, take heed and beware of covetousness, for one's life does not consist in the abundance of things he possesses. Do you remember the rich young ruler? The rich young ruler comes to Christ in Matthew chapter 19. In verse 16 it says And behold, he came and said to him, Good teacher, what good things shall I do that I may have eternal life? He comes to Jesus and he says, What should I do that I may have eternal life? It indicates something for us. It indicates what? Well, it indicates that the rich younger has been ruler has been relying on himself. And he has all kinds of things. He's pursued all kinds of things and he's gained all kinds of things. And now he says, I want to gain eternal life. What do I need to do? Well Jesus in in discussing things with him he says to he says to the ri rich young ruler, Well, you need to you need to follow all the commandments Now in saying you need to follow all the commandments, he was not saying that you need to work to be saved. He was simply trying to point out that you can't follow all the commandments That you don't have the ability to be able to follow all of the commandments perfectly. If you could, then hypothetically you could be saved, you could be gained eternal life, but you can't. Because you have that internal nature, that sin nature that keeps you from being able to follow all of the Ten Commandments. The man replies, he's full of his own pride, he's full of his own self, and the man replies. I've done all that since my youth youth perfectly. Now the truth of the matter is in his own mind he had. We know biblically that he didn't, but he says he did But Jesus didn't doesn't contradict him. Jesus says something else. Jesus says, well then if you want to be perfect, Matthew nineteen twenty-one Go, sell what you have, give it to the poor, and you will treasure and you will have treasure in heaven, and come follow me. Then you'll have eternal life You know what it says about that man in verse 22? And when the young man heard that saying, he went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions. We learned something, two things about this man. One is that he was depending on himself, and secondly, he was depending on his possessions. He was depending on himself and he was depending upon his possessions. He had, as we spoke of last week, he had idols that he was depending upon. See, you say, well, I thought it's faith alone. This is all kinds of additional things besides faith alone. I thought it's faith alone that you gain eternal life, and it is. But faith alone is faith alone. You can't depend on other things. And what Jesus was saying to the rich one young ruler is: you can't depend on your own works. And you can't depend on your own possessions. You've got to, you can't depend on those things. You've got to give those things up. Now what he wasn't saying was necessarily that you can't have any nice things. That's not the point. The point is that you can't depend upon them. And this man realized he was humbled and he went away because he was depending upon his possessions. You and I, now there is a there is such important there's such an important point for us with all of this. Because the truth of the matter is, in order to gain and possess eternal life You've got to depend only on Jesus. But the truth of the matter is, in order to experience eternal life, you must depend only on Jesus as well. Now, with all of this in mind, I want to ask this question. Because really, we're now coming to the idea of depending upon Jesus, the life of Christ. who will help us to to gain or experience eternal life. So how is it that we depend upon Jesus Well, in the passage, we're going to learn that the apostles, he says we, us, the apostles experienced eternal life. But let's ask this question, what does it mean to experience something? What does it mean to experience something? Suppose uh you had just come from Europe. How many of you all have traveled to Europe before, I'm curious. Suppose you just came to Europe and you had seen some of the great sites in Europe. You went to Paris and you went to uh may you know you went all over the place and saw these great sites and you're coming and you're talking to me about them. Noting all the different great sites that you saw and I said and you're like man I I was there I was I was you know I was in these different places and I said to you yeah I Googled that He said, Yeah, but I I mean I went there. I was there and I said, Yeah, I Googled that. It's the same. Yeah, I googled it. I saw what's the there, you know, I said I yeah, I I I've been there too, I Googled it. You see like, what in the world? What is wrong with this guy? Because it's not the same. Experiencing goes way beyond just seeing, just having the information. I uh I've not been that many places in my life, frankly. Uh one place that I I've been that that illustrates as well is the Grand Canyon. We went there beginning last year. And that's that's that way. Experiencing the Grand Canyon is very different than the pictures, just looking at the Grand Canyon. How many of you have been to the Grand Canyon? Okay. A lot of you. I mean it it it it really it really the pictures do not do it justice. You have to be there. You have to experience it. And frankly I didn't even experience all the way 'cause I didn't go down in there and hike it and you know take a mule down there, all that kind of stuff. I just saw it from the so even there's even more experience that I could have there See, experiencing is more than just seeing a picture. It's more than just knowing the information. Experiencing has to do with being there and handling it. and examining it and touching it. That's John's point. Look at what it says. That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have handled. So whatever he's talking about here, this is experiencing. He really wants to get across. We've experienced this. He says, first of all, that's what we've heard. We've heard from the beginning. We've heard from past. The Old Testament taught about this. We've heard it. But we've seen with our eyes. And the word seen is an interesting word. It's also used over in John 20 to talk about belief. We've seen with our eyes, and we've handled of the word. So we've touched it. And what is it talking there? Then it says concerning the word of life. Well, what is it speaking of there? Well, it's not speaking of the written word there. It's talking about the word that's the same word in John chapter 1. We're talking about here Jesus Christ. John and the apostles, that's us, we're all together. He says, we have experienced Christ But notice the description. He doesn't say we've experienced Jesus. He says we've experienced what? The word of what? Of life. We've experienced the word of life. And he says to them, we want you to experience the same thing. The whole reason that the book of John is written is so that they also would experience Christ. Not just know about him, not just accept him as Savior, but experience him To touch him, to to know him, to experience him. He says that life, verse 2, was manifested. And we have seen it, and bear witness, and declare to you the eternal life which was with the Father and was manifested to us. Now, arguably you say to yourself, well, how can I mean we can't be like the apostles and touch Christ? Eat with Christ. There's a categorical difference in what we can do and what they did, isn't there? And in a sense, that's true. But in Colossians, Paul says this: he says, For you died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. What does that mean? What does it mean that you can you touch Christ? Can you experience Christ the same way that we've experienced have experienced Christ? And John says, yes, you can. You can experience Christ. Now you may not be able to physically touch him, but the same level of experience that they had, you can have. And that's why he writes, well, how is that? Eternal life is experienced through the life of Christ, but eternal life is experienced through this concept called fellowship. Notice what it says in verse 3. That which we have seen and heard, we declare to you, that you also may have fellowship with us. And truly, our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. So we have this concept of fellowship. Fellowship. What is fellowship? He says this. He says that if you want to experience Christ, then you need to have you need to experience fellowship. And so this is a very important thing. Now let me just let me just give you a little background. John is writing in opposition to a group of people that are saying a lot of weird things, doctrinally incorrect things. And we're gonna go, as we go through this book, you're gonna pick up on more of these different things. They question the humanity of Christ actually or Some question the deity of Christ or how those two things go together. There's all kinds of things that they're questioning. And these this group, which we'll call the cessationists, This group doesn't want to just just leave and be on their own. They're starting to grab other people from the churches that John is writing to And they as they begin to grab other people and influence other people, this is very serious. They are saying that they have a higher knowledge. Sort of the Gnostic idea that we learned about back in Colossians. One of the things that they're saying is that it really isn't that important. Your relationships on earth are really not that important. That your relationship with God is so very important, and you need to have a relationship, fellowship, or relationship with God, but relationship with your church is really not all that important. And they draw a connection to try to pull these people away. They say, this isn't important it's not that important. Relationship with God is, relationship with God's people is not. Now, they're not saying it quite as clearly as that, but that's basically what they're saying. I want you to notice what John says here. Notice what he says. Look at it again, verse 3. That which we have seen and heard, we declare to you, that you may have fellowship with us. He says that you can have fellowship with the apostles. That's us. Because our fellowship is elsewhere. Our fellowship, our truly is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. He says, you can have fellowship with us. You can experience fellowship with us because, and our fellowship, all of our fellowship collectively, is with our fellowship with the Father. Now, what is that fellowship? So let's talk a little bit about fellowship. Fellowship means communion or participation or partnership. I think if you had to use one word to describe fellowship, it would be the word sharing. If you think of the word sharing, then you can get the word fellow then you can understand the word fellowship. God shares all kinds of things with us. And we are to share all kinds of things with God. We're to share ourselves with Him, our lives with Him, our prayers to Him. Our service to him, our attention to him, and he shares all kinds of things with us. That is this kind of idea, the concept of sharing. It it is in first 2 Peter chapter 1, verse 2 it says this Grace and peace be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God, of Jesus our Lord, as his divine power has given us all things that pertain to life and godliness. through the knowledge of him. Remember that eternal this is life eternal, that they may know me, know Christ. And then we have here. That all things that pertain to uh that as his divine power has given us all things that pertain to life and godliness, he shared his divine power with us through the knowledge of him who called us by glory and virtue. By which have been made given to us exceedingly great and precious promises, that through these you may be partakers of the divine nature Having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust. He says that God has shared with us his divine nature, his knowledge. That we have his power. Well, what is his divine nature? Well, it's his attributes that are shareable: his holiness, his love, his mercy, his justice. He has shared all of those kinds of things with us. Now stay with me because we're going to understand how this all applies in a few moments. Jesus prayed that this would happen in John chapter 17 in that great high priestly prayer He says, you remember in chapter 3, verse 1, verse 3, it says, and this is eternal life, that they may know you, and the only true God in Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. But then later on he says he prays for all believers, for all of us who would for all time anyone that knows Christ as Savior, he says, I pray for them. I do not pray for the world, but for those whom you have given me For they are yours, and all mine are yours, and yours are mine. I am glorified. He says, I want you, I they are yours, and he prays that we would be identified with Christ. And then he prays this in John 17, 9. I pray for them. I do not pray for the world, but for those who you have given me. For they are yours, and all mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I am glorified in them, that they all may be, get this, they may be one. This oneness, this fellowship, that they may be one, as you, Father, are in me, and I in you. That they also may be one in us. I wanted to be one together, but then I wanted to be one in us, that the world may believe that you sent me. And the glory which you gave me, I have given them, that they may be one just as we are one. That is the same fellowship that the Father has with the Son, the Son has with the Spirit, the Spirit has with the Father that this same fellowship, we get to be partakers in this fellowship. But it says this, that as we fellowship with one another we begin to experience fellowship with God. In other words, we often think of fellowship in just unilateral terms where it's just me and God praying with praying I'm praying to God, I'm reading my Bible. And that is absolutely important. I wouldn't take anything away from that. But folks, when you see the concept of fellowship of the New Testament You see that it is inseparably linked to fellowship with brothers and sisters in Christ and the body of Christ. Don't let anybody ever tell you that you can just have your relationship with God and you're fine and you don't need anybody else. That is a foreign idea in the New Testament. It's something that we need to be very much aware of, something that we need to guard against. How do you now think about this? So God says He we are partakers of the divine nature. That is, his holiness, his love, his justice, his mercy. Now think about this, just think about this All of those terms are very abstract terms. Okay? I mean, it's sometimes even hard to picture what you're talking about when you're talking about mercy or justice. Maybe you think of a gavelin with justice. Maybe you think of a a mother who's very kind to a child when you think of mer her child when you think of mercy. Folks, how do you just not know about this with God? How do you just not know How do you experience it? And the answer, folks, has to be that you experience it from other brothers and sisters in Christ. That as you experience love from a brother or sister in Christ, or mercy, or kindness, or even justice in the body of Christ. When you experience those things they are tangible to each other, you begin to really experience Christ. And you have abundant life in Christ. Look at it again. Look at the passage. 1 John chapter 3. He says this: that you also may have fellowship with us. And truly our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. Folks, that's why later on in 1 John, he's going to say Don't say that you love God and hate your brother in Christ. He's going to say You can't love God and be at odds with your brother. You can't love God and be bitter toward your brother or sister in Christ. You can't do that. He's going to say things like that. Why? Because these things are absolutely intricately connected. Why is it that we as Christians possess eternal life, but we're not experiencing eternal life? Maybe it's because we're not as connected to the body as we ought to be. We're not fellowshipping with one another the way that we ought to. We're not experiencing those attributes That are true of God and can be true of us and should be true of us and are true of us, and we can share with each other those kinds of attributes, that love and kindness and all of those things. Now, with all of that in mind, I want to return to this concept that I think is very important. When we think of giving our lives over to God, which is what John 12, 25 says, if we love our life, we'll lose it. Mark 8, verse 34 says something similar. When he has called them the people to himself, with the disciples also, he said, Whoever desires to come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross. and follow me. And when we hear statements like that, you know what we often think? Man, the Christian life properly lived is quite a drudgery. What a drag. You've got to give up everything you want. You've got to throw away everything you like. You've got to give over your life. And you gotta f and you gotta take up your cross, whatever that is, and you gotta follow Christ. And we sort of get this idea. That that eternal life and fellowship with God and the life of Christ light rightly lived is a is a drudgery. It's a drag. I've got to give up so much of what I enjoy. I want you to notice the next verse, verse 4. Why is John writing, verse 4, and these things we write to you, why? That your joy might be what? That your joy might be full. Folks, eternal life in fellowship with Christ is anything but a drag. If you think that eternal life is a drag, and experiencing life in Christ and giving up your life for Christ's life is a drag, you don't understand something. And so what we've got to do is we've got to understand what this concept of joy is. And I am running out of time here, but I'll just say this: that number one, joy is not dependent upon circumstances. It's not an emotion. It's not something we can muster up. It's not being gregarious or bubbly or funny or fun. It's not something that can be obtained by the unsaved or someone who's not right with God. Joy is something that is that is that is special for a Christian. That is experiencing eternal life. Martin Lloyd Jones said this: it is a state of complete satisfaction. He satisfies my mind. He satisfies my emotions. He satisfies my every desire. Should war come, should the atomic bomb descend, should I be thrown into the concentration camp? My joy must be remain full. His joy, our joy, this is the kind of joy that God offers to those who are not just possessing eternal life, but are experiencing eternal life. And John is saying to these people, would you get to experience life in Christ? Joy. We want you to have joy, complete joy. I think one of the greatest illustrations I can think of of joy. Right, proper joy is found in Acts chapter 16. And we don't have time to look at that passage, but I'll just note this that in that passage you've got Paul and Silas, and they've been captured, they've been beaten with rods, they have been maligned by the people around, they have they have been and they've been thrown in jail. And in John, in Acts chapter 16, verse 25, it says, But at midnight, after all of this is happening, Paul and Silas were praying and singing. Hymns to God. And the prisoners were listening to them. They're listening, going, How in the world can they be so joyful? Now the word joy is not mentioned there, but obviously, folks, that's what's going on. Joy that occurs in the midst of all those circumstances. Joy that occurs despite the circumstances. We find in Nehemiah 8 that joy is strength. The joy of the Lord is your strength. And it says in this passage that joy is to be complete. Our joy is to be complete. Now, I just have a question for you here. My question is: this: if God offers this kind of an experience in eternal life to all believers, To anyone who accepts him as if God offers this, this great experience of Christ and joy in all of this Why is it that so many Christians don't experience it? Why are so many Christians discouraged and depressed and frustrated? Why is this happening? Why is it that the unsaved person, why is the person that doesn't know Christ, doesn't want to come to Christ? It's the same answer. The answer is it boils down to belief. It boils down to belief. Look, the only thing that keeps us from having this kind of joy, there is only one thing that keeps us from this. It's depending upon something something else for our joy. Just like the rich young ruler who is depending upon his possessions. You and I have this danger of depending upon something else that keeps us from fully depending upon Christ. to experience the eternal life that we may possess. And if you think of someone that is un that can't come to Christ or is having a hard time coming to Christ, Having a hard time giving their life to Christ. It's because they are holding on to their own lives. And experience teaches us this. Think about it. Aren't we taught to depend upon ourselves? How many times have you gone through life and you've experienced different things and you've expected people to do certain things and they let you down? And you plan for certain things, and it doesn't go the way that you're expecting. And you're disappointed and you're discouraged by the way things have turned out in life. And you get to the point where you just say, Well, I'll just depend upon myself. I can't depend on anybody else except for me. It's like life teaches us to do that. And then somebody comes along and says, you can't depend upon yourself at all. You've got to depend upon Christ only. No wonder people have a hard time coming to Christ. And folks, no wonder people have a hard time. Christians have a hard time experiencing Christ. It's the same problem. We are depending upon ourselves rather than depending upon Christ We have idols, and we created those idols. That's why the very last phrase in 1 John is going to be, keep yourselves from idols. We have idols in our lives, we've created those idols, and we are just unwilling to give up our idols. To give over our lives to Christ. so that we can experience Christ and therefore experience eternal life and joy. Just some final thoughts. Number one, eternal life is an abundant life of knowing God. That he offers to everyone who will fully depend upon him. Number two We experience eternal life through fellowship with God and fellowship with other believers. You are going to be missing something. If you only try to have fellowship with God and not experience fellowship with other believers, don't believe that lie. Experience each other's love and kindness and joy in the body of Christ so that you can experience the eternal life that you possess. Such life in Christ brings joy as we give our lives over to Christ. That's why Paul said, I die daily. We must constantly give our lives over Christ. Folks, it really boils down to this. Am I going to depend upon self or will I depend on Christ? Sprite.