What what to do and thinking through what to do in the meantime. And with school starting up, which means school is an event for not just students, but for parents too. And And everybody involved and with just the news season starting up. Um sometimes it can be a little overwhelming. Do you ever feel a little overwhelmed by all that? I watch Facebook every once in a while. Uh that's how I get my entertainment. similar uh uh as well. Um I want to begin by asking these questions. So we're going to talk about responsibility and I want to ask this question. Number one question I'd like to ask is what causes responsibilities to cause us, what causes responsibilities uh to cause stress? Not sure I wear that right. Uh what about responsibilities c can cause stress? What makes it stressful? Um I'm gonna ask all three questions and we'll talk about these questions. I'll hang on to that. Another question is, uh what about our responsibilities causes us discouragement? Why are we discouraged sometimes by our responsibilities? And another question is, why do we sometimes neglect our responsibilities? So let's let's ask the first let's let's kind of go through these a little bit. Anyone want to take Jeff, did you have an answer for the first one? Okay, good. Fear of not being able to fulfill the responsibility. Uh that does seem to be why you would be stressed out. Um that would be a logical reason why you would feel stressed if you feel like you're not going to be able to fulfill uh the responsibility that's set before you. Any other ideas of stress, discouragement, those kind of things. Dave? Okay, we take on responsibilities that really aren't ours. That's going to cause stress. Good. Uh he shan. Okay. Uh not understanding. Confusion. Yeah. Okay, too big of a workload. Lisa? Okay. Either not enough time or resources to complete this one. Okay. Um good. So so what we're going to be looking at, what we want to do tonight is to really see how we are to approach this From God's perspective? What is what is God's way of our handling our responsibilities? Because And I'll say this from the outset, a couple of sort of disclaimers. Let's ask this question. Is stress a good thing or a bad thing? Yeah. Good answer. Okay. It's both. Str God created us to be in certain situations and that stress that occurs for us to be able to push forward and get something done. can be helpful in moderation. It's not as though you don't want a stress-free-free life. A stress-free life is actually a life that you don't get anything done. Okay? Alright, a stress-free life is not a productive life. But the problem, of course, is when our stress is beyond what God intended it to be, right? How do you know when your stress is beyond what God intends it to be? Any ideas? When when how do you know that? Yes. Okay? Good. So when you are when you become preoccupied with it, you can't stop thinking about it, your mind is is just overwhelmed with it, uh it causes if it causes you physical problems, that those are all things that can cause stress. There's something about our responsibility that we're not handling quite right that's causing stress to be more than what we what it really ought to be And so we want to see God's perspective on this. What is it and not just on stress specifically, but on our responsibilities. How is it that we are to fulfill our responsibilities in the way that really pleases the Lord and is faithful without having an an amount of stress that's unhealthy or discouragement or just we give up. You ever feel like just I'm just gonna give up. I can't do this. I'm just giving up. You ever feel that feel that way? I think all of these things we all feel from time to time. Stress, discouragement, uh just neglect of responsibilities, all those things we happen. So how is it that we see things from a biblical perspective? And what I want us to do is look at Matthew 25, because I think it's really going to help us with this. And I want to begin by setting up a goal. What is the goal? The big picture goal. The big picture goal of the Christian life is to be ready for the coming of Christ. I mean big big picture goal, okay? It's to be ready for the coming of Christ When we think of what our responsibility is in this life and in the in in everything, what is our role? Well, we're kingdom citizens. We're talking about the book of Matthew, which goes over Christ being the king. That's the the the concept of Matthew. And we are kingdom citizens in this kingdom, and we are looking forward to the day where the king is going to return. Or in Matthew 25, actually, we have a husband is returning for his bride in verses 1 through 14. The passage anticipates this passage, and we're going to be looking particularly verses uh 14 through 30. Uh that's going to in more detail, but this passage anticipates the coming of Christ. For example, look at Matthew 24, verse 30. Matthew twenty-four thirty. So Matthew twenty four you may know as a passage that's talking about the end times, and verse thirty says Then the sign then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in heaven, and then all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven and power with power and great glory. So Matthew 24 is a description of the tribulation period and also the coming of Christ and what will it look like when he comes. And you see that in Matthew 24, obviously, but that theme is carried through in other places. For example, look at chapter 25 and 31. So we're sort of sandwiching this in. We just saw the on the on the beginning context, we see the second coming. Look at 2531. It says When the Son of Man comes to his glory, and all the angels with him, then he will sit on the throne of his glory. So you have the second coming of Christ there So, sandwiched in between here, we have the question that's being answered. Here's the question that's being answered. What is our role? And in verses 1 through 13, we see our general role. And then in verses 14 through 30, we see more specifically how this role is to be played out. So look at 1 through 30. And we're looking here then, I'm sorry, look at one through thirteen. And you'll notice here that this is an illustration about a marriage about a wedding party and all of that. Now things happened a little differently back then than they do today. A wedding pro party was a week or two long event, wedding a wedding ceremony. It would happen over a length of time. Actually there was a beginning patrol period that would happen a year prior, and then they had uh a year after that time period uh prior to consummating the marriage they had a ceremony and the ceremony consisted of basically you had uh a a a a woman with her with her uh we would call them bridesmaids today, her virgins. They would all be always be virgins. And they would be with her and they would escort her And the h the the the the groom would come, pick the bride up from the from her house, take her to his place. They would have a ceremony with all the bridesmaids. They would then have a ceremony right around his location, and then that would all be done and they would go in and consummate the marriage. Okay, so that's that's a little different today how they had that That's a little a little more um appropri I don't know, less less obvious today. Uh but this is so so that's the that's the setting we we come to. So look at verse one of twenty-five. And the kingdom of heaven shall be likened to ten virgins who took their lamps and went out to meet the bridegroom. Now five of them were wise and five were foolish. Those who were foolish took their lamps and took no oil with them. But the wise took oil in their vessels with their lamps. But while the bridegroom was delayed, they all slumbered and slept And at midnight a cry was heard. Behold, the bridegroom is coming. Go out and meet him. Then all those virgins arose and tr uh trimmed her lamps And the foolish said to the wise, give us some of your oil, for our lamps are going out. Of course, this is an illustration. But the wise answered, saying, No, lest there should not be enough for us and you, but go rather to those who sell and buy for yourselves. While they went to buy, the bridegroom came, and those who were ready went in with him to the wedding, and the door was shut. Afterward the other virgins came also, saying, Lord, Lord, open to us. But he answered and said, Assuredly I say to you, I do not know you. So what's the point? Verse thirteen, watch therefore, for you know neither the day nor the hour in which the Son of Man is coming The whole point of verses 1 through 13 is basically two things. Number one, watch, be aware, Son of Man could come anytime, but there may be a delay, so you need to be prepared. So you're preparing, you're prepared, and you're watchful at the same time. Don't be caught without oil. Don't be caught without without uh preparing correctly. Be prepared and watch and be ready. It could come at any uh the second coming or the bridegroom could come at any time. Now that tells us, that sets things up for us. What is our goal? Well, our goal is in the Christian life, our goal as kingdom citizens is to be ready for the coming of Christ anytime. Now that alone could actually relieve some stress. Some of the things that you're you all are stressed about, some of you ladies are stressed about the school year. Ladies, how many of you are stress stressed about the school year? Moms otherwise, okay, right. You're stressed about what's going to happen and what your kids are going to do and what's going to what whether they're going to all that kind of thing. Christ could come back tomorrow. So so so understand this that Christ you may not finish out the semester and Christ comes back. Okay? That's the reality of the po uh of that. Yes? So because those that are saving that are of a sufficient communicability could then add a Uh it um I would say no if we handle it right from this passage, which we're getting to. But I don't I don't think so because that's not within our control, which I think which is part of part of the the issue. Okay, so just understand that if we are living in light of the second coming of Christ Then there is a that that gives us a fixed goal. And whether that is ten years in the future or tomorrow, our goal is what? Well, I'll put it this way: our goal is to be faithful with whatever time he gives us. Our goal should be to be faithful to Christ with whatever he's giving us. Okay. So understand that at the beginning, that's that's part of our role. So with that in mind, then look at pick up in verse 14. For the kingdom of heaven is like a man traveling to a far country. who called his own servants and delivered his goods to them. And to one he gave five talents, to another two, and to another one and to each according to his own ability, and immediately he went on a journey. Okay, so this is still talking. about our roles and our responsibilities in light of the coming of Christ and what we're supposed to be doing. So So this really gets into some detail here, and I think it really help us. So how does this help us? Well, we need to understand a couple of things about what's happening here in this passage. First of all, notice in the passage that in verse 14, we're talking, it says the kingdom of heaven is like, and we have a man, that man, who do we suppose that man is? Well, man is a picture of Christ. Okay. And he's traveling to a far country, and he calls his own service and delivers whose goods does he deliver to these people? They're his. I think that's extremely important. Does he give them these talents to keep forever? Does he? No, they're not theirs. They don't own them. Okay. That is really important to understand. They are owned by the master. The master is entrusting these things to the servants. The Bible says God owns it all, Psalm 24. The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof, the world and they that dwell therein. He owns everything. And so what God is doing here, and the picture here is someone, a master who owns certain things, and he is giving them or lending them, rather, for a particular purpose. I think it's really important to understand at the outset of this. So the issue here is not ownership. The issue is stewardship. Our responsibility is not ownership. Our responsibility is stewardship. That's why it says in 1 Corinthians 4 verse 1, let a man so account of us as the ministers of Christ. and stewards of the mysteries of God, moreover, it is required in stewards that a man be found what? So while we're waiting for the coming of Christ and we're anticipating, how is it that we prepare? Well, we're faithful stewards of what God gives us Now, let's apply this a little bit to it. Let's take these two things, this issue of ownership and stewardship. So you say, well, I don't know how this applies. Let's take our kids. Are we owners of our kids or are we stewards of our kids? Be careful before you answer that question. We're stewards of our kids. You know what happens when we think we're owners of our kids? Well, um first of all, we start worrying about what we can't control. Secondly, we think it's all up to us. And this results in stress. And frankly, the goal of that becomes selfish. Now, I know that sounds harsh. But if our if we take if we think we own our kids and and we think in terms of okay I'm gonna m my responsibility is an ownership, not a stewardship. Then I begin to worry about things that I cannot control. But if if I am understanding it's a stewardship, then all I'm responsible for is what? What God has given me to be responsible for. That's part of somebody said it this way, you've taken maybe part of the problem is that there are there are people are taking on responsibilities that they're not They're not theirs. Maybe that's part of the problem. Maybe, maybe not. Sometimes they're not taking enough on enough responsibility or not being stewards stewards of what God has given to them. But understanding this, I think, is absolutely important. You may find yourself in a stressful situation or discouraged When you are taking ownership instead of stewardship, ultimately we ought to be raising our kids to serve the Lord in whatever Whatever God chooses. We don't know what that's going to be. So we're going to do the best we can with what God's given us to raise our kids. Or our spouse. Or our job. Or whatever giftedness or talent God gives us. Whatever it is that God gives us, there's a level of responsibility with that, but we need to understand that our goal is to be a faithful steward. Now, with that in mind, then let's look at the rest of the passage and we're going to begin to see what God says about some of these things. So notice verse 15 We've got these talents, five talents, two talents, and one talent, to each according to his own ability, it says, and immediately he went on a journey. Verse 16, then he so let's go ahead and read through the rest of the passage, and we'll see what happens here. Uh then he who had received the five talents went and traded with them and made another five talents. So he was a steward of what God had given him, and he doubled he doubled the money of the now let me just mention this as well because I think it's important. What is a talent? A talent is an extremely huge amount of money. It's equal to two to six thousand denari. One denarii was a day's wage. So six thousand days wages is a lot. How many days do you have in a year? This is not hard. I know you okay 365 days in a year, okay? 6,000 divided by 365. Does anybody know how many can we do that quick? 17? 16. 4? Okay. Um good job, Kevin. I was impressive. Okay, so 17 years of salary is one talent. So even the person that received one, it's a lot. Okay? So keep that in mind. So what happens? The one guy with the five talents doubles his money. Verse 19, after a long time the Lord uh uh let's see uh verse seven actually pick up verse seventeen and like likewise he who who had received two two gained two more. But he who had received one went and dug in the ground, and he hid his Lord's money. After a long time the Lord of those servants came and sent and settled accounts with them. So what happened here? So let's ask this question, what is the talent? Figuratively, we know what it is, we know what it is practically or you know monetarily, but what figuratively is is he talking about here? I'm going to suggest to you that the talent is certainly not ability. It's not talking about abilities here. It's not talking about giftedness here. It's not talking about an actual talent. It's talking about It's an illustration. It's the it's money that's ill being illustrated as something else. But what is it? Well, let's let's look at it this way. It's a gift, right? Okay? It's something, in other words, by gift I mean it's not earned by these people. It's not deserved by them. It's something of great value. Okay? What is what is something that is of great value and is unearned? What is that? It's grace. Grace is unearned and it's something of great value. Now is it possible that what this is is expressions of grace? Now I'm gonna argue that that's exactly what it is, and here's why I would argue that. Do you remember the guy with the one talent? What happens? Look, well, let's look at what happens. Verse 20 So he who received five talents came and brought five five other talents, saying, Lord, you delivered me five talents. Look, I have gained five more talents His Lord said to him, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. You've been a faithful steward of what I've given you. I will make you ruler over many things, enter into the joy of our Lord. So So he's going to be and and by the way, well, I'll get into that in a minute. Verse 22, he also who had received two talents came and said to the Lord, And said, Lord, you delivered to me two talents. Look, I have gained two more talents besides them. His Lord said to him, Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over few things I will make you ruler over many things, enter into the joy of your Lord. Then he who had received the one talent came and said, Lord, I knew you to be a hard man reaping where you have not sown, and gathering where you have not scattered seed. And I was afraid, and went and hid your talent in the ground. Look, there you have what is yours. The Lord answered and said to him, You are wicked and lazy servant. You wicked and lazy servant, you knew that I that I reap where I have not sown and gather where I have not scattered seed. So you ought to have deposited m my money with the bankers or at uh and at my coming I would have received back my own with interest. Therefore take the talent from him, so he takes the talent away, and give it to him who has ten talents. For to every one who has more will be given, and he will have abundance. But from him who does not have, even what he has will be taken away. Notice what happens to this unprofitable servant, and cast the unprofitable servant into the into outer darkness There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. That's actually obviously a picture of hell there. Okay, so what happens to the one who is who is given one expression of grace and he does not apply it? What happens to him? It's taken away from him and he doesn't he d and he and he is he departs without it. So what we're talking here then about are expressions of grace. Now, let's think of it this way then. If that's the case then what is it in our lives that are expressions of grace? Well justification is a the fact that we're saved is is a clear expression expression of grace. And if you know Christ your Savior, you have applied that one correctly. But is it the only one? We have grace in salvation, in justification, and sanctification, but we have grace in life. Did you know that your health is an expression of God's grace. Now, think about it for a minute. What do you deserve? What do I deserve? We deserve hell, right? We're depraved, we're sinful. That's what we deserve. Anything above hell is a hell is a plus. So if we start thinking of it that way, we have grace in our health. How about your home? Is that grace? Is that something of the of God's grace? How about your job? How about your abilities? How about your family? Your kids? your spouse. If you start going through all of those different things and you begin to view them as expressions of God's grace, then what is our responsibility? Our responsibility is to be good stewards with what God has given us, to apply these things correctly in a way that is that is going to be what? That is going to be for the furtherance of God's kingdom. So that when God returns, when Christ returns, he looks at us and he says, Well done thou good and faithful servant. Do you have a question, Jeff? Yeah. not have you have a stewardship will result in an increase in the raise or gas. Yeah. So how do we do failures? Yeah. You had by you do something wrong at work, you lose your job. Then you're being a good steward, but you're losing what you're Yeah. Um stewardship is really a matter of a daily, and I think this is really what it gets down to, it's a daily practice of faithfulness. Um I I don't I don't think we're going to be able to quantify. So if God so I think the additional talents are not happening this in this life. That happens when the coming of Christ comes. So if so I can I be faithful with my job and then lose my job? Sure I can. Absolutely. Does that mean then that God isn't that I'm failed in that in in being a good uh a steward of that talent? No, I've not failed necessarily. What is the measuring of that? Well the measuring is whether or not I pleased God. That's the measurement. It's not of whether or not I lost or gained the job. It's whether or not I'm pleasing the Lord as a good steward of what He's given me. That's why the Bible says, whatever you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do all of the glory of God. Whatsoever ye do, do heartily as unto the uh as unto the Lord and not unto men. This puts everything in a totally different perspective. It puts my job in a different perspective. It puts my my role as a husband in a different perspective. My role as a as a as a um Um father and their a and different perspective. It's a totally different perspective. Because my role is simply to be a good steward of what God has given me. rather than trying to do what I'm not supposed to do, or try to control what I'm not supposed to control, or try to go beyond what God really wants me to do in going beyond that. And so this becomes an extremely important and very helpful thing when we really grasp this. uh in our lives as Christians. My goal is to hear, well done, thou good and faithful servant, at the end. Yes. So are you viewing this as a loss of reward in this parent? Yes. Then why would he use it? No, I so the first okay, so if this is all a matter of expressions of grace, right? Okay. I'm not in heart. Yeah, no, no, I'm yeah, so I'm so I'm explaining. So this is all a matter of expressions of grace. What is our first expression of grace? No, no, I I mean what is our first what is the what is grace God gives us grace, what's our first understanding of grace like what does he do? Salvation. If we don't apply that right, what's gonna happen? Hell. I mean that's what's gonna right? Does it make sense? Now after we come to Christ, then we go on and God gives us more grace. And then we need to apply that right. We're stewards of God's grace. And based upon that, we've got the one reward, okay, but then there are other rewards that come. No, he was not saved. Yeah. Yeah, he was not saved because he did not he was not a good steward of the grace that was offered to him. Oh okay, because it's an illustration. Okay. Right. Right. So um so he actually says uh you are wicked and lazy servant, but he uses the term servant, but I think that's where the that's where it's we're talking about in a lot of illustration that was and I will say it this way so there's a sense in which all people are God's servants. Okay, because he owns it all. So that makes sense. So when we think of servant, we think of a Christian, because when Christ when Paul says I'm a dulas, he's saying I'm a s I'm a I'm a But but if cr but in this sense in this context he's basically everybody is a servant. Yeah. And then we have we we can apply apply the yes. Would there be a a parallel algorithm with the breach that doesn't bear fruit that gets fire. Yeah. Yeah, I think it's the same kind of thing. Yep. So so let's let's flesh this out practically. Um you ever been you ever been stressed out because Yes, okay, all right, all right. We got that far. All right. Okay. You ever been stressed out? Let's t let's take a practical, tangible example. Um when I was in school, I really wanted to do well in Greek. Okay. And it's not easy to do well in Greek. And I would go to tests and quizzes and things and I would want to get an A. And I would be really stressed out if I didn't get an A. If I've got a B I was okay. If I got a C that was the end of the world and D I was gonna, you know, do something bad. Alright. So that I was really frustrated or really stressed out over this. What was my problem? You tell me what my problem was. I was stressed out, but what would have what would have changed my perspective on that? If I were being a good steward, what would have changed my perspective so I wasn't so stressed out? Yeah. Yeah. Is a B faithfulness? Yeah. Sometimes. If the best I could do is an A, then it's not. I mean if I'm not being faithful, if I'm slacking off because I know I can get a B because and if I got an A, if I studied I get an A, maybe not. But but is a B faithful? Sure, possibly The the the goal I should be worried about pleasing God being a good steward with his time with time and with what he's given me and then let God uh let God give me the grade he wants me to have. Yes, Jeff. example maybe a beat isn't the best you can do but you have to allocate the resources so you can you're right so it's uh a whole the whole in the whole scheme of thing If you're working a job and you're got multiple different classes and let's say you're in school but you're also got a family, you've got to take all of your uh your your resources that you have and you aren't going to be able to necessarily do the best You could if you didn't have these other things. So how do you handle it? You're you're you're this is stewardship. That's the whole point. You're a good steward with what God gives you g gives you gives you to do. And every day you are Doing the best you can to please the Lord with what God gives you. It it does, if we handle it right, it does re- it does remove stress. Um at least the wrong kind of stress, I'll put it that way. Let me ask you this. Is there questions about this? You say, okay, well how does this work out practically? Uh let's yeah, Kevin. Well to go back to the passage, the the servant steward said to his master um essentially Oh yeah, yeah, we're gonna get yeah, yeah, good point. How would you explain his explanation to his master who is his defense? Yeah. Actually that's an extremely important point. I'm glad uh we should we should get back to the passage on this. Okay, so So he what is the here is actually the root problem. Okay, once we've understood that it's a matter of stewardship, not ownership. Once we've understood that. Once we've understood what our responsibility is, we understand that. It's still possible we won't be faithful, but the answer may be because we are not viewing God in the right way. That our view of God is the problem. What was this man's view of God? Was this man's view of God a problem? It was. This was this was a he said, you are a hard man. You're a man with basically no mercy. You're a man with with that wants what you he actually says in the passage, you do what you haven't, you gain where you haven't planted. Uh he's basically kind of accusing the man of being selfish and that he's a hard man that is just has a an a an unbearable standard. The problem was that his view of God was a problem. Is that a possibility of stress in our lives? It certainly is. Worry, stress, discouragement, our view of God can really affect those kinds of things. So if we understand our stir uh God's, is God, then let's ask this question, is God expecting, and I don't mean moral perfection here, but is God expecting perfection in the different areas that we're doing? No, he wants us to be good stewards of whatever he is giving us. Is God a God who is unloving? Or unmerciful, or just look he's not that way. So so our view of God can very, very much um, and in this sense, let's let's let me put it this way. Have you ever feared that if you don't do something, there's going to be calamity? If something doesn't happen, you're gonna I remember um a story that my mom told me uh when I was a baby apparently And she was overly worried about me. Like I was gonna like she w she kept every little cry, everything she was she was running in there, you know, every every little mm mm peep I made and she was you know a new ma young mom, new mom and and had a my grandfather said, watch this happening one time. Just going Over and over and there. My grandfather said to my mom, um, uh, there are larger hands holding your son than you are, than you have. And it just sort of settled her down. So that's an illustration of what happens sometimes. God is in control. God is sovereign. God will do what he chooses to do. It doesn't all. It's not all on us. And sometimes I think what happens is we think it's all on us and we forget that God is actually the one that's in control of things. And so part of the problem is part of the issue may be our view of God is the problem. And we need to actually ask ourselves, what kind of God are we really serving? Is he is he really the God of the Bible? And where are we going wrong there in our understanding of who God is. Maybe that's and probably, probably that's the root issue. If we're dealing with stress or discouragement or those kinds of things, it may be more than likely that may that that could very well be the issue. Sure can. Sure can be a good thing. Yeah. Yeah, and so the answer is that's the that's why stewardship is such an important concept. So stewardship never never relinquishes responsibility that God has given me. Because then I'm the unjust steward I mean I mean I'm this the steward that's that's unprofitable. So the key, what's the key then? The key is really understanding what God wants me to do and doing it. I mean, it may be I've got to I'm there's a couple things in my own life I'm thinking through, okay, well does God want me to do this or does God want me to do that? I'm thinking we're thinking through these things And that's really the question on the table is what does God want me to do? And then doing my best to understand what that is, and then choosing to do those things. The problem becomes when we're taking on things that God really never intended us to do, or um trying, I mean there's actually a lot of different different different ways we go and uh handling this right, yeah. question. Um at what point is it that maybe you are concerned about being a good steward but you're overdoing the stewardship like so you're working almost too hard because you want to make sure that you You are being a good steward with what you're doing, but yes, you're putting in too much effort. Um where's that line to realize what is work what it I th I think that that's a good question, and some of that is um I don't know. Any other any other ideas on why where we was what is the balance? I can I'll open it up to it is hard. Yeah, Jeff? For me it's wisdom, experience. You do your best. you and a lot of it comes down to an intent it sounds like are you trying to do your best for God and balancing everything. The here I or the problem I see is that you put too much on the output Yeah. Because just because you do what God wants it doesn't mean that you'll like you said a lot of things may be profitable on the other side, not this side. Right. So a lot of it is is there What do you feel God wants and are you really discerning appropriately and I was gonna say the same thing as Jeff in addition to that Thinkfulness because people are hard. And uh we are not thankful. Maybe someone who's smarter than me would use the finding better than me or bring more help. Yeah. But for me, I'm doing my best and I have kids. And that's yeah Yeah, I think part of the answer to this is that you have to the more you know God, the more you know what he wants. And I think part of the part of what happens here with this is that if we don't handle this in the right way, we're trying to do all these things and we're actually not spending any time knowing God. And if we spent more time actually knowing the God we serve, we would then know more intuitively what what he wants from us. Lisa So what you're describing to me sounds like kind of like day-to-day stress is what about when there's a calamity or a tragedy in your life and or something new like a life change you don't know how to handle this new situation in your life. So all of a sudden sudden maybe you were a steward of something and you're not anymore. Well yeah there's going to be stress about that. You can't really avoid that. There's g there's g you it's not totally unavoidable, you're right. However, I think the answer is what Scripture says, sufficient day is the evil thereof. You've got to take one day at a time. I mean when there is calamity, uh let's just put it this way, at the end of the day, you can only do what you can do. So so you just take one day at a time and take that day and do what what you can that day with what God has given you to do. And often it's not something you can look ahead. There are times in life where you just can't look very far ahead and see how this is all going to work out. And that can cause stress or I can just simply say I've got to trust God. God's in control. It's not my it's sufficient is today, you know, and and I've got to I've got to look at it that way. Kevin? It's really to be collected and brought to God. God intends us in the world to have stress. It's gonna happen. He doesn't preserve strongness. It's about what we do with it after it's there and And what we do, how much we let it jumblate, how much we dwell on it, what we do is just take it to God. Yep. Yeah, I agree. Um So anyway, hopefully that this is this is a helpful uh lesson and meditate on these things and think through these things. I I think some of this is a learned thing that It it's a new or different it's a it's a way you've got to think over time and you end up developing different patterns of thinking as you go through these different things. uh uh it's not something necessarily there's no quick fix but this is something that that becomes helpful uh the more that you do it. Um and so uh It's important to keep that keep that in mind. Understand the key to this is the furtherance of God's kingdom. That's our goal. Our goal is to be good stewards with the expressions of grace that God gives us and um And then we'll be able to see, we'll be able to apply things in a way where the goal is to be for God to be able to say to us, well good Christ to be able to say to us, well done, thou good and faithful servant. That's got to be it. Um and if we keep that in mind, um really that's so important. Uh we we we can try to make a life that we want Uh we I sometimes I see it on Facebook, you know, peop you and you sort of see this, people are trying to make their own lives the way they want them. That that's kind of the problem. Let God be let your life be what God wants it to be. And stop trying to make it what you want it to be. That may be part of the issue too. There's a lot, there's a lot of different things here. It really the perspective has got to be this and then we'll be able to to um live in a way that honors the Lord and and is faithful to him. Alright, hopefully that was helpful for you. Matthew twenty five, I'd encourage you to read through that more. And if you have questions even even individually, come talk with me. I can I'd be glad to help any way I can with that because there's lots of applications uh to that. If you have your prayer list you can pull them out and we'll go through a few things here. Yeah.