What we've basically done is we've said biblically this is what sex is. And the reason I'm so grateful is because I was confronted with this, working and doing tree work and those kinds of things. But when it comes to this area, understand that the curiosity needs to be on the other side of marriage, teenager. I'll read Romans eight or Romans uh yeah, and Romans eight with them so nothing could se accept neck nothing could separate them from the love of God and that God loves them and um It's in God, it's not of ourselves. When we have a desire that's wrong, we're checking it to make sure, oh, that's not a desire that pleases the Lord. It's like trying to have a relationship and say and and coming to somebody you don't even know and saying and trying to have a very deep conversation with them right away. Okay, so there's a difference between thinking and thinking about thinking. It depends on how you do it. How do we teach them to look through a gospel lens in that area? So we don't find our acceptance in our appearance. When it uh uh when it's uh has that meekness about it and yeah. Uh so we we need to l do life with them. Uh you might figure out what it may have to do with if you think of parenting and why I wouldn't want it to be recorded recorded. you know, twenty-five thirty, sa uh Solomon when he wrote to his son was probably uh his son was probably an a a young adult. from scripture is based upon that. do recommend for staying fairly general actually. And we're not going to tell you every perversion right now, but realize there's lots of perversions. uh handle that you're giving a child a cell phone. You'd you better just get used to looking away look away at that. Okay, frankly. uh with their kids. Teens, where where they our teens get it from? So that's exactly what the Bible says. And we ought not try to teach our teens that, look, if you're holy, then you will never be happy. Well, you do and don't do based upon what? I feel like we got off that question or maybe one of the things that we've got to do. Any any anything like that. appearance thing is one one one uh verse in the Bible about David when he was anointing the kings and he said to Samuel And you've never really developed that palette, that interest in things of God, then that teenager is probably not going to see it as anything until they you've had enough training of teaching and encouragement for them to realize that it it is And safety in the Lord. uh may feel insecure because of their their body and their their perception of that. And the safety in the lord they won't care so much if they won't need it so much from outside. When they get to be teenagers, it's a lot harder to figure out what they're thinking, and sometimes we can just assume we know. Um you use your mind for everything. But we still have that old flesh. uh at the church I went to in Breenville and I was in one of his classes and he was talking about um like knowing your kids' heart um and like passions has God given this kid what yeah good you know things can I be helping him like showing that I love him by helping him or her pursue. And our kids think, teenagers think, oh if I don't do this that I'm not this or if I do this, I'm not a good if I do this I'm a good person. of salvation, but the way you're perceived by your peers, both saved and not saved, obviously is colored by your actions. It's secondary to how God like I think it pales in comparison to what God thinks of you, um what people think of you as far as that's concerned. Okay, that you don't that they uh that they are in it's an enjoyable time for them, but you're in con you're considerate of them. And then you have so you have inconsistent enforcement of the of it. Uh there will be no re record record of it. Only by his grace. You have uh drinking age, which is twenty-one. And probably is probably probably pretty accurate. Mm, definitely something that we would all understand to be true for one thing. You you usually don't have that for a five year old. definitely that it begins to change and now you actually have uh someone with that ability, the analytical ability, um to where at the point when they're getting now you'd still have brain development, they're saying now, through age twenty-five. And we're pointing out some characteristics. Our culture is literally a wash in t in sexual temptation, perversion, and permissiveness, to put it mildly. One of the things that parents uh in previous generations you c you can't keep you can't do it the way it was done. That is a very dangerous thing to do now. And our we want our kids to be feel free to be able to ask us questions and we need to be able to answer them um and not feel awkward about it Or at least get over the we might feel awkward, but just, you know, get over it and and and uh and talk about it with our kids anyway. the stuff to do with that. Practically, what does that mean? Uh in our household they're not getting a cell phone a personal cell phone until they're older. So it's close to impossible for them to to do anything with 'em. I I can I tell you, I am very thankful if if if there's anything I can think of to to t that I would thank my dad for, it's at a extremely I didn't even understand what he was telling me to do when he told me to look away. We what it was another good kid movie, but it had a preview of Roger Rabbit and that girl was on there. And I'm i I I couldn't be great more grateful uh for that. this as well. So so be aware of this. it it's really important that that you have an open line of communication. Uh Pastor Jim brought it up. Uh it may be hard to get them to open up. Come alongside them and walk with them through this critical area. And realize that's curiosity is not sin, but it can be a temptation that will lead to sin. Okay. Uh you could think that your whole, you know, we could sort of expand a text grade and suddenly, I'm going to be a college dropout, I'm going to be a total failure in life, I'm going to end up being a sanitation expert. Yes, just losing a big game. I just work better under pressure. You're going to reap later. So that's sin. at at the earliest stages of their development. And that critical time is where we want to help them to see the right perspective of having an eternal perspective on things, a gospel lens. good little things, but you do because you love it, but it's stolen. Another thing related to this is teaching them to be others focused instead of self-focused. to esteem God and s to esteem others. see who I am, who he made me to be and who he's he's working on me to be and he sees my heart. And help them see their hearts as they really are. Uh that can be easy for us to do. So mind and heart or mind and emotions and desire will, mind, will and emotions, all of that is together. the Bible or what you know the God teaches that that is inherently evil. Of course, we are given a new nature once we're saved. Uh one thing that he said was like, you know, it's not it's not always just about discerning what's like sin. And then they talked through that and forced his kids to, you know, think about it. There's so much freedom available without responsibility that as parents we have the responsibility to make sure that that we we put rules in place teacher teens that what they do does not define them. Okay, hopefully most of us learn table manners. because their child embarrassed them. You're not you're not enforcing it. Uh so let's go ahead and head back into this and we're we're in the middle of our discussion about uh parenting teams Okay? Let's sort of recap a little bit here. They wouldn't be considered full uh mature adults yet. about uh teenagers and the fact that even in our society that nobody can really figure out what a teenager is and what an adult is and when it when somebody passes from teen to adult Uh some you know some we have some laws that say t eighteen uh from Meyer to m you know to to not Meyer than you have but um or I'm what uh on what an adult is when when somebody becomes an adult. and also in mental ability. A child thinks, but an adult and a teenager thinks about thinking. at keeping honest, frank, and safe lines of communication open. You probably should consider doing it before they go off to camp. Uh we need to get over the awkwardness of it and just realize this is just a necessary thing we need to do with our kids. And that really if you can get to talk to your kids about this issue about sex before If they are going to spend if they're going to have sleepovers, that's a good place w to talk about sex, and so you want to get them before they do that. Uh obviously if you have daughters you need to have your wife there. Um I mean, homosexuality, transsexuality, all of these things now are are in the news and everywhere, and it's not something that you can avoid. various things we talked about for uh reproduction, for pleasure, for intimacy in the marriage. And um and that's where we usually leave it. And uh he said he would he had a policy that uh that you keep your doors open uh in the bedrooms, and he would at any time just walk by his son's bedroom and say, What are you thinking about right now? If you're if you is a is a car dangerous? We call them kid phones. Because what happens when this when someone is in the middle of puberty and they see this kind of stuff, it it can't it it's gonna be a harsh and not not just see it but they gaze look at it time it's going to be a harder struggle for them. Um doesn't mean that's right. Uh I remember I remember we were in the movie theater. And so we were in the movie theater and there was a there was a um I I had I could have had it in like six or seven. I it's awkward to talk to your parents about this. And uh so uh I really encourage you to uh kids, teenagers, please please think about that and and how important it is. and uh stay as open a line of communication as you possibly can uh with your teenagers on this subject because this is the kind of sin And it's going to it's going to get solved a lot faster. sports or you can be cre c curious about all kinds of things and study up on and learn all kinds of things. Wait to be curious on the other side of marriage with your spouse. I will say this as well, since I have teenagers in the room. You and frankly, adults are the same. Now I'll never be able to join the MBA like I was planning on. Teams tend to put off responsibilities until the last possible minute. can project in the future in the right way. And and to help our kids, our teenagers understand it, to see the big picture rather than just what they have to do today and realize how important that is. God's call is to be holy and then we will be happy. Okay, so holiness and happiness, it's not one or the other. Let me um let's flesh this out a little bit because I think this is important. looking at themselves, right? Um and it's not based on our performance. Candidly, it happens very frequently in sort of fundamentalist background homes. And we've got to make sure our teenagers understand that. pos the question I was posing. Makes sense. And nothing could separate them. and the world feeding like the perfect image and you fight that and I as a teenage girl I think teaching them and training them that there's so much security and uh uh totally occupied with what we want without saying, okay, is what we want really coming from the right heart Isn't that true about us adults adults? But to ask lots of questions is something that is uh helpful. Or actually the fleshly organs of your heart? Both of those are within the heart. You want you want our we want our teens and ourselves for that matter to make sure that we're thinking right. Just a warning here with this area, we can't just burst into their room, announce the infraction, declare the penalty, and deliver a short sermon on the lesson they should learn. Yeah, that's excellent. when their parents are instructive and corrective from their parents when they're instructive and corrective and word that quite right. You spank 'em and you hug 'em and they you know but it it it changes when they're a teenager. Um so be mindful of this. their performance. Your definition is not based on what you do. You're bad all the time. Teach your teams that they are defined by creation and salvation. what we uh do. One reason you might want to do that is because you're worried about what other people think of you, so you have good table manners for that reason. not say certain things and say certain things in order to be caring about others or loving others. Externals because we could be sending mixed messages in our correction if we are if we're saying if we believe your actions don't define you Well what happens is that's true consistently anyway. by you know i uh uh by giving them time and attention. That's not going to be their love language. I wanna uh I gotta go. That there's a sense in which with your teens you need to learn to sh you need to shepherd them. how to parent their teams properly. Um we are going to talk today about uh that we've been going through different characteristics of teenagers and w before anybody else does, that would start you on the right journey. Um a good I I'm not going to get into a lot of detail about this, but I I will say this. Um are they believing sexual lies uh that they're being told is uh you know, there's different different things that we need to be asking our kids. And um it's it's dangerous. And just just be open uh in this area with your parents. Alright. I thought this was such a big deal, but I I look back six months and now it's not that big a deal. in things like discipline, uh things like behavior, uh study habits, um The other aspect of it is that we're created by God. Um and so we need to ac have our kids uh uh accept themselves based upon who God has made them to be and how He saved them to be. who have struggled with this and when I when I explain to them um it's always in the presence of my wife or somebody else but um God, you know, don't pick him because how he looks, but because God looks at the heart. So is the heart I feel kinda dumb asking this, but is that your desire? Okay, so mind is sort of cognitive, heart is more emotions. It has potential for yeah. When God saves you, He gives you a new heart. And what the Bible says to them about every aspect of their lives and experience. And to put to death the desires that are not spiritual, to put to death the desires that are from the flesh. Yeah. Um that tends to be how we want to do things. Uh youth will often look at their peers for acceptance and validation, and youth often struggle with feeling acceptance from uh As parents, we we have to be instructive to our kids. You can't say, well, I'll just have quality time. If they if that has ha indeed happened, if they haven't been saved, uh then of course it's just creation and the potential to be saved. So I think primarily we should be teaching our child our teenagers that what we do affects other people, and we want to affect them positively. Um another uh just showing deference to others. I think this is also why it's really important for our instruction and correction to drive to the heart and not just the uh loving others. If coupled with time and attention. Uh and uh we what we're going to look at as how to pastor teams. Yeah. You still have adolescent development even in early early g early early um early twenties from what from what this are this one thing I was listening to said. Um you know. Um we should be open with our teens and ask our be able to ask our teens things like is uh you know a are they struggling with lust? relatively successfully and uh they're all in Bible college or graduated from grab from Bible college now and serving the Lord in various ways. And he would ask questions like, have you ever had any homosexual thoughts? And and that is really a good idea in our society uh to have that kind that level of openness with your kids if if possible because they're gonna get it other places. Is is a cell phone dangerous? Okay? But I can't tell you just just talk if you have a question about this, don't go to your friends. good uh by based on experience. I'd uh parents, maybe tonight you need to go home and talk to your teen and you need to say, hey, um we've never talked about this All sin, but this kind of sin particularly according to Ephesians chapter four, it it grows in the darkness. Parents, you shouldn't look surprised by the way, okay, if they ask you a question. Alright, any questions about this? And the truth of the matter is it's very common, it's not youth don't just generally think about the end in m mind when they begin something. look ahead to what's going on. What do you think? Um and it's not that big but in the moment it seems like it's everything. Um but um we need to help our kids understand that um we don't we don't want to be that way in in just being in the present and not looking at how your present circumstances Knowing the Lord, devotional time with the Lord, Bible memorization, those kinds of things that you do now God has not, God, I remember somebody, I was saying to somebody, you know, I'm really, I was a young adult, I was out of seminary, I was in a situation, and I said, uh Let's take the issue of how they look at themselves. themselves in any way in a good way. Uh when I explain to them how much God accepts them, it has helped. is becoming more like Christ. Yeah, I I'm I'm sure that's true. You know, I'm not a woman. Or what how do we see that as a gospel thing? Alright, number six, a lack of heart awareness. Um to help uh you know, there's a sense in which sometimes, and w uh as adults we're the same way. But we but uh as a that'll never stop. um and and helping them to then cultivate and follow after desires that are truly spiritual. football that's awesome. And then thought about that. They have we've already talked about this quite a bit already, but they struggle with acceptance and identity. That they're gonna f they're gonna feel like they're not accepted. Um it is not an easy thing to try when you're you know, um and I think I mentioned this last week a little bit uh as well. Parents must give their teens time and attention if they are to feel accepted and important. That doesn't doesn't work. explaining the relative importance or lack thereof of others' perceptions of you. I think there's probably a place for saying what you do. Uh so yeah, very good point. Every one of you, I mean I ev if a parent thinks in that way, it will actually help them to understand An adult then is able to think about thinking. And there was a um you remember Roger Rabbit? That's often the gateway. Uh an absence of eschatological perspective. Um somebody that can be feel really, really serious and you look back at it six months from now and you go, okay, well the guy was just not being he was not being a great guy or whatever. I that's not procrastination. And uh and that's uh something that we need to understand. What's that? We want to help them see that the world and their circumstances through the through an eternal and gospel lens. We parent kids will grow up in Christian homes and somehow they think that God's acceptance of them is based on their performance. And so really important for uh us to get that across to our teenagers. that uh a meek and quiet spirit is sh th is a is is beautiful to God and is of great price. It's very easy for us to not think about our heart to just do this or do that or be totally um Um so it's not it's it's your ability to think, your desires, and really let's face it, they all do go together. And um one question that he applied to that too was like his kid wanted to play flag football. But we are just totally focused on the externals in our correction and instruction. Um discipline should be linked to the behavior, not the person. Um if you don't if you have boundaries and rules without time and attention, uh then you're going to have um then you're going to they're going to feel that they're not accepted. Uh it should not be a surprise that teenagers can be especially present focused. I think sometimes uh um trying to think of some things that that teenagers you know, maybe it's uh what's that? Um holiness more than happiness. I don't I'm really not happy. Very, very important for our us to teach our teenagers. Okay. The main thing that we're most concerned about is I don't know. Because of the boundaries we're putting or the correction. And y what you do does not define you. There really isn't anything that you that you can substitute for time. That should not happen. then they will understand that rules and boundaries, uh they will they will uh accept them and actually can see them as something of acceptance. I think we should finish up tonight on this, and then next week we have a topic that we're going to discuss that will not be recorded at all. Uh you can be curious about all kinds of things. If you're not dating until you're thirty, you don't have to worry about that. But yes. It's a matter of school the next day. And so helping our uh that is a teen is something that teenagers need to be aware of, want uh to know the heart of our teenagers, which means patient and persistent questions. our hearts are are deceitful and wicked above all things. Um that is something that makes it it's a struggle because teens then if we're not careful they can feel that we don't accept them. So we need to talk about sex with our teen and not merely in hypotheticals or general general principles. Uh with situations of uh or loc or locations or relationships are presenting uh what such situations or locations or relationships are presenting uh temptation? Very it's really hard to do that I think, but it's very important. They will pick up on things that your children won't pick up on. Which means what you have to do is you have to be so secure in the Lord that you're not embarrassed. You do have children, that's in the Bible. But years ago, you didn't necessarily talk to your kids about it. I mean that's really the question that they ask uh that they asked. It doesn't matter what you do, it doesn't matter what your performance is. one way or another because I want to be accepted by God, I'm esteeming others because I love him. Thank you, Zach. The word youth in Proverbs is a reference to people that wouldn't be considered children. It's not only men now that are getting addicted to pornography. Ultimately, we want them to realize God is more concerned about our holiness than our happiness. Yeah, as long as we're we're saying that the motive of why we esteem others is love for God, like you said, and love for others. But still instruct them and correct them. If you don't if you don't have the the time or the attention, then you probably don't have the ability to even make sure that they're following the boundaries. We're already fully, completely accepted in Christ. I don't know how much it would help a teenager that's looking in a mirror struggling with anything. You know, focus on others, esteem others greater than yourself. I mean you could talk do it with your daughter as long as your husband's aware of it. Teen teen teens, I I would also say to you that you might be surprised how much your parents aren't going to be surprised by what they but by what you ask them So we need to be careful about that. Because you're because you genuinely want them to have a pleasant experience. God defines you. Um and that's a very good thing to say to your child that's driving, but it's the same thing when it comes to uh uh uh cell phone. And um that definitely tends to c all of us can be this way, and we need to be reminded, all of us need to be reminded to take to to take the eternal view. We need to be aware of that and we need to help our teams with this because it is something that happens a lot. And unlike children who may not be perceiving that you're embarrassed, your teens will know if you're embarrassed. And whatever they have is gonna be a bit of a perversion to what's really really true based upon what's They're often paying attention to themselves, to what they what they whether people like them or not, whether they're popular or not, what they look like, whether it's acceptable to them or not Sin is pleasure for a season with consequences down the road. Any any action, any behavior is based upon our love for God not to be accepted by God. We still have the flesh that gives us the wrong desire. At assuring our children, our teenagers rather, that we accept them regardless of what they do, that we accept them regardless of their performance. You still have to do the instruction and correction because God says to. Being worried or concerned about their perception of me. Sure. Isn't that wonderful that uh they when they make that, they can make the connection that between those two things and I've actually seen it help. Sure. Yeah. If you choose sin instead of holiness, you will have immediate happiness and you'll have problems down the road. We need to go on whatever it is. Alright. And then so now when they went to practice, that's really good. Very good. You're going to link link the behavior or link the discipline to the behavior. And it is only by his grace that we can parent teenagers. And that that's something that you can rest in, and you know, using scriptures relating to that is very helpful, I think It's going to help you later. The sufferings of this present time is not worthy to be compared to the glory that shall be revealed. So it doesn't happen just because one day you decide to walk in and say, Hey, oh by the way, uh God loves you and you're beautiful in his eyes. So so for example, um this is a really trite example but it it'll help us understand. Yeah, that's a good example. They're disobeying it. And we should be training fathers, we should be training our kids, whether it's a cell phone or in the mall or a billboard or whatever, training our kids to look away You ever heard that before? Was that all that stuff your answer to the teaching your kids when they look in a mirror to see themselves through a gospel lens? Um, but any ladies would want to speak to how acceptance by God Um so let's think about this biblically like why would a lost kid want to play five football? Very very good. Um but I would be I don't think it's wrong I I would be really careful I guess about about saying that what you do On a practical level, that basically means that that they're not ready for a cell phone until they're ready for the responsibility of having it. Though it is holiness that truly leads to happiness, and that sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that is to be revealed in us. No, I think it's I think it's all part of it. I have more to say. It's like I say this last week when I talked about a police officer. It's surprising how many people didn't learn table dance. Their love language is going to be time and attention. The best thing to do the the best thing that you can do to help is to stay in communication. Um as far as looking in a mirror specifically, I still think the uh I still think that's the answer is that when we look at a mirror We don't biblically have the concept of teen teen in the Bible, a teenager exactly. It's not really necessary to get into detail. So I I would answer that question yeah, definitely, but I would ask I answer that question by saying that the level of f freedom needs to equal the level of responsibility. We we we all can be this way where we are so we are so focused on the here and now that we're not looking ahead. Okay. And the guy said, Well, you know, God hasn't called us to be happy, he's called us to be holy. Or we because as ki you know, when they're kids, when they're children, it's kinda easy to figure out what they're thinking You gotta spend time with them. It's interesting I was listening today to um a guy who was talking about just demographics and uh uh How how is it that uh what what are some things that you might think to yourself, can you can you think of some things that you'd say, you know Yeah. Next one is a lack of heart awareness. So when the Bible refers to the heart, is it talking about the desires or generations? Uh so okay, so prior to salvation, so we know pre-salvation that's exactly the hardest, deceitful and desperately wicked. Um good good example. And we're now at number four, and the characteristic is susceptibility to sexual temptation. And they're open. You gotta talk to a m a married adult person and that person should be your parents Um and so um you have to look at it that way, that there are desires He's already defined you in Genesis chapter 3. But yeah, uh and there that's not the only area. So we'll look at that uh next week because I do want to I do want to take prayer requests and things uh tonight. Yeah. Um they're just going to tell you exactly what they think because they're not thinking about thinking. I remember my parents having a conversation with me. Yeah, losing a losing a basketball game or a football game, baseball game, or soccer. Sometimes we're the same way as adults, aren't we? Anyway, procrastination is don't put off today what you can do tomorrow. Whatever a man sows, that will he also reap. Um and that's true of for teenagers as well. Quality time is found when you have quantity time. And then as they get a little bit older, as they develop and they ask questions and those kind of things, we want an open line of communication with them to go into more detail. I know it's awkward. And teenagers tend to need help in this area to see the big picture. That's good. So if you think about thinking, then you're you're you're past the childhood stage where you're actually thinking about whether or not you really ought to think about that. So you will never hear, you will very m I it would be very surprising to hear a five-year-old, you talk to a five-year-old and say you ask them a question, they say, uh let me give that give that some thought Teens often live as if the current moment or their current desire is the most critical thing ever. It's not based upon what we do. Yeah, good question. I don't want you to embarrass me. So anyway, so they felt like they had to tell me uh explain things. I mean there there's this critical time around eleven or twelve years old where they go from thinking to thinking about thinking. Okay, good. They need to do life with us in order to have the right kind of relationship. What happens was is that if you're if you don't have the time and tension uh with your with then you're you're coming in they You can't rent a car until you're twenty-five. Um I was I'm thankful that my parents at a very I was at a really young age, um I was surprised they did it. Absolutely it's dangerous. I wouldn't say it doesn't matter. I I I don't th so there's a obviously I'm at a bit at a disadvanta I know that w women in teenage years do deal with body image issues, those kind of things. You don't really see yes, we're made in the image of God, but it's So there are desires, there are genuinely pure, right desires that come from us. Be mindful, parents, be mindful that when you correct your kids, when you instruct your kids All that to say that um what we're doing is we're looking at what it looks like to be a youth from Proverbs. And I mean that's how early my dad started me with this. And the reason I mentioned that is this curiosity is not wrong. You can be curious about any subject, you can be curious about creation, you can be curious about That's actually to other people. You want to be perceived by others well, but why you want to be perceived by others well is very important to to flesh that out In other words, if you spend plenty of time and plenty of attention with your teenager, And then you jump into the situation and they've been doing this for the next for the last six months and you're saying, hey, there's a rule there So that's part of one of the one of the reasons why that's um uh necessary. Those kinds of things. If it stays in the darkness for a long time, it will grow there. But but um but um if you you know that could be something. What you do should be based on your definition. Or it could be detrimental to you later as well. Um You know what? Um and if you want to know what that is, you'll have to ask me personally 'cause I'm being recorded right now. Okay? God, if by through Christ, because of what Christ has done, if you'll accept Him by faith, you are completely accepted. Uh we must talk and pray and love. You have adults, that's in the Bible, and you actually have this word called youth in the Bible. And so there's a sort of a sense in which you do have uh you have youth. A teenager is in the middle or of gone through has gone through puberty. Is it hard to get teams to open up? So we want to make sure we're understanding our kids' heart. We'll always have to be doing that. Yeah. You want to please God. So we're we're saved by him, but we're also created by him, in his image, exactly the way he wants us to be created. Because when someone goes from a child to a teenager, they are now able to analyze. Um if they get past puberty and they happen to see it, um, that's a little bit different. I remember being a teenager and I remember being awkward. Anyway, um those kind of things uh can be can be that way In other words, what we do now, we need to do in a way that we can look ahead the future and say that will be a good result for the future. So you have then two sources of desires after you're saved. That's dangerous by the way. Not our teams though. So when it's when the when the heart when the Bible talks so we think differently. We can we can see everything on them. So um y you need to be so you really want your kids to be past puberty entirely Okay? So we're we're not finding our acceptance in those things and what other friends say or what You know, I don't I don't see how that me telling them that is gonna help them Okay. That's saying that any desired thought um in itself that comes from our own selves and is not from So the Bible says the f what the flesh warth against the spirit, lowercase s, warth against the spirit and the spirit against the flesh, and they are contrary one to another. All right? But I but it actually when uh when uh someone goes from a child to a teen is actually somewhat clearer uh physiologically Uh the fathers and sons could do it with or without the wife there. In our family, Liz and I have done it together and um Um because I mean literally they're ch they're not but they don't own 'em. On the other hand, teenagers, don't be open with anybody else about this. The basis is we're accepted by God because of the gospel if we have accepted Christ as our Savior. They're defined by the fact that God created them, and they're defined by the fact that God saved them. And uh until then be aware that that's a that's a uh critical area as well. What am I talking about here? I just work better under pressure. Okay, well let me I I guess I'll answer it this way. So just taking everyday kind of things like that and saying, why are we doing what we're doing? So even if you don't say you're embarrassed, they'll still know if you are. There is so many things that I mean, if you talk to other teenagers about this, you're gonna get such bad information. Yeah. And he came up with good answers and then he said, Okay, so why does a kid who knows God want to play five football We have to be even corrective with our kids. They just sort of figured it out somehow or learn from their friends, that kind of thing. Yes, we watched movies as a kid. I think it's all part of the answer. Is there anything that I'm missing as far as that's concerned? Does that make sense? By the way, that's teenagers think that what they do define and actually adults think that. Jeff Jeff? But okay, she taught me table dance. Um not uh if uh not causing others to stumble, scripture talks about. Has that ever been something you have you had thought about? I would say it's dang it's as dangerous as a car So, dad, give your kids that gift. We've been talking about the heart through this whole course. The Bible doesn't look at it that way. So stay with it, keep at it, and um Jeff, did you have a question? Well if you don't if you don't include the context of that then yes. They can feel accepted because they have boundaries. The gateway to this often is curiosity Blessed is the man. Any ideas? And what I mean by that is that is I'm not saying like you all need to become pastors, I'm saying that Okay? And of course it should be biblical the way you're talking about it. You guys don't do that, do you? Um talk to your kids about this and have an open line of communication. Um it's uh it's more men than women, but it it does happen with women as well. Um so So we have to really work hard. Um how do we uh help our teens feel accepted and find their identity without failing to discipline That's a good example. Uh until they have they have a job where they need it or something of that nature. Yeah, you love God. And I would highly recommend that you do it. This is what God intended it to be. Uh anytime God creates something, sin perverts it. But you you you might be really surprised that they're not nearly as surprised as you think they would be uh by your questions. God intended for us to be happy by means of our holiness. But you're going to want to please him. And we've got to teach our kids that. Don't don't correct your kids because you're embarrassed by them. Do you know that sometimes we as parents um And and and your only anything that's of any good is because of God's grace That's embarrassing. This is absolutely crucial when it comes to teens and sexual temptation. We didn't have cell phones. Because teenagers are often If we know Christ is our Savior, if we've accepted the gospel. So acceptance of their peers and just feeling like you know, like you said, I gotta be popular, I gotta be cool, I gotta do this, I gotta do that. But it really is in when kids become teenagers, that is really where that whole process starts. And God God that's God given. No. Yeah, like I don't see how that would tie to a teenager that maybe looks in a mirror and doesn't see And so that's one encouragement, you know, to me that God I mean there's all these different things um in in place and really society is not entirely clear on what a teenager is We need to understand ourselves, frankly, as parents, but then we also need to teach our teenagers. Yeah. And if you think in terms of pasturing your teenagers Okay. How do we teach our teenagers to have a gospel lens That's important. And you have to come back around and remind them that you do fully accept them regardless of But but remind them that you still truly accept them as your s as your children. And quality time is found within quantity time. Yeah. And so to h ask questions, we should be asking ourselves questions. Yes. Okay, I'll I'll just repeat it in case somebody wasn't there. God says you really want to be happy, biblically happy, then you need to be holy. Well when you were saying it doesn't matter, obviously the acceptance doesn't matter, but in terms of it does matter that you do So when the word heart is used, it's talking about all of it together. Do you say that it's completely unimportant what anyone thinks of you or Alright. Eschatological means uh end times or last things. Okay. Is that like it's the source of your desires? I'm glad you uh pointed out another area. Um yeah, test grade could be that way. Yeah, okay. Okay, Julie. Okay, because of security. This is something that teenagers uh struggle with. Your true identity is definitely the time and vibration And humble before the Lord that you're not embarrassed. Okay? They're not allowed to use them in their bedrooms. A little hard to get teams to open up sometimes, but keep at it. Um and so so um I think that's an important thing. The word blessed is means happiness. Um good question. I mean boundaries Yes, but the but the teenager will not likely perceive that boundaries are love Now I we didn't watch the movie Roger Rabbit. I don't want to ask questions about. But we also want to make sure that our wills are right. Right, parents? We talked about those kind of things. Anything like that you can think of? And the other verse that encouraged me when I was younger is the verse, um, worship the Lord and the beauty of holiness and that's the beauty that God sees in Like if if that mirror like kind of concept was to happen In other words, discerning what desire comes from the flesh or what desire comes from the Spirit of God. Yeah. You have a discussion before you give that cell phone out and all So when my p uh my having conversations with me when I started driving, my mother said to me, This is a weapon. So what you sow, you're going to reap Because if we're not careful, we're we're so focused on do this and don't do this and do this and don't do this The right way to deal with this is to ask a lot of questions Um, sure. You're made in his image. But there's another reason why you would have good table manners. Yeah. They they look at me like and And First Peter First Peter three says But I think that would be my approach more than just Hopefully this comes out okay. And they said we want to be the first one of the reasons we're telling you so young is we want to be the ones to tell you and explain it to you. It's a cartoon. I was good and I I had such a reflex to look away, it never got into my system. Holiness may be hard in the present, but it's happiness down the road. Uh Bruce? The Bible looks at the heart as the altogether. No, we didn't watch bad ones. I just opened the door for you to have a good reason to say something. And it's very important that we do that. It's it's like trying to have a relationship. Don't be embarrassed by your kids. Go to your parent. Teenagers, would you agree that you're kinda like you could could be kinda like this? You've got to choose between holiness and happiness. I um I and I don't mean looking in the mirror particularly, but just looking at them s just viewing them well how they view themselves is what I was Like the word the word esteem in the Bible is used We talked about how now we have to set rules in place because Okay, that you don't want to gross them out. Um and I can tell you I'm extremely grateful for that. So whatever a what you sow, you will reap. A good way to talk to your kids about this area It's called procrastination. Well just have a little pressure, you know, two weeks before instead of the day before. We want we want it to Well or the intention to be evil They could uh that can be a really confusing message for for a teenager. So you're not going to say Alright, I'm thinking back to being a teenager and like there's just so much insecurity and Um what I'm talking about there is this that And so so uh the the the cognitive ability of a of a of someone in their eleven, twelve year old, thirteen Okay. Well that's not quite true. Love the Lord your God and love your neighbor as yourself. You go to the table and you have manners at the table. And so We've got to help them understand that. But anyway. Don't wait too long anymore. Okay, a breakup. It's not you do this and don't this do this in order to be accepted by God. Yeah. Isn't it true that sometimes we don't even know what's in our heart? We need to help them to see their see the heart behind their actions, their true treasures. I said thought we were gonna be done tonight, we're not. Now that's going to change as they get older. So You catch that? Did you catch that? It's actually beautiful to people too. So So one is going to be their love language, the other one's not. Um but anyway you have that category of youth in scripture and so a lot of the things we're we're we're taking And then we said there are all ki just like everything else in the world, there are all kinds of perversions to this Just just very open, very just an openness with his kids about that kind of stuff. We we have that within us to want to be curious. And uh if you could you can be curious about every other area within that area, within sexual temptation Um Um And that's why it's so important for parents to have an open relationship Alright. The crucial point here is to know your son or daughter and to know and to work hard We want to the help them begin to see Proverbs says, above all else, guard your heart, for out of it are the issues of life. And he's defined you further if you know Christ is your Savior. Now probably we're talking about youth being young adults going all the way through probably Um and stay in connection with them. Okay. Clearly communicated boundaries and consequences will actually promote acceptance. Off a camp. Um wives um It's in marriage, only in marriage. Um But your acceptance isn't contingent upon it. Well uh just an added point to what she was saying about So he sat him down and he was like, Okay, so you want to play flag football? And so teaching your children, realize a lot of times we think Okay And my dad said I don't know the name of the cartoon, that's fine. You losing a uh a game. Now It's it's all three. That has nothing to do with why they should be corrected or not So you have to really try hard not to be embarrassed. But it's got to be coupled with time and attention. Anyway, um Go to your mom. Like, realize that that's a gateway. Alright, let's move on. We're already accepted in Christ. If you are truly accepted by him, then you know his love and you want to love him. You you really can't, you really can't So anyway. All right. You know what, you know, you know what the old joke in college was for procrastinators? Okay, good. Um Um There's all kinds of things like that that that uh that we have in place. They're not it's not their personal property at all. Okay, good. Don't put off uh today what you can do tomorrow. You bring it out in the light. We've accepted the gospel. That's a good question actually You have the desire for to please the Lord and you desire the desire to please self Yes. I was listening to something recently about this. I don't think it was necessarily the right way to do it And that's the case with sex as well. Somebody asked a piece of police officer, when should I give my kid a cell phone? Well Youth will struggle with finding who they are Why would I go I could uh my mom has a taught me table manners Believe me, when you get uh teenagers will will beture all of us, actually Now of course that that's God is more concerned about our holiness than our happiness. So We have currently in our household we have Um and I can tell you this that I have talked to young ladies before Our Western world, we think of heart and mind as separate Um I mean, uh I have heard parents do that. But time and attention is love. Um I got it all right, good. In other words, that we're we're keeping our wills in check, that our desires are in check, that Um Go to your dad. Okay? It's also very difficult to do that. Sure. However, you do have Um But I think the fact that God's created them is also uh an important aspect of that, yeah. It's also like discerning, okay, what And the culture and the advertisers certainly work to reinforce that feeling. We need to teach our teens that. So there's all kinds of biblical principles on relating to others and how I might What would be the other reason? Does that is it is that what you does that make sense But that spirit that's within us is a beautiful thing to God when I think you put it in terms of a couple of things. We should try not to assume we know our kids' heart I mean you could s try to separate 'em. We're gonna do one more week. Oh man, we lost Yeah You've got the mind and the will and the emotions. So how do you deal with And you'll have all kinds of issues down the road. If I don't do this, I'm a bad person. All right. So I would say it, we could say it this way. Uh being being snubbed by a friend Yes. That's not the case. Um so there's a guy. Beginning stages when you talk about the subject, I Uh and teenage girls. Have you ever heard that before? You need to realize the danger of the cell phone. I I thought, you know I have a pastor friend who's raised four teenagers And so he says we're fearfully and wonderfully made. Don't it God has accepted us entirely. Right. Um it should be just your parents that you're open with. Um when they're when our kids are when our kids are young So the Bible says, set your affections on things above, not on the things of this world. Okay. There's two reasons why you might do that They go from thinking to actually being able to analyze It doesn't matter about with regard to your acceptance. We haven't really thought about it fully We're just looking at what's here right now I'm going to you know uh all these kind of things. We need to remind our teens of that. Well, now I look back and surprise, but um I was asking questions. You're recreated in Christ. In other words, I'm not I'm not esteeming others And so I would definitely encourage that. And I I gotta say it this w And you might say to yourself, well, I'm just being curious. Um any questions about that or thoughts about that? Where is this desire coming from So we we need to we need to make sure so so. We have to do that in our own lives as Christians, don't we? Let's then go ahead and grab your your uh What you do defines you? You're accepted. No, no, no. Is that is that like the parent correction Alright. Are you aware that that happens? I mean that's the real thing is that you're showing you love them. In fact it's It's for Uh my my dad said, Jim They don't know what they're talking about It's it's definitely it's definitely something that happens. I'm at a disadvantage as to uh identifying with that 'cause Harry? How do you fight temptation What you're sowing now Anyway. Um you're embarrassing me. You can't hardly I think you put it actually in terms of love. And um Unfortunately We've got a backwards If they really can sense the security and So Um What's that? We talked about that several weeks ago. You need to understand you can kill somebody with it. What you do doesn't define you. I was so young He said when do you want them to see porn? Teenagers You want to please him. I'm just curious. Yeah