And our parents think they're right, so and then like afterwards we get just like angered down in our hearts and we just like just like you wanna hit something and just sit down And what about the prodigal son? Uh and you're not in favor of it? So they really can affirm them as a child of Christ and kind of part of your family and make sure you have a positive relationship, not always feeding on them, so they don't always need external affirmation I spank her. And she's like, Dad, thank you for doing this with me. It's worth it. Yeah, thank you. Uh, you don't think kids wa they're watching all that. And there needs to if they're gonna step out of our household, that's something entirely different. So you see this in the Sermon Mount. They're my friends, you don't really know them. Now she was honestly she wasn't looking up anything bad. And I'm probably gonna make somebody mad at me, but it's okay. and then the child labor laws being um being put in place and all those basic things and all those things you have increased amount of time in school, decreased amount of time working But through love, serve one another. For if you bite and devour one another, beware lest you be consumed by one another. or the freedom is not yet earned and to be thinking in those terms. And I think sometimes we as parents need to articulate a little better. In other words, it's kind of funny, like a three-year-old, they turn to four-year-old, five-year-old, six-year-old. We noticed some of the noticed some of the changes last week, physical changes, is just puberty. with same sex marriage and what's going on with that. And it helps me to stay out of the bubble and I can see what's going on. Uh the righteous are offended at nothing. Do you think you really know better me than me on this? Sometimes we get really upset and we get frustrated or we get offended. She will bring you honor when you when you embrace her. When someone's going off the path, you're putting them on the path. Uh when when somebody great lovingly comes to you and says, Hey, I'm concerned about the direction you're going, we ought to be grateful for that And when someone is actually loving enough to come to us and confront us on that, from a biblical standpoint, from a spiritual standpoint, it is something that is sweet. the same thing. They're going to see that kind of thing. It sometimes it does come in disrespect, and then you have to sort of say, okay, that was disrespectful, but you're right. adults have a problem with is how they were treated growing up, how their parents corrected them. And there's other times where it's like, I don't even want to hear you right now. The prodigal son is not intended to be actually a narrative of how we raised teenagers, so I'll say that number number one. Now you may be surprised by this one, but but actually when you think about it, they are masters at the letter of the law. Well see if they could pick apart and I want to pick apart. And then he corrects it. And that's how we deal with that tendency toward legalism. And they tend to want to go this direction. If you can just admit that, then it's going to help you in understanding how very important it is to choose the right kinds of friends and to really be careful about allowing your friends to define who you are. destroyed as a strong warning to keep them totally away from the So I think that by you pointing out the fact that that individual is severely uh is going to destroy you Him or her see I put her and it for obvious reasons I have three girls, but um to seek out. individuals I know they are totally going the wrong way. And let them see what the Bible says about this. But to maybe like say to use that word voice about someone who maybe hasn't gone that far, but is going in that direction. From outside of it. And they go outside the home and they find acceptance outside the home and they've got friends outside the home that accept them, and they don't have acceptance in the home. then they will be the parents that are not accepting that they feel aren't accepting them. have tried to correct them or you have to put a correct and they just become more bitter or irritated at you because of what they're feeling more restricted. deny I don't I don't doubt that that's that's entirely possible. You're never going do you understand okay that's th this is our my com today. I don't know how she in the world got an idea that was okay. Yeah, Chipotle. I did the same so so so Kristen, same kind of thing happened with Kr so I I I took Kristen to get frozen yogurt. I'm still figuring this out, but I've got to find ways that they if I gotta do that more, so that they feel accepted by me so that when I've got to say you are not using that search and seven times of and limiting their amount of outside influence when it comes to the kids because I found that uh based on the amount of interaction they've had with different people We do our best to schedule times with them. So I put my kid in my my kids are going to do soccer this year, my my oldest two girls, they're gonna go in secular rec league sports because I think they're it's less of a of an influence on them. with a you know Carol and I we raised four kids, we're all teenagers, they all went to Christian college. So great. Uh it's not before that you didn't have teenagers. the family business, you're working in those kinds of situations, so you're increasing in your responsibility and you're also increasing your freedom as you grow. And throughout Scripture you always see that. Unfortunately, it makes us look like we're just hampering freedom for the sake of hampering freedom. And we just said sort of practically speaking that it's the responsibility of the parent then as as uh for us to To level out that so that we we are thinking about, okay, they could have this much freedom. Okay. And adults in those three segments, you've got changes in all three of them, frankly, right? Oh you you're s you're you're I I remember when you were so little and now you're not and and and you know us parents are before we know it we were you know our parents told us that and now we're telling our kids that and we're so sounding like our parents Um but when we get the teenage years, um we are um we are aware of the changes that we're more aware anyway of the changes that are happening, which cause causes all kind which causes struggles From caregiver to trainer and advisor and mentor, we're shifting in our roles. sexual temptation involved. Uh and with that more independence and more freedom, and then our role is going to have to constantly change uh as that uh occurs. So there are unique dangers and traps uh that that teens will face. Uh I can verify that that is often that kind of, whether it's pornography or something close to it or something very damaging, very harmful, uh, it really is the case Even that's going to be more pervasive. I think we're in a day where you you better hear the right perspective on this stuff. I haven't seen this even in Kristen yet too much. They they seem as if they know the answers prior to you actually seeing they have a a more know it all kind of response. I I appreciate this is honest. something that begins to surface. Okay. an inward thing that you're facing, um, it's a challenge and it's a challenge for us parents as well. The first seven chapters of Proverbs are essentially a wise father giving practical advice to his young son Okay, now it could refer to young adults down through teens, but this is what the Bible says is a tendency of youth. As you look through those and all the rest of Proverbs, there are a number of things that emerge which appear to be tendencies of youth. And give attention to no understanding. Wisdom is the principal thing. Hear my son and receive my sayings, and the years of your life will be many. Now let me ask this question, and I'm going out of order on this, but it's okay. Between fully an adult and younger, you're trying to become an independent person. correction as we're getting older. Or do you attempt to beat or shame your kids into submission with words? the patience in correcting. explain it because it takes too much time and we lose our patience. I can't really see her running across the sanctuary actor at all. And it led to disruption or mental repentance. and took the inheritance, his parent his dad wouldn't do that, and and spent it on Ryder's living. think in terms of the individual and whether or not they may need to learn the lesson on their own or make decisions on their own as they get older, those kinds of things. Okay, so I'm not going to get and now this actually I find a little difficult because I like words. to the uh unattainable spirit of the law, then showed how the gospel leads us to the heart that can never have uh they can never have on their own Um or in some cases there the law was it was a misconstruing of the law, uh like uh where it says uh uh uh hate your enemies. Okay. I mean it really is something that uh I don't I don't disagree with what you're saying, but it really is something that y we want to hear what we want to hear. And so often we're hearing something that's not actually being said. Awake to righteousness and do not sin, for some do not have the knowledge of God, I speak this to your shame. The very first chapter in Proverbs deals with that. Don't collaborate with a foolish person. Yes. The answer to that is how much value you're putting into your friends. But I am not looking to that friend for any level of acceptance or identity. where you're forming your own opinion of yourself, where you're looking at yourself and saying, I want to feel accepted, I want to be accepted. and they are they are a bad influence, then it's gonna then it's gonna be very corrupted. Okay, we've got to teach our children, our teens, how to choose friends. think might be something that you should be cautious about with that person. what's really going on there that you're concerned about. Teens you can you can head on down and I'll talk to see if the parents have anything else they want to bring up. foster opportunities for them to be around. But you could steer help steer that way, one way or another. So I didn't want to say that word here, but I think that there is a lot to be. Which is what I would recommend doing. a tendency in a person without saying this is them, this is who they are. girl who's really not dressing right but maybe possibly doesn't realize it, maybe she does. defensive of our friends and kind of defensive of the choices. and let them read through it, show them what it says, um, because I think that you y you do get caught in that situation. What you're saying, Josh, is if somebody has a hemline that's too high, you're calling that. Look, that person's bad news and you're gonna have to you're not you're we're I'm gonna step in and you're not gonna be interacting with that person anymore. type ways then you're calling it what it is in that in that when you see that happening. will lead a child to to feeling unaccepted and they'll sh they'll they'll be looking everywhere else. what it would look like exactly because you want to have that relationship yet there still has to be correction and correction and so forth and you want them to feel accepted. that they shouldn't have yet. full disclosure. because I'm still trying to figure out, okay, how do I make sure my kids feel accepted by me because I'm gonna tell them right and wrong. Go in go online in your room to search for anything ever in your room. if you're thirteen. All right. Well could we split something? And she gives me she gives me this chocolate bar. We know bad company company corrupts good uh moral scripture is very clear about that. That they get it clear, but they also know that I'll take them to Chipotle. how much you do of that, but this is this is the my general approach with our kids. raise the kids while I work two jobs. And if you remember last week at the very at the beginning we talked about sort of the history that really teeny the idea of a teen is only 80 years old. None of us can handle freedom without an equal amount or close to equal amount of responsibility. would go would kind of work together to bring somebody to maturity. God always equals freedom with responsibility, which explained that you're not having responsibility yet, so therefore we're not going to give you the freedom yet, that kind of a thing. And so I think it's important for us to reiterate and to remember. We noted that there's a season of change. Oh we didn't get here? Peers, whether they're enticing to sin or bullying or other problems, those kind of things happen. When do you want them to see pornography? So the police officer said that. Um and so these are really unique dangers that in this generation, well that particular one, is fac uh other generations they faced it through magazines and other things, but it is all of it's more pervasive, even peers. Not probably but uh you know s extra access could be a good thing, but also could be a damaging thing as well. something called the briefing by Al Moeller. But be aware he's gonna cover everything. Um he covers a lot of stuff and the guy is brilliant theologically and um so uh and I am it it helps me to be I can be in a bubble if I'm not careful and are thinking about more things on their own. Okay? However, it's normal and it's understandable that you're going to start thinking. Um but you do have to be careful about that little attitude that Zach talked about where he wants to hit something. the downs, the the the problems in that category. The whole notion of a teenager is a recent invention and not really a category you find in the Bible. This isn't a reflection of all teens, but they do tend to be universal tendencies that many teens face. has every one of these characteristics, but these are biblically some of the characteristics that we find in the book of Proverbs that the father Solomon is dealing with with his son Number one, lack of hunger for wisdom or correction. Don't forsake my law. Get wisdom, get understanding, do not forget, nor turn away from the words of my mouth. God says in Proverbs and other place that he who loves correction loves wisdom. The fool despises correction and despises rebuke. And youth, you by your own words said that there's a tendency you have. Uh okay, I'm not a team, but I'm gonna answer I'm gonna answer a little bit here. yourself that you're gonna decide with what's best for you. I think uh we'll we'll get to more of this in a min in in a few minutes, but uh but just keep some of that in your mind. Check to see if you respond to your teenagers, now we're talking to parents, in ways that make wisdom appealing. We shame our kids rather than instruct our kids. Now the kids can feel shame when there's not, okay? So so in what in correction, have you ever had somebody come to you and say, Look, I'm seeing you go away that I'm not comfortable with? That is something that's sweet, especially if you I mean it's it may be hard to to hear, but it is something that's extremely valuable because we all have blind spots spots. Even when a spouse, hang on a minute, I will. Okay? Right. You know, if they're three and running across the sanctuary, I'm gonna say, Julie, stop running now. So the assumption would be, and I'm almost sure this is the case, this is the way what Jewish household was, there were rules in the household, and that prodigal son followed the followed. Um but I'm gonna let you you know I'm gonna let you make a decision. Because and you look at it and say, well they need to they need to understand. Um and I'm going to be very clear about that. Okay. in a positive way, not in a negative way. Okay. the spirit, the intention of my parents of my parents' desires, of what they want me to do. We ought to take it as an opportunity to not we don't want to jump in there and talk about and quarrel over words. understood it in the same way. Next one is a tendency to be unwise in their choice of companions. I think the key to that, it's I I I'm kind of that's jumping ahead to answer your question, but I'll answer it briefly and then we'll probably get into more in a few minutes, but or next time. They're trying to find their own le sense of acceptance. We should try to a name avoid name calling or character character assass assassination or panic. Depending on how dangerous we feel the friend is, may depend on the temptation for us as parents to do this. Um a teenager brings a friend saying to them, do you do do you really see that teenager? agree with that fully because Proverbs thirteen talks about the wise men being wise walking with the wise men versus the companion of fools being destroyed and I think that you know that your child is going to be walking with fools because they're going to be destroyed So I agree with you. Kindly if they are, keep help her uh help them he him or her outside the emotion to take an honest biblical look at who the Bible would have Okay. Okay. You can look at the look at what it says about the strange woman and you could up look at life and say this matches. That's that's sad and wrong, but it is a reality. Um I think that war strong warnings are are appropriate in the appropriate situation if you've gone through scripture and you've gone through it and they're not seeing it and look by sh darting out a name. take the passage and instruct them what what this strange woman looks like. And so we have to find a way to have them feel very completely accepted, regardless of their behavior. How do I correct her? Okay, my kids now here. Um uh I said this I ha I said the same this I had given her clear instructions before. It's amazing what happens. potentially most dangerous influence is a carnal quote-unquote Christian kid. Um but I think really I I do think you gotta limit what I I do. And I only thought of this, thought of that. But also it's important for teenagers to understand that parents are trying uh uh hopefully anyway, parents are trying to do the best they can to raise or we're trying to raise our children up in the nurture and admission of the Lord and growth All of this, there's a the team our team's relationship with us uh will also change. Um appearance is another. And there's there's pornography that that occur that often uh is and not just guys. I I heard a um I heard one person one person told me recently, uh fairly recently, six months ago. I'll call you I I know your name, so I'll call your name out. Uh they just don't know what they're talking about. Candidly, sometimes we respond the wrong way. Listen to me. Alright. Yeah? Correction in of itself isn't something that really is sweet to begin with. And so sometimes it does come that way. Um now sometimes they just really don't know what they're talking about. So in that sense, I would say that we should not allow our teens in our household need to do things in a biblical way. Good good question. Okay? That's when it becomes when if you have the wrong kinds of friends, they're going to steer you the wrong directions. We can we I uh a dialogue is better than a monologue in in in this, so if if if uh somebody brings up a a a friend Be careful about that, uh that kind of thing. to allow for good opportunities and to and to not uh allow for as not as helpful opportunities. Uh next Wednesday. that could just create a much more angry or confrontational whereas like you said you read through the Bible and it describes a person like kind of rather than Yeah. are looking for acceptance. to feel really accepted. We have to do the same thing with our kids, where we accept them. And and right kind of discipline in the right way, in the right manner, will actually lead a child to feeling secure. They get thirteen and ain't that way anymore. I think that when you have this blurred lines as to what's Christian and what's not, it becomes very confusing. I'm I'm on uncharted territory some here with me, but anyway, so th that's great. And uh you made the transition transition by going from school to work, usually working working uh back prior to that time in the agrarian situation, so you'd have a farm, you're working in the farm, working in But they're not really aware of how much they're changing, which is why kids get annoyed with, oh you've grow you're growing so much. We're going to give them more responsibility. There are unique dangers and traps that teens will face. Biblically that's the case. There are a ton of ungodly worldviews that are being dealt that we are that that that we are dealing with. Because of pride. Uh biblically it it's it is something that's sweet to begin with. And so we need to actually help our kids understand that. Uh it's out of me. Um and so it's important to respond correctly. But at thirteen I'm not gonna say Caitlin stop running across the sanctuary now. In the wisdom category, there may be times where it would be wisely. Be persistent but constant and deliberate. Okay, and I'm gonna walk away. significant and dangerous possibility. Have a discussion about this. Um so that's that's good. And um uh I imagine I will be doing some of that in the future, sure, uh with my teenagers. You don't use a search engine in your room, period. I did not think this was a big deal. Kid. You've got responsibility. And the basic idea that we talked about in just in introducing everything is that there is now an increasing ability for freedom with decreasing need for responsibility. We're just not wired that way. that uh he was talk she was talking to a a police officer and she asked the police officer when should I um when should I allow my child to have a cell phone. You don't have a right attitude. a bit of rejection when you're corrected. Yeah. that allow the mistake to be the punishment for that sentence. So there are some things that are morally wrong, and there are some things that are not morally wrong, they're just unwise. And in the morally wrong things, we need to be very clear that's morally wrong. Alright. Parenting number th with number three in mind, teens must learn the skill of choosing friends and we must help them think about how. So you have changes but but in the teenage years you have changes but there seems to be more self awareness of the changes. No. Anybody want to take a guess at that? Okay. Can I just tell you, if you haven't felt that, then something's wrong. What was your s what was your question though? Dealing with number two, how do we do this? Oh, this is important. Just a couple of things for you from last week. And yet you have more and more ability to be able to experience freedom. Okay, that might be scripture. Alright, so did you hear what they said? Yeah. Okay. Really what I should be doing is say is pointing out that look, it's the heart of obedience that you ought to want. How do you balance out with trying to be good testimonies to those who are not saved? Any any comments, thoughts, or questions? uh what I have seen and heard. modern but uh talking about teams seeing you need to get information from their peers like it's also posit you want to have a good positive relationship you don't want to be their buddy but So you could be in essence doing some of the the correct or the right things and yet still they will put a call out of their own bitterness to But so I'm still figuring some of this out myself. Yes, well I know. Because that becomes something that it's self-centered and personal rather than I'm concerned about what my kids or her attitude, I want to deal with this properly. Have you I and I don't mean take I don't I don't mean punishment necessarily. My wife will often say this, you know, you remind me of your dad. We're rationalizing what we want to do. And I think that hopefully, and my prayer is that hopefully this will be helpful for both parents and teens. And we're doing our very best to try to understand that too much freedom without responsibility is just a heyday for the flesh, for all of us. This is another one that is a challenge for teenagers. You you can you can record here, but Pat'll need to cut it here or whoever's gonna edit it need to cut it here. And so I would highly recommend using scripture in that way in instruction rather than just I now I don't think I think a strong warning is entirely appropriate in certain circumstances It is not just teens. Yeah, you know thank you. Yeah, uh it's a good point. Um unless you're it's truth bombs. They very much become have you ever had your teenager say, Well you didn't say exactly that You said this, which meant I you didn't say that, which meant that maybe you could do this. Take take it to heart. Any teen and I like that Zach, you're right. But if I say, you know, it's a g huh, I'll have to think about that, honey, they're gonna see that. She hugs me for three minutes and it's all over. Sure, well we can do that. Don't want to admit that you're wrong. So if your kids see you if you are going the wrong path in something and they see correction brought to you correctly, then you take it and kind of No but uh right, but I said but that was about someone who actually did it. And my that's uh w the way I see it right now. Okay, did you guys hear what he said they said? I don't know. Okay, we I see some some tentative I won't call on you, okay? You don't it uh uh sometimes us especi I think it's more probably for us fathers, we just want to lob a bomb in there. Sta sometimes the answer is stay away from the guy or the girl. Well back to what you said about like characteristic fascination. I'm still trying to figure this out a little bit myself. Okay. How is it that you deal with that? And I think that they are a better influence on my kid than a carnal Christian kid. Okay. I mean, like all I need to say is that. Okay? So Jesus does that kind of thing, but he always points to the law. We all know it. So you can say what I meant, but I will tell you how often the heart will misconstrue what's being said. I think I I've seen that in a real way within our household. And and we're gonna talk about this more. I spank her and I give her a hug. Okay? That'd be alright? Whatever she would say. So even in how we respond to each other's to each each other's correction, to each other's points of views, our kids pick up on that and they see whether or not it's really a sweet thing or whether it's something that's actually soured. So there's a parent, and I don't know how old his son was, but he let his son continue to make poor choices and go down a path that he really didn't want him to go down What are some of the things that you see might be some some cautions about that, friend? I don't have any problem with that. Okay, we'll stop there. Actually, you don't have to stop recording. Yeah, right. And how do I know that you have my best interest in mind because they're my friends? Alright. So should I call on the girls and have them stand up? Pay attention. Nah it's no it's just straight pride. Actually the Old Testament never says that, and yet he quotes he says, you've heard it said, because the Rabbinic Writing's twisted scripture. I I had a I had a conversation today about it was they were playing the lawyer game and I had to say to the oldest one, don't say anything to her. Okay. But approach uh the uh we should approach these conversations with care and patience. I wouldn't recommend just throwing out a name at it. I'm going to place responsibility on you with this liberty. You have a responsibility to serve one another, for all the law is fulfilled in one word, even this, you shall love your neighbor as yourself You guys the rest of the teenager, you younger teenagers, you need to be listening to what they're saying because you start and you finish because that's how it went before. And I gotta be honest with you, us parents go, whoa, what where did my kid go? When I was my father's son, tender and only one in the sight of my mother, he also taught me and said to me, Let your heart retain my words, keep my commands, and live I think it's a really good point. You have said, or they'll he'll hear either Christ Christ will quote a passage of Scripture in the Old Testament and he'll explain it and he'll say the heart is this Sure. We look like the bad guy and it looks like we're not accepting them. Let's go to Chipotle. We talked about that and didn't we? Why? I appreciate that we know exactly what we're talking about. At least you're honest. Yeah. No, there it's gotta be a relationship here. Then that that's my opinion. Like I took I I just go out to Chick-fil-A with Caitlin, and she is grateful I said, yeah, we could split something, but you could get what you want if you want. But but uh it's it is not exclusive to guys at all, especially if it's becoming more and more that way. Therefore get wisdom. Honestly, take throw the emotion out for a minute and let's biblically look at this and say what should we consider biblically? So um so I am very, very clear about certain things like that. So I'm sorry, I just want to say take the heart with the hope in here. So these are things that that teens will likely face. You're right. What do you guys think? But but sometimes if they're if you you know, they could bring up something that like, yeah, I'm not sure about that I said, until I tell you otherwise, which is when you're twenty. Okay. Maybe like challenge or something. Uh we have to actually actually think about how our parents did and the right things we need to we need to emulate the wrong things or the unwise things we need to not. Yes, Jeff. In their earliest years, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, they're they are they want Like I didn't even this I mean, do you really think that you have an understanding of this? You have a know-it-all attitude. Okay. You had a question on on the end of that. But anyway. Avoid getting pulled into quarrels about words. Uh I'll try to try to see if I can maneuver around them and show them. And so when we have this sort of offense attitude, we actually have a problem. Because of pride. So that's how I would make the distinction. Uh uh. And you just stuff it because you don't you can't say anything else because you get more in trouble. And if my wife says something to me like Tim, you know, I think you're being a little whatever. I I don't see that as a problem either. And I'll say, hey Caitlin, where do you want to go? In private, you don't if it doesn't you talk to them and reason with them like you would almost not exactly like it would Or panicking. And that's why we noted last week in Galatians chapter 5, verse 13, Paul says, you're called to liberty, only don't then he's then he places as soon as he says you're called to liberty, he then says And when they can't handle it, we're going to have to remove responsibility. This is not this is an un this is a fairly you know, it's he's just seeing what he's seeing. I can't be my own person. The patience in conversation. Right, exactly. And it's there's a whole description about what this looks like. Okay? She's like getting dressed up for it. I I would actually highly recommend it. Yeah. Um so so um yeah, I think it's a good point. Right. She was looking up some research for schoolwork. I I really wish I would have had some of this when I was raising my kids younger. Uh uh if if there's one thing you can say about what's different what you know, you've got children, teenagers, and Now, there would be another other ways of describing it. So there obviously we obviously there there is this attitude. If somebody's making a mistake, you're helping them. Don't look for those people who are lying in wait for blood. Okay? I walk up the stairs and she's like, is it okay if I use my searching? I mean she's not asking for you know you know four course dinner or something. I'm used to it. Sure. You have what what is it talk what are we talking about when we c we say the attitude? It's but it seems to it seems to at a r uh early teens seems to begin to manifest itself. She will place you talking about wisdom, personified. I had one one uh I had one family that uh would say that I would throw truth bombs, but I think I think they said it they were saying it in a I think in a positive light though, this is good to make sure you're clear and so you can communicate because there will be cases of honest misunderstandings where you don't phrase things in a way that they And I I just want to say to all parents here, what I'm hearing is just If you were here last week, we noted a couple of things that were, I think, fairly interesting and maybe a little bit eye-opening for some. Um but don't just but you but in your in your household So if like my parents were saying, no, you're not allowed to be with that person because they're, you know, this or that ambulance will excuse me. I haven't got I got didn't get near nearly as far as I wanted tonight, which is fine. I think you're being a little hard-nosed, which is probably true. How do you deal with a tendency toward legalism? We're hearing what we want to hear. We already talked about the fact that um that uh teenagers are prone to this according to pro Proverbs chapter one. Yeah. How do I how do I lovingly correct my daughter? And I'm sure it gets worse as they get older. That was the answer. It's technology, because you can have instant access all the time to peer relationships. I'm I'm a little more aware of what's happening. That's good. And and in a respectful way, not in a disrespectful way. Relationship between husband and wife is a really good picture. Yeah. But that's not in the moral category. But you're gonna stay away from trying uh like I just attacking them with with rhetorical words rather than really showing them instruction of what Yes, we'll stop recording here as well. It wasn't it wasn't a segment. We need to communicate exactly why we're limiting freedom. I haven't seen bad attitudes, but there's this certain kind of attitude. Okay. Okay. And frankly, this is something that nearly every teenager goes through because they're trying to think things through. And very candidly, if they don't feel accepted by their parents, they're going to find it somewhere. He's dealing yesterday with transex transsexual relationships. Okay. Well, I did. I would tell I would suggest to you that that's not wise, but I'm gonna let you make the decision on this because I've got a lot more to say, but let me go ahead and just we'll just we'll do this one last time. But at the same time biblical terminology doesn't always translate into something under strange today is a very important thing. A a a a character assassination or panic or anything like that. So I I don't I don't pretend to be an expert at this at all, and I I have to say that I'm Pornography, these are these may seem random and non-related, but actually they are related in a lot of ways. For I give you good doctrine. Oh no, not that guy. Whether or not we are. And then I'll watch the attitude we'll watch the attitude that happen and I'll say stand up. And in all you're getting, get understanding. Okay, because uh Zach says because of pride. I'm not wrong. But even when a spouse um uh comes to you like they're watching my wife's interaction with me and my I my interaction with her How about when a kid when when a one of our kids point out something that's wrong in our lives? And there's no value. And uh I think that is that is often very helpful. And we respond by saying, What do you think you're talking about? How do you deal with the qu as it is? But we also have to discipline. Um I've got three girls. He immediately places responsibility in its proper place when he says you're called to liberty. Um our kids are watching us. And I think that comes across and I think that they'll hear it in the feel. Yeah. That's the problem. So how much of your identity you're getting from your friends. I don't think that's what this is saying. Um these are the people your team sees as affirming. You're not you you're not trying to evoke an emotional reaction from them. And it she knows she li that's all it takes. And she knows that she feels accepted and she knows that she's been disciplined and it's all over She said, This is your Valentine's Day present. I uh so far that's what I've learned. We talked about a lot of other things as well when it comes to teenagers So the question is, what does the Bible say about teenagers? What else? I'm not at all saying but at the same time I I've learned this. Didn't we talk about we we got that far, right? It's like I mean um it it's it but you Okay. Okay. Yeah, so let me let's make this distinction. Cliff, could you shut the door there for me, please? Well if you take the passage in Proverbs and you read through what a strange woman looks like and what how she acts and all that But my kids trust me right now, so we'll see later. Give uh you need uh uh uh attention, no understanding. Um and that's okay. Tripp puts it well, he said, giving wisdom is not hitting your teenager over the head with words. If that's possible, then have at it. I mean s uh I know Enrique and want Randall want to hear it, but it needs to be cut here. I feel fairly strongly about it, even though it's not it's not straight Bible. Unfortunately, it makes us the bad guys as parents oftentimes, unfortunately. Obviously, you know, time we've already mentioned a lot of the pitfalls of media. So bibli i it's not perceived that way. What do parents do when they see their teen or maybe older choosing wrong choices that they want them to learn Does that make sense? But certainly in areas of wisdom I definitely would uh I definitely would Let me ask you this. How can we help our kids understand that? Be present and available. I think you limit who they're hanging around. I mean he was he was dealing two days ago with uh And frankly, as parents, that should not be happening. And yet the Bible is very clear that a wise person wants to hear correction and wants to hear instruction. So with the Protestant Sun, two things I would say about that. That's one of the major uh changes that happened. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Okay. We don't make we don't as much as possible sweeten our correction. And I think that hurts this right now. I think in a man when it's actually happening, you're calling it what it is. It's not wrong for you to start thinking to yourself, okay, well, I need to start formulating my own opinions. So you're trying to become your own person. But at the same time, sometimes we as parents Okay. We may have, did we cover this? So there's like this desire for individuality that falks at Okay, we're we're gonna build a relationship as we lob bombs. Um number two, second tendency it uh for for youth is a tendency toward legalism. Does that does that answer your question? Okay. She's get she she gives me a gift. The technology is available to have this much freedom, but this level of responsibility needs to go with this level of freedom But that's what the Bible says as well, that there is a struggle with that. Is that possibly what's going on? So now I've just switched over from the parent from the parents, kids to the parents And what happens is when a when a when a teenager looks to friends for acceptance and identity What I just said, by the way, is part of it. What what is that a aware you know what does that look like? Okay. She's like, nah nah, it'd be it'd be cheaper. We know who they hang around is going to influence them in very in very good or bad ways. Right. Okay. I would take a pass, take 'em to scripture and show 'em exactly what scripture says St stand up, Zach. Is there a reason why correction is hard? Yeah, I think I think there's something to be said about that, that if you can correct them in uh Solomon is going to deal with his son. Yes, you could shape you could shape your kids' schedule. With our kids we schedule we schedule times when we know that there are certain friends that are good influences I'm not gonna do what you did to Zach because or the other guys. Sure. It's not this is not easy. Do not use liberty as an occasion for the flesh They're not really that aw you you as a parent are aware of the changes to some degree So you have Paw Solomon who is really exhorting. I'm not wrong. But the problem that we have now is because of the Industrial Revolution and because of then the invention of the car and then the invention of I mean there's a big difference between a two year old and an eight year old. And uh he covers current events every day and then gives you a biblical worldview. Why, teens, why is it that you think you have a hard time hearing correction? Because you ought to be grateful when someone genuinely, lovingly I'm talking about us adults as well, this is not just teens And the moral category, they're gonna have to wait till they're outside my household to make those mistakes. And and lead them to that rat and don't tell total they're a disaster. Don't use a search engine. So we're being legalists and we are, instead of saying, okay, I have a heart to obey Name calling, character assassination, panic are not the same thing as a strong warning, stay away from that guy. And so I will use work as the whorish woman based on I I think parents sometimes see a tendency in a person like stay apart of Here is the worst, in my opinion Okay. So when we're talking about correction, sometimes we're what is correction? So in that sense, so there m that's important to understand the distinction there It's a real problem. I haven't learned everything yet, but that's what I'm so acceptance with discipline is both both things are very important. We'll call it the attitude, which can be more of a temptation as they seek greater freedom Teenagers, do you all like to be corrected? But this might try into the next thing, I don't know. But he wasn't in the household while he was spending it. And I think we are wiser to present scripture to them and just say, look at what the Bible says about this. Praise the Lord. Because as much as they want to know they know, they don't. So we have to factor that out. Okay. But um in my opinion, the most dangerous And we noted that freedom without responsibility is a really a recipe for disaster, not just for teenagers, but for anyone And also how to answer some of these things theologically. So it's important for us to understand that this is a tendency of youth You're gonna get punished for disrespect, but I gotta think about what I'm doing, and you're right, you know, and then you gotta untangle all that. Look, I'm advising you, this is not a moral issue, but wisdom would tell you, wisdom would say, hey, you really shouldn't do this So the dif the the difficulty is, and I presented the difficult one of the big difficulties is we're trying to hold them back from all these freedoms Because sometimes us parents get attitudes by your attitudes and we shouldn't. It's alright for us to ask or to say don't don't you think your attitude is a little wrong here? Is it because well I'll put in the form of yes or no, is it because you feel Uh Lisa? So I I'd like to I like to sort of Be careful. You don't do it, you don't do it, you don't do it ever, you don't ever What what restaurant do you want to go to? Um some of it's I I see certain looks like skeptical, like uh you'll say something and the and the attitude's like So, how do we deal with this? We also have to punish when it's necessary. Okay? All right. Okay? So I think it comes across that the their So can you describe this? Why is it I'm you know Yeah, and that's pride. I'm gonna wait and say, Why were you running across the sanctuary now? That is not the right answer. And instead, use the opportunities to talk about the heart of obedience, the spirit of the law And vice versa, it goes both ways But there's this desire to see them gain more responsibility Okay. Uh no, we talk about this a little bit, I think. I don't think that's wrong. But other times um we need to we need the we need to heed correction ourselves. I know what they want me to do. She will place you, uh she will place on your head an ornament of grace, a crown of glory, she will deliver you. Maybe see I could do this because you didn't say exactly they become there's a tendency toward legalism. He always points to the heart. Okay. Um be careful about that as well. Yeah. Okay, not really twenty, but but when not don't ever you okay, do you understand? Who they hang around and who the who And frankly when it when the when the rubber meets the road, if you gotta say, look, I don't think that person is a wise person for you to hang around So the assumption is that if you give your child a cell phone and they're searching on search engines, they're going to see pornography. I mean maybe you don't want to hit something, but maybe you want you're just seeing s inside, or maybe you're just Yeah. You're not doing that in our house. Okay? Probably she realized part of it. Um and we talked about uh that how that would take place. What's that? Do not forsake my law. And uh yeah. Yeah, but if they're if they're if you're I think my point is is that we should be warning our kids of Look look, the reality is whether we like it or not, sometimes our teenagers are more loyal to their friends than they are to us. So if you have the fortitude to be able to say, I am not looking to I want to be a testimony to that friend But it doesn't matter. Like we played chess together. I think this is about where we stopped. Both of you, both of you, stand up. Exalt her, and she will promote you. Don't just lob grenades of wisdom and pray for God to use your efforts to bring wisdom. Uh anyway, Tim? Okay. And we don't have any real reason to do that, but we actually really do. So attitude is one. Somebody's sinning, you're telling them what's right. And if they don't s get the acceptance at home So so I'm I am not at all saying I've got this thing figured out when it comes to this And she's doing it. I mean, that's the kind of stuff he deals with not every day. This is the last time we will do it in this format. In relation to um o other So in pointing that out even in Proverbs it says to stay away from those are the warnings And now I don't have the opportunity now to just So um and that's more understandable than yeah, Jeff. And she I think she understands now. Ever in your room. Yeah. Um or I think you're I don't think you're quite seeing that. Okay, but really I'm I'm missing an opportunity if I do that. Yeah. It was you went from childhood essentially to adulthood. But does the Bible have anything to say to us? Do not forsake her, and she will preserve you. Um Yeah. Okay. Okay. Number two, actually, if you look at it, the prodigal son left the household. Instead, uh talk about the heart of obedience. Watch out for the foolish person. Okay. Let them think about this. With that, there's going to be explosion of There is an increased desire, there's an appearance, a focus on appearance. And then you get the same angry. Okay. I want to I hear from the teens, if you if if I can I might call on one of them Something's generally being taken away. How do we when someone corrects us And you know, it's it's crazy. And if you all hear it's okay and she won't notice. We have to we have to think about that a little bit and and and show some respect there it when we can. So I go to Chipotle. We're like sitting down at frozen yogurt. That's the most dangerous. That's my opinion Let me take a few minutes to take some prayer requests here. Um so But if it becomes a point where you're looking to that friend for acceptance and identity Do you really see that friend as a good influence? Uh and it's really, really hard. She comes to me, I s I say, you're wrong We should not be offended He who loves instruction loves wisdom. So the problem, the difficulty comes with teenagers is they're trying to find their identity. Creative contract. He's getting at the heart over and over and over again in the Sermon of the Mount But you're I I agree with the clear clear clarity as much as possible is important. Sure. So Um basically my wife stayed at home and helped I mean discipline and correction is not something I think a big part of that is The real issue, why are we legalists when we're trying to get around and see if we can sort of navigate and what's the problem? Because those who your your company is going to corrupt you or going to help you, one or the other. And I think I think in the formative years of development this becomes uh a more s a more Josh? Um That's what you don't want to do. That was kind of consistent what I was gonna say. This is what I've learned at least with my girls, and guys are boys are different. Alright. That you feel less than accepted. So there is a real tendency to be un to make unwise choices when it comes to companions. I I'm still figuring this out. Very clear. That's my opinion. Um and it's a constant shift as we see our children can handle more responsibility Guys, it's a it's a greater problem with guys than gals. We got teens right here. Okay. It does. But uh I I would I think a description a scriptural description is is is ideal uh in that situation. I your our kids, and I'll just say this and I'll re say it again later. Or what kind don't give you know and and it we can say it's alright for us to say, look But on the other hand 1 Corinthians 15, 33 says, Do not be deceived. Um I said, honey, it's okay. We said that there was a relation there is in all of us I'm I I appreciate you guys being willing to note that because it is That's certainly I think viable. I promise you they'll be more loyal to the friends they're feeling accepted by Well would would Chip would Chipotle be okay? Okay? So we're going to go through some of these. Okay. You're not using a search engine in my house, in your bedroom Um we're gonna go we're gonna come back to some of these in a few minutes. Okay. You've got to pay attention to what I'm saying You're constantly your parents my parents Helping them to understand, you know, uh teenagers if you can just admit that you are in a time in your life Um Okay. But I but she's still So um and and I've Have a seat, guys. There is a dis there should o there in our minds, just in about every area of life, we ought to make a distinction between morality and wisdom. Don't ever use one in your room and a search engine. Huge difference. So so teenagers, you have to be careful about this. That's right. If a disrespectful way it's sort of like okay Okay. Okay? Yeah. Z, the first, the oldest two. Isn't that okay? And so so those are some of the things that I appreciate that because I'm You've got a father telling his young son Um I uh you're not a teen, Lisa. Well Proverbs would call it strange woman. And if they are acting in that manner, I don't think She it was a meant a lot to her. I I pick on guys a little more than gals. So we need to be careful about this. On the last one. The same way God accepts us. So I I I'm like I said, what do you want? And but uh I s And that might be part of the struggle, I think, is we're not really explaining why. Do you make the taste of correction sweet? I think you have more flexibility within within the wisdom category over the morality category. But there's a difference between the guy's a freak, which would be wrong. But anyway, peers is one. Yeah. He knew that he actually when he when he came back to the father, he was going to have to come back in repentance Okay? Yeah, I I was I sus I just probably twenty six actually used Uh there it's in it's really impossible to overstate. They're trying to figure out things. Yeah. I listen every day, just about every day, to Say it louder. What happened? Good point. Anyway He had to leave the household It's gotta be bombs and relationship together. When we are talking about friends, Yeah, I think if you use biblical terminology, it's it's you're safe You aren't going to have that same degree of uh relationships exception. Some of it's other stuff, but Um like I don't I think that that's certainly uh certainly part of it, and I think what Lisa's saying is certainly part of it as well. I mean it's amazing actually when you read through that passage what you can see there So And I said to her, I'm gonna say this five times so you remember it. Teens, tell me, what is this? Media It is not a tendency, it does not mean every teen He's going to destroy you. What you want to do instead is to instruct them and show them how scripture Yeah, I I just wanted Yeah. That's correction. Number one, um And and I have a heart of obedience. But the You don't want to, but it's it's it's like inbred into you You take a spiritual Christian kid, great influence. Thank you. Correction is Has that ever happened before? We will talk about teens next week, but we will go back to the normal format next And you don't want to you don't want to put up a wall, an emotional wall with your kids. Anyway, okay, so now I'm finished vending Now like I think we all know what we're talking about. Yeah, sure. Maybe it won't. Okay? Yeah. I'm just full Uh Jeff? If I'm like, what are you talking about? Yeah there's times where I'm much more receptive. And if you can understand that this is a time where there is a vulnerability here. Yeah. But those things were Not exclusive, I mean you don't want to be totally you know, but Like a lot of words can be charged beyond the actual meaning. So I get her what she so I I sit down with her and we talk and she's like dad thank you so much So we talked about then that Um Don't don't just Now understand, this is what the Bible says about youth. So my theory is that when you're a teen, you're in between Yeah. So let's let's uh we'll we'll then um pick up here. You've got to pursue wisdom Yeah, right. And so that's an area that we can work on as parents. All right. I don't know how do how do you describe this? Come on, say it louder. All right. Proverbs 4. Jeff, did you have a question? What is this? Love her, and she will keep you. Okay Enrique, if you had head on down with them. Ladies, what do you think? That could be a good thing. Sometimes I will ask So As Jesus did in the Sermon on the Mount, he took them from the letter If they are desiring their own ways and they're non repentant even though you That's not wrong. So let me let me let me put it in these kind of terms Okay. It's putting a loving garland around his neck. But I think a first approach is to ta is to is to use scriptural examples. What do you I don't know Okay. Don't They're gonna know it and they're gonna and they're not doing it in our house and they're gonna I had a I think also being a good example where you receive credit They want as much freedom as they can squeeze out of what we're giving them. Wrong kinds of discipline in the wrong way We know that biblically And you were really grateful for that It's very easy for us to become All thin. And so uh that becomes an issue uh as well And they're out in my household, they're gonna follow what's morally right Yeah. God accepts us regardless of our behavior. You you get what you want. Why is it hard for you to hear? How do you deal with la with with it with that? Ever, don't ever do that. Like how in the world does he he doesn't have a clue kind of that problem 1 says this hear, my children, the instruction of your father. And oftentimes we are frustrated and don't want to It's good. No, I saw it. So like we want to voice our opinion, but we think we're right. Okay. And you know what you know what the police officer said It's not wrong to question things. So if if a teenager is playing word games, Frankly, I'd encourage you to listen to it with your teenager. And so however And so Julie We're shifting. Yes, Tim? Oh, okay. I'm the man. Um if I just take them out on a date Instant access is Tim? Evil company corrupts good habits. Until I tell you otherwise, until I change the rule Realize that this is something that you're You you don't want to, but so all thin I'm seeing the guys going, nah, that's not it. Like I'm going She's like No, really, what what what are we you guys know what we're talking about? So We all have areas that we don't see Did you have um one of the parents or She said, forever? Our kids Yeah. Okay. You take an I'll take an unsaved It's this this attitude. Um Ungodly worldviews. Okay. That's understandable Okay. He accepts us as children. Can you see this What about thought? They're gonna see that. Strange says a That's not wrong And we should, we should say, look. Did Josh want to come back to you? Right. Lisa. So if you say something Yeah. Uh So they're gonna And you see that