Philippians chapter one We are going to be looking at the book of Philippians uh for a series now, and we're really we're beginning today uh in the book of Philippians, and I have to tell you how much I have really enjoyed uh studying this book so far and I'm excited about what the Lord has us in in this book of Philippians And let me begin by asking you a question. Um have you ever been reading something and then you talk to somebody else and they read the same thing? Maybe it was a book or an article or a magazine or something. And and yet you it was like when you were talking to them, it was like you're reading something totally different. than what they were reading. I mean, it didn't even seem like to be the same thing because the way they were taking it was entirely different than how you were were taking it. There's a lot of things like that uh in our world. One of the things is our is our U. S. Constitution can be that way. There is an idea that uh it's a prevailing idea among some people that the way that we ought to l interpret the U. S. Constitution is by our current context now. If we want to understand what the Con Constitution is really saying, we should consider it something that is sort of a living document that if we can we can just look at it and and see how it applies to us and we can adjust it that way. And somebody does that is going to interpret the U. S. Constitution significantly differently than if you than if you look at it from the perspective of those who actually wrote it. And the Founding Fathers and what they intended when they wrote the Constitution. And you're going to get two the same document with two totally different ideas. You know, that can actually be the case with the Bible too. You ever read a passage of scripture or a verse of scripture and And uh somebody else wrote a read a verse of scripture and they told you about the verse of scripture. You said, I didn't think it had anything to do with what you're saying it means. I I read something today, uh it was a post on a a particular group that I'm a part of and it said um I can do all things with a verse taken out of context And uh and that is a perfect example of a verse that's often taken out of c context. I can do all things through Christ who strengtheneth me. Uh and uh and and sometimes we use that verse to think we're going to win a football game if we just, you know, apply this verse and those kinds of things to our lives. Actually that happens to be in Philippians. And there actually is a lot of different verses, quotable verses, verses that you could put on Twitter because it's enough, it's not they're short enough verses, or verses that uh you might see on a Facebook post And some of these verses, maybe we use them right, but sometimes we use these verses, and they really have nothing to do with what the Bible actually says they mean. There are some great verses for us to remember, and some of them that can't be taken wrong, but there are others that can. For example, these are some of the great quotes out of Philippians. Philippians 1. 21, for me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. Philippians 2. 23, I am hard-pressed between two. My desire is to part and be with Christ, for that is far better. Philippians chapter 2, verses 12 and 13. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God who works in you both to will and to do for his good pleasure. Are these familiar verses to your ears? Philippians chapter 3, verse 13. But one thing I do, forgetting what lies behind and straining toward going toward the things that lie ahead, I press toward the mark of the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. Philippians chapter 4, verse 4. Rejoice in the Lord always, and again I say rejoice. Philippians chapter 4, verse 8. Finally, brethren, whatsoever is true, whatsoever is good, whatsoever that passage. Philippians chapter 4, verse 11, I have learned whatsoever state I am therewith to be content. Philippians chapter 4, verse 13, I can do all things All of these verses are verses, most of them that they're familiar for with us, they're quotable, they're pithy almost. And yet if we're not careful, you know, some of these I think we take out of context, and we don't really understand the meaning of what these verses are actually saying. Because what we do is we take these verses and we place them in our current context instead of actually having them placed in the context in which they're intended. So folks, it is important very important for us as we look at the Word of God Not to say, okay, well this is the this is what God says in my thinking based upon my context now, my lifestyle, my circumstances. my situation. Okay, I got a verse from the Bible and this is how I'm going to apply it to my situation. Be careful there. It is far more and I'll tell you sometimes this actually causes people to stumble. Somebody claims a verse like I can do all things through Christ who strengtheneth me and they depend upon that verse and they depend upon God God to do something for them and they go off and they do it and they fail miserably and they think where where is God? I don't It actually erode their belief because they really didn't understand what the text was actually saying. And as we get into the book of Philippians, what we first must do is we must understand what the purpose of Philippians is. What is the divine intent of the book of Philippians? When Paul wrote it, what did he intend to write? And when God used Paul to write it, what did God intend for us to hear? That's the kind of questions that we need to ask ourselves. In order for us to be able to understand this book so that as we go through it, we can glean truth that's true, that is right, that we can bank on, that it won't fail us. That's the absolute necessity of understanding the purpose of the book of Philippians so that we can then understand the book of Philippians as we go through it. And so today I want to really look at that. What is God's purpose for Philippians and then for us today? Let's first go to the Lord in prayer, ask his help with this. Father, as we come to you, we thank you for this wonderful book. It is a book that Paul wrote from his heart. It's a book that has many wonderful truths in it that we need to hear and glean and understand and apply. I pray today as we go through this book, Lord, would you help us? Would you help us as we go through this to um uh uh to understand it? To understand what the intent of the book is, so that when we get into the details of the book, we will understand its truth. And we will know we could firmly place our faith on the truth of your word. I pray that you'd help us today, and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. We want to begin this way by looking at the first verse, and we're going to look at the first few verses of the book of Philippians today, and we're going to expand on some of the ideas in this book. Picking up in verse 1 of Philippians, it says Paul and Timothy, the bondservants or the slaves, if you will, of Jesus Christ. To all the saints in Christ Jesus who are in Philippi with the bishops and deacons. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and of the Lord Jesus Christ. We see in this very first verse, we see the human author of the book, which is Paul. Timothy's with him, but Timothy's not the Not the actual author, it's Paul. And we see also the recipients of this book, which is the church at Philippi. It says, even with the bishops and deacons. So what is what is it is actually very important for us to understand a little bit about the background of the author and the and where the author is at when he writes this. as well as where the recipients are, and then where the other way that you determine the purpose of a book is really to look at various things in the book that are repeated or stand out. And you put all of those things together, and you can usually come up with a clear purpose for the book of the Bible. And then you take that, and that becomes the guide for you as you study the Word of God. Well, we see that Paul and Timothy begin by saying that they are bondservants. They notice that they they say we are slaves in Christ. We are we are owned by Christ. And he wants this to get wants them to get this a acros he wants to get this across to the the church of Philippi. We are owned by Jesus Christ. But it's interesting that they say it this way because Paul is concerned that the Church of Philippi remain in a place of humility. We're going to see that later on in Philippians chapter 2 verse 7, for example, where it says that Christ actually made himself of no reputation and took on the form of a bondservant, same word, and coming in the likeness of men, and being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient to the point of the of death. Even the death of the cross. So so Saul Paul says, I'm a bondservant And then he says, Jesus is also a bondservant. He came and became a bondservant for you and me and humbled himself. And he's going to say to the Philippians in chapter 2, verse 1 Let this mind be in you, which also is in Christ Jesus. Humility is so important. Paul wants this these readers to understand the importance of the fact that he Paul views himself this way. Notice in this book there's no appeal to authority. In other books of the Bible that Paul writes other letters to other churches, he'll say, Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ. And it's certainly appropriate for him to do that. When he writes to the Galatians, the 1 Corinthians, other places, he he does that that way. Why? Because he is a style he has to remind them of his authority because he has has to deal with something. He's got to He's got to fight something or deal with a false doctrine that's pervading the church. He's got to handle it. Or immorality that's just taking over the church. And when he has to do that, he'll often say, Paul, an apostle, but you don't see that in this letter. You the just the absence of that tells us that this letter is going to be a little different. This letter doesn't, he's not fighting anything in this letter. He's going to warn Philippians about some some things, but he's not he's actually not fighting against false doctrine in this letter or immorality in this letter And we see also, we need to point that he is he is coming as a bondservant from the place of suffering. Paul is suffering right now. In fact, four times in the book he says he's in chains Philippians chapter one verse seven. Just as it is right for me to think this of you all, because I have you in my heart, and as in as both in my chains and the defense and confirmation of the gospel Chapter 1 verse 13. My chains are in Christ, he says. Chapter 1, verse 14. Again, he mentions his chains. Chapter 1, verse 17, again he mentions that he is he is in prison. And so clearly this is something that is on his mind. He's in prison. He is suffering. Now, he's not suffering necessarily to the point of being tortured, for example. He actually that can't happen because uh at least it's not supposed to happen, um because uh it actually did happen for a well while and we'll look at that, but he was a he's a Roman citizen and you'll see why that's uh going to become important in a few moments. Paul speaks of his own opposition. He knows people are against him in Philippians 14 verse 15. It says there some indeed preach Christ even of envy and strife, and some from goodwill. The former preach Christ from selfish ambition, not sincerely opposing to add affliction to my chains He said, there are some people out there that are stepping in where in my absence, and he says, they are actually they they're actually against me. They're trying to sort of take over. By the way, do you know what Paul's attitude is? Let them. Paul says as long as Christ is preached, it's fine. As long as Christ is preached. And then he says, by the way, Church of Philip Philippi, don't you have their kind of motives? But he says, at the end of the day, I'm just going to be thankful when Christ has preached. He mentions the Praetorian Guard. And the emperor's own elite troops in this book as well. Philippians chapter 1, verse 13, it says, so that it has become evident to the whole palace guard. In Philippians chapter 4, verse 22, we actually find that Caesar's household, Caesar's own household, is in this city of Philippi, and he is rubbing shoulders with Caesar's own household here. Now, all of that is very significant as to the emphasis that is going to be placed on the gospel that we're going to see in a few moments. And then we turn then to, we're still in the very first verse, we turn to the saints at Philippi. What were these Philippians like? Well, we find the church is planted in Paul's in Acts chapter 16, verses 35. Actually picking up in verses 11 through 40. Would you take your Bibles and go ahead and turn there to Acts chapter 16? I want you to see this. Acts 16. And uh starting in verse eleven, we won't actually read that portion of it. I want to highlight something particular here. But I'll just note for you that That in Acts 16, you have several fairly familiar things that occurred. You remember Lydia and her household in verses 11 through 15, they get saved. Lydia's baptized. Lydia convinced convinces Paul and the people that were with him to stay in that area, and really that becomes the basis of a church plant. In verses 25 through 33, we have this slave girl who is demon-possessed. She comes to Christ. But it really ticks some people off when that happens And as a result of that, Paul is thrown into prison. And there are some things that happen to him that are actually quite unlawful. He is And we find, and with that, we pick up in chapter 16, verses 35 through 38. Would you notice what it says? And when it was day, the magistrates sent the officers saying, Let those men go. So the keeper of the prison reported these words to Paul, saying, The magistrates have sent to let you go. Now therefore depart and go in peace. Notice what Paul does here, verse 37. And Paul said to them, They have beaten us openly, uncondemned Romans, and have thrown us into prison. And now do they put us out secretly? No indeed. Let them come themselves and get us out. And the officers told these words to the magistrates, and they were afraid when they heard that they were Romans. So they wanted, the magistrates told these officers, hey, let them go Paul says, wait a minute, you you have not treated us like Roman citizens. And and because you haven't treated us like Roman citizens, I want the magistrates to come here and I want to talk to them. Those officers are quaking in their boots at that point. Paul is no dummy. He understands what his right is rights are when it comes to being a Roman citizen, and he's not going to let them get away with this. Then look look what happens. Um verse thirty-nine when they came and pleaded with them and brought them out and asked them to depart from the city. Then the that the magistrates did. So they went out of the prison and entered to the house of Lydia. And when they had seen the brethren, so you now have a group of people there that arguably is a church plant by this point, they encouraged them and departed. So so you have this emphasis on Roman citizenship for action for a reason. Now when we go back to Philippians If you read through that book, you're going to find some unique things about that book. There's actually 42 different Greek words that you're not going to find anywhere else in the New Testament. That's actually quite a bit of totally different Greek words. One of the things you see is this concept of the Praetorian Guard, Caesar's household, this whole concept of citizenship This was something that the Philippians, anybody that was in Philippi, would have taken great pride over. They would have been proud of their Roman citizenship. You see, yeah many years ago, actually probably close to a hundred years prior to the writing of Philip of Philippians, a man by the name of Octavian, who was a ruler in Rome Honored Philippi Phi honored Philippi. Why am I having a hard time with that? Philippi by refounding the Roman military colony. So what he did was there was a there was a uh a problem with Rome, a s a uh actually overpopulation in Rome, because if you were born in Rome, lived in Rome, you gained Roman citizenship. So everybody wanted to live in Rome Um and Octavian had this idea, uh, if we if we make the Philippians, if we transport people from Rome, they're already Roman citizens, and then we we actually make Philippi sort of a second Rome where if you're born and live and and and occupy and Philippi then you're also a Roman citizen uh then that will solve two problems because it will actually create loyalty for Philip for the Roman uh Empire in Philippi, which was actually we find also was a major thoroughfare between uh between Rome and between Asia Minor and and it will strengthen the Roman Empire and alleviate the population situation in the Book of Rome. So he sent all kinds of of veterans, people that have been in the military uh for and worked for the Roman Empire and were retired essentially and put them in Philippi to establish a a city in Philippi. By the time Paul gets on the scene in Acts 16, Luke says this about it, and from there to Philippi, which was the foremost city in that part of most Macedonia, a colony, And we stayed there in the city for some days. It had become a budding, active, centralized city where there was lots of activity and a thoroughfare of people going back and forth From Rome to agrarian areas, it was a very busy, busy area. And all of that's going to factor in on what we're going to understand about this church of Philippi. That's why then Paul is going to make an an a connection here in this idea of citizenship. Now imagine you've got these Christians, they've come to Christ, they understand intricately the value of Roman citizenship. I don't think it's all that different from us understanding American citizenship. It's probably similar Most of us are thankful that we are American citizens. Most of us, there's almost a sense of patriotic pride that we're Roman citizens. That we're American citizens. So so I think we probably could understand that sentiment a little bit better a little bit better than others, perhaps, other countries. Uh I don't know that there are our our um our neighboring friends to the north or south have that kind of patriotism. In fact I'm quite sure they don't. So that's with that in mind, Paul says this, and folks, we ought to we ought to take heed to this. He says in Philippians chapter 3, verse 20, for our citizenship is in heaven. From which we also eagerly wait for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lower lowly body that may be conformed to his glorious body according to the working by which he is able to even subdue all things to himself. You're a citizen of heaven, Church of Philippi Far greater than your citizenship on earth. Understanding the value of citizenship in Philippi helped them to understand the greater, significantly greater value of being a citizen of heaven. And you and I as Christians are as well. The great value of that is that one day when we see Christ, we will be like him. For we will see him as he is, and will rule and reign with Christ. Why? Because we are citizens of a heavenly kingdom. And then uh you have uh so that then really leads us then to to this this relationship. What was the relationship between Paul and the church of Philippi? Well, if you pick up in Philippians chapter 1 Verse three, you're going to see this. I thank my God, he says, upon every every remembrance of you. You don't find that anywhere else in the New Testament. You don't find Paul saying that to the Church of Corinth. You don't find Paul saying that to the Church of Galatians. Remember all the doctrinal problems the Galatians had? He says to the Galatians, You foolish Galatians, who have bewitched you? He says, These people, I thank my God upon every remembrance of you. Such a tender, tender way of speaking to them. It demonstrates that there is affection and friendship on the part of the Apostle Paul Can you think about that? You know of a friend that every time you think of that friend there's just this fondness in your heart. Perhaps it's a friend that you can't be with or a family member that's close That you'd like to be with, but you can't be with. And there's this fondness in your heart over that friend. And every time you think about him, every time you remember him or her, you you just you you just thank God for that person That's Paul to this entire church. He just thanks God for every remembrance of them. And that really brings us to a discussion of Christian friendship. And I think we need to understand what Paul had in his mind when he wrote really this epistle of friendship. And there were three kinds of friends that was that were in Greek thought Now uh don't check out on me when I start using these big names, but but but do you remember Alexander the Great? Who remembers Alexander the Great? Okay, so he was I won't ask any questions. Who was his, does anybody know his mentor? It was Aristotle. Now you know the name Aristotle, right? Okay, now you may not know anything about Aristotle, but you probably know the name Aristotle. Aristotle, this guy Aristotle, he was just a normal dude, okay? Don't think of him as someone. And this normal dude had all kinds of things to say about everything. Like he talked about all kinds of stuff. And he said there are three kinds of friends. He said, number one There's a kind of friend that's pure purely utilitarian. That kind of friend is just simply a kind of friend who who you use them because you need them and they need you because you need them, and that's the kind of friend that they are. A utilitarian kind of friend. Aristotle said that's not a good friend. That's actually not really even a friend. You ever felt that you were just used by someone? And Aristotle said that's actually repulsive. And he named that friend that way to that kind of friendship. He said the next kind of friendship is based on pleasure. that you have common interests with one another, mother, and you enjoy being with that person, and you find pleasure in that person. He said, that's okay. He said, but that's not the greatest kind of friendship. The greatest kind of friendship is not based upon a utilitarian arrangement. The greatest kind of friendship is not based upon pleasure and just enjoyment of kind of different kinds of things. The greatest kind of friendship is a choice that's made to just have goodwill and loyalty and trust toward a friend. He says that's the kind of friendship. And when you have that kind of friendship of goodwill and loyalty and trust, then when you have that kind of friendship, then you could write a letter to them and you could exhort them about things. And so that was very common that day. When you had a certain, when you had a real friend and you were concerned about them, you even needed to warn them, then you knew when you were that kind of friend you had the freedom to do that. Think about it for a minute. Just think about it in your own friendships. Do you have the freedom to go to someone who you who who is struggling or who is concern you're concerned about? Do you have the freedom to go to them? Do they have the freedom to go to you if they're concerned about something that you're go you're into or that could that could hurt you? See, see what we're talking here is about a kind of goodwill, loyal trust, trusting relationship or friendship. And that's the kind of friendship that Paul had with the church at Philippi. And that's why he could write, I thank my God upon every remembrance of you. And in fact, verse four is going to tell us That he prayed for them with joy, always in every prayer of mine, making requests for you with joy. For your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now, being confident of this very thing that he who has begun a good work in you will complete it unto the day of Jesus Christ. So we have then even more affection from verse 4 that is expressed. It says, always in every prayer of mine, making request for you all with joy. So God's purpose for the Church of Philippi was revealed by understanding the writer's relationship toward the recipients. And we're going to get really in here now to the relationship with Paul toward his recipients. And you have in this book expressions of affection. There are tons of them. For example, in chapter 1, verse 7, he says, I have you in my heart. In 1. 8, he says, I long for you with the affection of Christ Jesus. In 4-1, he says, my beloved brothers and sisters, whom I long for, my joy and my crown, beloved. In 3. 1, he says, I'm concerned for your safety. In 2. 19, he says, I want you to come. I'm looking forward to you cheering me up when I could be with you. In 415, he thanks them for a thank uh and this is part of the reason, the occasion why the they wrote, he thanks them for the gift. that was given to them out of a out of a desire uh and and understanding of Paul's need. Now this folks all has to do with the affection that Paul has toward Philip Philippi and the and the affection that the Church of Philippi has toward Paul. And that's why he can say in verse 4, When I pray for you, when I pray for you, I just join I love to pray for you. I think a way to understand this is if you have if you have a son or a daughter, you you know, we all pray for our kids. We want our kids to grow up to serve the Lord. We want our kids to do what's right. And imagine a young adult child, your young adult child, you're praying for them, but they have gone the wrong way. They're headed the wrong direction. You know they're headed the wrong direction. And you and when you pray for them, you're not praying for them with joy. What are you praying for them with? With sorrow. You're praying for them with grief. You're still praying for them. You're hoping and praying that God will get a hold of them, but there is prayer with grief. But what about a child who's going the right way? What about a child who is serving God? You what about a child a young adult child who is going when you pray for them, what are you praying? Well, you have this joy as you're praying. They're going the right direction and you just pray they keep going that way. And you pray that God keeps them from going another way. There's this joy as you pray for someone who's doing great, but you want them to keep doing great, so you pray for them. There's this joy. Paul prayed for people who are doing bad and doing great at the same time. But the people that were doing great, he was the Philippians, he was praying for them, and he was just joyful as he prayed. That's the kind of friendship that he had with these people. Now, as we continue, then we want to ask the question: what is the basis to this friendship? And the very basis, folks, of this friendship is the key, really, to understanding this book. The basis of this friendship is found in verse 5 for your fellowship in what? In the gospel. That's the key, folks. What is the basis of all of this affection and goodwill and prayer and thanksgiving? It's the gospel. It's this cooperation, this partnership that they have in the gospel. And that really brings us to the basis of all of this. Do you realize that Philippians, per words. The Philippians has more mentions of the gospel than any book in the New Testament. Really, probably any book in the Bible. Now, the gospel is all throughout the New Testament, but in Philippians it is everywhere. And in our purpose statement that we're going to conclude with, we better include the gospel, because the gospel is all over the place in Philippians. And the basis of their friendship is the gospel. It's a partnership. It's a one that even includes mutual suffering. Apparently there was some kind of suffering that Philippi was going through. Paul wasn't the only one going through suffering. The Church of Philippi was going through suffering. In Philippians chapter 1, verses 29 through 30, it says, For to you it has been granted on behalf of Christ, not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for his sake. Having the same conflict with you which you saw in me and now hear in me, there was a suffering in the gospel even. They were consumed with the gospel. They were focused on the gospel. They wanted the furtherance of the gospel to happen. Paul did, and they did, and they were brought together what? By the gospel. There was a man by the name of a theologian who was, as a young man, he was a chaplain in the British Navy. His name was Broton Knox. Mr. Knox was in the Navy and he was on a ship that was preparing for D-Day and the invasion in Normandy. And he noted in his journal that that the his everyone on that ship that was preparing to reach and to storm the shores of Normandy and to And and everybody that was preparing for DJ, they were focused. There was this camaraderie among them. There was this great um there was this great uh Spirit among them as they were preparing. He even notes, he says, I remember noting in my mind how I had never been happier. There is this joy and happiness as they're being ready to go to D Day. Why? Because they all had a common goal. They're all different, different people, different backgrounds, different kinds, but they had a common goal. They needed to deal with the problems that were at hand. This man though noticed that after D-Day was over and on there he still remained on this ship because he was a chaplain. There was a everyone actually noticed that there was a difference in the atmosphere. People no longer were people were no longer were focused on the goal. They got a little focused on each other. They they got a little focused on self and and even though it was still a friendly ship and a well-organized ship and a running ship, the camaraderie just wasn't the same. He says this as he reflects, he says, the answer was quite simple. During those months that preceded the f and followed E-Day, our thoughts had a minimum of self-centeredness in them. We gave ourselves to our shared activity and objective. Once the undertaking was over, we reverted to our own purposes as we do normally. Folks, that that really illustrates well what happens when a church will get behind the gospel and focus on it. And it will be a focus, a pursuit, and we stop thinking about ourselves. We stop thinking about our needs. And you know what? We should never D-Day is never going to end. Until we go to heaven, the gospel ought to be in our thinking. It ought to be our lives. We ought to be living it and preaching it and it ought to be pervading our souls. What would happen to a church who focused entirely on and viewed themselves as partners in the gospel? What are we here for? The gospel. We're partners in the gospel. We're friends in the gospel. We're getting together for the sake of the gospel. What would happen to a church that did this? What would happen to a family that did this? A family that was not so focused on everyone's own self interest, but everybody's Focus was on what can we do to be a team for the sake of the gospel? What would happen to a marriage? Who stopped looking at self-interest, but looked at what can I do for Christ? For the sake of the gospel. It would change us. And that's what you find in this beautiful book in Philippians. You have a man who loves the gospel. And you have a church who loves the gospel and they can't be together. So he writes a book. He writes a letter to them and he says, we have this partnership in the gospel. And that really brings us then to the third point. We're going to see God's purpose for Philippians is revealed by understanding the occasion of this letter. So what is the occasion of this letter? What happens that would cause this? What's the bottom line of what what what why was this written? Well, as we've already mentioned, there was a thank you letter that was written. I mean I'm sorry, thank you. This is a thank you letter written to the Church of Philippi. Folks, if we just view this as a as a thank you letter, we're going to miss what the point is In fact, the thank you note is not actually until the very last chapter. And it's probably that way because he wants them to remember just how thankful he is. But he says in that chapter, he's not like thanks for the money. He actually says, I'm content either way, but just your heart in wanting to give for the furtherance of the gospel is incredibly encouraging to me. Paul was encouraged by these people and the gift that they gave. We find a couple of occasions. One is that gift. And there is, but there, folks, is there was another situation that Paul wanted to deal with. And that is that there was an enemy. that that threatened their unity. There was it wasn't it wasn't pervading them yet, it wasn't a a a serious situation yet. It's not like Galatians where It's actually causing people to stumble or claw correct some of the other problems. But there's this warning that he gives. And Paul has this freedom to warn them, even though it's not a problem He has this freedom to warn them why? Because they're friends. And he loves them. And you're going to see that. Well, who are these people? What is this warning that he wants to give to them? Well, we see actually, if you'll see in chapter 1, verse uh 27, you'll see it first. Chapter 1 verse 27 it says, Only let your conduct be worthy of the gospel of Christ, so that whether I come and see you or am absent I may hear of your affairs that you stand fast in one spirit with one mind striving together for the faith of the gospel. And not in any way terrified, but your adversaries, which is to them a proof of perdition, but to you a salvation, and that from God For to you it has been granted on behalf of Christ, not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for his sake. Having the same conflict with which you saw in me and now hear in me. And then would you notice over in chapter 3 verse 2? It says, actually, look at verse 1. Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord, for me to write the same things to you is not tedious, but for you it is safe. He's concerned about their spiritual safety. Verse 2. Beware of dogs. Beware of the evil workers. Beware of the mutilation. For we are the circumcision who worship God in the Spirit, rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh. And the people that he's talking about here when it talks about dogs and mutilation and all that, we'll get into what that means later on as we go through the book, but it's really talking here about the Judaizers. Now, you've heard about the Judaizers before, haven't you? Do you remember the book of Galatians? It's entirely a polemic against these people called the Judaizers. These Judaizers are absolutely, they are, they are absolutely uh compromising the gospel. But the difference is, there's two differences. In Galatians, they're infiltrating already And in Galatians, he is having to deal with false doctrine. The primary concern is that the truth of the gospel is being compromised. So it's a book going against false doctrine with truth. In Philippians, Paul takes a different approach. He says, here is what the gospel looks like when you live it out. It's a different approach. One is the gospel, what it is, and the other is the gospel applied. What does it look like to live out the gospel? And that's going to be Paul's primary emphasis in this book. And therefore, then it is a very practical book. And he realizes the potential danger and the way that he deals with it is he says, this is what it looks like. In other words, folks, you can sometimes look and see, for example, these Judaizers, they were not living out the gospel right. And he was helping them to understand how to identify that and also how they themselves can make sure that they are living consistent with the gospel themselves. And so never in there do you see him rebuking them, but he you will see warnings like this. Philippians chapter 2 verse 14, do all things without complaining and disputing. That's a good warning, isn't it? Do all things without murmuring and complaining and disputing That's not a concern that the church is like splitting or something. It's just like he says, you know, there it's always this possibility. That if there is complaining and murmuring in the church, it can affect the unity of the body and it can affect the cause of Christ and the gospel. And so he warns them. He says, you know, don't do that, don't murmur, don't complain, don't do that. Because it it it can it can adversely affect the gospel. So the gospel here Then with with all of that in mind, with the focus on the gospel that we see, it's we're now getting really close now to understanding the purpose of this book. So we have this idea of friendship. We have this idea of the gospel. We have this idea that Paul is concerned about them remaining good, solid partners in the gospel. And if you want to identify a purpose statement in this book, I would recommend that you go back to Philippians chapter 1, and we're going to pick up here then in verses 25 through 27. Would you notice then what it says? Look at it again, and if you want to go back, this is going to help you. Don't put that up quite- I mean you're fine with the heading, but just wait for a minute. Verse 25, and being confident of this thing, I know that I shall remain and continue with you all for your progress and joy of faith. So we see this term progress in there. He wants them to progress. And your rejoicing for me may be more abundant in Jesus Christ by my coming to you again. Only let your conduct be worthy, your lifestyle be worthy of the gospel of Christ. So that whether I come and see you or am absent, I may hear of your affairs, that you stand Fast, number one, in one spirit, with one mind, striving together for the faith of the gospel. And not in any any any uh way terrified by your adversaries, which is to them a proof of perdition, but to you of salvation and that from God. So we see here, folks, the purpose statement is this. God wants us, we're talking about a divine purpose statement. God wants us to stand and progress together in the gospel. Why was the book at Philippians written? Why was this written? The book of Philippians was written so that you and I would learn how to stand and it should say together there. That's an important word. That's my fault probably. I didn't type it right. That's my fault. It should say together, that's an important point. God wants us to stand and progress together in the gospel. Can we say that together? Let's say that together. What's the purpose statement make sure you include the word together even though it's not there? Um let's all say this together. Uh the purpose statement of Philippians is God wants us to stand and progress together in the gospel. That is the purpose of Philippians. You're going to see cooperation in the gospel. You're going to see living out the gospel. You're going to understand what it means to stand in the gospel. And you're going to understand what it means to progress in the gospel, all from this book of Philippians. So what are some things that we can just glean directly from our study today? Number one God used Paul's imprisonment for his glory. He will use your situation as well. Do you find yourself in your trapped? You're in a situation that you feel like you can't get out of. You're in a situation where you are suffering. You know, when aren't you glad Paul got was in prison a lot? Because every time Paul was in prison, what happened? He writes an epistle that you and I have today that ends up being God's word that transcends any kind of Of influence he would otherwise have had. God uses the sufferings and the chains and the bonds of this life for his purposes. For the what? The furtherance of the gospel. Number two, do you view your relationship with other believers as partnership in the gospel? I mean folks, really, do we think of it that way? When we think of when we think of individuals in our church, when we think of a collective body of believers at Bethel Baptist Church, do we think in terms of being what is it what is the church well it's not all of what the church is to say this but the church is a partnership in the gospel Do we view us ourselves that way? Do we view our church that way? And I think we do, but I think it's very easy for us to get distracted from that. Sometimes it's easy for us to get distracted from that just by the busyness of life, church becomes a thing that we just need to check off the list. Far folks, it's far more important, it's it's extremely important that we don't just come to church, but that we be the church. And that we understand that what we are here is we are partners in the gospel. And number three. Do you have the kind of affection for fellow believers that we find in this passage? This kind of affection that Paul has for the church of Philippi. The kind of affection that Philippi has for Paul. Is that the kind of affection that we have? The loving affection that we have one for another. And you know when you really love somebody You're willing to tell them what they need to hear. That's when you know you really love somebody. The Bible says, faithful are the wounds of a friend, deceitful are the kisses of an enemy. You want to know a real friend? A real friend's going to warn you when you s when you're going down the wrong path. That's a real friend. And the Church of Philippi is a church where Paul says, you know, I there's some they're doing great I'm thankful, but there's some things that could affect their unity and that could affect their doctrine and their practice and the gospel. And I've got to warn them about these things. And I have the freedom to do that because I'm really their friend. Is that the kind of spirit that you and I have toward each other as partners in the gospel? Those are the questions that we ought to ask ourselves. As we look at this book. I'm excited about studying this book together on Sunday mornings and preaching through this book. I pray that it will really help us I'm thankful for our church. I'm thankful for the unity that we have. We we are kind of like the Church of Philippi in the sense that we don't have any major problems going on. We don't have any any i real issues, those kinds of things, thankfully. I mean as far as a collective body of believers, everybody's got issues. But as far as a a collective body of believers we don't But but uh at the same time we we we need to remember we need to move forward. We need to progress in the gospel So that we can really impact our community for the sake of the gospel. Because what are we, folks? We are partners in the gospel. This book is about the fellowship of the gospel. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you for who you are. We thank you for purposefully and meaningfully causing Paul to write this book. Under the inspiration of your spirit. And as we go through it in the coming days ahead and weeks ahead and months ahead, Lord, I pray that you would cause us to just understand And to apply and to experience what it looks like to be partners in the gospel at Bethel Baptist Church. We thank you, Lord, for what you are going to teach us and we ask you to do that. Help our minds to be receptive and our hearts to be receptive to your word as we go through this series. Lord, as we look really just at this practical notion of the sufferings that we go through, there are many people here that their sufferings are suffering in different ways. I pray that you'd help them to understand that in your ultimate purpose, I mean sometimes you've got to look way ahead, but in the eternal purposes of your plan, you will bring the sufferings. The sufferings of this time are not worthy to be compared compared to the glory that shall be revealed. And Father We thank you for the relationship that Paul had with the church at Philippi and how it really gives us an example of the kind of relationship that we ought to have with each other and the body of Christ. And how that needs to find its basis not on preference, not on self-um self-interest. but on a collective spirit in in furthering the gospel of Christ. And I pray that that would be the basis of our of our friendships with each other. I pray that that would be the basis of our fellowship, that we would truly understand what it means as Paul says that he is thankful for their fellowship in the gospel. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.