We're talking about finances. Just by way of review, I will cover a couple things as far as review. We first start off by talking about eternal versus temporal and the importance of that, and then we move then from And then we move then from um and and really that is that's gonna determine your that's sort of the baseline for everything. If you're focused on temporal things To the exclusion of eternal things, then the way you handle money is going to be one way. But if you look at temporal things as a way to invest for eternal things then it's going to be entirely an entirely different approach completely. And so that really should be the way that we think about these things. We know Scripture says that any good and perfect gift comes from the Lord, and the kinds of things that when God blesses us with finances of any kind, we should want to sort of use them to conver convert them from temporal to eternal. That should be always in our minds. We want to we want to do that. And um Then also, so we talked about that last week. Then we're looking now at stewardship versus ownership in uh on page 106 here. And he says this. He says a 16th century preacher described the difference between the temporal and the eternal this way. When the possessor of heaven and earth brought you into being and placed you in the world, he placed you here not as an owner, but a steward As such, he entrusted you for a season with goods of various kinds. But the sole property of these still rests in him. nor can ever be alienated from him, as you are not your own, but his. Such a li such is likewise all you enjoy We must learn to properly manage the Lord's places within our care. So let me ask you about this. Why d uh why might we struggle with this concept of stewardship versus ownership, Tony? Because especially in America it's so easy to think we earned it, we deserve it, we worked hard to Get it. It it's ours. Okay, good. Yes, Yvonne. Everybody outside or all around us, it's just so inflamed into our culture that Even when you know you shouldn't be giving to your kids too much, you just want them to have this constant sort of data back and forth. Okay, so so you um Tony's um assessment is definitely both are right and and there are two so you so one is sort of a historical pro sort of a historical issue with the way our country was really even founded and the other is a present day issue with just comparing one another. Um any other thoughts on that? Why would this be hard? Uh let's just think about this for a minute. As a country, we have here a free enterprise system. And it's built on capitalism. Of course, there's a lot of people that don't understand that, but but that's what where our country was started uh as. It was it was uh on that system. What is the the very basis? If you're gonna let's take the two extremes, which would be capitalism and communism. If you take those two extremes, what is the basis of capitalism? What's that? The LA dollar. Okay. Private property. Both have currency, so that's not what's that? Private property good. Private property. Okay. Alright, private property, that's it. Private property. You take some if you want to t convert a person a a country from um from capitalism to socialism to eventually to communism, take away private property. So the so uh um so the basis of of where we found you know it's this idea that we what? Well we own that are owners of property. In fact in the early stages of our country historically you couldn't even vote unless you owned property Um which means I couldn't vote currently. But anyway. Anyway. So um So anyway, so let's think about this for a minute. Um do you see the problem? Is there anything wrong with owning property? No, there's absolutely nothing wrong with owning property. We like the idea of private property. We really want to protect, as citizens of this country, our right to private property. But we but we don't want to have such a capitalistic mindset that it actually it actually um causes us to think that we are entitled to property um be or entitled really to anything because ultimately it who owns it all God owns it all. And so we have to sort of make a s we sort of have to say, okay, yes I own property, I want to owe property, it's right to own property. We're in this country, that's the way it's founded. We don't want anybody taking away our right to own property private property. That's fine. But the mentality is, even though that's fine, that's the way our country is built, the mentality is in our minds, it's if I own property, it's really God God's property. Everything I own is God's. And and that doesn't s and that you you do have to have sort of a uh a biblically mind you have to have a biblical mindset first And then have, okay, on top of that number one most important thing, it's all God's. And then, okay, if God gives me the ability to own property, then that's fine. How do you do that though? Let's just ask the question. How do you think of it what helps in thinking of owning private property as God's property? Any ideas? Yes. Looking at it from the mindset. How can I use this? How can I use what God's given me to further his kingdom for his use Yeah. The answer to that is in your actu and it is stewardship. If you own property, it should be because you are a good steward of of whatever God has given you. Why would you own versus rent, for example? Well, if it's better stewardship, then that would make sense. It may not be better stewardship. It may be better to rent. There's believe me, there's all kinds of headaches with homeowner ownership. Many of you I mean there's all kinds of um things that you don't expect. So so sometimes you know there's Mm pros and cons of everything. But if you believe that that you can better serve the Lord and be a good steward of what he's given to you by owning property Of whatever kind. I'm now I I'm going to sort of expand this now. We're not just talking about owning land or buildings. Anything, your a car or whatever it is, it's all how can I When I make decisions with regard to finances, it's all about what can I do to serve the Lord with this? How can I be a good steward with what God has given me And that's really got to be the mind mentality in our thinking when it comes to this. What are the real uh um so Psalm twenty-four Who is the according to scripture, who is the real owner of all things? Well, we know that. Psalm 24. 1, the Lord, the earth is the Lord's, and the fullness thereof. Psalm 50, 10 through 12 says the same thing. The world, he's God says, the world is mine. I was just reading over in Isaiah 40, I think it was 40, 40. a day ago a g l yesterday in my devotions and it's really interesting how God views um the earth and nations And I mean it's like nations are not and literally says nations are nothing to him in Isaiah forty. And and the earth is he can he can measure the earth in the palm of his hand. And so um and so we need to think the way God thinks about these kinds of things. Um Landowners in Bible Times often had a s had a steward to manage their estates, he says here. Stewards were employed to run the day-to-day affairs of their properties and assets. The landowner should take account of the of the books only periodically. Would take account of the books only. Jesus told a parable about an unjust steward who knew that such an accounting was coming. Because the property was not his own, he utilized his power over the use of of those things to secure a good standing for himself So that when he was fired from his job, he would still have friends to draw from from his life uh after stewardship While not condoning his dishonesty, Jesus commended his astuteness. Now I I will just tell you, I did find it a sort of curious that he would use this pass that in disciple sort of introductory discipleship material that um Jeff Musgraves would choose to use this passage just because it's one of the more um difficult passages But he uses it correctly and he comes to the right point. So that's good. And so the question that he asks is the right question here. How does Jesus want to utilize our power over the things that he has trusted it uh entrusted to our care. And it says, make yourselves of the mammon of unrighteousness. What is he talking about there? To make yourselves friends of unrighteousness, friends of the man in unrighteousness. Any ideas? Well, really it sums it up very well, the very last sentence there in bold. God wants you to use things to reach people for the kingdom of God instead of using people to acquire things. Alright, I can live with that, right? Okay, that's good. That's that's a good application of that of that verse. So are we not tempted to use people to acquire things All right, now just let's let's just think about this for a minute practically. How do we do that and not even realize we're doing it Any ideas? How do we use people to acquire things? How do we just naturally do that? Or unnaturally do it. Uh let's just think about this for a minute. A person graduates from high from high school, goes to college. How does he typically speaking, how how does he or usually choose his major? Theoretically? Well, uh what vocation does he want, right? So I'm gonna choose my major based upon what vocation I'm going to I'm going to choose. So he chooses a vocation, goes to college for the for that vocation. Doesn't always work. In fact, it doesn't I think the statistics are very low that actually the what you actually graduate with is actually what you'll end up be doing. But that's at least in theory what you're supposed to do, sort of. So anyway, so you graduate from college and then you get a job doing what you gradu what you graduated to do. So you're going out and you're looking for a job. Alright, just think about this for a minute. And I'm not like there's nothing wrong with this. I'm just wanting us to think about it. Um What is your pursuit? Right. Your money, the money front and you're going to you do what to get money? Okay, get a job to get money. Okay, how are you going to get a job? Okay, you're going to have to find an employer and apply for a job. Well, what is an employer? He's a person. Okay. Did you follow the light bulb I said the light bulb went on with a c a couple of you? You're actually if you have that mindset, you are actually using people To get money. Okay. Now that doesn't sound bad. None of that sounds bad. Alright. What sh what is a better alternative? You still let's we still all should get jobs. God says you don't work, you don't eat, you should get a job. Uh there's no issue there. Uh uh it's you still should there's nothing wrong with getting an education, nothing. But what is the better way to look at this? To do your job as a mission field? Okay, so that's one way you could do it, to look at your job as a mission field. That would be one one way. What else? Um how about we Instead of looking uh uh how about we do this? We think in terms of okay, I want ultimately to please the Lord. And I'm not saying anybody that's gone t the taken this path doesn't. But we will naturally don't have to take this path. But If you get out of college out of high school or whatever, and you say, I I want the Lord's will. Whatever the Lord's will is, that's what I want. Well then you've just s and and everything you're doing is to pursue God's will rather than pursuing the job you want. You might still have the same job and get the same education and go the same direction. Or maybe it would be different. But you might do all the same thing, but your goal is different. Your goal is that you're going to use all of this. For God. Whatever you're doing, you're using for God. But in other words, the ultimate pursuit is different. So then you're using People to get money to serve the Lord at least. Okay? You follow what I'm saying? In other words, the mentality is different. We are stewards with whatever God gives us. The other thing that we have to remember And we have to actually believe this, is that we sort of have in our mindset in our country that you sort of make your own destiny. And to some degree, because you have man's responsibility/slash free will, that's true, partially. But we also have to remember that whatever we do if it i that is successful is a gift from God. Make sense? In other words, just because you pursue a degree in whatever I'm just using as an example, just sort of life thinking not that you have to give a degree. Or let's just say tech school then. Let's suppose just suppose you usually need something after c after high school. Okay? So let's say say you pursue tech school. Just because you pursue that doesn't mean you will do well at it. It is a gift from God. Everything is a gift from the Lord when you are successful at those things. So we have to put those things into perspective. And then we want to use whatever God does. If it's our talent, if we're just good at something, well that's a gift from the Lord. So whatever we use whatever we have, whether it's gifts or talents or abilities or money or finances or circumstances or family or whatever it is, we want to use all that we have in order to Further God's kingdom, to be good stewards of what God has given us. How does Jesus want us to utilize our power over the these things He has entrusted to our care? Luke 16, 8 through 9. And the Lord commanded commanded the Oh, that's the end of the steward. Let me let me move up move on from that. 107. What does God require of a steward? What is God's requirement for us? Ultimately. Faithfulness. That is so important. It is God's desire that we are faithful with what He gives us. It is required in stewards that a man be found faithful. And that's important to remember because in our we we have all kinds of goals. That may or may not be God's goals. There's sometimes we have a goal, and it's God's goal too, and they match up, and so it's accomplished. Other times we have goals and they're not really God's goals. And sometimes he allows us to have what we want even though it's not best for us. Other times, um and I don't know how all this works to be honest with you, but other times he doesn't allow us to have what what what what we what we want. But they're not God's goals. So what do we know is always God's goal? For us to be faithful, right? Whatever God gives us to do, to do it faithfully. That we know is always God's goal. So that if you are working a job, for example, and you are being faithful with what God has given you, and you lose your job, What can you think about it? You can make the assumption that you were you just simply say, well, I was faithful. God provided for me. I was faithful with what he gave to me. And he will provide for me for further. Does that make sense? It is a different mentality. It's kind of a freeing mentality where you simply say, I am faithful to the Lord. And I allow the Lord to provide for me. Um and I wait for Him to do that, and then I'm faithful with what He gives me. Um the goal there is is just really, really important. Jesus told another parable of a master who is going on for a long time. He made three of his servants stewards over large sums of money called talents. Each talent was worth about fifteen years' wages were five hundred thousand to seven hundred thousand dollars. He gave one five talents, another two talents, and a and the last one, one talent. Okay. How many of you all are familiar with this story? Alright, just about everybody's familiar with it. Uh how many were not familiar with familiar with it? Okay. Um all right, so tell me about this story a little bit. You've got three guys, they're all given varying degrees of talents. Well talents do not we don't just get tur throw the idea of talent in here is talking about money. It's not talking about talent in the way we would think of talent at all. Um they're giving varying degrees of money. Okay? Now I think it is actually symbolic for whatever God gives us. I don't think it's relegated only to money. I think it's whatever God gives us. We're gonna we're gonna be good stewards with it. What does the first guy do in the story? Do you remember? Okay. The guy given five talents, well the guy given five talents, he doubles his talents. The guy um and the master's response is what? Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Well done, thou good and faithful servant. So he used what God gave what the master gave him. And he doubled it. He was faithful with it and and God God was uh commended him or the the steward the the guy the masters commended them. Of course you know who who where we're going with this obviously The two-talent servant, what did he do? He also did what? He doubled his talents, right? And what was he told? Well done, thou good and faithful servant. All right, so then the one guy who is given a lesser amount of money than the other two, what did he do with his talent? What did he do with his money? He buried it. He did not Okay, he did not invest it, he didn't double it, he didn't he just buried it. Okay. Somebody apply this for me. How do we apply this to our lives specifically? What are some way there m probably more than one way? What are some ways we can apply this to our lives? Yes. If we take what God gives us and we don't do anything with it for his good purposes. Whether it I send it selfishly on myself, I throw it away, whatever I do. It is of no eternal gain. Good. He's not happy. Good. Okay. What else? Any other any other application? That is the the s the the crux of it for sure. Why do why did the one guy with the one talent why did he bury it? Yes, he should. idea about his master. Okay, good. He told his master I learned that you are minor and wicked and you collect you from where And that's why we're getting it back to you. So in the study with information about it Did everybody hear what He Sham said? The reason he buried his talent is he had a wrong idea about his master. that his master he he was scared of his master. He was not convinced that uh so, so he was scared of his master. Let's apply that now. Why would we not use our whatever God gives us? Why would we bury it instead of using it for Him? What would be the reason? Probably because we have a wrong idea about God. Okay, right. We have a wrong idea about God. There's something wrong in who in our in our concept of who God is. What would that be? Might be more worn one answer on this. Tony? Um actually I was thinking about this passage earlier today and I thought about I I tend to Paint God as a perfectionist. Okay. And if I can't do it one hundred percent perfect, then he doesn't want it at all. And there Okay. Alright, good. Okay, so I can never meet up to God's God's standard. So I'm not even going to try. Right? That's it. Okay, is that a viable miss misunderstanding of God? Yes. All right. What's the answer to that? What is God's standard? Faithfulness. Faithfulness. Okay, that's God's standard. God's standard is faithfulness. God's standard isn't perfect. His standard for you isn't perfection. His standard for you is faithfulness. Okay? Alright, so it's not a misunderstanding both of who God is and a misunderstanding of what his standard is. Tishan? I think that uh I think Spurgeon said that from that one, that chapter. Maybe Spurgeon. Um he said that also there was a thing of God Master expected them to be diligent, well to be absent. And he expected them to work hard to the one that doubled, the first and second one double the not double it easily. It was hard work. And uh that was their master's expertise and that's a quantify found out that we were faithful and diligent. That's a why he appointed the one with a five contract. Hmm. Okay. So this the diligence while he was not here Yeah. Good. Yes. Wouldn't diligence be faithful? Yes. I think there's I think I think yes. I think you can't be faithful about being diligent. You can't be diligent without being faithful. Yeah, I think they're pretty much the same thing. I think faithfulness is and diligence are the same thing. Um essentially. Um Um yeah. What what other what other thing might uh might we not choose to use our talent. Let's let's put this in terms of money now. Because money is an application. Yes, Sam. Okay, good. And that really probably was most directly what we're talking about here in the passage, is fear. All right, let's put this in terms of money. Why would somebody not spend their money for a good cause? Yeah, they're afraid they're gonna need it later. Okay. What? Now we're gonna talk about saving and borrowing later. Don't get me wrong, I'm not suggesting that you should not save anything. Okay, we're we're we're getting we're gonna that's the next that's a couple of chapters later, so I'll just put that, but I don't want to blunt what I'm what what the point of this e is either. Um What what are we saying about God if we hold back what we have? care of me. Right. That he can't supply he can't supply. We're saying he is or he won't supply. Okay. Now, what's the key here? The key is if God has given me something Um for me to assume that he will supply later, there's something that's going to be important. Do you know what that is? It's that what I'm using is for him. Okay. But I know it is something that he wants me to do with it. And if we're faithful with we say, okay, you know what, I know the Lord wants me to do this with this. He's going to supply. Now, if we are going to go if we spend If we don't think that way and and we're just spending what we think and we're not thinking about what God really wants us to do with this um and we're spending it on our self you know selfishly or we're doing it for our own cause or whatever. If that's the case, then then that kind of a assumption that God will just always supply for us. I don't think we can have that kind of kind of an assumption anymore. And so it then we take control and it's a matter of our controlling and having to control everything and Have everything be the way we want it to be, instead of saying, okay, God gave me what He ha I have. He wants me to use it And okay, he wants me to use it on that. I I don't I I've got it. We're not going into debt to do what God wants us to do. We're not doing that. It's something that God's provided for me. He wants me to use it. I'm going to use it, and I'm going to know that if the Lord wants me to have something else, He's going to give me something else that I can then use for Him. Does that make sense? That kind of approach puts all of the trust in the Lord. And it allows us to be a steward of what God gives us. So that we come to the end of it, and God says, I'm whether it's finances or talents or abilities or anything. I'm we come to the end of our life and God says, well done, thou good and faithful servant.