Uh so so I th I pr this is one of the most encouraging psalms for me, and it's one that I often revert back to. and I'm thinking about just different things. I don't know about you, but I tend, if I'm not careful, to just sort of get caught up in all the things that I've got to do And I tend to get I I tend to be a bit of a sort of a type A guy and I just I'll load my plate up with all kinds of stuff. And I'll run from one thing to the next to the next and that's not all bad. I'm uh you know, God's made us all different in that way, but sometimes if we're not careful, we can sort of um lose it's almost like we can lose traction. Yesterday uh I I lost traction control on my on my suburban. Um I didn't lose traction, I just lost traction control. Uh which means you have to be a lot more careful when you're driving the thing. I wouldn't even let Elizabeth drive it at all. Um and uh there was a couple other problems with it. Um And and uh it's one of those things where you have that large of a vehicle you gotta keep a lot of distance that m uh with the person in front of you and and those kinds of things. But um It's sort of I started I looked up on the internet what was going on and why it's happening and everything and it's basically said it's it's it's to level out the vehicle when when you're in a skid or when when you lose control And sometimes, and of course what causes us to lose control in a vehicle is essentially momentum. I mean you're going and you're going and you're going and then you hit a patch where it's not exactly solid and the momentum carries you off the road or in whatever direction you are or hydroplane or whatever Momentum is what does that. And in our lives it can be the same way. We can have this sort of momentum in our lives where we're doing this and doing that and getting this done and getting that done and accomplishing what we need to accomplish and if we're not careful, we can sort of lose traction and get off the the direction we're supposed to be going. And so it's very important for us to to have our traction, have our feet firmly planted in God and in the fact that He is our refuge. And so I tonight we I want to look at that. Psalm 46, beginning in verse 1, says this, God is our refuge and strength, a very help, a very present help in trouble. Therefore will not we fear, though the earth be removed, and though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea, though the waters thereof roar and be troubled, though the mountains shake with the swelling thereof. Here, God explains to us that He is our refuge. In fact, three times in this Psalm it's going to tell us that He's our refuge. In verse 1, it tells us this. Again in verse 7 it tells us this and then it closes out the psalm with the same thing. So in the beginning and the middle at the end, we have this theme throughout the psalm that God is our refuge. There's no question about it, that that's the theme of this psalm, that God is our refuge. So it would be important for us to understand what God is talking about when He uses the term refuge. And the Bible uses this term several times in the Old Testament. And several times, it was kind of fun to look this up because several times you have this concrete idea. that's connected to the idea of refuge which isn't concrete. For example, in Joe Job 24, 8 It's connected to the term to the idea of a shelter, like you're in a storm and you're you're caught in the storm and you're running to a place where there isn't a storm and you're running to a shelter. And um I didn't make that up. That's the very first occurrence in Job and you know we all understand running into shelter at the time of a storm. Something we're cla probably had to do tonight a little bit at one point or another. Psalm 14. 6 says that God is a refuge to the poor. It says the same thing in Isaiah 25, 4. I don't find know of anywhere in the Bible that says that God's a refuge to the rich. But it does say that he's a refuge to the poor. And of course, if you remember over in Matthew chapter 5, it says, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. God desires for us to understand that essentially we are poor. We are destitute spiritually and we need his refuge. Psalm 61, 3 says that God, in conjunction with this word, is a high tower. that protects us from our enemies. And I can sort of envision enemies coming at you, but you're in this high tower and they can't they just can't get to you. It's like they can't touch you. They're grasping and they can't but they can't get up there 'cause you're you're just living above the whole thing. Because God is that kind of a tower. Psalm 62. 7 says that God is a refuge as a rock. So you think about all these different terms, a shelter, a tower, a rock, and one who's the refuge of the poor, and you get a good picture of what God is for us. It's really amazing that that's the case, that God would choose that to be for us. He doesn't have to be, but he is. And it's wonderful to know that. So God's role really includes three things here. In verse 1, we have God's role. And we find, first of all, that these are refuge, that he provides shelter from danger. But it says also number two that he is our strength. He provides strength and courage in the midst of danger. When we think of strengths, we often don't think of physical strengths, and certainly we need physical strength. But when God says that he gives us strength or that he is our strength, really what he's talking about, I'll just cut to the chase and explain that really what he's talking about is motivation Do you ever feel just so worn out, just so strung out, that you feel as though you have no more motivation? You're just tired. You're worn out. You're stressed out. You just don't have any more motivation to keep going. I'm just curious, how many of you all in the last two weeks have felt that way? Okay, n m many people at one point or another. God is not just a refuge, he is our strength. He's our motivator. When we come to the end of ourselves and we have no longer the strength to continue, God says that he is our strength. And then thirdly, God is our help. You see that in the passage? He is, in fact, not just a future help, but what what kind of help is he? He's a present help. Now I am thankful that one day we will go to heaven to be with him. I'm thankful one day that we'll experience the resurrection. that we will be free from these cursed s cursed ridden bodies and we'll be free from the effects of the curse and the fall and temptation and all the things that we struggle with. I'm thankful that one day we'll be free from all that. But God says that right now he is a help. We're all better now He is a present help, he says, in trouble. But then what is man's response to this, or what should man's response be? Verses 2 through 3. What should we not do? Well, God said, first of all, we should not, we will not fear. Fear ultimately will keep you, will will will paralyze you. Fear will um will be that thing to you that will snare you. That's what fear does. In fact, the fear of man, the Bible says, is a reproach and a snare. It will keep us from doing and going the direction that God wants us to go. We don't have to fear. So the and and there isn't really and God is now going to give sort of this comprehensive idea of why we don't have to fear. He says though yes he gives Um just actually just look at look at what it says. It says, though the earth be removed. Well that's pretty severe, isn't it? I mean in fact that's like worst case scenario. Like the earth is gone. The earth is removed. It's really what it's depicting is as an earthquake. I'm curious, how many of you have ever been in an earthquake uh serious? We had one a couple of years ago. I was in um Barnes and Nobles. I had my ear phone I my ear buds in because it was loud. Uh and and um I was studying uh I think it was w writing a paper or something and and uh in Barnes and Noble's and suddenly like I heard these weird noises and everything kind of shook a little bit, but I was so focused on what I was doing, I didn't really I didn't know if it was my imagination or flight, I wasn't sure. Um and then later on I find out that it was a uh an earthquake. But that wasn't like it didn't really scare me honestly. I wasn't like scared by that. How many of you ever been in an earthquake where you were actually scared? Okay, Hisham has been in the one Okay, but it it didn't shake you to the point where you're yeah. So Yeah, yeah. Well they can be as long as you're you're you're in a safe place. If you're on the Golden Gate Bridge or something, I'm not sure that would be Wow. So so um uh a a a a earthquake is something though that if you um if you are in the middle of it, it's Um so how many of you read the book, an old book by Larry Briquette called The The Coming Economic Earthquake. Okay, I've read that book He depicts an earthquake at the beginning of the of the thing and he's very he's very w I think he's a very good writer and he he he wrote about it and it's like you're scared about this thing. He basically just gives the and so and basically we had an economic earthquake He was right. But anyway. Um but anyway, so so when you're an air earthquake, it it shakes you. But he said, but God says, look, if though the earth be removed, it's totally upside down. And then and then look notice what it says here Though the earth be removed and that the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea, like the highest mountain goes to the depth of the sea. Everything is upside down. Have you ever felt like in life you've been upside down? I mean think everything is upside down. Everything is wrong. Well, he's giving you that scenario. And he's saying though this may be the case, you don't need to fear. You don't have to fear. Why? Well, because God's your refuge. He is your refuge, He is your strength, and He is your help. So despite worst-case scenario. Despite all the difficulties and potential problems, we do not need to fear. So our response essentially should be no fear. We don't fear. Now, I will hasten to say that the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. So no fear doesn't mean that we don't fear anything. But you know what? We are often very guilty of fear of fearing everything except God. And what we really ought to fear is God and nothing else. And in fact, if you look at the book of Proverbs, we won't take the time to look there. But if you look at the book of Proverbs, what you find is exactly that kind of a scenario where it really these two things are mutually exclusive. If you fear God, you won't fear circumstances. If you fear circumstances, you won't fear God. And so it's something important for us to remember as we as we think through this. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of the wisdom. But God does not want to fear want us to fear our circumstances. But that is going to It does presume this, doesn't it? Doesn't it presuppose that we're not putting our trust in these things? If we put our trust in the earth If we put our trust in those kinds of things, just those kinds of things in life, and they shake, then that it turns, we turn and we are we are fearing, and that's what causes us to fear. Verses four and five and six actually then give us that God tell us that God is a refuge in times of turmoil and strife. Not only is he just in times of change, but he's also a refuge of times where where there is genuine turmoil and strife. Verse 4, there is a river, the streams where of the city, I'm sorry, there is a river whereof shall make glad the city of God. The holy place of the tabernacles of the Most High. God is in the midst of her. She shall not be moved. God shall help her, and that right early The heathen raged, the kingdoms were moved, he uttered his voice, and the earth melted. The Lord of hosts is with us, the God of Jacob is our refuge. So he talks about this city, which is God's dwelling place. I think that's I that's probably the best way to describe it. It's possible that what it's talking about here is there there is this very common, you can even find it in ancient extra-biblical literature where there's always this picture of a paradise. And um you have different works, uh there's always sort of uh different uh even fictional kinds of works that talk about Paradise. But we know in the Bible, in Genesis chapter 2, verse 10, as well as in the end of the Bible, Revelation 22, verses 1 through 2, you've got paradise in the beginning, which of course the Adam and Eve were barred from after they fell. But also Genesis chapter 22, verses 1 through 2 have there's another paradise there. There's another heaven there that you that has this description And so that's where God dwells. And what it's really saying here is that the reason that God is, you know, we do find our source of stability in the place we are in. If you think of your home, your home hopefully is a place of security. It's a place of comfort It's a place of of stability. I I want to provide that, for example, for my kids. I want our home to be a place of where you know if they go if they have a rough day somewhere else they can come home and there's a place there for them and there's a place of security and stability for them. I I I hope that they they see that in in our home. And so we do do that. But of course none of that is none of that is nearly as stable as we perhaps would like it to be But God's dwelling place is entirely stable. And this is where God is. I mean, everything about God is stable and secure. And that's his point in really bringing this up. God is in the midst of her, and she will not be removed. God will help her when the morning dawns. And then verse 6 tells us that God has the ability to calm the nations. We see that God's power is displayed. God's power is accessible to us, that He is our refuge. Really, when you think about it, are our nations at peace right now? No, it's anything but that's anything but the case. And in fact, if you think of the history of civilization, it's very infrequently that nations have been at peace, if ever. I can't historically think of a time where the nations were at complete peace. There probably when David was in ro was was king, it was probably the cloth uh David and maybe Solomon. Right in there for the nation of Israel that was probably the closest to being completely at peace um toward the end of uh David's reign and all that and although but not internally then they were having problems because of other things that David was David did and So that wasn't even completely a piece. But God could, He can do that, can't He? It is comforting to know, in a in an election cycle, it's comforting to know that God's in control of the nations. He will rise up who he wants to rise up. He will put down who he wants to put down. Frankly, he does that, I believe, as a measure of grace for a nation and mercy. Or sometimes as a measure of judgment. And frankly, we may get in this next election, and I'm not speaking of a specific candidate, I think there could be A couple off a few options. Where it would be God's judgment on our nation. And on the other hand, God could choose to show his mercy to our nation. But regardless of that, we can always trust that God is our refuge, that no matter what happens God can do what he wants to with the nations. He's not out of control. He's not he still has in control of these things. And so if God chooses not to put whom we would want in office, for example We don't have to fear. We don't have to be dismayed or worried or those kinds of things. Because God does what he wills with the nations. And ultimately, one day it is going to all be taken care of, isn't it? One day during the millennial kingdom, he's going to solve it all. He'll put it all into perspective. Everything will be at peace because Christ will rule and reign himself. Now, finally, what I want us to see, and this could be potentially the most applicable point, is that What we find here in the passage is that God is a refuge to which people may retreat. And what I want you to see is that what you essentially have here is three responses that we can have and should have because God is our refuge. So look at what it says here. Verse 8, you see here before it's like in a third person talking about the Lord. And now verse 8 turns, and we have it's now in second person. And he says this, Come behold the works of the Lord, what desolations he hath made in the earth. Now here's the point I want to make here. How is it that we get back to the place, let's suppose we skidded off the road in our lives. Let's suppose our momentum has la in life has drawn us to a place where we are not finding our stability in God. We're not looking to God as re as a refuge the way we ought to. Well, how then do we get back in traction? And this passage is going to help us with that. He says, number one, we need to behold the works of the Lord. You know, it's so easy for us to look ahead at what God hasn't done yet and be worried and fearful. Instead of looking behind and looking at what God has done in our lives. Looking at what how God has provided or protected. I mean, we've got to look look at what God has done In this case, uh the psalmist is pointing back to desolations, it's really exploits and victories. If you look at the history of the nation of Israel When God could, God gave the nation of Israel victory. There are all kinds of victories under Joshua, for instance, or lots of victories in the book of Joshua. Or under David, you find a lot of victories. And so when God could, he did give victories. And many times, I mean, they were, in fact, when the nation of Israel beg was in its infancy, they didn't even have proper equipment. It wasn't like they had all of the best best armament and the best uh weapons of warfare at their disposal. In fact, what they got they usually gained from other places, from other from what they'd already conquered They were the weakest of the nations when it came to weapons and might. And yet God, because God is God, he gave them the victory. despite the things that were against him. Because what we find in this passage it says he breaks the weapons, he breaks the bow, he he does those kinds of things. And so God is the one that we ought to be looking at. I mean, just take some time and look at what God's done in your life sometime. Just reflect on God's provision in your life. And his protection in your life, his working, his forgiveness, his grace, his mercy, and look back at what God has done in your life And it will help you to begin to regain your traction in taking refuge in God. Number two. I don't think we can say this enough. Be still and know that God is God. Chapter verse 10. Be still and know that I am God. And we are living in a society that it seems to be harder and harder just to be still. And God wants us, God does not want our hearts to be disquieted within us. It's so easy for that to happen. God doesn't want that to happen. And He's provided a way for us to do that, but there is this power, there's this strength in just stilling our hearts and knowing that God is God. And you know what we do? We sit down, we get up in the morning and we sit down and we begin To maybe have some time with the Lord. And you know what happens to us? We immediately think it start thinking about everything we gotta do. We immediately start thinking about I gotta do that, and I can't forget to do that, and I gotta do this, and I gotta do that, and I gotta do that, I gotta do that And pretty soon it's not our heart's not still before God. It's not still. You're not being still and knowing God if you're immediately within your mind just going and and suddenly occupy with everything you've got to do that day. There is a sense in which it takes mental discipline To just know God, to be still and know that God is God. But you know, I think that there's a sense in which also God understands our frame, He knows our weaknesses. I'd give this practical advice. If you tend to be that way where you're trying to be still and know that the Lord is God, you're trying to spend some time with the Lord, and you're really wanting to be still. And you find your mind running with all kinds of things to do. This might make it worse or it might make it better, but for me it helps. Keep a piece of paper, a notepad by And if something comes to your mind that you need to do that day, just write it down and then forget about it. I find it helpful. If I can write it down, then I don't have to think about it anymore And I find that very, very helpful. And so I don't know, it's just nice just something I would do whatever you gotta do, but if you're gonna find your refuge in God, you've got to be still and know that He is God. And then finally We need to be content that God will be exalted. Here's what I mean. You look at our world today, and we want things a certain way in our country. I really don't think it's necessarily wrong for us to want certain things a certain way. I think it's godly to say to pray for a quiet and that that we are rulers so that we can live a quiet and peaceable life with all godliness and honesty. God says for us to do that. But ultimately, if things don't go the way that we want them to go, regardless of what it is, whether it's policies that are made, whether it's people that are elected, whatever it is, if things don't go the way we want them to go. You know what? We just need to be content that in the end God will be exalted. Are we content with that? Are we just content to say, Lord, I know I know boy it's not the way I uh we get frustrated. I get down to the I tell you what, you know, a few years ago when cer a certain person got elected, and I won't say how many years ago and I won't say who it is Well a certain guy I was down in the dumps for a whole day. I mean I I actually literally went into Chick-fil-A and they said, what is wrong with you? And frankly, that wasn't a very good testimony when I really think look back at it. I was like just I was just I was like I was really upset. And uh I wasn't crying or anything, but I was just noticeably down. And uh um and the um I you know, I thought I think about now I really should have been that way. Doesn't mean I'm going to be happy about certain things if they happen, but at the same time, I just need to be content that God will be exalted. And he will. We know that he will ultimately. Be still know that I am God. I will be exalted among the heathen. I will be exalted in the earth. Isn't it wonderful to know that God knows the end from the beginning? He's got it figured out. He knows the end from the beginning. He will be exalted. If you just take these three things and you say, okay, I am going to just begin to think about God's working in my life, his provision, his protection I'm going to be still and know that God is God. And I am going to be content that God will be exalted. Then we're gonna, it's not gonna be long before we're gonna be able to turn back to the place where God, again, is truly our personal refuge. And a present help. Strength and a present help in time of need. I pray and hope that this would be an encouragement to you. Uh it's not something I'm I've preached, I've gone through this passage before. But some passages are worth just going over several times, you know, every once in a while. And this is actually there's a lot of passages like that. Uh this is one that I just hope will be encouragement to you. Um And would be settled in our hearts that we need to find our refuge in God. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word that does express to you to us your character. And um we we are amazed by how great you are that You are all powerful and all-knowing, and you are everywhere present. And yet you choose to be a God who is a refuge for your people. In fact, you delight to be that way. Just like I want as a father to be a refuge for my kids, to be a place where they could go. Maybe they can't get anybody else, they can come to me And Lord, you desire that more for your children than I do for my kids, for sure. And you can provide it far better than I ever can And Lord, I thank you for that. I thank you that you are our loving Heavenly Father that desires and delights in being our refuge. And I pray, Lord, that we would learn how to have just a quiet soul, a soul that is quieted within us. Not disquieted, but is still, and that we can we can just have a rest And your providence and your working in our lives. And may we just follow you one step at a time and go where you want us to go. And we pray all these things in Christ's name.