And let's go to the Lord in prayer. Fathers, we enter into this text, a text that really should direct our hearts and our minds. To thinking on things that are eternal. I pray, Lord, that you would just calm our hearts and calm our minds. Help us to put away the distractions that so easily invade our thinking. Help us, Lord, just to really glean the truth from your word this morning. A truth that can make such an incredible difference in our lives, a life that can be hidden in Christ. For the further be really for the furtherance of your kingdom. And so we ask, Lord, for that now and help us to be receptive to your word and to hear your word. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. We as American citizens travel all many of us travel different places, even all over the country and all over the world. And one of the things that is uh interesting as you travel is finding both the differences in uh And the similarities. Uh when I was uh a few years ago I went to Hong Kong. I'm looking forward to uh going back in January, Lord willing. And um when I went over there, it's the other side of the world, and there were some things that were very, very similar. I in fact I was I was amazed at how similar things were. Like Just people had um you know normal jobs and families and uh things a lot of things were very similar. I'll tell you one of the things that was surprised me how similar it was is that how everybody acts with their cell phone Like literally down I was going, you know, there's very crowded in Hong Kong and people are walking around like this with their cell phone everywhere. And uh the missionaries told me that I was with with they said, you know, we have a prop there's a seems to be a problem over here with that, that everybody's kind of walking around with cell phones and they're not willing to pay attention to what they're going at. I said that that is not that is not a eastern problem. That is a worldwide problem apparently because we have the same thing going over here. It's amazing how in human nature there's certain things that are just very similar to each other But there are other things that are very different. Certain the various parts of Asia, you have issues like communism. Communism has an ideal ideology, has a worldview that is very different from our Western worldview. And communism, the people serve the government. They contribute to for the good of the government. The way that we look at things in our country is that we serve or the the government serves us. At least that's the way it used to be. Very, very different in the worldview and the way they think versus how we think And the truth of the matter is, if you grew up in this country and you you espouse to the ideals of this country, then When you go to another country, it isn't as though you may live in that country and learn to follow their customs, but you're not necessarily going to be able To think exactly the way they think. And in fact, in some cases, you wouldn't want to think the way they think. Your goals are probably going to be a bit different than their goals. Your desires and your aspiration or aspirations may be as well in certain areas. When we get into the text this morning, what we're going to see is that the Apostle Paul is now going to bring us to the pinnacle of the truth that we have been learning in the book of Colossians. Of course, we have learned that Christ is all sufficient, and that we must keep him in our minds and our thinking as all-sufficient. And he is superior to all things, and he is all sufficient in all things. And we also learn that we have both died with Christ and resurrected with Christ. And with that in mind, we come to chapter 3, verse 1, and it says this: if then you were raised with Christ. Seek those things which are above, where Christ is sitting at the right hand of God. So it says, first of all, if you have if you were raised with Christ. The word if could be actually translated since. Since you are raised with Christ, seek those things that are above. So what is he talking about here when he's talking about being raised with Christ? This whole text here in verse 1 is telling us to persistently seek eternal results, but it's all based upon the idea that we are resurrected with Christ. In Ephesians chapter 2, it's explained this way, and it's explained as a present reality, that when someone comes to Christ, they are then resurrected. And Ephesians chapter 2, verse 4, it says, And God, who is rich in mercy, because of his great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in trespasses, made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved. And raised us up together and made us sit together in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. This is a present reality, the way it's being worded here in Ephesians 2. He says that in the ages to come, he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. For by grace are you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves is the gift of God, and of works lest any man should boast. You know those two verses. And then it says this, for we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works. which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. God has raised us. He we died with Christ, and then we are raised with Christ. And we are to be raised with Christ. We are raised with Christ to walk in newness of life. It's a new life. It's a different life. Romans chapter 6 verse 4 says it this way, therefore we were buried with him through baptism into death, that just as Christ was raised raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk. in newness of life. It's a new life in Christ. So we are living in this world And we're living in a culture where we're going to have to adjust to the culture, we're going to have to operate within the culture. But our thinking should be from another world. It should be a different world. It should be a different realm. A different place. We are pilgrims, if you will, in a foreign land And Christ says that when you are pilgrims in a foreign land, remember to keep your focus on where you're from. And this is what the passage is saying, chapter 3, verse 1. If then you are raised with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ is sitting at the right hand of God. It says to seek. The Sikh word is an interesting word. It's the idea of to keep on pursuing, to seek persistently, to continue to seek after. The word is used in Matthew chapter 7, verse 7, where it says, Ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. Knock and it will be open unto you. In Romans 2, verse 7, it says, eternal life to those who, by patient continuance in doing good, seek for glory, honor, and immortality. But those who are self-seeking and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, indignation, and wrath. We are to seek out. The idea here is to seek with the heart, to seek with the desires, to persistently pursue We have lots of examples of this in Scripture, of persistently pursuing, and we have examples even in our world's history. Albert Einstein, for example, was dismissed from the School of Munich because it was thought to have he was lacking interest in his studies. He next failed to pass an examination to enter a polytechnic school in Zurich. He became a tutor for boys in Zurich boarding house, but was then soon fired. But with all of those setbacks, one after another after another after another, you know the result. Albert Einstein is one of the most influential men in our world's history. Another man by the new name of Lou Garrett. It was said by Ty Cobb at the time where when Lou Garrett was playing baseball, he said, look at those piano legs. He'll never last, and by piano legs he meant you know thin thin legs that are not very strong. He said that he'll never last. With all his shortcomings, he set an all all-time record of two thousand one hundred and thirty consecutive games until, as anybody in Maryland knows, Kyle Ripkin broke it. uh many years ago. You guys remember that when that happened? This was this this is we celebrated the anniversary this week. It was like how many years ago was that? Somebody somebody know? It a lot. But uh I remember it like yesterday. Somebody has it. Who's got it? 94, something like that? 94, the guy from not this area growing up knows the nate knows the date. Okay. Anyway. All right, very good. All right. So We need to seek after those things which are above. We need to be persistent. Persistent, seeking after. And folks, as you read biographies, you are going to find That those who have made significant accomplishments in life, there is setbacks and failures, and then there is persistent moving forward toward goals. It is a constant thing that you see in life. It is very, it is very infrequent that you see someone who is who is pers persist uh who is not persistent who just everything kind of falls to him and then he's successful. Now folks with that in mind the same kind of persistence needs to needs to be applied to another area. It's the things above. See what the text says? It says that we need to seek those things that are above. So what does he mean when he says those things are above? What is he talking about? In John chapter 8, Christ is talking to some folks who are asking him some questions, and he says to them, I uh I go away And you will seek me and will die in your sin. Where I am going, you cannot come. So these Jewish leaders said, Surely he will not kill himself. Will he? Since he said, Where I am going, you cannot come. And he's he would uh and he was saying to them, You are from below, I am from above. You are from this world. And below he didn't mean hell. Below he meant here. You are from this world. I am not of this world. Christ clearly understood that he was, what was he? Well he was not of this world. He came, he was born, he lived a perfect life. He rubbed shoulders shoulders with people. He grew up in wisdom and stature and faith with God and men and all that. And yet he was from another world. And what Christ is saying, what the Lord is saying to do, what Paul is exhorting us to do, is to look at, is to realize who we are. And although we are living in the world, to constantly be pursuing something else, to be constantly pursuing the world above And then we have an explanation more of what he's talking about here. It says, where Christ is. So where Christ is now. And he says this: sitting at the right hand of God. So we are to constantly be pursuing something that is above where Christ is sitting at the right hand of God. Well, what is he talking about? This phrase sitting at the right hand of God comes from Psalm 110, where it says, That the Lord said unto my Lord, sit at my right hand till I make your enemies your footstool. The Lord shall send the rod of your strength out of Zion. Rule in the midst of your enemies. The Bible says in Mark chapter 10, verse 37. The disciples were talking to Jesus, and they were getting around Jesus, and they said, Grant us that we may sit one on your right hand and the other on your left in your glory. Back then in those days, the right hand was the place of privilege. It was the place of authority. It was the place of honor. And it says that Christ is now seated in the place of privilege, the place of authority, and the place of honor. What Paul is leaning us toward is helping us to understand that Christ, although he will set up his kingdom on earth one day, and that will happen. There is a spiritual kingdom. Christ is working in his world now. And there is a spiritual authority that he ought to have over us Where we now are seeking after the kingdom of God. This same word seek is the same word that's used in the book of Matthew, where he says, and we sang this. Matthew 6, 33, but seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added to you. We are to be constantly seeking after the kingdom of God. The furtherance of God's kingdom we must constantly be seeking after. Can I ask you a question this morning? What are you seeking after? What is it that you, when you wake up in the morning, what is your first thought? When you go to bed at night, what is your last thought? What is your default thinking as you go throughout your day? What is your default thinking? A lot of our thinking will tell us about where our affections lie. Where our heart really is. I remember when I was first dating Elizabeth. I was a senior in college and And uh I was fairly well enamored and Twitter paid and all of that. I know you guys like that word. And um and I could I I woke up in the morning and I was thinking about it. I'd be thinking throughout the day and I'd be thinking about her. I'd go I I I would see see what I did my senior year was I did a lot of credits in my junior my freshman through junior year So I didn't have a lot of credit hours in my senior year and then I found a girl. Um I actually wasn't that well planned, it just worked out that way, and I was kinda glad it did. Well, um what your default, you know, you you you you you you see if somebody's in love, they're like constantly thinking about this other person. It's on their mind all the time. They're they can't stop thinking about somebody Well that's a good picture of what it ought to be when it comes to the kingdom of God and how we ought to focus on Christ, seeking persistently the kingdom of God. And the thing that we ought to understand about this first command, we're going to get to another command that's going to be more of a mental thing. But the first command that we have here is really telling us to shape our desires and our affections and our appetites. Do your desires, are your desires Christ's desires? Do you love to read the Word of God? Do you love to know more about who God is? Do you love to be with God's people? Do you desire to be together, worshiping together with God's people? Do you desire to have time alone with the Lord? Are these kinds of desires things that you're cultivating? We must not believe the lie, folks, that our desires are fixed, that what we want is fixed, and it can't change. That's a lie. Our desires can be cultivated. They can be shaped one way or the other. And what God is saying to do here is to shape your heart in such a way that it desires Heavenly things rather than earthly things. But in order to accomplish that Not only is our heart going to be shaped, our desire is going to need to be shaped the right way, it really is our mind is going to have to be singularly set on that Notice what the next verse says. Set your mind on things above, not on the things on the earth For you died and your life is hidden with Christ in God. Verse 2, particularly, set your mind on things above. The things above we've already established have to do with God's kingdom, with his work, with what he is doing. So we're to set our minds on things above. Romans chapter 12, verse 1 says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, you know the verse, holy, acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service. And then it says, and do not be conformed to this world. How do we keep from being conformed to the thinking of the world system? How do we keep from doing that? But be transformed by the renewing of your mind. That you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. He says, if you're going to prove what's what that what is the will of God You must, your mind must be focused on the right kinds of things. You must be transformed by the renewing of your mind. Your mind's got to be focused on eternal things, eternal results. It's talking here about setting forth the habits of the mind. One particular preacher told of a illustrated it this way. There's a he had a young he had a a dog. His name was Bosey. It's an interesting name for a dog, but anyway, his name was Bosey. Bosey was a dog who uh he said he would he would play fetch with Bosey, take a tennis ball, and he'd play fetch with Bosey. Bosey loved this tennis ball. He would the the dog would go to sleep with a tennis ball. The dog would wake up with a tennis ball. He was always focused on the tennis ball. He was always on his mind. If the tennis ball would go somewhere, the dog would immediately be directed to go get that tennis ball. He was just attached to the tennis ball. His mind was focused on the tennis ball. That's a silly illustration, but the truth of the matter is that every area of our lives, we need to be can bring it into conformity to focus. On Christ and to focus on eternal priorities. Our earthly priorities must come under the submission of heavenly priorities. The text says it that way. It says, set your mind on things above, not on the things on the earth. In Philippians chapter 3, verse 18, it says, For many walk of whom I have told you often, and not tell you even weeping, that they are the enemies of the cross. Who are the enemies of the cross? Whose end is destruction? Whose God is their belly? Whose glory is their shame? Who set their mind on earthly things? You want to talk about an extremely extreme contrast? On one hand, you have the possibility of setting your mind on heavenly things, setting your mind on otherworldly priorities. The other side of that is someone who is entirely selfish, whose mind is entirely on earthly things, whose goals are entirely this world. And are we not guilty of this? We think of our jobs, we think of our families, think of our spouses, our kids. If we're not careful, we can think of them in terms of only what is here on earth, only the goals that are here on earth. We can make this, we can really make this uh uh uh r uh mistake with our children. We educate our children. Why do we educate our children? Why do we send our children to good schools? Why are we concerned that they get their homework done? Why is this the case? Why? Well folks, if it's the case just so they can make money and have a good life, then that is an earthly goal. There must be something more. We ought to educate our children to equip them to serve the Lord. We ought to educate our children so that they are equipped to do whatever God wants them to do. for eternal rewards. We ought to direct their thinking and their lives to do what will please God, what will please Christ. There must be a heavenly ultimate goal. For us as Christians. If you're working your job, it's easy to do your nine to five or whatever, to do your work and j uh your job to get the paycheck. to make money, to pay the bills. Folks, there's got to be something more. There has to be more than just making money and paying the bills and doing those things. It must be that I am serving God by By doing what I'm doing, by working hard, by by by doing everything I'm doing heartily as unto the Lord and not unto men, the Bible says. We must have eternal priorities that are submitted. Our earthly priorities must be submitted to heavenly priorities. So important that we have these things right. Why? Because we are from another world. We are in this world, Christ prayed to his his father in John 17. But we are not of this world. Now, with all of that in mind, we quickly then move to verses 3 through 4. But to understand verses 3 through 4, we need to understand that actually there is a shift in Paul's thinking. Paul sets up a different way of thinking, and he'll do this a lot in his epistles, where it there is an already, not yet way of thinking. Let me explain it this way. Let's think of um Let's think of salvation. If you know Christ, when you come to Christ as your Savior and you accept Him as your Lord and Savior, are you saved? Yes, and not yet. Yes, you are saved. You have a relationship with God But you have not fully, your body is not, you have you're not fully been saved. In other words, you are saved, you're redeemed. And yet you're not completely redeemed. That's why the Bible says we are waiting the day of redemption. Are you redeemed or are you not? Yes, we are redeemed, but there's a sense in which we are not completely redeemed. We have gone through justification, we're declared righteous, we are free from the from the power of sin even, but we are not freed from the presence of sin. So there is an already not yet kind of thinking And the this is the case here. He has already said that we have been resurrected. But now these two verses are anticipating a future resurrection. Look at the two verses. He says picking up in verse 3. For you died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. In Colossians chapter 2, verse 20, it says, Therefore, if you die with Christ from the basic principles of the world, who as though living in the world Do you subject yourselves to regulations? He's talking about if you die with Christ, but then you have, in chapter 2, verse 12, it actually talks about being buried with him. In baptism and then in which you also were raised with him through the faith in the working of God who raised him from the dead But we need to understand also that there is a future resurrection that we're looking forward to. In other words, we have been raised from the dead. But now we also are looking to a day where we will rise from the grave again, and that we will be, we will experience glory with God. Do you see what it says there? It says that. Verse 4, then you also will appear with him in glory. Now that gives us, the question then becomes, what do we do now? We've got this period. We've got this period between where we're saved and the time that we will rise from the grave. We will appear with him in glory. So what what happens now? I had a question after yesterday's message, or yesterday, last Sunday's message. And it or not it was sort of a comment, more of a qu it was a good discussion. I by the way, I love c questions and comments, most of them. Um I uh after after my uh my messages. Uh I love it when you come to me and and ask questions, that kind of thing. And this person had a comment about the fact that we are the Bible actually declares us that we will be conformed to the image of Christ. It's not something that we we have to do it's something that will happen, that we will one day, when we see him, we'll be like him, for we'll see him as he is. We are going to be conform to the image of Christ. And that truth and the fact that we are saved, like it's like what do we do in between? You may maybe heard it this way, what do we do with our dash? What do we do but in this in this lifetime period between these two? And the answer to that, folks, is found in this verse. Verse 3, it says, For you died, and your life is hidden with Christ and God. Catch this. Now Paul is saying that we are buried with Christ now. And he is saying that our life is hidden with Christ. Now, what does that mean? What does it mean that our lives are hidden with Christ? Well, first we know we need to understand what it means when it says for you you you are dead. You are you have died. In Romans chapter six verse uh it explains this, and we covered this a little bit last week, but it says this For he who has died has been freed from sin. Now, if we die with Christ, we believe that we also will live with him Knowing that Christ, having been raised from the dead, died no more, death no longer has dominion over him. For the death that is died, that he died, he died to sin once for all. But the life that he lives, he lives to God. Likewise, you also reckon yourselves to be dead indeed to sin, but alive to God in Christ Jesus our Lord Therefore, do not let sin reign in your mortal body, that you should obey the lusts thereof. Clearly from this text we see, number one, what does it mean to be hidden with Christ? Well, it means that we're freed from sin. That we no longer have to sin. We're no longer under the power of sin any longer. But more than that, folks, I want us to understand something about this passage. This is this idea of being hidden with Christ. has this concept of mystery and then one day being revealed. In Colossians chapter 1 verse 26 it says the mystery which has been hidden, same word, hidden from the ages and from generations, but now has been revealed to the saints. To them God willed to make known that what are the riches of his glory, the mystery among Gentiles, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. So what does it mean that we are hidden in Christ? It means there is this this word actually has to do It's the tensor that it's in has to do with a reality that happened in the past that continues into the present. And a good passage to go to to help us with this is Matthew 27, or I'm sorry, Psalm 27. In Psalm 27, it says this: For in the time of trouble you shall hide me in his pavilion, he shall hide me in his pavilion. Same idea. In the secret place of his tabernacle, he shall hide me. He shall set me high upon a rock, and now my head shall be lifted up above my enemies all around me. Therefore, I will offer sacrifice of joy in his tabernacle. I will sing, yes, I will sing praises to him. This word has the idea of protection. Has the idea of hiding someone away from the storm. You have storms that are happening in the Bahamas and uh uh the Carolinas right now and all that. Hiding from the storm, it has to do with a kind of a protection. We are hidden in Christ. We are protected. We are protected. We are secure. There is this place of safety that we have in Christ. In 1 Samuel 13, verse 6, it says, When the men of Israel saw that they were in danger, then the people hid in caves and thickets and rocks and holes and in pits. It's this idea of hiding for the sake of protection. So what does it mean that we are hidden in Christ? This is such an important concept to understand. Our position is that we are hidden in Christ. We are buried with him. We are protected in Christ. We're protected from from the the noise of the culture. We're protected from the things that others have to go through, the stress the problems. Now, what I mean by that is this we all go through problems. We all go through stress. We all go through difficulties in life. But there is a sense in which the way that the person who hides in Christ is protected in a way that others are not. We are living in a fallen world. And there are storms and there are battles and there are struggles and there are problems. But we are under the protection of Christ. I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn to Matthew 11, verse 27. Matthew chapter 11. I'd like everybody to take your Bible and turn there. This is such an important concept. It's one that actually in the Sunday school hour, if you were in quietly noisy soul, he covered these ver this verses. But really this gets at the heart of what it's saying here when it says that Christ Is that we are hidden in Christ. Christ said in this passage, all things have been delivered to me by my Father. And no one knows the Son except the Father. Nor does anyone know the Father except the Son, and the one to whom the Son wills to reveal him. Then he says, This, Come to me, all you who labor and are heavy laden. And I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn of me. For I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy and my burden is light. We are to hide, we are hidden in Christ. But just like just like our position in Christ. Just like we are free from sin, but still sin. Just like we are redeemed and yet we can still sin. Just like that's the case. We can be hidden in Christ and still not experience it. You ever feel that you are unprotected from Christ That you are you are left to flap in the wind, so to speak, in the midst of the trials and the storms and the struggles of life. There seems to be no solace, there seems to be no protection, there seems to be no no uh uh no clarity about things, there need no root, there's no anchor Christ says, you are hidden in him. But the reality is we have to experience it. Folks, the way that we experience it is by doing the previous two verses. The way that we experience, the way that we stay hidden in Christ. You think of the song Hiding in Thee. A blessed rock of ages I'm hiding in thee. There are other songs that we sing, hymns that we sing about the being hidden in Christ. Folks, the way that we experience what is true is that we've got to set our affections on things above. You understand, folks, what's at stake here? If we continue to set our minds on earthly things, If we continue to pursue earthly priorities instead of heavenly priorities, if we don't submit our earthly roles under the headship of a heavenly Christ. If we choose not to do that, then we will not experience what is truly ours in Christ. We will be hidden with Christ, but we won't experience the protection of Christ. We will be hidden with Christ, but we will not experience the rest in Christ. Christ says, come to me, take my yoke upon you. What's Christ's yoke? The heavenly things. What's Christ's yoke? The eternal pursuits. What's Christ's yoke? The kingdom of God. Seek first the kingdom of God and what? All of these things will be added to you. So often we are seeking all of these things, and we're not seeking the kingdom of God. So in final application of all this, well first of all, notice this finally in Colossians chapter 3. You have this death, burial, and then this final resurrection pictured here. And notice in verse 4 it says, when Christ, who is our life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. Did you catch that? It says Christ who is our life. Do you see it? Do you see your life that way? Paul said it this way, Colossians chapter 2 verse 20. Therefore if you die with Christ, I'm sorry, Philippians chapter three verse twenty it says for our citizenship is in heaven from which we eagerly wait for the Saviour uh uh for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ Who will transform our lowly body that it may be conformed like his glorious body according to the working which was able to to even to subdue all things in himself. Our life is in Christ. Our life is Christ. It's been redeemed for Christ. Christ is our life. Are we not living in a world that tempts us so much to make our life the way we want it to be? If you just think about social media, or you think about some of the some of the avatar kinds of programs that are out there and The idea that I can s I can orchestrate my life the way I want it to be. If I can have everything the way I want it, just set it all up the way I want it to be. And we have, and our whole world is pursuing life that way. I want what I want the way I want set up. If everything could be exactly the way that I want it to be set up, then I'll have rest Then I'll have peace. Then I'll have what I want. But it's never enough. Never If we can just learn this, you will never be able to set your life up the way you want it and have rest that way. Because your life is hid with Christ. We must submit our lives to Christ. Instead of orchestrating our lives in the way that we want everything to be set up the way that we want it to be set up, but everything will be Let's just live our lives day by day. Sufficient today is the evil thereof. And when we do that, and when we take one day at a time, and we Gaze our eyes upward, and we take the earthly circumstances of our lives and we submit them to our to godly thinking, to heavenly thinking, then we are protected in Christ. We stay hidden in Christ. And one day we will rise with Christ. We will be revealed. We ought not seek honor this side of heaven. Our glory is not this side of heaven, but our glory is with Christ, and one day we will be like him, for we will see him as he is, and we will glory in Christ's glory in us, the hope of glory. Are we under the protection, and just in concluding remarks here, are we under the protection of Christ? And live in Christ. If we are, then we must do two things. It's really two, just two. Persistently seek eternal things. And secondly, we must mentally focus on eternal things. Persistently seek eternal things. And mentally focus on eternal things. And then our lives we will experience The reality of being hidden in Christ, and we can look forward to the day where we will rise with Christ in glory. Let's pray Father, we pray that you would help us as we as we it's so easy to say these things, and it's something else entirely to do them on a consistent basis. The reality is we can all agree that this is what we ought to do, and our minds ought to be focused on Christ, and yet on Monday morning the battle starts. I pray, Father, that you would help us that eternally, that our that our we would learn to set our gaze on eternity. So that the earthly pursuits are all submitted to that May we know the rest in Christ. May we know the peace in Christ when we take his yoke on us. And we learn of Him. And we find rest for our souls. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.