Take your Bibles. Take your Bibles if you would and turn to John chapter 21. This is, Lord willing, going to be our final message in the book of John. And if I'm my count is right, it I've preached sixty-one messages uh in the book of John. And um believe it or not, um I preached uh around a little over fifty messages in the book of John. Book of Ephesians, which is um a much shorter book and but um has uh just a huge amount of detail in that book. So but uh we are we are wrapping this up today, and uh tomorrow, next Sunday, uh we will jump back into the book of Ruth. I'm really excited about that series. After that, I've already got it, I think we'll be going into the book of Galatians after that. So those are coming attractions for books that we'll be um looking at in a in a few as we as we move through the summer and probably into the fall as well, based upon how long it takes me to get through books All right. So today what we have here in John 21 is, as we have mentioned before, is an illustration of discipleship. We have all kinds of teaching from Christ. on what discipleship is, what it look what what it's supposed to be like, what we're supposed to do. And we find a great deal of that in the the upper room discourse prior to the to the the crucifixion. Now what we find in this passage is an illustration of what does it look like to follow Jesus. What does it look like to walk in this discipleship process? Many of you uh I don't know how many of you have ever taken a basic business course, but if you have, probably you are familiar with the three Ps of business suc business success. You know what they are? Good. People, product, and process. Okay, those are the three so if you go if somebody can go into a business, evaluate weight the business based upon those three things, people, product, and process. If those things are all running right, probably the business will be uh successful. If not, then you have to identify what's the problem. Is the problem the people, is the problem the product, and what's the or is the problem the process? And you have to identify that. What do you think is the most most of the problem usually? I won't say that. Alright, so so um but in this particular case there is a sort of a sense in which in our discipleship there's this process. with which we should be engaged in. And sometimes that process breaks down. Something sort of finds it there's sort of a hurdle in the process or a hitch in the process. And we find this process is really laid out for us in this chapter and we're going to see uh what that is. Do you ever feel like when you are serving the Lord that you are you are just going through the motions? Or do you feel and and I don't mean sir by serving the Lord, I don't just mean what you do within the four walls of this building. That might include it certainly would include that. But serving the Lord would include your vocation, it would include your your uh raising of your family, it would include your marriage. Serving the Lord includes really all of those kinds of things. We're supposed to be following Christ In everything we do, do you ever feel that you are just going through the motions? Or on the other hand, do you ever feel that you're burned out? You're just burned out. Well w or maybe you're discouraged in some way or another. Something might be not quite right with the process. Well I found in my life as a Christian, and I think you would agree with me that But from time to time, it's really helpful to sort of look at our lives and evaluate is there something wrong with a process? Or is there something that's sort of a hiccup in what is happening. It's just like a business of value where you would go into a business and they would look at the people and look at the product, but then they would look at the process and how the thing is the product is being manufactured. And they would make sure that it was a good clear process to be able to take that product and produce it and then take it to market. And There is a sense in which my prayer is that we're able to do that in our lives today as we go through this text. Let's first go to the Lord in prayer, and then we will get into this passage. Father, as we look at your word this morning, I pray that you would help us to understand how to follow God's specialized calling in our lives. There is a sense in which every one of us have a pilgrimage that you want us to journey forward in. There is a sense in which you have given to us a calling, and that calling is specific. It's a leading that that is only for us and special for us. And one that we need to follow closely. And dear Father, as we look at your word this morning, I pray that we would do in our lives some evaluation. To see if the things that are in this passage that illustrate what discipleship is all about as Christ calls his disciples, particularly Peter in this passage and John, to follow him. And what it means to follow him in a very vivid way in this passage. So I pray, Lord, that this would help us And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, we've already learned from verses 1 through 10 that discipleship begins really with Christ's provision. You'll recall from the illustration that is found in this passage, the narrative that is found in this passage, the disciples were meeting Jesus. They were at the Sea of Galilee. And Christ was not there yet, so they decided by the leadership of Peter to go fishing. And they fished and they fished and they fished and they caught nothing. Of course, this was God's intention for them providentially so that Christ could come and He could provide for what they could not provide for. He could do for them what they could not do for themselves. They were accustomed to catching things as professional fishermen, but when they lived the life that God wanted them to live, following after Christ for the last three and a half years, they were really dependent upon him. Christ to provide for them one step at a time. And the question may have come into their minds at this point in the whole process of things, are they going to continu is Christ going to provide for us now? He's gone. We're here. Do we just go back to fishing like we did before he was uh here three and a half years ago? Do we are we still going to pr depend upon his provision or are we just gonna go back to doing what we want to do. What's happening here? Of course, Christ had taught them that they were going to have a future with him and following him, but how was that all all supposed to play out? And what you have in this passage Is Christ appearing in a way that is going to show them what he is going to do for them? There's very little specific teaching in this passage. There's some that we're going to look at today. A lot of this in the beginning parts of this passage are really just, here's, I'm going to show you the way what I'm going to do I'm going to show you the kind of provider I am going to be. And what I want us to do today is to really to pick up in verse 13, where Christ has now called their the disciples have brought fish up. for them, uh for Christ. He brought up on the shore, and if you recall, there were so many fish that the nets should have been broken, but God providentially kept them from And now we find in verse thirteen it says, Jesus then cometh and taketh bread, and giveth them, and fish likewise. This is now the third time that Jesus showeth himself to his disciples after that he was risen from the dead. Jesus cooks the fish, he does everything that is necessary, all they have to do is cast their nets in, and now he serves them. the fish that he had provided for them. And I would imagine that the disciples as they are they are once again being served, the provision of God to them. Are aware that Christ's relationship with them in a lot of senses is going to continue the way it was before He would not be with them forever. He would not like physically be with them, but he was going to continue to provide for them. But there is even more here. He was going to continue to serve them. It almost sounds irreverent, doesn't it, that Jesus serves his disciples? It sounds even more irreverent that Jesus serves us. I mean, think about it. The God of the universe. We know he humbled himself to become a man. To take upon the form of a man and to be a servant. We know that, Philippians chapter 2. But do we really realize that Christ continues now in this servant capacity of connecting us with the Father, of being our intercessor, and of being our helper as well. Hebrews really details this out for us. It says in Hebrews chapter 7, verse 25, therefore he is also above the saint, able to save to the uttermost those who come to God through him. Since he always lives to make intercession for them. Jesus is always Living to make intercession for those who know him as their Lord and Savior. If you are a child of God today, do you know that Christ is right now making intercession for you? He is serving you in that way. Now that is incredible, is it not? How is it, how are we supposed to experience the ongoing ministry of Jesus to us practically? Well, Hebrews in a few other chapters later is going to explain what that looks like. And I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn there if you would. Would you turn to Hebrews chapter 13? And we're going to see in verses 5 and 6. That ministry that Christ, this ongoing ministry that He has with us, what does it look like? What does it afford for us? And we see here just in a few verses some practical application of all that the writer of the book of Hebrews has said about the necessary servant work of Christ toward us in previous chapters. He says this, verse 5, let your conduct be without covetousness. In other words, he says positively, be content. Such things as ye have. Why? Why is it that we do not need to look and say, I want what I don't have? Why is it that we do not ever have to worry about our situation and want what we don't have because of this constant ongoing fact in our lives. Be content with such things as you have, he says this, for he himself has said what? I will never leave you. I will never leave you, nor forsake you. Now, folks, what is the connection between contentedness in this passage? And Jesus never leaving us. What is this verse trying to tell us? Folks, it is implying here very clearly that Jesus is all we need. It's really what it's saying here. That Jesus, who is constantly there, he is never leaving us, he is always present with us. is all we need. He says, let your lifestyle be without covetousness. Let your lifestyle style be such that you're not wanting what you don't have, that you're content with what God has given you, whatever that is. And the reason you can always be content is because Jesus is always with you and Jesus is always more than enough for you Do you believe that? Do you believe this morning that Jesus is always more than enough for you? You see, when we get derailed from that truth, and we begin to think that we need certain things that God has not provided. We begin to want what God has not supplied. We begin into this avenue of covetousness. That leads us to a place where we are not realizing even that God is Christ is really there. God desires for us to be able to say, verse 6 So that we may boldly say, the Lord is my helper. He is my helper. And you are if you are listening today this morning and you say to yourself, you know, I I have I have experienced great loss I don't I am concerned about my future. I don't know what I'm dealing with. I'm dealing with all kinds of things. Look, realize this that Christ is, if you know him as your Lord and Savior, he is always with you, and he is your helper. And you can live in such a way, content. And it says here, I will not fear. What can man do to me? There is nothing within this realm of existence. There is nothing within this world. There is nothing within our circumstances that can thwart the help of Christ in our lives. And what we've got to learn to do is rest in that. Rest in Christ's supply. Rest in his ongoing provision. Rest in his service to us because what Christ wants us to do is when as he serves us and as he supplies for us, he wants us to then begin to supply for others. There is this process that God wants us in ministry. We are our goal is to in E even certainly in leadership, Christ is leading them. He's saying, Follow me, but by the way, I'm going to equip you with everything you need for me to follow you, for you to follow me. There's actually great application here for leaders. The right kind of leader is a servant leader, is one that is constantly looking and saying How can I equip the people that I am leading to follow after Christ? What can I do to supply things for them? What can I do to help them? What can I do to serve them? Christ had that kind of it's incredible. Like if there's anybody that shouldn't have to do that, right? But Christ That's what he has done for us. He feeds us. He gives us what we need. He has his presence with us all the time. He is our helper. And folks, the reason is that sometimes we don't love him like we ought to. We don't serve him the way that we should. We live a life of wanting what we don't have. Folks, the reason that occurs is because we are not resting in Christ being more than enough for us And what we find in this passage is that Jesus wants to remind them: I'm going to supply the needs I believe are truly needs for you. I'm going to take care of you. I'm even going to serve you. And with that in mind, he then moves, with all of that first, he then moves to this questioning of Peter. Now we have discussed in the past this questioning of Peter to some degree. We have noted that there are two words here, phala'o and agape. And we have no we took some extended time to to to explain that these words are really interchangeable. There is no reason to make a significant distinction in these words. And if you if you uh you might need to go over that message again, but it uh online or something, but that is really uh seems to be the case. And I fear, frankly, that by by placing so much emphasis on the distinction between Philet and Agape in this passage, we miss the point. There are three very, very clear points in this passage when it comes to Christ, to Christ's asking of Peter, do you love me? So what does it look like to have true biblical love? What is the point here that Peter is making that Christ is making in asking these questions? Well the obvious point Is that just prior to the crucifixion of Christ, we know that Peter, as a surprise even to himself, denied Christ three times. And Christ is giving Peter the opportunity to confess his love for Christ three times. So, what is biblical love for Christ? Well, number one, biblical love includes the concept of confession. Biblical love is confession. True Christ-like love is confession. Christlike love includes a clear, established decision to love God. And what Christ was doing here with Peter was he was giving Peter the opportunity with all the witnesses of the disciples that were there to confess true love for him. He confessed before something that wasn't really true of him. I won't deny you. I'll go to the death with you That wasn't true. Now he's given the opportunity to make a clear, decisive confession about his love for Christ in this passage. And you and I, if we're going to love Christ, there needs to be that kind of confession, of decision of our love for Christ. But secondly, true Christ-like love in this passage includes authenticity. Authenticity that is based not upon what we know about ourselves or what we think we know about our relationship with Christ. Authenticity is based on entirely upon knowing Christ and being known by Christ. He says in this passage the third time Lord, not I know I love you. He says, you know all things, and you know I love you. True true biblical love is the kind of love where where it Where we see that Christ loves that where we are authentic to the point where we say, Lord, I'm known by you and I know you, and my love is based upon knowing Christ and being known by Him. David said it this way, thou desirest truth in the inward parts. From the very core of our being God desires that we be truthful with him about ourselves. He already knows who we are. We know that his thoughts are continually toward us, Psalm 135. That he knows our downsettings and our uprisings. He knows us inside and out. He certainly knows us far better than we know ourselves. We know he knows us, but he wants us to have this authentic love for him that is just open with him. Lord, you know I love you because you know my love for you is not based upon what I know, it's based upon what you know. This is exactly the opposite of what you said before Essentially, when he was contradicting what Christ said he was going to do, now it's all about a knowledge of Christ that's consistent with what Peter now knows about himself. And folks, sometimes we have sort of a hiccup in the process because we're really not truthful and honest with God about We're not honest with God about his knowledge of us and our knowledge of him. There is this, there is something in the way. There's something that is less than truthful about our relationship with the Lord. Sometimes it's guilt. Sometimes it's false guilt. The Bible says, if our hearts condemn us, 1 John, God is greater than our hearts. Knoweth all things. And if you have confessed before the Lord your sin, and I have done that, we can agree with God about it, and God knows, He knows everything. And we need to be on the same page with God when it comes to our relationship with Him. There needs to be this openness and authenticity that comes with a true biblical relationship with God. And thirdly, We have this this true love is one that is tangible. It is a tangible love for Christ. It includes service for Christ. There is a sense in which talk is cheap. It is very easy to say, I love Christ. It is something very different to serve Him. And what we find three times in this passage, he says, Do you love me, Peter? Peter says, I love you. And he says, feed my sheep or tend after my sheep. He says, do something with that love. Show me you love me. Serve my sheep. Now there have there is a lot of application here, of course, for for pastors. But I do think that there is clear application for all of us. Let's remember this. The reason that we are able to do anything with Christ's sheep is because Christ is supplying us. He is demonstrating on a constant basis, every day of our lives, his love for us in constantly making intercession for us and helping us. There is this love that we have for cr that Christ has for us. And we when we realize that when we're living in light of that love that we have that he has for us, we respond in love for him. The Bible says in 2 Corinthians chapter 5, for the love of Christ constraineth us, that we must judge. That if one dies for all, all For all, that they which live should not henceforth live unto themselves, but unto him which died for them and rose again. What causes us to be able to not live for ourselves anymore? To live for Christ? The answer is The love of Christ does that. It constrains us to stop living for ourselves and to live for Him. So folks, there is a sense in which when we are living for ourselves, even though we are his, it is because we are not aware and experiencing the love of Christ in our own hearts. We're denying the love of Christ in our own minds And it's causing us to live for ourselves rather than living for him. The love of Christ constrains us. Now, particularly in this passage God tells Peter, Christ tells Peter, feed my sheep. This is a lesson that Peter was going to learn well. We find in Peter's epistle in chapter 5, verse 1, he says this: The elders which are among you I exhort, who am also an elder, and a witness of the sufferings of Christ. And also a partaker of the glory that shall be revealed, feed the flock of God which is among you, taking the oversight thereof. Not by constraint, but willingly, not for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind, neither as being lords over God's heritage, but being in samples to flock Peter understood and out of the gate when he talks of when he's exhorting the leadership to whom he is talking to, he says very clearly, he says Feed them. It is our job to feed the flock of God. And I just have to tell you from by way of sort of personal application as I read this passage, it is very much a clear reminder to me With all of the administration that a pastor can do and sometimes sometimes has to do, with all of the various things that a pastor has to is responsible for. What must remain in primary focus is the feeding of God's people. That must be his primary concern. It must be his focus. And he has to guard against other distractions that would keep him from feeding God's flock, from feeding God's people. And there is this application that I would also make for you as well. The truth is that the Lord leads you away from here. Perhaps you move somewhere else or whatever God does. Anybody's life. You never know what is in store for any of us. Can I just reiterate? And I have reiterated this before, but can I just reiterate this again? Make sure that you go to a church That has expository preaching, that is going to feed you from the Word of God. There is no spiritual food aside from this book. There is none. And a nice story about a guy's life is not feeding of the word of God. And we have preachers right now all over this country that are telling nice stories with funny messages and they're not preaching the word of God and folks that is unac that ought to be unacceptable to anybody who has received True feeding from the Word of God from the pulpit. And I guess I would just remind you of that. That has to be absolutely primary and absolutely essential. in the in the life of a Christian. And there have been people that have left this church and moved to other areas and they can't find it. Well then don't move. Honestly. And I just say it this way, I think it's very important for us to just keep that in mind. If a person can look for a house, they can look for a church. And I just want to be that be very clear about that. Please make sure that you are going to be because the reality is God has set it up this way in its process. That God feeds his people through his servant. And there is no other way of getting around it. And there is no other, there it is something that is absolutely essential. Then we find here in 2118, then we're going to move here to a very sharp laser focus. He is now going to speak particularly to Peter, and he is going to talk to Peter about his very particular calling. And there is going to be some very helpful applications for us in this passage as well. He says in verse 18, verily, verily I say unto thee, When thou wast young, thou girdest thyself, and walkest with her whither thou wouldest. But when thou shalt be old, Thou shalt stretch forth thine hands, and another shall gird thee, and carry thee whither thou wouldest not This spake he signifying by the death he uh by what death he should glorify God. And when he had spoken this, he said unto him, Follow me. Christ now prophesies and he predicts what's going to happen to Peter many years later. We know it to be at least 30 years later that this is going to occur. The first phrase that we have, it says, Verily, verily I say unto you, this is most assuredly, this will happen. There's no doubt about it, it's gonna happen. Christ is very clear about this. There's no getting around it. He says, I say unto thee, When thou wast young, thou girdest thyself. Now, that particular phrase is a little bit hard to understand. It comes into view a little bit more as we take all of this together. What we know to be true about verse 18 is that it is a description of a death that Peter is going to experience later on. We know that from verse 19. So that helps us a little bit narrow down what he's talking about here to a particular kind of death that Peter is going to experience. We find here the second phrase, and walkest thou whither thou wouldest, but when thou shalt be old, thou shalt stress forth thy hands. Well there is a particular kind of death where you stretch forth your hands. What death is that? It is the crucifixion. Now we know from church history that Peter was indeed crucified 30 years or a little over 30 years from the from this point. Um it it said, and we don't we really can't verify this because um uh by the as time went off, church hit you know, by the time the Roman Catholic Church kicks in in the third century uh starts developing and things start getting romanticized a little bit. So it's a little hard to know exactly, but church history we have some indication that Peter Peter chose to actually be crucified upside down. in reverence to Christ so that he wasn't crucified the exact same way Christ was. We don't really know for sure that was true, but we do know that he was indeed crucified. That way. He was, and we know this as well. As you look at the passage, you'll find it says, Thou shalt stretch forth thy hands, and another shall gird thee, and carry thee whither thou wouldest not. Another shall gird thee and carry thee weather. Basically, you're going to die and somebody's going to kill you. It's indicating that Peter is going to be martyred. Now, I want to say just something about this. The Roman Catholic Church makes a very big deal about this, so much so that they make Peter look to be something that he's not here. There is no salvific, there's no salvation of any kind in Peter. There's no connection to salvation and the death of Peter. Christ is telling Peter this. He wants Peter to stay focused on following him. That's one of the reasons he's doing that. And we're going to see that a little bit in a minute here, the importance of staying focused. He also wants Peter to realize that you're really going to have to stick to this confession of loving me. You're going to have to stay here because you're going to experience suffering for my sake. Now, Peter does learn this lesson quite well. We have an entire book of the Bible in 1 Peter where Peter is going to really grasp this whole idea of suffering. And we find in 1 Peter 4, verse 1, it says, For as much then as Christ hath suffered for us in the flesh, arm yourselves likewise with the same mind. For he that hath suffered in the flesh hath ceased from sin. In other words, God sometimes uses suffering to cause us to be able to live righteously before him. That he no longer should live the rest of his time in the flesh and the lust of men, but to the will of God. Peter understood that God uses suffering in our lives to help us to have victory over sin and to cause us to be able to be more conform to the image of Christ and to follow in the will of Christ Christ's will for us is to serve Him wholeheartedly, no holds barred, no distractions whatsoever. And Christ will set things up in a way that will cause our lives even through suffering to take on that role, that we are truly f fulfilling the will of God. And Peter understood this. He really, as time went on in his life as an apostle, grasped this. To the point that he could say in verse 14 of chapter 4 of 1 Peter, if ye be reproached for the name of Christ, happy are ye. For the spirit of glory and of God resteth upon you. On their part he is evil spoken of, but on your part he is glorified. But let none of you suffer as a murderer, as a thief, or as an evildoer, or as a busy body. Don't suffer by bad doing. Suffer for the cause of Christ, he says. He says that there is this happiness. That comes when suffering occurs as a result of doing right. There is happiness that comes when suffering occurs as a result of following after Christ. We get to we are a fellowship we are a partaker in the sufferings of Christ himself when this occurs. Peter understood that God uses sufferings. Of course, Paul understood this as well. He will say in John in Romans chapter 8 That the sufferings of this present time is not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed in us in future glory in heaven. Now, folks, that gives us great perspective as we go through this life. That when suffering comes to you. Stay true in following after Christ. Just follow Christ. Christ's admonition to Peter is you're going to undergo suffering. You're going to it's going to end in glorifying me in your own death. That's going to be your life. Your role is singular. Your role is central. It is simply follow me. What how simple our life would be if we would just stick to that. We make things so complicated. And so cluttered when we have one pursuit after another, instead of simply saying, Lord I just want to follow you one step at a time. I believe you're sufficient for me. I want to eat from your hand. I want to drink from your cup. I want to live in your provision. And I just want to follow you with my life one step at a time. And if there's suffering that comes, I will know that as I follow you, there is a sense of contentment, a sense even of happiness, that I'm following you in this And I'm not suffering as a result of wrongdoing. I'm suffering because I am following after you. There is this life that God wants Peter to live in this passage, and the same life he wants us to live as well. Then we find here that Peter, in this initial understanding of what is going to happen, Peter gets distracted. He diverts his attention to the person that is next to him. His name is John. Would you notice what happens in this passage? He says. Verse 20. Then Peter turning about, see if the disciple whom Jesus loved. Of course, that's John himself. He was following. Maybe he was following a few, maybe they were walking at this point. Maybe he was following a few steps behind. And it says, which also leaned on his breast at the Lord's at the supper. And said, Lord, which is he that betrayeth thee? Now let's pause for a minute and explain why John's mentioning this. Who asked John to say this back in John 13 there? Peter asked him that. Peter said, Would you, hey, you're sitting next to him, would you ask who's going to betray Case that there is this close, there's a relationship that Peter has with John. There's a bit of a closeness. You recall that who what two disciples went to the tomb together? John and Peter did. Obviously, John was younger and he was faster, so he got there first. But they came together. There seems to be this relationship that John has with Peter. But in this case, he turns and he says, What about John? You love him. It's almost like I know you've got this really close relationship with John. Is he going to get martyred like I am? What's going to happen to him? Now, would you notice Jesus' response here? He says, verse 22 If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee? Can you go, you read that and go, ouch. I read that go, ah. There's a very terse statement there. Hey, what if I if I will that that he he doesn't die, John doesn't die, and I come back and he gets raptured, what's that to you? He's really admonishing Peter this way, and then he says this, what does he say again? Follow you me. You notice he adds that? Follow thou me. For he said, follow me. Now he says, follow you, me There's this clarity, there's this imperative statement here where he's saying, you need to follow me. And do you know that is true in the Christian life? Is that not true in the Christian life? Is it not true that we get distracted by looking at the lives of others? And saying, boy, look what God is doing over there. Or God, why aren't you doing that to them over there? Or why am I so much in a different spot that I Folks, when we start comparing ourselves to others, we put ourselves in a very distracted place, and we're not following Christ anymore. There was an entire church that was full of people doing this. Do you know what church that was? It was the church of Corinth. And we find in 1 Corinthians chapter 1 Paul addresses this at the very outset of his rather scathing epistle to them. He says to them, Verse eleven of chapter one, for if it hath been declared unto me of you by my my brethren, by them which are the house of Chloe, that there is there are contentions among you Now this I say, every one of you, I am of Paul, or I am of Apollos, or I am Cephas, or I am of Christ. Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified? Were ye baptized in the name of Paul? He later on in chapter 12 and 13 and 14 of 1 Corinthians, he's going to the deal with the dispute among people having better gifts than other people. that that one person is gifted better than another person. Folks, there is this comparing going on among the immature believers at Corinth that Paul has to deal with There's a sense in which he's saying you're being distracted. And he really indicts them in 1 Corinthians 4, verse 2, when he says, Moreover, it is required in stewards that a man be found faithful But with me, it is a very small thing that I should be judged by you. Or of man's judgment. See what happened was not only were they comparing themselves with everybody else, They were judging other people as well. They were becoming judge and jury on everybody else's lives. They were actually trying to discern and to judge motives. And he says finally in verse 7 of that passage, For who maketh thee to differ from one another? And what hast thou that thou didst not receive? Now, if thou receive didst receive it, why dost thou glory as thou dost thou hast not received it? He says, who makes you different than somebody else? Who provides for you in a way that's different than somebody else? God does that. So don't get prideful because you're better. Or don't get defeated because you feel like God's putting more provision to somebody else. Don't do that. He even gets more pointed in 2 Corinthians chapter 10, where he says this: For we dare not make ourselves of a number, or compare ourselves with some that commend themselves. But they measuring themselves by themselves and comparing themselves among themselves are not wise But we will not boast of things without our measure. But according to the measure of the rule which God hath distributed to us a measure to reach even unto you. 2 Corinthians 2, verses 12 and 13. He says He brings up Christ's rule in all this. He says, you have been provided according to the measure of the rule of Christ. Christ has given you what he wants to according to his rule. Don't compare yourselves with other people. You see what happens here? Peter in this chapter illustrates what so often we do in getting distracted from following Christ. We compare ourselves among ourselves. Brothers and sisters in Christ don't do that. Because it only leads to two very bad possibilities. If you compare yourself with someone else, another brother or sister in Christ, you may become rather conceited. Maybe God has given you more gifts or more talents. Maybe God has provided for you more. You may become rather prideful. The other opposite effect is that you may become rather defeated. They're so much better than me. They're so much talent more than me. God seems to be providing more for them than me. The comparing situation, the comparing of somebody out to your yours of somebody else to yourself will lead you to nothing but harmful thoughts. And harmful reactions. We've got to state what is the clarity in this passage. The clarity is what? Follow Christ. Stay laser focused in your following of Christ. No matter what comes your way. Follow Christ. There was a man that recent, in fact, this past commencement exercise is over at Bob Jones received, Congressman Trey Gowdy received an honorary doctorate from them. His testimony is very clear. Trey Gowdy, I have very little doubt that he knows the Lord as his Savior. He is a very honorable man. He is on many uh many House committees in Congress and has done quite a bit for uh for our nation. He spoke in the commencement exercises at Bob Jones this past uh just a few weeks ago, actually, maybe a couple of weeks ago. And in his commencement address to them, he used this illustration of his own in his own life. He said, when I fly in different places and I fly back into our nation's capital, I usually take Reagan National. I usually fly into Reagan National. Now, this illustration is very vivid to us because it's like down the street, you know, it's not far. So he says, when I fly into Reagan National, I am I look over to my left and I see all of these great monuments of people. People that are famous and people that have gone down in history, people like Abraham Lincoln and the Washington Monument and Jefferson and all these different monuments. Martin Luther King and different people. He says, I am tempted to look out my window and to purpose to aspire to be like them. To be famous, to be popular, to go down in history. He says, until until I look at my left-hand side window. And I look in my left-hand side rent window, and there is a sea of white gravestones. Arlington National Cemetery. I don't know any of those names. But I realized he said that our country is not built on the people to the left. Our country is built on the people to the right. People that did not make a name for themselves. People that did not, they just gave the full measure of their own lives in service to this country. Do you know the kingdom of Christ is the same way? The kingdom of God is not built by Charles Spurgeons and D. L. Moody's and people, Jonathan Edwards, and people of old. God used them in great ways. That's wonderful. But folks, the ch the kingdom of God is built on people who will give their full measure of devotion to Him. And maybe never be named in history, but they simply followed them with their lives. Followed him with their lives. Can I encourage you, be that kind of man. Be that kind of woman who simply says I want to follow Christ. Doesn't matter if I'm famous. Doesn't matter if I go down in history. I just want to follow Christ one day at a time. Undistracted, unrelenting, staying focused on Christ, receiving supply from Christ And I would just end this way. Is Christ's service to us enough for us? That's the qu three questions here. Is Christ's service to you, his supply for you, enough for you? Until we come to that realization in our lives that whatever God supplies is enough for me. We will never understand the love of God in our hearts. We will never have the love of God Of God constraining us to live for Him rather than living for ourselves. As long as we continue In service, as long as we continue in looking for something else outside of what Christ has supplied. We will be living with our conduct toward covetousness rather than being content in whatsoever state we are in. That is a learned thing, by the way. The Apostle Paul said, I have learned in whatsoever state I am in therewith to be content. I have learned how to be abased. I have learned how to abound. I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. The strength of Christ. It's more than enough for us. Number two, are we tangibly showing our love to God by showing our love for others? Are we tangibly showing our love to God by showing our love to others? And number three, are we faithfully following Christ? Or are we distracted by an unhealthy comparison with others? How is the process People, product, process. Well, today we're looking at the process of discipleship. How's your process? Maybe it would do well for us to do some evaluation in our own lives, to understand the process, to realize where they there might be a problem And to get realigned in our service for God so that we can do, as this passage says, follow you me. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and realize as the Apostle Paul says that in our flesh dwelleth no good thing We are prone to wander, Lord, we feel it, prone to leave the God we love. Father, you've put in our path these kinds of passages that realign us And I pray for all of us, Lord, that we would learn in our own hearts to be content with what you supply. I pray, Lord, as well that you would help us to be so overwhelmed with love for you. That we love others and we serve others in the body of Christ. And we feed others with your word. Father, then also we pray that you would guard us from the distractions of comparing ourselves among ourselves. May we be holy and solely following Christ. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.