I just want to shake this man's hand real fast. Hey. It is good to be here with you this morning. It's good to see a lot of familiar faces and also to see some new ones as well. So glad to be here today. For those who don't know me, my name is Micah Colbert, my wife, who is not my better half. She's my better like nine-tenths. She's in the nursery right now with our little guy, eight months old, Owen. And then I have two other children. We have uh Clara, seven-year-old, full of life and zest. And then Hudson, who is very mischievous. So that's uh that's my family. And uh we are really, really glad that we can be here. Today's a special day because it is Not only an opportunity for me to be with you people, which is always special, but it's also my twelfth anniversary. So congratulate my wife for putting up with me for 12 years I'm thankful for her. I'm thankful for just the life that we can share together. Currently, we are in Buffalo, New York. And about four years ago we began a church plant. And just thankful to see what the Lord has been doing and how that church has now grown. to about 45 or so people, beginning with just initially my wife and I and a couple people in a apartment building now to seeing what the Lord is doing. We're just excited about that But in our church, we've been going through the book of Romans. And the first 11 chapters, we really have just an unleashing of the gospel. Beginning at chapter 12 through chapter 15, then, we find really the implications of the gospel then to our everyday life. And so we're going to begin today by looking at Romans chapter 12. Romans chapter 12. A familiar text, verses 1 and 2. Obviously, I would love to be able to share with you all the things that we've been going through in the book of Romans. But I want to focus our attention this morning on Romans chapter 12, verses 1 and 2. So I'll read the passage, and then we'll open in a word of prayer. Romans 12, 1 and 2, the scripture reads, I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice. holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind. That by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. Let's pray. Father, for many of us, this is a very familiar text. And yet the truths that are found in here, I pray that you would open our eyes that we might see afresh and see clearly. In the light of your gospel. Father, I pray that you would be exalted in our time together and that our affection for Jesus would be stirred through your spirit as the word is proclaimed this morning. I ask this that Jesus may be exalted. Amen. Now everybody knows that the gospel demands A response. The initial response is spelled out for us in Mark 1, verse 15, when Jesus said, repent and believe the gospel. But the gospel is not something that we simply respond to once and then just kind of move on from there. The good news of all that God has done, all that God is doing, and all that God will do for his people through Jesus. The gospel always elicits a response for those who take the time to prayerfully plunge the depths of its promises. of its gifts and of its blessings. That's one of the great reasons why the Book of Romans has been such a well-beloved book. in the Bible because in this book we find the gospel expounded in its depths and in its heights Without question, looking back at my Christian life, the greatest discovery maybe that I've experienced is seeing more of the sufficiency and the impact of the gospel. for all of life. As I've begun to see the gospel not merely as the door that we enter into for eternal life, but as the very soil in which God has called us to dig our roots into. It's really changed everything. This morning as we look at this text, I'm getting my clicker out real quick here. We will see that the Christian life is motivated and empowered by the gospel The Christian life is motivated and empowered by the gospel. Now, we're in Romans chapter 12, 1 and 2. And again, these are very, very popular verses, but I fear they're often very, very misunderstood. I'm guessing that probably most of you have heard a message or two or a lot more on this very text. And the basic idea has probably been something like this. The reason that you're struggling with sin, the reason that your life isn't amounting much to anything, is because you're not dedicated to God And so if you would just dedicate your life to Christ, then you'll take your Christian life to the next step. That's the basic give or take, the gist that most of us have probably heard from this text. The problem is Romans chapter 12, 1 and 2 is not the next step of the Christian life. We don't find here a call to like a second level of Christianity. What we find in these verses is really a summary of the Christian life A summary of the New Testament teachings about what it means to live a life that pleases God. That's what this text is really about. And so we see in this text, first, the nature of the Christian life. The nature of the Christian life is that of a sacrifice. He calls us in this text to present your bodies, to present your members as a living sacrifice. holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship or your reasonable service. Now this idea of sacrifice, it's something that we in America are probably not Super familiar with. I doubt that many of you have ever offered a sacrifice. I doubt that many of you have ever seen a sacrifice being offered. Having lived in Ghana in a village where there was animism and spiritism, I've seen some of this kind of stuff. And it's a um it's a rather striking thing. Because when you watch a sacrifice, you watch as an animal, oftentimes it is screaming, is being slain and then burned, burned alive. And so to suggest that Christians would offer themselves as a sacrifice was a very striking piece of imagery. Now he's going to use three words to describe this sacrifice. He's going to use the word living, he's going to use the word holy, and he's going to use the idea of a sacrifice that is acceptable to To God. A living sacrifice. You see, the sacrifice that we offer, the sacrifice that the gospel compels us to bring to God. is not one that demands the destruction of life, but rather the full energy of it. We don't offer God an animal, we offer God ourselves. Not that we would be somehow destroyed, but that we would actively live a life of worship as a person who is fully devoted or set apart to God. It's a sacrifice That is alive, dead to sin, but very much alive unto God. That's what we offer the Lord as a result of his mercies The sacrifice that we offer unto God is not only living, but it's also holy. Now, when we think about holiness, We might have this idea that holiness is simply withdrawing from culture, as if our greatest problems were out there, when the scripture teaches us that our greatest problem is right in here. A holy person is not someone who is an aloof Christian, who has a sneaking suspicion that somebody somewhere is having a good time. That's not what it means to be holy. The idea of holiness is a life that is set apart to the Lord from all that is sinful. Or common. That's the idea of holiness. We are called to pursue after Holiness, a life devoted or set apart to the Lord. A holy life is not a life that is self-indulgent or self-focused or self-consumed. It's a Godward life Filled with delight in God and joy in the things of God. It's a life that is distinct. That's the idea of holiness. You see, a holy Christian is a person whose passions and priorities are shaped by the scriptures, not by culture. It's sad to me because when we oftentimes look at the lives of many Christians, we can look at their life and we could look at the life of maybe a morally upright unbeliever. And in reality, they're pretty much identical. Okay? Same kind of values, same kind of priorities, same kind of pursuits and pleasures. The Christian sprinkles a little Jesus here and there, but what really gives them joy, what really wraps their attention and captivates their hearts, it's not really Christ. It's the things that we by nature would all live for. But holiness is different. When a Christian is holy, they are set apart to Christ to find their joy and their pleasure in him. This is my twelfth anniversary, and so I think about this idea of holiness and I think of the idea of marriage, and there's some parallels. Because when a person gets married, what do they commit themselves to doing? Forsaking all others, they do what? They cling to their wife or to their husband. But when I made that vow twelve years ago today, in my mind I wasn't thinking, oh man. You mean I just can't like hang out with blah blah blah blah blah blah blah all these different people for say oh man I'm making such a sacrifice This is such a big deal. I'm forsaking all these people. Woe is me. No, that's not what I was thinking. I was like, hey, that's easy. Like, of course I would forsake all of us because look what I'm getting. Okay? So compared to Debbie, all other women are just blah. And so That's what I wanted to pursue after. That's what I wanted to devote my life to. And so when a person says, I want to pursue after holiness, what they're saying is I don't need these things out there, these trinkets and these empty hollow pleasures. That's not what I'm living for. That's nothing. That's blah. I get God I get to find joy in God. I get to walk with God in this life. I get to serve God and have fruit that remains for all eternity. I get to invest my life to throw myself and to God, which is so much bigger and more infinite and more valuable than anything else this world can offer. That's what it is to be holy. And so we are called because of the gospel to present ourselves as a living sacrifice, in other words, who we are We are called to present ourselves as a holy sacrifice, one that is devoted to God. And we are called to present ourselves as a sacrifice acceptable to God. And of course, that occurs as we are pursuing after holiness. And so we see here in this text that a life marked by holiness a life marked by worship and sacrificial service and continual transformation as we look at in verse 2, that's the biblical norm. That's what the Bible describes as not a higher level of Christian living, but that is the normal. Christian life. And so in this text, we find again a really a synopsis of what it means to walk with God, what it means to live a life that is pleasing to God. What it means to live as a Christian. So we see the nature of the Christian life is that of a sacrifice, but the process of the Christian life we see in verse number two, it is one in which our minds are being renewed, being changed. Verse 2 says, don't be conformed to this world. The idea there is being shaped by the pleasures and the pursuits and the passions of this age, of the here and the now. But rather be transformed from the inside out by the renewal of your mind. Spiritual transformation, spiritual growth, looking like a living, holy, acceptable unto God sacrifice occurs as we renounce the lives of this age. And we renew our minds with God's eternal truth. Refusing to be conformed to this world means that we are not shaped by the things of this life, by the here and the now. Now friend, the reality is this world, this present evil age, is always acting and it's always seeking to bring us into its mold of living a life that is independent of God and in rebellion against God. That's what this world is doing. Okay? Every time we we we we look at the the marketing of the world and and it it it promises that if we have this, if we have this, then we have that, but then we're gonna find joy and satisfaction. We begin to shift our eyes away from dependence upon God for joy to dependence upon this and this and this and this for life. Jesus said, I came that you might have life and have it more abundantly. That abundant life is not found in the latest technologies. That abundant life is not found in the latest things. It's found in Christ. That's where we find life. And so we must, we must, we must resist the temptation. To let this world, which is always acting, shape us after its pattern. But rather, we are called to renew our minds with God's. truth. How do we do that? 2 Corinthians 3. 18 tells us how we do that. This verse tells us, but we all with unveiled face, in other words, being able to see clearly because of Christ beholding as in a mirror or a glass the glory of the Lord are being what? Transformed into the same image from glory To glory or step by step, just as by the Spirit of the Lord. I love this because it tells us exactly how transformation occurs. How do we renew our minds? When we see the glory of God in the Bible. When we begin to see who God is, everything changes. The way we see life changes when we see God as sovereign When we see God as wise, when we see God as infinitely good, when we see the providence of God guiding and directing, everything changes when we see God. When we see His glory, what happens? We're transformed into the same image. We begin to reflect his character from glory to glory or step by step. And how does this happen? By the Spirit of the Lord. So the Spirit of God takes the Word of God, and as we see the glory of God, he changes us into the image of the Son of God. That's how we renew our minds. That's the process of transformation. It's a process that we're all engaged in, that we should pursue throughout this life. And so we see the nature of the Christian life. It's a sacrifice. The process occurs as we renew our minds with the truth about who God is, as he's revealed himself in the scriptures. But I want to focus our attention right now on the basis, the foundation of the Christian life. And that is this little phrase, by the mercies of God How do we present ourselves as the living sacrifice? How do we engage in this process of transformation? How does this occur? By the mercies of God. The biggest mistake, the biggest tragedy that is occurring in our churches is that we have ripped the nature and the process of the Christian life away from its gospel foundation. And so we see the gospel as something our unsaved friends need, but not necessarily something we need right now in our home, in our marriage, at our workplace. or wherever we find ourselves. We we we see almost the Christian life as something that we we do and we engage in through activities and and and practice of spiritual disciplines and all these things, and we forget that everything that happens in the Christian life is by or through the mercies of God John Owen said, What then is holiness? Holiness is nothing but the implanting, writing, and living out of the gospel in our souls. Everything that we do in the Christian life is based on the mercies of God. And so the demands of the Christian life should always be viewed in light of the mercies of God in the gospel. If the demands of the Christian life seem overwhelming, it's because you're not seeing them through a gospel lens. Jesus said in Matthew 11, 30, my yoke is easy. And my burden is light. 1 John 5, 3, this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments, and his commandments are not burdensome. You see, when the demands of the Christian life are seen in light of the mercies of God, that's when we begin to see the joys and the goodness of God behind all of his commands. When we begin to see the wisdom of God behind how He has structured everything, when obedience born out of love occurs. Submitting to God's way of life is a joy. This love, which is generated by an awareness of his love for us Is revealed most clearly in the mercies of God and the gospel. And so this morning I just want to focus our attention on these mercies of God. These mercies of God, of course, will only be appreciated when we truly grasp our unworthiness. In Ephesians chapter 2, after unleashing gospel truth after gospel truth regarding our eternal election, regarding our our inheritance in Christ and all of these things, the first command we find in this great book is therefore remember. Remember. Remember that you were dead in sin, and remember the mercies of God that you received. Paul said in 1 Timothy chapter 1, 15, this is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptance. That Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am chief. John Newton, toward the end of his life, said, although my memory is fading, I remember two things very clearly. I am a great sinner. And Christ is a great Savior. Friend, I just fear that we so get our attention focused on. Others, we get our attention focused on the busyness and the hecticness of life, that we just sometimes forget who we were prior to Jesus. Who we would be prior apart from Jesus. Remember. Remember, you will never truly grasp or appreciate the mercies of God until you see your unworthiness. The beginning chapters of the Book of Romans, it just is an unleashing of the Scripture's teaching regarding our depravity, our utter spiritual bankruptness. Why spend so much time on that? Because you'll never grasp Christ and His mercies until you first grasp just how sinful you really are. The reality is These mercies come to sinners like you and me. Now these mercies, we are reminded, are not just what God has done But it's what God is doing, and what God will do for his people through Jesus And so again, we don't make the mistake of looking at this phrase by the mercies of God as just simply, oh, something that happened in the past when I was saved. I received God's mercies. No, you're receiving God's mercies right now. And the good news of the gospel is you're going to be receiving a ton of mercies in the future as well. Okay? So let's make sure we understand that these mercies aren't just past things. It's not like Jesus did something in the past and is doing nothing today. He's alive, he's well, and he's blessing his people. And if we're aware of what he's doing, we can rejoice in the goodness of that. That's why Romans is written, so that we can understand it. So that's good news for you and for me today. And so these dynamic mercies of God, as we said, will never be appreciated until we grasp our unworthiness. Because of the gospel, people like you and me, who deserve the full weight of God's wrath and condemnation, are reminded that we can be pardoned. We can be justified, that is declared to be in the right with God, and ultimately we can be adopted into the very family of God. That's an amazing, amazing reality. Again, these mercies are not simply mercies that occurred in the past, but mercies that are occurring in the present and in the future. Lamentations remind us that the steadfast love of the Lord never ceases. His mercies never come to an end. They are, I love this, they're new. Every morning. Great is your faithfulness. What are some of these present mercies that I fear we often forget? When we look at the Book of Romans, we find that present mercies include hope. Hope. Take your Bible, turn to Romans chapter 5. Romans chapter 5. We live in a world without a lot of hope. If you're in the lunchroom and you're talking to people, you realize not a lot of people have a lot of hope. But we have a living hope that shapes everything. In Romans 5, it says, Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, We have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through whom we've also obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand and we rejoice in hope. of the glory of God. Not only that, but we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that endurance, suffering produces endurance, endurance produces character. Character produces hope, and hope does not put us to shame because God's love is being poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who's been given to us. Friend, we have hope. We live in a world that is hopeless, but Christians have hope because we know that God is actively working all things for the good of his people. We know that nothing is spinning out of control. Nothing is happening outside of God's wise, good, loving, sovereign plan. That's good news that you and I can rejoice in today. We have hope. We have deliverance from sin. We have union with Jesus. We have life under grace. That's what Romans 6 and Romans 7 is all about. Because we've been united with Christ, we're dead to sin. It doesn't mean that sin is dead to us, but we're dead to it. We don't have to live under its bondage anymore. You know, one of the joy of working with new believers is watching Just the transformation that occurs as they are released from bondage to the sins that so marked and dominated their lives. When you see people go from drugs to Jesus, it's a wonderful thing. It really is. And God does this kind of thing for his people. There is no sin that should define God's people. As if I'm a worried Christian, I'm a defeated Christian, I'm a blah blah blah Christian. No. If you know Christ, you've been free from that You're no longer under the bondage of that anymore. You've been united to Jesus, and therefore you're dead to sin, but you are now alive unto him, and because of grace We can say no. We can mortify sin and we can walk in liberty and walk in freedom. We're united with Christ so that when God sees us, He sees us as being clothed in the very righteousness of Christ. And we live life under grace, divine empowerment. to do everything that God has commanded and called us to do. That we have in Christ everything we need through grace to live a life that pleases God. These present mercies also include the ministry of the Holy Spirit on our behalf and the promises of God that we know He is actively doing good. Go to Romans chapter 8. Romans chapter 8. Again, we can only highlight these things in our brief time together. I trust that perhaps you will take some time to look over some of these blessings later on. Today. We're reminded in Romans chapter 8 and verse 31, what can we say to these things if God is for us? Who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son. I love this verse. He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all. How will he not also with him or through Jesus graciously give us all things Who can bring a charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who dies, more than that who's been raised, who's at the right hand of God and indeed is interceding for us. Who can separate us from the love of Christ? These are the mercies of God that we can enjoy on a daily basis. And these mercies, as we contemplate them, as we receive them, as we live in light of them, they compel us, do they not, to offer ourselves as a sacrifice that is alive. A sacrifice that is holy and one that pleases God. We not only think about our present mercies, but think about the mercies that we receive in the future One day, these bodies that suffer from allergies, because they were living in Maryland right now. As I was very much reminded as I drove from Buffalo to Maryland, suddenly something changed in me. These bodies Rocked by suffering, I think of poor Harry with his injured back today. We're going to cast him aside. And there will be no more pain, there will be no more suffering, there will be no more sin, there will be no more temptation. We will be with Jesus These bodies will be glorified, and we will be with Christ. We will receive an inheritance with Christ. We will receive glory. This is what awaits us. This is why I think of Romans 8. 18. This is why this was my father's favorite verse. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy. Comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. Friends, sometimes we forget what awaits us. We live as if this is the only thing. No, this is not the only thing. We have a glorious future that awaits us. And when we ponder all of these things, The resurrection of our bodies, an inheritance with Christ, when we ponder the glory that we will have with Him. I can't help but think of that song, For Mercies So Great. What return can I make for mercy so constant and sure? I love him, I'll serve him with all that I have, as long as my life shall endure. The Christian life is a life that you and I cannot live on our own. We need mercies. We need mercies that are new and fresh every morning. We need mercies that come to us through Jesus. And that's exactly what God provides his people in the gospel. And that's why I'm thankful today. But the life that God has called us to live is one that He's enabled us to live through Jesus. By his mercies. Let's pray. Father, our minds and our hearts Are so prone to wander. Father, we're so tempted to get so consumed with the here and the now. Father, would you remind us afresh of your mercies? Would you remind us afresh of our unworthiness and the lavishness of your grace in Christ? Father, would you remind us of just how blessed it is to be a Christian? Father, for those who are here who do not know those mercies, they may be those who know how to fit into a Christian culture. Who know how to say the right things, but there's no real affection for Jesus. There's no real deep appreciation for the work of Christ on Calvary's cross on their behalf. Or would you bring them to a place where they renounce worldly last? Where they turn from their rebellion against you to embrace King Jesus to be brought back to you again. To know you for all eternity. Father, would you awaken within them their need for Christ's And Lord, for those of us who have tasted these mercies, may we continue to taste them on a day-by-day basis, reminding ourselves again afresh of your mercies that flow freely to us through Christ. Christ. We praise you and we worship you this day. Through Jesus. Amen