I'm going to be uh seeking a few volunteers to read a few passages before we start and uh So if that's possible that I could get a few volunteers, all you need to do is raise your hand or nod your head and I'll pick you. Uh I need someone, if they would, to look up the Gospel of John, chapter eight. Thank you, Kevin. Verse thirty six. And while he's looking that up, I need another one for uh the Gospel of John also, chapter eight, verse thirty-one. Thank you, Hisha. Okay. You have it, Kevin? Okay. Johnny thirty-six. Okay, very good. If the Son shall therefore make you free, you are free indeed. Isn't that a fact? That is a truth coming from God's Word. And we're going to be looking a little bit about the freedom that we have in Christ tonight. So that's why I'm using some of these verses. He had the other one Um John eight thirty-one. Thirty-one. Oh sorry. Um then said Jesus to those Jews which believed on him, if you continue in my life word then ye uh then are ye my the titles indeed and thirty two I'm sorry and ye shall know the truth and Very good. I need a volunteer for Romans eight two. Romans eight two. Tony, thank you. Uh because through Christ Jesus, the law of the Spirit who gives life has set you free Okay. Galatians five thirteen. Do I have someone? Some of you teens. Put you on a hot spot. Don't tell me you don't have a Bible. Uh five thirteen, thank you. Okay. Thank you. You, my brothers and sisters, were called to be free, but do not use your freedom to indulge the flesh. Rather serve one another humbly. Very good. In Galatians 5. 1, he says, Stand fast therefore in the liberty wherewith Christ hath made us free, and be not entangled again with the yoke of bondage. And he tells us also in First Thessalonians four, verse seven. He says, For God hath not called us unto uncleanness. But unto holiness. And in Hebrews 12, 14 he says, follow peace or pursue peace with all men, and holiness. without which no man shall see the Lord, looking diligently lest any man fail of the grace of God And the one that I really wanted to uh bring our attention to tonight is the one two the two of them that are in Galatians. For brethren, ye have been called unto liberty, only use not this liberty for an occasion of the flesh, but to love and serve one another. And then the other one is stand fast Therefore, in this liberty, wherewith Christ has made us free, and be not entangled again with the yoke of bondage. So in knowing all these truths and understanding them, uh the one thing that I liked in the fact that Jesus says himself that if he has set you free or makes you free, you are free indeed And I think sometimes uh it can be confusing understanding this freedom that we have in Christ. And sometimes it's taken to the other limit where we abuse that freedom, that grace that God has. us in. We are in the age of grace and not under the law. And this freedom that we have in Christ is now uh dependent upon what He has done. So we have this freedom. And we are going to be looking at three verses tonight, and we're going to gain four principles. uh which we will uh would be very helpful for us in keeping ourselves from becoming entangled again in the bondage of sin. And there are little things that happen in life and in uh the Christian life It's very critical and very important that we be very careful in the decisions that we make. Every morning when we rise up, we are going to start making decisions for the day. And sometimes some of these decisions affect others, sometimes it affects just us, sometimes it affects your job and whatnot. It doesn't matter where that decision's coming from, but we're gonna make 'em. And we should be wise in our making decisions And so in this I wanted to look at four principles or more so four questions that we should ask ourselves when we come up on the situation of having to make decisions. And these decisions can be small and they can be big. But there are four things that we can find in Scripture, and I'm sure there's more. And uh the other thing uh about this is this is not my formula or my uh little lesson here about these four um principles. I uh found them in our uh men's book that we'd use for men's uh uh Bible study, which is the book by Jerry Bridges called The Pursuit of Holiness. And one of the chapters which I have read The Pursuit of Holiness now probably for 10 years. years, off and on. I go in there and out of there. And uh that uh principles that are given in this one particular case is something that has affected my life throughout and I find myself sometimes having to go back there and read that again and get those questions out in front of me when I'm making decisions because we can so easily in this freedom and this grace that we have in Christ Misuse the grace. And I know you all have heard the fact that I'm under grace and not under law, so it doesn't matter. And it really does matter. It's not a point that it doesn't matter. But the fact that we are under grace we can be very grateful for, otherwise none of us would have any hope. So if you would uh tonight turn in your Bibles to First Corinthians chapter six. We are going to be in First Corinthians. Tonight in a couple different places. But we're going to use three verses that Paul writes in here, and we are going to take a look at them and ask some questions after we read the verse. And uh I think what I'm going to do is I'm going to do them one at a time and kind of just elaborate on them a little bit. And uh so we are in uh 1 Corinthians chapter 6 and we are going to be looking at verse 12 We all are familiar with this verse. And in this verse also, Paul recognizes his freedom that he has in Christ. And that's why he makes these statements, but he also puts something there for us that we can grab from that. So he says in uh 1 Corinthians chapter 6, verse 12. The first part of it, he says, all things are lawful unto me. But all things are not expedient. So this is our first uh part of the passage that we want to look at And so when we are making decisions in life, he says here that all things are lawful. In other words, he knows this freedom that he has in Christ. We know this freedom that we have in Christ. We are under grace, not under law. And so in this he says that all things are lawful for me. And he says, but not all things are expedient And what he's saying what he is saying here is is not everything just because it's lawful to me is going to be beneficial to me. It's not going to be helpful to me. There's things that are going to hurt me even that that I can do. And so the question that we would want to ask ourselves, the first one as we are preparing to make decisions about different things, or even something that you struggle with now. Uh it's a good uh question to ask yourself. And the first thing out of this passage that I gain here is, is it helpful? This decision I'm going to make, is it going to be helpful? Is it going to be um beneficial to me? And there's three things that you think about when you think, is this going to be helpful? Number one, is it going to be helpful for me physically? And number two, is it going to be helpful for me spiritually? And the third thing is, is it going to be helpful to me mentally? So when we're making a decision or a choice about something, and this is a question that we can ask ourselves very quickly. It's very simple to remember these four little uh principles here that I um We'd like to share with you. But I like the fact here that is it helpful, the decision I'm going to make. And we're going to elaborate just a minute on that after I go through everything And give you a couple examples of how that plays out. And then in twelve, part B, he says, all things are lawful for me, but I will not be brought under the power of any. So the second question we should ask ourselves after we ask ourselves, is this going to be helpful? Is this going to be beneficial to me physically? spiritually and mentally, the second question we would ask, is it going to bring me under its power? And this is where habits start This is where people get uh hung up sometimes and get entangled back into sin because it starts taking control of them and uh it becomes taking power over them. But Paul says I will not be brought under any power. So our question would be, does it bring me under its power or its habit? And then the third place we're going to be looking in 1 Corinthians chapter 8. And in 1 Corinthians chapter 8, verse 13, Paul says here And they were discussing in this chapter about food that has been given to idols and sacrificed to idols, and then the people would eat it later. And so he's discussing with the people because a lot of times younger Christians or some of the people if they saw people eating that meat they would and they would think to themselves they're young and they're s There are they want to do what's right. You know, when you were a young Christian when you first got saved, you really were hungry to know what God expected or what God wanted for you. And you get into this thing, you want to do everything right for the Lord I think the older we get sometimes we get a little lazy in that area. But here he's talking about those who are younger than him in the Lord, and it may be a conviction in their heart that if they ate this meat that was sacrificed to idols Would that be wrong? Would it be like they were sharing in that sacrifice to the idol? So they wouldn't do it. But here's Paul telling them, Paul is You know, he's free and he's uh you know, it's lawful for him if he wants to eat the meat. And he makes the point that the sacrifice was nothing, it was meaningless The idol was nothing, only God is something, and he said the meat is good for the body. But he was an older and more mature man than that younger one. So what he says here in First Corinthians chapter 8, 13, wherefore If meat make my brother to offend, I will eat no flesh while the world standeth, lest I make my brother to offend. So our question would be, our third question. The first one is, is it helpful, is it beneficial, physically, spiritually, and mentally? And the second one is, does it bring me under its power, this decision I'm going to make, this thing that I'm going to do? And the third thing is, will it hurt others? Will it cause someone else to possibly stumble. So when we're making these decisions, um these are some really good principles that we can use. And now we're going to move on to the last one here, which is found in First Corinthians chapter ten, thirty-one. Most of us in our lifetime have probably memorized this verse. And I think it was one of the first uh ones that I memorized in this uh study that I was doing with uh But it says in uh 1 Corinthians chapter 10, verse 31, wherefore, whether whether therefore ye eat or drink, or whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory of God. So our first question as we get ready to make a decision is, is it helpful? Is it going to be beneficial Physically. And we're gonna catch on to why this physical and spiritual and mental is important. And then the second one is um Does it bring me under its power? And the third one is, does it cause a brother to stumble? The fourth question we will ask ourselves is, does it glorify God? Is what I'm about to do going to glorify God? And so a lot of times in everyday quick questions or uh situations and decisions we gotta make We don't always go this way. But I think the main thing here is the in pertaining to our Christ Christian walk. I'm thinking of things outside of those quick decisions we make But decisions that we're making ordinarily. So let's just talk about this for a minute. I want to use a good example, and even though there are many examples that could really uh bring this about Um so let's suppose that um we watch T V. Everybody watches T V, correct? We all watch TV a little bit. I'm sure. Maybe. Maybe not. But anyway, if you're watching T V and you're watching certain shows So you would ask yourself in watching these TV shows, is this TV show going to help me physically? Is it going to help me spiritually? Is it going to help me mentally? What happens when we get involved in T V shows? Most of the time we get involved in them in slowly and then all of a sudden we can't get out of 'em. We want to watch 'em every week Uh Downton Abbey and other things that have come on TV. I uh remember everybody talking when that first came on about watching that and they gotta watch it the next week and they gotta watch it. watch it the next week. I have a Marine uh son in law. I'll never watch that stuff. Next thing I know he's calling up. Did you see what happened? He was into it. But I'm thinking about this and I'm thinking, you know Usually when we sit down, and I'll tell you another thing probably it's it's grabbing too to us men is sports. We love sports. And we can get involved in that. We have a favorite team and so we start watching that and uh But the thing is when you sit down to watch TV most of the time, what is it you've got to have with you when you sit down besides the button? What? There you go. You got it right away. Thank you, Kevin. We always gotta have a snack. We always gotta have something. And you know, when you sit at the T V you want to be comfortable, so you kinda lay him back and after a while you get my age, it it comes on right here. But that's the thing about it being Physically. Is it physically helping me to sit down every night and watch four hours of T V or two hours of T V every night? Is that physically helpful to me? Now there are exercise shows and news and things like that, so we don't want to go too far with this, but I just want to use it as an example. When we sit down to watch TV and we get involved in it, and now how's that helping me spiritually I'm probably gonna spend more time watching the TV than doing things that I ought to be doing, in particular with uh um doing Bible study or something. I'll put that off. I'll do it tomorrow morning instead of tonight and so on and so forth. So spiritually it affects us. And what we're seeing and what we're learning off that TV, it it does affect our spiritual life. And so that's two reasons. Now the mental thing is the one that gets me. Because mentally, I know that uh I'm not a psychiatrist, but I do know this from studying some things. When you are watching TV, your mind is in a different set than when you're actually reading something and studying and learning something So mentally you get involved into it. And one of the things a lot of times uh you s you watch commercials and stuff, why do they have commercials? So you'll go buy their product. So mentally you get involved in these uh things, uh commercials, you get involved in the show. Mentally it starts working on you and then you can't leave the set because you want to watch and see what happens at the end. So mentally it affects us. And uh the other thing about that mentally, sometimes some things that we are watching is inappropriate and it stays in the mind. And those kind of things will affect us mentally But not only does that affect us mentally, it affects us spiritually because of the mentally, and then back to the physical. So That's three things just from the television that we can see, just from one example. And there are many, by the way. Uh computers. uh other things that we do, jo uh hobbies we like to do. Uh I'm a motorcycle um enthusiast and uh so I can very easily get caught up watching a show. They've got a Harley Davidson show coming on. here in September uh about the history of Harley Davidson. And uh shame on me, I'll probably be w be watching this. But um hopefully uh not uh I'm I'm contradicting myself here, aren't I? I'm gonna go not go any further with that. But it's just an idea to to grasp what we're talking about here. It is lawful for me to watch television, is it not? Depends on what we're watching now. Some things we don't want to be watching, but we are under grace here, and we have this freedom in Christ, and it's not necessarily wrong to watch certain shows on TV or whatnot. We have that right But when it takes hold of us and disrupts our Christian walk, then that's where the problem comes in. So the second question that we ask ourselves, does it bring us under its power? I gotta watch it every week. I gotta watch the football games every week. I gotta watch this soap opera and it that's one thing I don't see anybody can watch the soap opera. They they never have peace on those shows. I don't know if they're still on or not, but I remember when I was growing up my sisters watch that stuff and uh I couldn't get into it. But um anyway, does it bring does the television or whatever show I'm watching, does that bring me under its control where I gotta watch it every night when it's on or every day when it's on, whatever. And that's I'm just talking about television watching now. There's other everybody can think for yourselves, other issues and things We can play games on the computer, we can uh email people, we can write things, we can play Scrabble and all that on there. My wife plays Scrabble with I don't know how many people. But uh those kind of things draw you in there. And uh so can it bring you under its power does that it becomes a habit. And then uh the uh third one is does it hurt others How many times do we tell our children, you can't watch that? And fifteen minutes after they're out of the room, we're watching that. Suppose they come back in and see that you're watching it, why can't they watch it? Well, there's some suggestive things in there we don't want you to see. Well, why are we watching it? You see what I mean? See where that goes? So it can hurt others. And that can be the same way with anything else that we get ourselves caught up in Uh so that's kind of where that goes. And then the last one is, watching these TV shows, is it actually going to be glorifying God? And what we're watching or what we're doing or the time that we spend there and the consuming of it. So these are Four little things that uh I wanted to share with you tonight. And I know that uh uh we have other things besides television. But it's the fact of that when we gotta make a decision about something, if we're making a decision about what we're gonna do for this or for that, or our hobbies and so on and so forth, we have to consider these things. And uh the first one, is it beneficial to you? Is it helpful? Physically, spiritually, and mentally? And the second one, will it bring it bring you under its power And the third one is, will it hurt others? Will it offend others? I remember once, I think I may have shared this before, we were in another church at one time, and my daughter was young in the Lord. And uh she was an older girl, but she was young in the Lord. And uh we were um she was involved at church, she enjoyed it, she was just young and young in the Lord. And uh she came home one night and told me, Dad, she said, uh, I saw so and so, one of our deacons, out yesterday evening at a restaurant where we were at and he was sitting there drinking beer. And uh she said, Is that right? Well what what do I say to my daughter? He has the right to drink a beer with his dinner or a glass of wine But when his thought should have been, when you're out in public, if you are a deacon or a leader in a church, how does that look? First of all to the unsaved, they don't see any difference in you than the guy next to you. But the second thing is what if a younger person in the Lord sees it? How does that affect them? And so I remember when she came and talked to me about it, and my wife and I had made a commitment years ago that we were going to give it up altogether. And uh that's kinda how we have now we have brothers and sisters in Christ and we don't judge them in any way. They have a glass of wine with a meal and we're fine with that. We go out with them sometimes. But in my own thought, I don't want to cause another younger brother or sister to stumble because of something that I did. And um I have neighbors who profess Christ and uh they uh they drink to excess. And they have two boys, older boys. Now the older boys are doing the same thing. And they see their mom and dad doing it and saying it's okay with them. So now Okay for them. They really have never read scripture because there's a lot to say about alcohol in Scripture and about uh drinking to excess. And uh so these kind of things we need to consider. And uh I guess the last thing that uh is uh most important is how will this glorify God? God, this decision that I make, how will it glorify God? Or will it glorify God? So These four uh little questions that we can ask ourselves, I think, would be a very great help. Um in my commentary it says that God's love must so permeate our motives that all we do is for his glory. And keep this as a guiding principle by asking yourself, will this glorify God? What I'm doing. Or what I'm about to do. And we all have little things in our lives, and only God can do the convicting in our hearts. But one of the things that Paul brings out also in this um thing about offending a brother. We must be careful because some of us are more mature than others, that we don't see the harm in it And sometimes we'll even try to justify it to a younger believer that it's okay. But what Paul or what um Jerry Bridges brought brought out in his book was those convictions that you and I have about our decisions and that we make and why we do what we do is between us and God. It's not between us and our brothers It's between us and God. And the same thing goes for that younger brother. That conviction works in his heart between between him and God. We should not be judging them. Now if it's something that's leading them down a real bad path, we would want to sit down. with them and kind of share with them and encourage them in the right direction. But we must be careful not to prejudge uh too quickly a younger brother who doesn't quite understand yet and doesn't quite know. Uh but the conviction the big thing I got from that was is that the our convictions are between us and God. That's the one we're going to answer to. We're not going to be answering to our brothers and sisters in Christ So we gotta be careful that we don't judge too quickly our brother. brothers because some people it doesn't their freedom that they have in Christ allows them that conviction is not there yet And uh so just be careful with that when we do that. I want to end up in Ephesians, just for our uh ending up tonight Ephesians uh we all know this verse too. I should know it by heart. I know most of it. Uh Ephesians chapter 2, and we're going to be looking at 8 and 10. 8 through 10. And it says here, for by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God. This gift of God is a free gift. been given to us. And it's not of our own works lest any man should boast. For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus and to good works, which God hath before ordained That we should walk in them. This should be our direction, knowing that it is God who is working in us and through us, and that it is for his glory and that we should continue to walk in a way that's pleasing to him. him. So when we have decisions to make what we want to do for this, or we have a free weekend, what are we going to do? Think about these four questions when you make your decision what you want to do. your family and or if you want to do something with your wife or just with friends. Just think those four questions through and I think it would be probably a big help for all of us to have that attitude and that direction to want to glorify God. And I'm sure most of us here it is our desire to glorify God. I don't have a problem with that. I know that. And uh but sometimes we get a little So we need to be careful. Okay, let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you tonight that you are gracious, and Lord, if you have set us free, we are free indeed. And Lord, if we continue in your word, we are your disciples indeed. Father, these are great facts and great truths and great promises And very comforting to us, Lord. And so I would ask, Lord, that you would be with each one of us as we go through uh the rest of this week, Lord. I ask that you would help us to remember these four things to uh ask ourselves before we do things, Lord, and and just to consider uh how gracious you are to us. We are grateful and thankful that it is by your grace that we Because Father, we know that the heart is deceitfully wicked, and no one can know it but you. And Father, it even deceives ourselves. So we ask for your help. We ask for your spirit to be working in and through us. And Father, I am so grateful for tonight. I thank you for each one here, Father. And I do pray your special blessing on each one as we go home. And Father, um, I thank you for the goodness that you bestow upon us, the blessings that you have blessed us with, Lord. And the protection you keep around us. We're forever grateful, Lord. And I just thank you for that. And I thank you for each one here. And pray you'll be with us as we go our way, and that in all things that we do, Lord, may we consider your namesake and your Gloria in Jesus name, Amen