I enjoyed that. Galatians chapter three. It's always enjoyable when you can eat learn Learn new hymns of the faith, you think I didn't I have not heard that one before. That this tune sounds somewhat familiar, but I had not I don't think I'd heard that one before and um You know you've you know when you've been saved a long time what's going on folks? Okay. Um when you've been saved a long time, uh it it um You you think you've you've you know most of the hymns, but uh it's definitely not the case. There's there's so many so many hymns th throughout the ages that the church has uh by the Spirit of God and by God's working and providence have have uh been able to express the doctrines of Scripture and the and the character of God. Galatians chapter 3, we're in verses 16, and we're going to be working our way through 4-7. I have had the great um blessing of growing up in a very loving family My uh home our home life, I still feeling like there is some base going on here, something that's a bit distracting for me So might be okay for you, but I'm I'm having trouble here. Um okay, I think might be a little better. Okay. Um So, uh let's try this again. So I was talking about my loving family. So I have a loving family and uh I grew up that way, and um I really appreciate the kind of family I grew up in, it it my my parents had a good marriage. There was a lot of security in that. My m my mother was the kind of loving one of the most loving people that I have ever met and I I'm sure I'm biased about that, but many people that knew her would attest just to the kind of loving character that she had and And even even growing up, we had a home that was with a lot of love and harmony, but we also had my grandparents who lived fifteen minutes away, they were Christians uh who love the Lord and and really it was our second home and so I grew up in that kind of environment where w where I I really as I the longer I live, the r the more I realize how rare that is. I used to think, you know, probably everybody or most people grew up that way. And now I realize that is a very rare thing that many people grow up in homes that are that are dysfunctional. And that is continuing to be the case as divorce is on the rise and as as uh we downplay the importance of of permits in marriage and and we disrupt the very definition of family, people are not growing up with that kind of belonging, that kind of warmth, the kind of security That I look back and know know well. But I have good news for those folks. Did you know that God's desire for those whom he saves Is to provide as our loving Heavenly Father more security, more love More warmth and intimacy than any family could ever provide. Sinclair Ferguson said this: the notion that we are children of God, his own sons and daughters. Is the mainspring of Christian living. Our sonship to God is the apex of creation and the goal of redemption. You and I are designed to glorify God. We're designed to praise Him. But God in saving us did do that. He did redeem us for his glory. But the blessing of sonship is afforded us because Of what Christ did for us as well. And I think that we understand the fact that we are children of God intellectually. But I think we often aren't experiencing on a day to day basis the kind of love and intimacy and warmth and security that God has for his children as our Father Do we really know what it's like to live in that kind of security as God being our gracious? loving heavenly father. And that is what is being talked about today. We have already noted In Paul's writings to the Galatians, that he that we are recipients of the blessings of Abraham. That because of Christ and Him being the seed with which we receive the blessings, that we are children of God Now, Paul wants us to understand and to experience what that is like. What does that mean? To move from slavery to freedom. To move from lostness to security. God wants us to experience that. And not just one time, but to experience that every day of our lives. You'll notice in the passage. In Galatians chapter 3, verse 26, you'll notice a particular word here. Verse 26 We see it says, For you, ye are all the children of God. Actually the word is their sons of God. The word is translated in uh it's the word sons. Then you'll notice again in verse, in chapter 4, verse 3, look down at 4. 3. Even so we, when we were children, that time the word is children. It's a different Greek word We were children, we're in bondage under the elements of the world. Then we see in 4. 5 to redeem them that were under the law that we might redeem the adoption of sons. These words son is very, very important. We'll we'll learn later why it's so important. And in four six, and because ye are sons, God has sent forth the spirit of his son into your hearts, crying, Ah the Father. And again in four seven, Wherefore thou art no more servants, but a son. And if a son, then an heir. Clearly from this passage we see that Christ is, or Paul is talking about sonship. We also see in verse 29, 4. 1, and 4. 7 the concept of an heir, someone who will receive an inheritance, the blessing of an inheritance. Today, we are going to learn how to receive the blessing of our inheritance because we are a child of God. I gotta tell you, I'm excited about this. I want us as people of God to know the blessings of sonship. Let's go to the Lord in prayer before we get started and ask his help with this. Father, thank you For the fact that you have caused us to be s who are who were strangers and pilgrims in a foreign land, to be your children, your sons. And as we look at this this morning, I pray that you would help us to really understand what it means, and how we can experience what you have for us in being your child. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen Well, we begin in verse 26, and we see first verses 26 through 29 that our sonship actually clothes us in Christ. Verse 26 says, For ye are all children of God by faith in Christ Jesus. For as many of you as have been baptized into Christ, have put on Christ. And there is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither bond nor free, there is neither male nor female, for ye are all one in Christ Jesus. And if ye be Christ, then are ye Abraham's seed and heirs according to the promise. In the Old Testament, we find the concept in verses in Exodus 4. 22 and Hosea 11. 1 and Malachi 1. 6 that the nation of Israel was actually supposed to be the son of God. Exodus 4. 22 says Then you shall say to Pharaoh, Thus says the Lord, Israel is my son, my firstborn. In Hosea it says, When Israel was a child, I loved him, and out of Egypt I called my son. And in Malachi 1:6 it says, A son honors his father, and a servant his master. If then I am the father, where is my honor? And if I am master, where is my reverence? says the Lord of hosts, to you priests, you despise my name. Yet you say, in what was uh what way have we despised your name? We see an unfolding of the idea of Israel being the sons of God in the Old Testament, but they failed to honor the name of their father as they should. And truly, God all along intended that Abraham would provide through his descendants a seed. the true Son of God, who would come and who would be able to do what the nation of Israel could not do. And in fact, later on in the passage, we're going to read in verse chapter 4, verse 4, that essentially the Son came to make sons. The Son came to make sons. And so we see that we now are invited to be a son of God. How? Well, we do it by faith, according to verse 26. Then we see that our sonship causes us to be baptized into Christ. as the passage says. Now what does it mean to be baptized into Christ? Romans chapter 6 verses 1 through 6 explain what this means. He says in that passage, what shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? God forbid. How shall we that are dead to sin live any longer therein? Know ye not that so many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ were baptized into his death? Therefore, we are buried with him by baptism, that like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life. Now then he uses this illustration as a helpful illustration. For if we have been planted together, like a plant that has been planted in the ground and comes up something new. Planted together in the likeness of his death, we shall be also in the likeness of his resurrection, knowing this that our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin When we came to Christ and we were declared His Son, we were planted in a different place. We were planted in Christ. Which gave us entirely new identity, an entirely new description. We are a new creature in Christ. And then we see from this passage that that ought to cause us to be clothed in Christ. It says So we put on Christ. Because we are baptized in Christ, or because we are planted in Christ, we now need to realize we are clothed with Christ. Well, what does it mean to be clothed with Christ? Paul uses this illustration several times. He's actually the only one of the New Testament writers, I believe, that uses this illustration. But for example, he says in Romans 13, 14 But put on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh. Ephesians 4. 24, he says the same thing. Put on the new man. Colossians 3. 10. And having put on the new man who is renewed in knowledge according to the image of him who created him. So the Bible tells us that we are to clothe ourselves. In one sense, we are clothed. In another sense, we are to clothe ourselves with Christ. Do you remember back in the book of Genesis after Adam and Eve fell? They realized what? They realized they were naked. They realized their own shame. And what did God do for him, then? They he sacrificed an animal, and what did he do? He clothed them. He clothed their shame. You see, what Christ does for us is he gives us a new identity. He clothes us in his righteousness. We are a totally different person because of what Christ did for us. Back in the first century when this was written, they would have understood the importance of clothing much better than we do today. Back then, clothing was really a status symbol. Remember the book of James, chapter two, they were having a problem in the church. And they said that make sure you don't show favoritism to those who are rich who are clothed in fine apparel. We don't really have quite that status symbol for clothing today that we did back then. Today it's really more of a car or a house. If you have a really nice car or a house, it's it becomes sort of a status symbol in our society more than clothing would. I mean clothing to some degree, but not not nearly as much. I I have seen some of the richest people clothed in rat in just like you could tell their hand-me-down clothes Or or, you know, thrift store clothes. But then you go to their house and you realize where the where the real you know they've got they've got some means there. Uh sometimes, and sometimes they inherited something. You know, I mean there's other ways of going getting a getting around. But as a general rule, there's a status with with that kind of a thing. It's the same thing. Our status has changed. It's like we've got a new house, a new car. It's a new status And it's a status that is far better than any status we could ever have. We are clothed in Christ. Now let me ask you a question. Are you living that way? Are you living as though you are clothed in Christ? Well, I'll tell you how you know you're living that way. You know you're living that way if your life is in compliance with the next verse, verse 28. There is neither Jew nor Greek. There is neither bond nor free. There is neither male nor female. For ye are all one in Christ Jesus. See, we're living that way if we can understand that we can have unity with other brothers and sisters in Christ. And it doesn't matter their differences. It doesn't matter their distinctions. What matters is that they and we are all clothed in Christ. That, folks, is what really matters. And you are not living as though you are clothed in Christ if you are at odds with your brother or sister in Christ. Because you are not there is something that's in in in that innately wrong that's causing you to place some distinction or some difference above the fact that he or she or you are clothed in Christ These are called barriers. And the Bible here names three barriers. Now I want to be very clear about this. What we have here are distinctions. Jew nor Greek, bond nor free, male or female. Christ is not saying in this passage, God is not saying in this passage that we ought not have any distinctions at all. He's not saying that you need to blur all distinctions and you need to not have any distinctions. He's not saying that at all. In fact, it's interesting that in Scripture, in several places, for example, he mentions that there are different roles between men and women. He says in verse in Ephesians 5. 23, as far as husbands are concerned, the husband is head of the wife. That's a specific role It's a different role, and it's a specific role. Even when it comes to bondservants or slaves, which is not the kind of slavery that we had in our nation's history, it's a different kind of slavery The Bible actually doesn't try to disrupt that distinction. He actually gives instruction to the master and instruction to the slave in that society. Ephesians chapter 6, verse 5, verse 9 says that the bondservant should be obedient to their master. It says masters to make sure that they are just and fair with their slaves. Doesn't mean that necessarily slavery, even on their understanding of slavery, which is different than our nation's history slavery, doesn't mean that it was totally right. But the Bible didn't try to to deal with to try to reconstruct society. What it said was that in Christ, the slave and the master There's unity. There is no dissension. There is no division between the slave and the master in Christ. Because no matter what his status is in society, He's clothed in Christ, which is so much higher of a status than anything we can imagine on this side of heaven. And so we see three barriers. The first barrier in the passage is a cultural barrier. The example he uses is between Jews or Greeks. And the truth of the matter is throughout our nation's history, we have had, there have been cultural barriers. You know the way that the world deals with cultural- The world, by the way, just doesn't know how to deal with distinctions. They have no idea how to deal with them properly. Sometimes they celebrate distinctions. You ever notice that? Sometimes different cultures will celebrate different things. And that's nothing wrong with a dis you know nothing wrong with a Greek culture having their culture. Nothing wrong with a Jewish culture having their culture, as long as it doesn't go against Scripture. Nothing wrong with that at all, but sometimes those other times they want to blur the distinctions. One of the greatest distinctions being blurred right now, which is a serious problem, is the distinction of gender And people are trying to blur the distinction. Frankly, even in the way that people are dressing, I have noticed this, and this is not just nation, this is worldwide. I went over to Hong Kong and saw this. In fact, the missionaries over there that I was with, they know that they know that the way that some of the men were dressing were actually they were dressing like uh in a sort of effeminate way and they were saying it's a problem that we're ha a cultural problem we're having over here and I said listen that's not just over there That's here too. There is a certain effeminacy that's occurring in our culture where the lines are blurring being blurred in distinctions between gen between male and female That's not God's way of dealing with it. God doesn't want the lines to be blurred between distinct. God made, He created male and female, Genesis chapter 3. But what God wants us to understand is that there is an equality, different roles, but there is an equality. Among masters and slaves, among male and female, among all different cultures. There is an equality when you come into the church, into God's place, when you're in the body of Christ. What supersedes all of that? That we are clothed with Christ. You know what this looks like in a local church? It looks like those who are of higher economic means are are fellowshipping with those of lower economic means. It means that those who are those who are the 7 Eleven cash register worker can disciple the executive of a large company. It looks why? Because they're in Christ. That's what it looks like. It looks like having different cultures and we are we are blessed in our nation to have a group different kinds of cultures in our nation different kinds of distinct distinctions in our nation They all ought to be welcomed in the body of Christ. Why? Because the Bible and God intended there to be no that it it taught that in Christ there is no distinction between bonded free. Ephesians is very clear about that. So it doesn't mean that we don't have distinctions. It means that we have equality and unity in the body of Christ. Because we understand that we are all clothed in Christ. But not only that. We've talked about that. The second barrier is the gem the barrier of slave and free, which we really have already identified. Back then in that society, there were people that were slaves and there were people that were masters. And the masters and the slaves were on different sta statuses. In fact, you have the same thing in our in our world. You have, for example, in India the caste system. And really there's a sense in which even our country you have uh uh v not quite as distinct, but you have a variety of these kinds of s systems as well and statuses and so social uh s societal kinds of differences. God says you're all one in Christ. And then we have the issue of gender barriers. Sometimes we run we fail to understand. That we understand that although there are different roles, that men and women are of equal value in Christ. I don't know if you realize this, and most of the world has no clue of this, but Christianity in the Bible have done more to elevate the status of women. than uh than any other you know any other religion. We're not a religion, we're a faith, but but any other faith If you look at other the other mass the other major religions in our world today, they demean the status of women. Now, folks, understand this. The same way that Christ is equal to the Father. Is the same way that a woman is equal to a man in quality, in value. The Father, the Christ actually submits to the Father. There is different roles, even in the Godhead, but there is equal value in essence and quality. And God made that distinction in 1 Corinthians chapter 11, among other places. He said that that is the way it works among men and women as well. Equal value, but different roles. And so the world doesn't get it, does it, do they? They really don't understand that this is what the Bible teaches, this is what we believe. And I'll tell you the truth, to some degree, that's our fault Sometimes we say things and we act in ways that are not helpful. But let me be very clear. There are clearly different roles. And there will always, and in this church as long as I'm the pastor and we have leadership that are that love the Lord and follow his word, there will always be those distinctions and roles. Folks, we are living in a society now where it is even among gospel people that would otherwise be gospel preaching churches, there there is something called complementarianism and egalitarianism. There are two very large words that we don't need to really delve into. But egalitarianism is basically the idea that women should be equal in their roles. They can be pastors, they can be deacons, they can be elders, they can be in church leadership. Complementarianism, which is what we believe and what the Bible teaches clearly, Is that we have complementary roles. That there's not one that's better than the other, but they are complementary one to another And that's what the Bible teaches. Let me tell you this. Just be in a marriage. I guarantee you that my wife is of equal value to me. I want to say greater value, honestly, but I'll stick biblical and say equal value. But I guarantee you that her role, my role is not is not is not superior in her role That they are of equal value, although there is clearly a distinction in roles, and we have to understand this. We must understand the unity that we have in Christ with that. And then we see here the blessing that is that is in verse 29. If ye be Christ. Then are ye Abraham's seed, and heirs according to the promise. Now, I want to be clear about this. Ladies, today, you are sons of God. You say, no, I'm not. I'm a daughter of God. No, no. You're a son of God. You want to be a son of God. I'll tell you why you want to be a son of God. Because back in the first century, the progenitor was uh this whole idea of a law of a progenitor was that the firstborn son got all the inheritance Oh, it doesn't sound so bad to be a son now, right? See, see, what Paul was doing was back in that cultural day, he he wanted to call all children of God Sons of God, because we are all we all obtain the inheritance. We all get the inheritance of God. So we're all sons of God. And by the way, before us men have to put up with that too, we're called the bride of Christ. Okay, in Ephesians 5. So, you know, it's not like I'm I'm just, ladies, your sons today in Ephesians 5, we're brides. It's a little, you know, we just have to go with this, okay? You're a s look, it means that you are a joint heir with Christ. And you gain the and you gain the inheritance of Christ of being a son of God. Then we see in chapter 4, verses 1 through 5, secondly, we are clothed with Christ, but we are elevated to adoption. We're elevated to adoption. Would you notice what it says? Now I say that the heir, as long as he is a child, differeth not from a servant, though he be Lord of all, but is under tutors and governors unto the time appointed by the Father Even so we, when we were children, were in bondage under elements of the world. But when the fullness of time was come, God sent forth his Son, made of a woman. made under the law, to redeem them that were under the law, that we might receive the adoption of sons Our sonship elevates us to adoption. We see in the passage there is this concept in verse 1. of someone who is a child and is in slave and it says that there really is no significant difference between a slave and a son. until he is of a certain age, where the father then says, okay, you are now an adult son with all of the rights and privileges. And it equates this idea with the idea of being under the Mosaic law, really being under the law, God's law, and being under the slavery of the law. And that's how we all are. We're all under the slavery of the law until we come to Christ. And really, all people were under the slavery of the law until Christ came. And so we see in this passage That that is the case. We see then in verses 3 through 5 that that's before Christ, but then we see after Christ. Before Christ, notice this also, it says in verse 3, even so we, when we were children, were in bondage under the elements of the world. It says that when we are children before Christ, we are in bondage under the elements of the world. What is that talking about? Well, this phrase is used a couple different times. Paul uses this phrase in Colossians 2, verse 8. It says, Beware lest anyone cheat you through philosophy and empty deceit, according to the traditions of men. According to the basic principles of the world, and not according to Christ. It uses the word regulation in Colossians 2, verse 20. Do you know what the world has? And you know what we have before we come to Christ? All we have is ritual. If you look at all the religions of the world and you look at certainly the religion of even the Judaism The Jewish religion today, it is full of a bunch of rituals and regulations. The basic things of the world here that it's talking about, the elements of the world that it's talking about. are those things that are not spiritual really. They're just things that we do to make us feel spiritual. Have you ever gone into a a church of a like a Roman Catholic church for example? Have you ever gone into a Roman Catholic church and you ha have you ever noticed thank you, Pat. Have you ever noticed actually I uh thank you, I appreciate that. Um have you ever noticed the Roman Catholic Church, you go in and there's sort of this this feeling that you get? And as they go through all of the different rituals, they are literally designed to make you feel better. to make you feel like you are were holy or spiritual. And you know what that is? It's empty religion. That's what it is. It's just empty religion. And frankly, if we're not careful, we as Christians can fall into that. Where we have to have things a certain way or we don't feel spiritual. We have to have certain traditions. certain rituals or we don't fear feel spiritual. Folks, that is not the way to spirituality. There's nothing wrong with traditions. But that is not a method or a means of spirituality. And he says it's empty. But when you come to Christ There is everything is different. And verse 4 says this. This is just a great verse in the Bible. But when the fullness of time was come. Before the foundation of the world, God had a specific time in mind when Christ would come two thousand years ago You know what? It's interesting. I don't know all of the reasons why God chose that time. I can think of a few. Maybe it was because of the Roman roads that were going to allow the gospel to be be able to spread everywhere. Or the fact that they had a common trade language called Greek that would allow the Word of God to proliferate in that day. Maybe those were some of the reasons that God chose that particular time. I think there's a sense in which we don't know all of why God chose that particular time. But is there isn't there great comfort in knowing that God chooses specific times for things. He knows exactly when the right timing is for various things in our lives. And the fullness, when the fullness of time, when everything happened that needed to happen In order for Christ to come, Christ came. I think of the second coming of Christ. That is planned by God. The Father knows the day. He knows when it will happen. We don't know when it will happen, but he knows. And everything will need to happen in order for it to come. But when it comes, everything will happen that should have happened. And that's the way it was with Christ. When Christ came, it was in the fullness of time. There was clearly a defined dispensation, a defined time. Ephesians 1 says this, that in the dispensation of the fullness of times we might gather together in one all things in Christ. both which are in heaven and which are on earth in him. Then he says this, it says, this is so important. To the adoption of sons, to redeem us by into the adoption. We have two concepts here. We have the concept of redemption, redeeming, and adoption. The word redeem means to be bought back. To really understand this word, we have to place ourselves at the slave market. Can you imagine what it would be like to go into a place where they were selling slaves? This has happened in our in the history of our country. It's happened in the history of the of British of the of Great Britain and other w other this is this is a long-standing uh cultural issue among many cultures throughout history, and it was in that day as well. Although slavery was not a cruel, necessarily a cruel thing back then in the first century, it was something that did put you clearly in a lower status. And occasionally there would be a family member who would be a free person, who would be able to gather enough resources. To go into the slave market and to purchase the price for his family member to buy him out of slavery. And that is the picture of Christ with us. Christ by dying on the cross for us Redeemed us. He buys us back. He buys us out of slavery to be free But not only that, to be free, and then on top of it, he adopts us into his family It's not just that he frees us, but he also adopts us. He says we are, the Bible says we are saved by adoption. That's important for us to understand. No one is born. No one is born saved. No one is born a child of God. Everybody comes into the child into into a child to become a child of God through adoption Sometimes I hear people say, I'll ask people about their personal testimony, and they'll say, Well, I I've always been a Christian. No, you haven't. Oh, uh I grew up in a Christian home and I was born into a Christian family. You might have been born in a Christian family, but you're not born a Christian. No one's born a Christian. And some of you young people need to understand that just because you're born in a Christian home doesn't mean you're a Christian. Everybody is adopted into God's family. Everybody is brought in. And you are accepted by faith, is how you come into the family of God. But understand this about adoption. If you want a picture to understand adoption, you have to think of an orphanage. Someone who has been left by their parents. Someone who is destitute, someone who has absolutely no means with which to care for himself. And a benevolent person comes in or a couple comes in and adopts that little one. It's a great picture. You know what's interesting is I've talked to various friends and people that I've known over the years that have either adopted or gone through the adopt the process of adoption. It is an extremely extensive process. It's a very intense process, and it's a very expensive process. Some families that choose to adopt literally have to go to the foreign country oftentimes to be able to adopt a particular per a particular child. And there is great expense involved. But as much as the expense might be involved in adoption, there is much greater expense with Christ who adopted us. The expense for Christ was his own life. He gave it all to adopt us. He gave his own own his whole to adopt us. And he was separated from his father to adopt us. He did that for us so that we could be a child of God. Folks, that God to cause us to respond the way John did in his first epistle where he said chapter 3, Behold, what manner of love The Father has bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God Therefore, the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not. Behold, what manner of love. Friend, I have a question for you today. Are you experiencing the love of God in your life? If you know God as your Savior, if He, you are His child, God wants you to understand and experience His loving hand in your life. He wants you to experience his love. He loves you with an everlasting love, the Bible says. Greater love has no man than this. The man gives his own life for his friend. And I fear that you and I, though we know we are children of God, do not live every day of our lives that way. We're not experiencing What it means to be a child of God. And we must see from this passage how we experience that. The Bible tells us in verse 6 and 7 how, particularly verse 6, how we experience it. Scripture says, and because you are sons, God has sent forth the spirit of his son into your hearts. Crying, Abba, Father. When we became a child of God, Christ gave us His the position we have. It is a position that is absolutely separate from feeling. It's really not tied to experience. That was the work of Christ on the cross for us. A position that we have no matter how we feel. But folks, there is an assurance. There is a working, and I would dare say there is even emotion involved in the working of the Spirit of God in our lives. The Bible says that His Spirit bears witness with our Spirit that we are the sons of God. Romans chapter 8. And God wants us to experience what it's like to really be His child, and He's given us His Spirit that we might be able to do that. Think about it in your life as a Christian. Has there ever been a time in your life where you're just filled with the assurance of knowing that you're his child? And that he loves you. And that he has his arms around you. And that he cares for you. That nothing can separate you from his love. Do you know it? Do you have that assurance? Do you feel it? He says in this passage, verse 6. The sun in the the the fo uh that God sent sent for the Son, uh uh uh the spirit of a son into your hearts And you have two words that are very important. One is crying out, and the other is abba. The word crying out means a loud or earnest cry. It's really talking about our prayer life And then Romans chapter 8 is connected to praying with God, praying to our Heavenly Father. No more do we need the formality and the mechanical words of a rabbinical prayer. We can cry out to our Father, who is our daddy. There is this intimacy and the the the knowledge of the presence of God that he's like right in the next room or right in the room next to us. He's right beside us. And when we are struggling or we're feeling a certain way or we're having a hard time, we can just cry out to him. That's your heavenly father. Your heavenly father loves you so much that he afforded a relationship with you that you could cry out to your God. And you can know that he hears you. And he'll be there with you. His arms are around you, loving you. That is our Heavenly Father. To where we can cry, Abba. Abba is a word that you do not have to have peace to say it. Really? In fact every language has these words. Mama, you don't need teeth to say mama. Papa, you don't need teeth to say papa. I don't know if you have to see daddy. You I you kind of need T for that, do you? Dad? Maybe not. Every did you know every language has these words? N nearly everyone, I'm not I haven't looked at every language, but but most languages have these words that you can that that these little children can be able to say to their mom or dad These things before they even have peace. That's this word. This word is a word of intimacy. God is not no longer just distant. God is with us. He is intimate with us. He is our daddy. And we can call out to him at any time. Friend, do you have that kind of intimacy with your father? You ever feel lonely? Do you ever feel insecure? Do you ever have feelings of doubt or struggle? Brothers and sisters in Christ, there is no one that can fill those needs better than your Abba Father. There is no one that can help you experience The blessings of adoption more than the Spirit of God can in assuring you. And here's how he does it. Look and understand this. The Spirit of God and the Word of God are always working together. You say, well, I don't feel the assurance of God in my life very much. The Spirit of God, I don't see the Spirit of God giving me that assurance and that warmth and knowing that I am his Father. Can I just tell you more than likely you're not in his word enough? If you are not knowing that assurance of the Father and being able to immediately call out to Him as your Abba Father, Then it's very likely that you are not in the Word of God enough. Because the Word of God works with the Spirit of God to give us assurance that we are a child of God. And if I can encourage you in any way in your life to know and to be able to experience what it means to be a son of God with all of the rights and all of the privileges. Of an adult adult child. You must be in the Word. You must drink from the living word. You must know it and meditate on it. Why? Because when you do, the Spirit of God works through that to give you assurance of knowing that you have always a place of belonging. You're a child of God. And then we find in verse seven A clear, definitive statement. It says, Wherefore thou art no more a servant but a son. And if a son, then an heir of God. Through Christ. And we'll learn more about what that inheritance is in the future. Folks, I just have really three things to just. So what's the point here? The point is this, number one, remember we are clothed in Christ. Let us live and love in unity. We must live in unity. We must love in un and we must live that way And you as a child of God are not experiencing all of what God has to give you in Christ if you are not living in unity with your brothers and sisters in Christ. You might be a child of God, but you're not experiencing it. Number two, we are elevated to adoption. We must not live as though we are still enslaved. You are free from the bondage of sin. You're free from the demands of the law. You're free to love your God with all your heart and your soul and your mind and your strength. You're free to do it. And number three, we are invited to belong. We're invited to belong. Enjoy and experience the security that you have in Christ. When is the last time you just enjoy your God? Enjoy and experience the security that you and I have in Christ. Let's pray together. Father I pray that you would help all of us. To experience the freedom of being your child, of being your son. May you teach us, not just on Sundays, but every day of our lives. To enjoy and to experience your sonship. To know the intimacy that we have in you to understand that the very kind of love that you have for your own son, you have for us. Lord, may we experience these things. I pray that we would. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.