Take your Bibles, please, and turn to John chapter twenty. John chapter twenty. I think certainly the uh all the singing and all that went on before prepares us For asking the question, how can should we respond to this great plan of salvation that was carried out 2,000 years ago? I don't know about you, but I don't like fake things. You like fake things? I think our world pretty much doesn't like things that are fake. In fact I think our world likes doesn't like things fake so much that they actually have come up with another word when they want to say things are fake when they're really n fake. You know what that word is? Faux. You've heard the word faux. What is the difference between faux and fake? Absolutely nothing. There's no difference between faux and fake. It means the exact same thing. But we we picked up I think it's a French word, isn't it French? Yes, Guillaume says it's French. Okay, good. It is French. We have an authority on that. So so we we use the word faux because we really, really don't like fake things. How many have ever been to New York City or maybe DC, and you've gone along and uh you're walking along the streets and somebody wants to sell you some genuine Oakley sunglasses for ten dollars. How many of you have ever seen that before? Okay All right, like three of you. There's gotta be more than you I'm not the only one that is okay, all right, a little bit. All right, good, good. All right. Oakley sunglasses. How about uh or or a Rolex watch, genuine, the real thing, for twenty bucks Okay? There's something a lot of times they'll pull out their jacket and they'll sort of say, see this? Have you ever had that before? New York City happened a lot. DC has seen it happen a couple of times uh before. They must think I have a lot of money or something. I I don't have uh anyway. We don't like it. We really aren't good with things that aren't genuine. The truth of the matter is, have you ever asked yourself the question, is your faith really genuine? Is your belief, is it faux, or is it fake, or is it really genuine belief? And we learned in our sunrise service that the general attitude and perception after the resurrection was a lot of disbelief. From the ladies that first observed, they actually then were saw what actually happened, it was announced. And then they went over to the disciples in Luke 24. They went to the disciples and the disciples didn't believe anything that they had said. totally dismissed it out of hand as as idle words. But there was a a man When he saw what happened, when he saw how resurrection took place, and saw the evidence, before even seeing the risen Christ himself, believed. And that man was a man by the name of John. And John writes about this in John chapter 20. Let's pick up there. We'll read the first nine verses in John chapter 20. It says, Now the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene went to the tomb early while it was still dark, and saw the stone had been taken away from the tomb. Then she ran and came to Simon Peter and to the other disciples whom Jesus loved, and said to them, They have taken away the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid him. Peter therefore went out, and the other disciple, and the other disciples talking about John, by the way, and we and were going to the tomb. So they both ran together, and the other disciple outran Peter. John was actually significantly younger than Peter, and came to the tomb first. And he stooped down, stooping down and looking in, saw the linen clothes lying there. Yet he did not go in Then Simon Peter came following him and went into the tomb, and he saw the linen clothes lying there And the handkerchief that had been o around his head, not lying with the linen clothes, but folded together in in a in in a place of by itself Then the other disciple who came to the tomb first also that he saw and believed, for as yet they did not know the scripture that he must rise again from the dead. Then the disciples went to their own homes. So we have this scene where Mary Magdalene goes down first. Peter and John, who were friends, went down after that. John and Peter, uh John John gets gets there before uh Peter does, but John doesn't go inside. You have this whole thing in this place here with a sequence of events. That actually the Luke passage tells us that the majority of the people did not believe. The disciples did not believe the account that was taking place there. But when the but when the god when the apostle John saw the evidence, he saw what occurred, John did believe. And this helps us to understand, first of all, that genuine belief finds its foundation in the Bible. John understood that he saw the evidence of the risen Christ. He saw before he actually saw Christ. He's going to later see Christ face to face. But before that point, he put everything together. He realized that Christ had prophesied that he was going to die and then rise from the grave. And based upon the scriptural account, he came to faith in Christ at that point. He believed first. This understanding this is absolutely important that That Jesus prophesied this before. It was actually over in John chapter 2 where this happened. John had just went through the temple and and uh and cleaned out the temple, as it were And after that, the religious leaders were not happy with what had happened. And so Jesus says this: destroy this temple in three days, and I will raise it up. Then the Jews said, It has taken forty years to build this temple, and I will and you will raise it up in three days But what but he was speaking of the temple of his body. Therefore, when he had risen from the dead, the disciples remembered that he had said this to them, and that but they believed the scripture and the word which Jesus had said. Now let me ask you a question. Is your belief, is your faith, a genuine faith based upon the Word of God? See, we we tend to believe base our faith in all kinds of things. Sometimes we base our faith on our upbringing. Well, I had this particular upbringing, and because I had this particular upbringing, then Because of that, I'm going to believe this way. Sometimes we base our faith on some experience that we had. I had this experience or that experience And although God uses sometimes experiences and our upbringing for that matter to bring us to a place where we are prepared to trust in Christ, Belief, true belief, must find its foundation in Scripture, in the Bible We must believe based upon what the Bible said. That's why it says in Romans chapter 10, verses 14 through 17. How then shall ye call on him in whom ye have not believed? And how shall they believe in him from whom they have not heard? And how shall they hear without a preacher? And how shall they preach unless they are sent? As it is written, how beautiful are the feet of those which preach the gospel of peace, who bring glad tidings of good things. But they have not all obeyed the gospel. For Isaiah says, Lord, who has believed our report? So then faith is hearing, and hearing by the word Of God. Can I ask you a question this morning? Is that what you base your faith on? Is that what you base your belief on? That you have read the truths of Scripture that tell us that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures, and he was buried, and he rose again the third day according to the scriptures, and he was seen, 1 Corinthians chapter 15, verses three and four. Do you base your faith on that? Or do you have some other foundation of your faith that is a fleeting foundation. It is, as the Bible says, it is it is sinking sand. It's not the firm foundation of Christ and His Word. Genuine belief finds its foundation in the Bible. So the question then becomes: what is faith? I mean, what is belief? What is faith? The Bible tells us in Hebrews 11, verse 1: Now faith is the substance, things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. See, you and I really like we we like um things we can see. We feel confident in things that we can experience, that we can touch, we can we have five senses, and if we can hear it or see it or touch it um or smell it uh whatever those missing ones taste it you can do those things Then you know it's real. I mean, we don't know it's real unless we can perceive it with the with the five one of the five senses. And it's even better if you can get more than one, like here and see or something, or touch. But that's not faith. Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. And the only way to come to faith is by the word of God and understanding that Jesus died to pay the punishment for our sin. And Jesus rose from the grave bodily, literally, victorious over sin and death. That is true believing, saving faith. The disciples believed this, or at least they did later. John immediately believed. He saw what had happened, put things together, recalled what Scripture had said, and he believed. But John then is going to describe some things for us in this chapter to help us to understand more about what this belief is like. What does true saving faith. What does belief really look like? You know, sometimes we think of belief as something that is a feeling. Or something that is an experience or something of that nature. But the Bible is going to teach us something else about this. And we see this in verses 11 through 18 of this passage. Wouldn't you notice with me what it says? But Mary stood outside by the tomb. This is chapter twenty. Mary stood outside by the tomb weeping, and as she wept, she stooped down and looked into the tomb, and she saw two angels in white sick white sitting, one on at the head and the other at the feet, where the bot where the body of Jesus had lain. Then they said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? She said to them, Because they have taken away my Lord, I do not know where they have laid him. Now when she had said this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing there, and did not know that it was Jesus. Jesus said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? Whom you are whom are you seeking? She supposed him to be the gardener and said to him, Sir, if you will if he you have carried him away, tell me where you have laid him, and I will take him away. So we have this scene of Mary who notices that the tomb is empty and is overly distraught. She is weeping and she is very emotional. This is a woman who was along with her sister and Lazarus was very, very close to Christ. They had a very close relationship, and so they were absolutely absolutely distraught over what had happened She was weeping there, and of course Christ comes behind her, taps her on the shoulder, and says, Why are you weeping? What we find actually in this passage is that that she she's so overwhelmed by her emotion. That it keeps her from understanding the truth and the reality of what has taken place. That Jesus has bodily risen from the grave. She heard Jesus talk about this is going to happen. She very likely knew the Old Testament prophecies, but she didn't put things together because she was so overwhelmed by emotion. And we have this lady here that is just and can can you not relate to that by the way? Have you ever been so overwhelmed by emotion? You can't, it's like you can't think straight. And that's what we find with this woman, Mary. She thinks that Jesus is a gardener. Very likely, Jesus was at that point concealing his identity. The same way that he did so with the disciples on the road of Maeus in Luke 24. He was probably uh he was not wanting her immediately to see that it was him. Very likely, folks, on both accounts, both in Luke 24 as well as in this passage, the reason that Jesus did it this way is that he wanted the belief to be genuine. And the belief to be not based upon the perception of the five senses, but to be based upon the truth of Scripture, the truth of the Word of God. That's why in Luke chapter 24, we actually find that Jesus opens the scriptures and explains to them how the things went about and took place. Jesus is so intent on how he brings people to saving faith, it is only and solely by the truth of the Word of God of Scripture. And we see that clearly in this passage. So why do we need to understand this and what is important about saving faith at this point? Would you notice then what Jesus does? It's like it jolts Mary out of her emotion, and he says this, verse 16. Jesus said to her, just one word, Mary. Jesus calls her by name. He just says, Mary. And with that Mary realizes who Jesus is. She turned and said to him, Rabboni, which is to say teacher. Now I want you to notice what Jesus does next. Jesus says to her, don't cling to me. Very likely she was weeping. He was standing up. She probably just grabbed out of emotion, grabbed a hold of Jesus. And Jesus was basically saying, there's a lot of theories and all kinds of interpretations of this, but very basically what was happening here is Jesus is saying, I'm not going anywhere I need to ascend to my father later, so realize I'm going to be around a little while. And so that's all this really was. But then he says this For I have not yet ascended to my Father, but go to my brethren. And say to them, I am ascending to my Father and your Father, and to my God and your God. Now, folks, this is the very first time that Jesus has ever described his disciples as his brethren. He's described his disciples as followers of him. And in John chapter 15, he even adds the idea of friend. He says, You are not just my servant, you are my friend. But now in this passage, he is going to say, go to my brethren. That is incredible, is it not? And do you know that that same kind of status is to is given to you and to me if we know Christ as our Lord and Savior? We are the brethren or fellow heirs of Christ. In Romans chapter 8, verses 14 through 17. It's very clear about that. And in Hebrews chapter 2, verses 10 through 13, it says, For it was fitting for him For whom are are all things, and by whom all things, and bringing many sons to glory, to make the captain of our salvation perfect through sufferings For both he who sanctifies and those who being sanctified are all of one, for which reason he is not ashamed to call them brethren You have this idea of brethren throughout Scripture, that those who know Jesus as their Savior are called brothers of Christ. And then he says, Your God, your Lord, and your God is my Lord and my God. That is why we are brethren. Folks, do you see here in this passage That the true, genuine belief is going to produce a relationship, a personal relationship with God. See, genu fake faith, fake belief is is is a belief based upon religion or Or some sort of rules, or some sort of practices, or some sort of tradition. But genuine belief results in a personal relationship with God. And actually he said this word Lord and God, he's not being redundant here. The word God is talking about The fact that He is able to do all things. He is the creator God. The word Lord has to do with being a master. He is our master, and he is our God. Now let me ask you, do you have that kind of a relationship with God? It's not a relationship based upon some sort of tradition or some sort of religion. Folks, very candidly, it doesn't matter whether you're Baptist or Catholic or Lutheran or Presbyterian or that's not the main thing, folks, has to do with your faith in the Word of God. And whether or not faith in Jesus Christ and what he did on the cross for you gives you a personal, everyday relationship with God. The Bible says that he's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. It is his desire for each of you and for me to have this personal relationship with him. And what we see here without question is what Jesus is trying to get across to Mary is that she needs to ha she that this this is what she wants he wants her to have is a personal relationship with God and with the disciples Then I'd like you to pick up and actually skip down to verses 24 through 29. I want you to see next the final results of belief, of genuine belief. What does genuine belief look like? Verse 24. Now Thomas, now you know Tom you know Thomas by the way, don't you? He's known as doubting Thomas. He was a bit skeptical. He he he wasn't there with the other disciples, saw Christ and And so he's there he's not believing the account either. And so we pick up and he says, now Thomas called the twin, one of the twelve, uh uh called the twin, one of the twelve, was not with them. When Jesus came. And other disciples therefore said to him, We have seen the Lord. So he said to them, Unless I see his hands and the print of the nails. And put my finger into the print of the nails, and put my hand into a side, I will not believe. Look at verse 26. And after eight days, his disciples were again inside, and Thomas with them. Jesus came, the doors being shut, stood in the midst, and said, Peace to you. Then he said to Thomas, Reach your finger here and look at my hands and reach your hand here and put it into my side. Do not be unbelieving, but believing. Jesus said unto him, Thomas, because you have seen me, you have believed. Blessed are those who have not seen and yet believed. Thomas says when he answered, he says, My Lord and my God as well. See, Thomas Finally, after seeing Christ, submits to Christ. He too believes And the truth of the matter is, genuine belief results in submission to Jesus. We don't like that word submission very much. Submission means to arrange under. It means to place yourself under someone. We don't like that very much. But the kind of belief that John describes in this passage, as well as other passages in the New Testament, is clearly the kind of belief that says, I am going to submit. To Jesus. I am going to put my own self on the shelf. I am going to, I am not going to follow self. I am going to follow Christ instead. And there is this authority that we, when we come to Christ, that we need to recognize Him as the authority of our lives. If you don't know Christ as your Savior, maybe it may be. One of the things is keeping you from really having a genuine relational kind of friendship with God is that that that you've been unwilling to submit to him. You don't want to go underneath the requirements that are necessary. Well the Bible actually says that the requirements that are necessary Christ's already taken them and died on the cross to pay the punishment for the he's fulfilled all the requirements. You need to accept him by faith. And you can't depend on yourself anymore. You can't depend on your own good works and what you have done. The Bible says, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy, he saved us. You can't depend on yourself to be saved. The Bible says, but as many as received him, John 1:12. But as many as received him, to them gave he the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. That requires you to stop believing and trusting and depending upon what yourself or anything else about yourself and depending it solely on the work of Christ and what he did on the cross. And his perfect sonship, who he is. Maybe you do know the Lord as your Savior. Maybe you have, you do profess to know Christ. True belief, remember folks, true belief may it it may not be submission, but it will result in submission. That's why there are many people that will stand before the Lord and the Lord will say, I never knew you. God desires for us to understand what true, genuine faith is. Let me illustrate it this way. Have you ever had a friend who you may have known him for a little while and you realize that the only thing that he really brought to the table in friendship was was receiving. Like really you started after a while realizing that all he really wanted was to use you How many of you like that kind of friend? Oh man, you gotta go out after that kind of friend. Facebook friends are a good place to start. Just friend them. Find them. No, I'm kidding. I have plenty of fa Facebook friends Nobody likes that kind of friend. And I think that there is a sense in which sometimes our belief is based upon what I can get out of God. Be careful about that. The truth is we have nothing to give to God except ourselves once we know Him as our Savior. But folks, true belief depends entirely on what Christ did because I want a relationship with God. And I want to glorify God with my life. And certainly I want an eternal home in heaven and an understanding of the fact that I will go to be with God for all of eternity. All of that is guaranteed by those who place their trust in Christ. But true saving faith is something that when we understand what Scripture is saying, we come to the place where we say, I want to place my life in the hands of God through Jesus Christ. Genuine belief results in the way Thomas said it, my Lord and my God. And I would just ask you this question today. Do you have genuine belief or do you have fake belief? Do you have genuine belief or do you have faux belief? Today, you can have genuine belief. And the way that you do that is very simple. Number one, you understand that the truth that you need to know is from the Word of God. And the Bible tells us clearly in 1 Corinthians chapter 15, 3 and 4, Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, and that he was buried And then he rose again the third day according to the scriptures, and he was seen. It gives us clearly what we have to place our faith on. See, you have sinned, and I have sinned, we all have sinned. We come short of the holiness of God, the perfection of God. God can't look on our sin because He is perfect. That's why the Bible says that the punishment for sin is separation from God. The Bible calls that spiritual death. Romans 6. 23, the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. That's why Jesus had to die. What are the wages of sin? It's death. What did Jesus do? He died. He died in your place as your substitute. And the only thing that you have to do is place your trust in that finished work that Jesus did to pay the punishment for your sin. And believe that he rose again bodily, victorious over sin and death, and you can be saved. Saved from your sin. Saved from the punishment for your sin and have a right relationship with God. By faith alone. Let me ask you this question: Is your faith based upon the Word of God alone? Is it based on the Word of God alone? Number two, do you have this the close, intimate relationship with God, or are you just believing for what you can get out of it? Number three, does your belief in Christ include both full ability and full authority? That God can do what He you can't do in saving your soul? But that God has complete authority to do what he wants to do in your life as well. We can't submit to God without trusting in Him. But true belief will result in submission to God. Let's pray. Before we pray, I just want to mention this. It is entirely possible, if not likely, that there is someone here today that has never placed their trust in Christ as their Savior. They've never actually know they don't know for sure You don't know for sure whether you spend eternity with God or not. The Bible says these things are written that you may know that you have eternal life. And if you don't know, God wants you to know If you don't know, can I really encourage you after the service to come and talk with me? I will stop everything I'm doing, and I will take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure you're going to spend eternity with the Lord. Or if you don't or if you're comfortable with somebody else and you see their life and you see what you you maybe that you're friends with them and you want to talk with them, that would be fine too. They could take a make sure that you What a wonderful way to celebrate Easter. You can know for sure that you are spending eternity with God by what the Bible says and having a relationship with God. I can't encourage you enough to do that. Please, please do that. Come and see me or someone else after the service, and we'll be glad to help you with that. Let's pray together. Our Father, we do come to you and we stand grateful. For the finished work of Christ on the cross, and thankful that we serve a risen Savior. Lord, may we live every day knowing that Christ is alive, seated on the right hand of the Father. One day will come for us. Lord, may we have the kind of relationship that you want us to have in Christ. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.