I am grateful for the opportunity and uh appreciate the the willingness for Pastor Jim to allow me to come to you this morning. You take your Bibles and turn to the book of Revelation. The Book of Revelation. The human mind is an amazing thing. Think about it. If you are reading something or hearing something, and your mind, you're actively listening, your mind is going to portray images that you can look on in your mind's eye, right? I mean think about a story that you're reading. In the Bible or elsewhere, and you're going through it, and as the details are mentioned, images pop into your brain, right? And you begin to see the story played out in your own mind In fact, I could just call out a bunch of words right now, like bow and arrow, hot dog, scissors, Ferrari, all these words. They they put images in your mind, right? Your mind can't help but see those things. Well what about this? When I say this word, what pops into your mind? In fact, it's not a word, it's a name. When I say the name Jesus, what do you see? What do you see? Can I be honest with you for a second? When I hear the name Jesus I hear this picture I see this picture of a long-haired, full bearded, blue-eyed, sort of brown-haired picture of Jesus, right? And maybe you Feel the same thing. And you know, I found out recently where I get that image from. My grandmother had a napkin holder. And on that napkin holder was a picture of this Jesus, and that's the the image that I see. And I think for many of us we see this artist's impression of who Jesus is, right? Maybe perhaps for you, perhaps you you think of the cross. You see a cross in in your mind's eye. Maybe you see a particular actor who portrayed him on film Maybe even you see him and think about what he might have looked like at his transfiguration. Perhaps it's something else. But no matter what, when I say the name Jesus, something comes into your mind. You see something or someone. The chances are that none of us, when we are presented with the name Jesus, have an image appear in our minds even remotely close to the one that we are about to read. But whatever images we have of Jesus, could we not agree that they must be accurate? We wouldn't want to have a twisted or perverted view of who Jesus is. The portrait of Christ that we are about to read. Must be incorporated into our thinking. Let's read together this description of our Lord and Savior, beginning in verse 9 of chapter 1. Chapter one of Revelation, beginning in verse nine. And pay attention to the description of our Savior here. Reading in verse 9, reading all the way to the end of the chapter. I, John, who also am your brother, in companion and tribulation, and in the kingdom of patience of Jesus Christ, was in the isle that is called Patmos, for the word of God and for the testimony of Jesus Christ. I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day and heard behind me a great voice as of a trumpet saying, I am Alpha. And Omega, the first and the last. And what thou seest, write in a book, and send it unto the seven churches which are in Asia, unto Ephesus. unto Smyrna, and unto Pergamus, and unto Thyatire, and unto Sardis, and unto Philadelphia, and unto Laodicea. And as I turned to see the voice that spake with me And being turned, I saw seven golden candlesticks, and in the midst of the seven candlesticks one like unto the Son of Man, clothed with a garment down to the foot. and gird about with paps with a golden girdle. His head and his hairs were like white wool. as white as snow, and his eyes were as a flame of fire, and his feet like undefined brass, and as if they burned in a furnace, and his voice as the sound of many waters. And he had in his right hand seven stars, and out of his mouth went a sharp two-edged sword. And his countenance was as the sun that shineth in his strength. And when I saw him, I fell at his feet as dead. And he laid his right hand upon me, saying unto me, Fear not. I am the first and the last. I am he that liveth and was dead. And behold, I am alive forevermore. Amen. And have the keys of hell and of death. Write the things which thou hast seen, the things which are, and the things which shall be hereafter, the mystery of the seven stars which thou sawest in my right hand, and the seven golden candles six. The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches, and the seven candlesticks which that without souls are the seven churches. Let's pray. Father, as we come before you this morning, we pray that you would open our eyes to your truth. That we would see Christ afresh. Lord, we want to have an accurate view of who you are and who your Son is. And Lord, I pray that you would help us to see that this morning. Lord, I pray that your truth would go through clearly, that I would be removed from the picture. And that as we go through this portion of Scripture, your truth would be magnified, your name would be glorified. Pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen. The passage that we are studying this morning comes, as you well see, from the book of Revelation. It is true that very few books of the Bible have captured the imagination like this one. For both saved and unsaved, to be quite honest. It is given so much attention by authors, by writers of fiction, and by theologians. It has been given attention by Hollywood. And so many of the events that are found in this book are displayed on the big screen. It's quite possible that you own a book or two or own a movie or two that detail that gives some of the details from this book of the Bible. But with that said, there are few books Of the Bible that have so many differing interpretations and understandings. Authors often seem to be at odds About nearly every detail concerning this book. And the result of that Really, it can lead to a great deal of frustration for us as students of the Bible, can it not? I mean, how do we approach a book like this? Well that is prophetic in nature. That is so symbolic. Well First of all, the first result most likely is that we end up not reading it. Maybe that's you. Maybe you're here today and you say, wow, Revelation is way above my head. It's way above. I'm not even gonna touch that. That is just it's so confusing. I don't understand it. Commentators don't agree. What am I supposed to believe here, right? Well, let's get a few things straight. First, this portion of Scripture was placed in here by God, was it not? And if it's placed in here by God, it is here for our understanding. God wouldn't put a portion of his word in there so that we would be confused and messed up all the time because of it No, he has it here because he wants it to be understood, just like the rest of his revelation in Scripture. He wants it to be understood by us. Why should this part of God's word be any different? The first step into understanding this book as a whole, and having less frustration, and truly being blessed by it, is to approach it like we would any other book of the Bible. That is, with a little interpretation. That means that we should interpret a passage literally Unless the context dictates that symbolism is required or there is something symbolic in nature, which absolutely does occur in the book of Revelation. But I would suggest to you quite firmly that The book of Revelation isn't just one big symbolic mess that we have to try and figure out. No, we approach it the same way we do any other part of the Bible. There are times when context would would dictate that a word or phrase would be symbolic. Maybe you thought, well, gee, I thought everything in Revelation was symbolic. Not so. That's not the case. And in fact, when Revelation is approached that way, well, that's when a lot of the confusion comes about. That's when the distractions and the frustration come in. Because if everything is symbolic, well then, well, I think this symbol means this, and you think that symbol means that, and we don't agree. But again, God brought this into our hands so that it could be understood by us, that we could have a picture of the end. of what will look like, of what's going to happen. A consistent literal approach is necessary for all of God's word, not just some of it. When that's put into practice here in Revelation, a clearer picture comes as we read through these pages. So for us as students of the Bible, we can read this book actually with confidence that it is God's Word, and we can have understanding from this portion of Scripture. Before we delve into the text that we read specifically, we need to get some key factors about this book and some key look at some key verses preceding our passage. Look there in chapter 1, verses 1 and 2. There, verses 1, 1, and 2. Chapter 1, verses 1, 1, and 2. It says there, the revelation of J This Christ So, first of all, this is Christ's revelation to us. It is Him and His plan for history being revealed Revelation of Jesus, which God gave unto him. So this is sourced in God. Everything that we read in this book is sourced in our Heavenly Father. It is gave by God to show unto his servants things which must shortly come to pass. And he sent and signified it by his angel unto his servant John. who bear a record the word of God and of the testimony of Jesus Christ of all the all things that he saw. So the theme is centered around Jesus Christ. The source is in God. We see here, then, in contrast, in Christ Himself, in the Gospels, for instance. We see Jesus in his humiliation. We see him as the servant, as the man, as the one who is obedient unto death, even the death of a cross. Here in Revelation, we do not see him in that form anymore. We see him magnified, we see him exalted and reigning. Since it is sourced in God, we have assurance that the events portrayed in this book are sure to come to pass. God cannot lie. So what he reveals to us is truth. The recipients of this book are are us. Are initially the seven churches that the that the letter was was um Uh directed to and then us today in the 21st century we have the ability to read it as well. The nature of this book is prophetic. It is delivered, it says here, by angels. That angel that is mentioned most likely accompanies John throughout his entire vision. And in fact, at times, John is so overcome by what he sees, he actually bows down and worships the angel. And the way angel says, no, no, don't do that. I am but a messenger of God. You worship God. And this letter is authored by John. Which John? It is one of the twelve, the one that wrote the Gospel of John and 1 John, 2 John, and 3 John. And it says here, now in verse 3, Blessed is he that readeth, and they that hear the words of this prophecy. And keep those things which are written therein, for the time is at hand. Now that's different. Think about that for a second. What other book of the Bible promises blessing? From reading it and hearing it. And the idea of reading here is really reading aloud. Not everyone would have a copy of this So there would be one orator reading it to the congregation, and everyone would be hearing. So there is a blessing for those that read and hear. There is a blessing for those that listen to the words of this book. And there is urgency. Because it says there that the time is at hand. There is urgency there. This is the only book that is written. With such a specific blessing. You know, it is important then for us to not succumb to some of the obstacles we may face to reading this book. Now we say, it's frustrating to read. I don't understand it. Well, God says there's a blessing. God says there is benefit from reading this book. We should not shy away from it. Secondly, key to understanding this Book of the Bible and our passage as well, we understand that there are verses that unlock the flow of this book. We read it already, actually, in verse 19 of chapter 1. It says, Write therefore the things that you have seen, those that are, and those that are take take place after this. This really gives us an outline of the entire book of the Bible. So it says there Point number one, the things which you have seen, that would be Revelation chapter 1, 1 through 20. The things which are, that would be Chapters chapter 1 through chapter 3. Excuse me, chapter 2 through chapter 3. And the things that will take place after this, that's chapter 4 to the end of the book. In other words, it can be outlined in three ways, the past, the present, and the future. And it would be from the author's perspective. The things that are, if you notice, are chapters 2 and 3. That's a designation to the seven churches. Those are the message, that's the message that Jesus has to each church That is those are the things that are. Those are the things that are from the author's perspective. Because for us, that would be past. But from the author's perspective, that is present. And from chapters 4 all the way to the end, that is all considered future, and that would be future for us as well here in the 21st century. So, what does that mean for us? Well, that means that the portion of Scripture that we are looking at is the things which he has seen. It's past. It falls under the have seen or past section. You know what that means for us? It means that this portrait of Jesus, this is who he is. It's who he has always been. It isn't though our our Savior transforms from this docile lamb. In the Gospels, into this raging lion full of wrath and judgment, and suddenly he has changed. No, this is the same Jesus that we read in the Gospels. This is who he has always been. So with that in mind, understanding the flow of thought, the separations in revelation, understanding that we need to approach this book of the Bible as any others. I believe now we're ready to delve more deeper into the text that we read at the beginning. So there at verse 9 of chapter 1, verses 9 through 11, we have the occasion of the vision. We have the occasion of the vision. It says this I, John, also who am uh am your brother, and companion in tribulation. And the kingdom and patience of Jesus Christ was on the isle that is called Patmas for the word of God and for the testimony of Jesus Christ. So John he he is describing to his readers where he is. He's Banished. He is exiled. And for why? Why? It's because he was preaching the Word of God. He was, for the testimony of Jesus Christ, exiled to this island, this very small island, by the way. Very rocky, about 24 square miles. That's all it is And many out uh portions outside of uh extra-biblical literature says that he was forced to work in the mines on that island. It says here, then in verse 10, I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day. I was in the Spirit. In other words, his physical body. It stays put on the Isle of Patmos. But through God and His power and His majesty, He transports John's spirit. How that exactly works, I don't know. But if you can imagine someone that God would work a miracle of sorts. So that in the spirit he can see things that with his physical body he would not be able to see. So as a result of this, well let's read verse eleven and then make that point. Sa this voice that he hears. He heard this voice that sounded like a trumpet. It says, I am the Alpha and Omega, the first and the last. What thou seest, write in a book. Send it unto the seven churches, and he names the churches there. So we see that the this particular command is to write what he is about to see. Right. In other words, we see that this vision isn't just out of John's imagination. It doesn't just come out of the blue and he makes it up. No, it's sourced in Jesus Christ. He says, you are about to see a lot of things You need to write it down. And after that, it says in verse 12, he turned to see the voice. He turns to see who is speaking to him, and I think it is safe to say that what he saw was rather unexpected. They say that a picture is worth a thousand words. I think this picture might be worth a few more. We transition then to the person of the vision. The person of the vision, it says this. Verse 12, And then I turned to see the voice that was speaking to me. And on turning I saw seven golden lampstands. And in the midst of the lamb stands one like a son of man, clothed with a long robe and with a golden sash around his chest. So there you have this one like the son of man. And he's clothed with this long robe with a golden sash. Those lampstands, as we read back in verse 19 or verse 20, we we find out that those lampstands are candlesticks. There you are, seven and the seven stars. The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches. Now, let me just say real quick that most likely, given the context, the word angels is used in its most generic form here. And that would be messenger. And if that's the case, then the the messengers would be the pastors of those churches. the pastors of those churches. Because and in another sense the context really delegates that because responsibility is given to those messengers. Why would angelic beings be given responsibility for churches down here on earth? It makes more sense then to see angels in its most common form messengers. And uh the can't those are the stars, and the candlesticks or the lampstands are the churches themselves. And Christ, where does he have them? He's in the midst of them. And in another one it says that he has them in his right hand. In another portion, it says he has them in his right hand. In other words, Jesus, he's holding the church in his hands. He is the authority. Over this church, over all churches throughout the ages. The universal church. It is his. He owns it. It's important to note that. We really see then in this initial part of this picture of Christ that he has authority. He has authority in the rebukes that he is about to submit to these churches. He has authority and and the purity of eyes to see clearly what um uh what the churches are and how they are doing and outside the church as well in the world today So in general, this description that we see in these verses, they signify Christ's authority, the authority to condemn all people, all nations. and to rebuke and correct those that he has within his hand. But then we get to this portion where his head is described, his eyes are described, his feet are described, his voice is described. So, what are we to do with those descriptions? Well, we said earlier that we interpret a passage in Revelation literally unless context demands otherwise. And my friends, the context demands it. Here we have some symbolism. But there are other portions from Scripture that really help us in understanding uh what is going on here and and what these descriptions signify. Keep your place in Revelation, but turn to Daniel chapter seven if you would. We're going to be reading a few portions of scripture from from chapter seven of Daniel. In fact, the amount of comparisons from this portion, this text that we're in today, and what we find in Daniel is quite striking. And to be just as a side note, it's quite striking, in fact, how many Old Testament references there are in the book of Revelation. It is almost an un an uh a New Test uh Old Testament book in a New Testament form. There are so many references. Old Testament. in there. So the first description of Christ here is that his hair is like wool. Says there in Daniel chapter 7 In verse nine, it says, I beheld till the thrones were cast down, and the ancient of days did sit, whose garment was white as snow, and his hair and the hair of his head. like the pure wool. We see here then not only, we see here then as a result of this description, Christ, quite quite frankly, is is attributing to himself deity He is comparing himself in this portrait as the ancient of days, the one that sits on the throne of heaven. And this idea of the hair being like wool shows the purity that is in Jesus. Also, it's been submitted that there is wisdom, divine wisdom in Jesus, as a result of this picture of hair being like wool. The next description is that his a his eyes being like a flame of fire His eyes being like a flame of fire. Still there in verse 9 of chapter 7, it says his throne was like the fiery flame, and on his wheels as a burning fire. Really, this idea of his eyes being like a flame, like a fire burning in there. It's to show his ability to see. His ability to see through the hearts of man, to see through the facades. You know, from the outlook, many of you are familiar with the the seven churches that are written to in in chapters three and uh two and three. From the out s from the outside, or from maybe in from the inside, those churches may have thought that they were doing all right. Now there was one that that had no rebuke whatsoever But Jesus, through his purity of sight, is able to see through the facades, through the externals, and get to the heart of people. And the unbelievers alike. He is able to see into the hearts of the unbelievers, to know their rebellion. It is not a secret to him. He doesn't it's not as if he goes around ignorant of those that rebel against him. No, he knows. He sees it Says there then also that his feet being like bronze Like burnished bronze, as if it's on fire. Can can we just say for a second that this would be a tremendously fearful sight I mean, put yourself in John 2 for a second. What would you do if you suddenly were in the Spirit and God gave you a vision such as this? What would you do? What would you be thinking? Well, his feet being like bronze. carries with it the idea of being able to crush one's enemies. To crush one's enemies We see there in uh Daniel chapter 7 also, in verse 13, it says, And I saw in night visions, and behold, one like the Son of Man. That again is parallel to Revelation chapter one. Son of man came with the clouds of heaven, and came to the ancient of days, and they brought him near before him. And there was given him dominion and glory and a kingdom, that all people, nations, and languages should serve him His dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away, and his kingdom that which shall not be destroyed. Again, we see this idea of his authority, of his divinity, and his righteous judgment And those who oppose this one ought to fear him, and they ought to turn to him. You can turn back now fully to Revelation chapter 1. His voice being like the sound of many waters would give this vision an added element of awe. An added element of fear and sobriety. In other words, you do not want to mess with someone like this. You don't go toe-to-toe with a person like this. You don't go toe-to-toe with a being like this. Have you ever been next to some raging rapids or a waterfall? You ever had the experience like that. If you if you're or have perhaps you've even been like in the pool with a waterfall coming down, the sound is absolutely deafening, isn't it? I mean if you have someone next to you and you try to engage in a conversation with them, good luck. It's not going to happen. That sound is overpowering. Not to mention the raw power of that water, right? I mean it's amazing. One little droplet of water It does nothing. I mean you if it falls on you you barely feel it but put gallons upon gallons upon gallons together and it has the power to sweep you off your feet and you are powerless to its current It will take you wherever it wants to take you. That is the power of the voice of our Savior. Imagine that. Imagine that. But not only does his does the sound that comes from his mouth, is it like that? In verse 15, it says, out of his mouth comes a two-edged sword with which he searches hearts and he judges rebels. And we see we see that this is this two-edged sword from his mouth is used in the final battle where God will where Jesus will obliterate his enemy. Now, we've gone through this, and it's been heavy. Maybe even hard. This is not a typical portrait of Christ that we see when we think of Jesus, is it? In fact, we might not even like this very much. Give me give me the Matthew, Jesus. Give me the Mark Jesus. Give me the John Jesus. Give me the Luke Jesus. He's he's one that I can really grasp with. That's the one that I know and have a relationship with. This Jesus seems foreign. This Jesus seems Just I I can't grasp this one. I can't see this one really. Well, if you're thinking that Let's think about something for a minute. Let's say that your life was summed up. Okay? With photos. There was some kind of scrapbook. And in there were pictures of who you are and what you do, and they gave an accurate um uh an accurate assessment of who you are as an individual. Well what if pictures were taken out? of that. And you gave that to someone and and this is who I am. But guess what? They have an incomplete portfolio, don't they? They don't see everything about you if something is taken out or multiple things are taken out. What about a picture of a statue? Maybe you have multiple pictures of this statue, but All you have are pictures of its back. Different angles, but all you see is its back. You never see the front. Well, you would have an incomplete picture of that statue, wouldn't you? You really wouldn't know everything about that statue. Or what about, you know, we can, if we're looking to buy a home or a car or something, we can go on the internet and often they will have pictures, right, of different things I remember when I was looking for our last car. If there were an if there was any point at which I looked at a car and it had three pictures, I didn't even give it a second look. I can't see all the car. What are you what are you hiding? Huh? What are you hiding? Why aren't you showing me more pictures? Because I would see other cars that have 30 pictures, 40 pictures. I can I can get every nook and cranny of that car. Or a house, perhaps You're looking at a house and you're looking at pictures online, but you're noticeed that, well, there's no kitchen. Where's the pictures of the kitchen? Where's the master bedroom? Where's the basement? Where's where's all the pictures? You would have an incomplete idea of what that house would look like, right? My friends, we get glimpses of Christ in the Old Testament. We even see him more thoroughly in the New Testament. In the Gospels. We see who he is, what he did, what he taught. In the epistles, we even get greater explanations and more insight into his teaching from the apostles But my friends, that isn't the complete picture. We must gain a complete picture of Christ. And if we are to do that The portrait that we see in our text and in Revelation in general, that must be incorporated into our thinking. That must be incorporated into our thinking. But maybe you're still saying, well, I I see what you're saying, Enrique, but I don't think I like these aspects of Jesus. They're not a Jesus I'm very comfortable with. Well, if you're thinking that, hold on to that thought. Hold on to that thought. We see next there the verse 17 in chapter 1. It says, When I saw him, I fell at his feet as though dead. He fell at his feet like a dead man would. But he laid his right hand on me, saying, Fear not, I am the first and the last. You know that phrase, oh, that phrase, the first and the last, that is echoing some incredible passages from the Old Testament. Let's look at just one. Turn to Isaiah forty-four. Turn to Isaiah forty-four, verse six. It says, Thus saith the Lord, the King of Israel, and his Redeemer, the Lord of hosts, I am the first, and I am the last, and beside me there is no God. And who, as I, shall call and declare it, and set an order for me, since I appointed the ancient people and the things that are coming, and shall come, let them show unto me. Fear ye not, neither be afraid. Have not I told thee from that time, and have I declared it Ye are m even my witnesses. Is there a God beside me? Yea, there is no God. I know not any And then he goes on to describe how people in their vain imaginations make their own idols and worship them. Here, when Jesus invokes this title, the first and the last, he is showing his supremacy over all false gods. all false religions, all false ideas about himself. He is the ever-living one, the one who always was and is and always shall be. And you could also go to Jeremiah chapter 10 in the first six verses there and see very similar wording there. This title that Jesus gives to himself, incredible weight and meaning. He is reasserting his deity. He is showing his lordship over history And he has is and will exercise that authority. He is a righteous judge. He will judge, and he will vindicate his followers. Imagine John seeing all this. This is the same Jesus that John had laid his head on while he was on earth. But this image of the Son of God reveals the Messiah with no veils behind to hide behind. His power and his majesty are in full view. Overcome, John could just cannot bear this sight. And he falls down like a dead man. I think all of us would do the same. As he says this, as Jesus says this to John, He says, fear not. I am the first and the last. You know, my first thought is, how could someone not Fear. How could someone just suddenly, oh, okay, I'm not afraid anymore, you know? I don't understand. And yet that's what Jesus says to him. Jesus goes from this lion, the lion of the tribe of Judah, and he turns back into this lamb and says, John, fear not. Fear not. Back to that idea of not liking this Jesus, this aspect of him. Maybe not being fully comfortable with him. Let me ask you this question. Do we want Jesus to be a Jesus that judges Do we want God to be a God of wrath? Do we want that? Well, first of all, we know that to be true, right? God is a God of wrath. Jesus is one that judges. You know, we cannot make the mistake of focusing on Jesus as love and merciful. to the exclusion of his wrath and judgment, nor can we focus merely on the judgment and the wrath to the exclusion of his love and mercy. He is both He is all of that. And my friends, we need to recognize that we want him to be that. Want him to be that. How is that so? Why do we want Jesus to be full of wrath? Because, folks In his wrath and in his judgment he is good. This is a tough concept. His wrath, his judgment, it is good. Doesn't sound good. It is good It's been mentioned multiple times. I think it's also been mentioned this morning already. But think about this. What will we do with a God who is unjust? What kind of God would that be? He wouldn't be trustworthy. Who knows when he would be unjust with us? Right? That's the kind of God that we want Him to be. His wrath is good. His judgment is good. So when we come to the book of Revelation, for instance, and we see from chapters, especially chapter 6 and on, where it's just judgment. after judgment, after judgment, you've got you've got the the seals and the trumpets And the vials or the bowls, all of those judgments, back to back to back, with little judgments intermixed in between, and you're like, oh, this is too heavy, this is too much to handle. It is good. He is rightfully judging the earth, and he is rightfully vindicating his own followers when he does that. And it is all sourced in this Jesus that has just been described to us. He is the initiator of this judgment. Did you know that? In chapter 6 of Revelation, the first verse, who opens the seal? It is the Lamb. The Lamb opens the seal, and from then on, the rest of the judgments follow. It is sourced in Christ. We want him to be this God of wrath. We want him to be a God of judgment That is a fearful thing, though, is it not? Well, he tells John, don't fear. Don't be afraid. You know, there is only one reason that John can can be able to muster himself up and not be afraid. You know what that is? Because he will not be the recipient of this wrath. Because if he's the recipient, he's gonna fall down as a dead man and stay there. But he is not the recipient of this wrath. And my friends, neither are you and I. But maybe you're still here and you're thinking, no, this Jesus of judgment, this is bad. I'm I I don't like this, I'm afraid. Well, let me tell you something. Maybe you're afraid. Maybe you're uncertain about this because you believe that you will be a recipient of his wrath. Excuse me. You see yourself, and you see your own life. And you've mm I'm sorry. I apologize. Thank you. Nor does it sound like a trumpet. I apologize for that, but when it went, it just went. And hopefully it stays back. Okay. We want this Jesus to be full of wrath, but maybe you're saying, no, I don't want that because as it stands now, I feel like I'm going to receive that wrath. Well, if you feel that way, can I just say to you that you don't have to stay in that position? There is an offer that Jesus gives. You say that you see there in verse 18 He says, I am he that liveth and was dead, and behold, I am alive forevermore. Amen. I have the keys of hell and death. Jesus has the authority over death and hell. He dictates. He knows where where people are going. Look at verse 5. We didn't read it yet, but check this out in verse 5 of chapter 1. It says. and from Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness, and the first begotten of the dead, and the Prince of the Kings of the Earth, unto him that loved us and washed us from our sins in his own blood. Folks, Jesus is not only a Jesus of wrath and judgment, but he is a Jesus of love who offers us salvation to have our sins removed. All in the same chapter of Revelation. How about that? My friend, if you're here today and you feel as though you're in a position where you will be judged for your sin Your sins can be washed away by the blood of Jesus Christ. And that happens when you place your dependence on Him for salvation. Put your faith in him, trust in him, and his sacrifice on the cross and your sins will be removed And your relationship with God will be made right again. That can happen today. And then you can move from a position of being fearful of this Jesus of wrath and judgment. to one of saying with the rest of us, no, his wrath is good. His judgment is good Lastly, the command of the vision. The command of the vision, verse 19, it says, Write therefore the things that you have seen. Those that are and those that are to take place after this. And then he explains the vision in verse 20 as well. Which we already looked at. But he says here to write. And in a few times in in the book of Revelation. John almost has to be reminded to write. It's as if he's there and he's got he's ready and he's just so stunned and in awe of what he's seeing. God has to remind him, keep writing, keep documenting. There are people that need to see this. And there are people that are gonna live after you that need to know about this. Keep writing. As we conclude, as we as we come down to the end here When we see Revelation and we see this portrait of Christ, we must recognize that That although this part of Christ, this aspect of him, it may be hard to grasp. embrace. Can I just say that we need to embrace it We need to embrace all of Christ. Embrace all of Christ. Not just the parts that we like. Not just some of them. But all of it. We also need to recognize that what we want, we want this aspect of Jesus, that his judgment is right, it is pure, it is good. And it means that he wins. We could sum up the book of Revelation with these two words. Jesus wins. Jesus wins. And as a byproduct, we win with him. We win with him. And to go further on that, the book of Revelation, this version of Jesus, we see him, he makes everything right again. My friends, you remember back in Genesis when everything was created to be in right in the beginning? As God intended? Ever since then it's not been like that, right? You look around, and it is not how God intended. Revelation: this Jesus, he makes it right again. And folks, that is a comfort. to us, which again makes his wrath good, his judgment good. Because it is pure, it is right, and it makes everything right. And through that, in this fallen world, my friends, we can have comfort, but also confidence in the future. Yeah, there are some crazy things going on in our world, right? There are probably crazy things going on in our lives. But we can have comfort and confidence as we look to the future. Because Christ has everything in the palm of his hands. He has his church in his hands. And he has authority over it, and he is taking care of it. He's taking care of us. Will you embrace all of Christ? Will you add this portrait of Christ to your portfolio of Him? If we're to have a complete understanding of who Christ is, This aspect, although it may be discomforting to some degree, must be incorporated into our thinking. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this aspect of your character. It is not an easy aspect of your character to discuss, or to talk about, or to think about. But Lord help us to recognize in our heart of hearts that your wrath and your judgment is good. Help us, Lord, to see judgment and wrath as you see it Help us to have your eyes when it comes to seeing the wicked getting their just punishment. And Lord, help us to bask in the blessing of this book of the Bible. Help us to relish. The fact that we know the outcome is sure. That Jesus wins. And we who are with Christ, who are followers of Christ, will win with him Help us, Lord, to take comfort in that. Help our confidence to soar. And help that to enable us to get through these trials and tribulations that we find in our own lives and in the world around us. Pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen.