We're going to go over John chapter 15 tonight a little bit, and I want to talk tonight about how to put ourselves back into a spiritual alliance. How many of you all have been driving your car before and without doing anything you realize it's kind of going off into one direction or another? How many of you ever had that happen before? Okay. Now it would help if you put your hands on the wheel. That's happened to you before, Eric. That's good. I'm I'm uh Carrie, should you drive a lot? Okay, that's good. Anyway. Um Well, if that happens, I mean it would be helpful to put the hands on your hands on the wheels, but even if you have your hands on the wheels, it still might pull one direction or another, and you know that either you have something wrong with your tires or you have a uh you need a front-end alignment And there are really just time, from time to time in the Christian life, that tends to be something we need. We need to make sure we're aligned properly. when it comes to our service to the Lord. And I really would encourage you to have to have this passage in John 15 Indelibly marked in your mind as a passage to go back to when you say, when you think to yourself, you know, am I kind of out of alignment? And you're going to learn what that means tonight Am I kind of out of alignment in my spiritual walk with the Lord, in my service to the Lord? Am I out of alignment? And if I am, how do I get back? And John 15 will really be the text that will help us with this tonight. If you recall at the very beginning of the year, I did a few messages, a few sermon messages on faithfulness. How many of you all at least remember that I did that? I'm not asking you if you remember all the content of those messages. I know the statistics on that. But most of you will at least hopefully will remember that we did do messages on the importance of faithfulness And this really, I think, will help us to accomplish that goal, which is really God's goal for us, of being faithful. In the ministry, even in pastoral ministry, there's sometimes something that happens. In the life of a pastor, and I actually, and I really think that this happens in the life of of church members as well, that we have to be very careful of You'll see this misalignment in a pastor's life when he is preoccupied with numbers, when he's really constantly thinking about how many people are in his church. Um we g sometimes I'll go to pastors conferences and you know the guys who are just numbers really numbers focused. They're always asking you how many people are in your church and they're always um you know like dropping the dropping the hint that they have a lot of people in their church, that kind of a thing. And um Sometimes it's not that hard to fall into where you begin to see your self-worth and your value based upon the kind of ministry that you have as a pastor. And so instead of seeing your value based upon who you are in Christ, and your identity based upon who you are in Christ, you look at your value and your identity based upon the ministry that you have. But did you know that that can happen with Christians too? It can happen with church members too that are involved in various ministries It is easy for this to happen. And you know that this kind of thing has happened when you see some of these kinds of symptoms. These are surface problems. Number one is burnout. Where you just begin to feel burned out. Maybe you're involved in a particular ministry and you're just burnt out of it. You just feel like you're burnt out. Another one is frustration. You tend to be with with with regard to the ministry that you're serving in. And I really think a lot of this, let me broaden this to to even your work environment. vocational environment because the reality is if you're serving the Lord, if you're not just serving the Lord when you're serving in ministries in this church. You're serving the Lord, should be serving the Lord every day of your life. And when you go to work, that's serving the Lord too. And so I really think that this this can very much e very well apply uh to the vocational life and moms in in in uh home life with uh with little ones and those kinds of things. Home schooling, all that kind of thing. Sometimes you feel failure, you're burned out, so you're not you're not don't have as much energy to do the task that you want to do. Perhaps it is ministry, perhaps whatever it is whatever the thing it is, and you start experiencing failure Frustration, usually you're starting you start getting frustrated with other people a lot. And that's that's not a hard thing to happen in ministry. Sometimes you you know a lot of uh things fall between the cracks and you don't know why they're falling between the cracks and you can sort of Start getting a little frustrated if if you don't have the right alignment. Um fear of a lost position. You see that in the in the workplace all the time. You ever gone to somebody and ask them how they do what they do and they won't tell you in the workplace? Or they try to skirt skirt you giving you the information that you need or the instructions that you need. Why are they doing that? Because they don't want you to take their job. And so they say knowledge is power and so therefore I don't want I don't want you to know what I'm doing, so therefore you can't take my job. So when you have uh loss of sometimes you have that uh loss of control you fear that you're gonna lose control of whatever you're you're leading or involved in And just general discontentment with current opportunities. You look back to days where you're involved in something else, or you look forward to things that you want to be involved in, and you're just really not happy with what you are involved in. And sometimes It's it's you think to yourself the problem is what I'm involved in, and I need to actually just find something. The problem is that, and really there might be another problem that's behind the scenes. These are all essentially service problems. Well, let's ask the question, how does this happen? How do you get to the place where you're burned out and where you're frustrated and there's failure and those kinds of things Now, in some cases, it's just because you don't have enough hours in a day, to be honest with you. There are some times That it's just a matter of it's just so much that you're trying to get done. And the truth is when you're in a situation like that, um, I don't actually think most of us are in that situation Sometimes we get into that situation for a while where we're, you know, it's like you're trying to, you're just treading water, and but eventually you should be coming up for air. You know, but sometimes that happens and that that is very just a very, very difficult situation when that happens. Um but there are other reasons why sometimes this happens. Sometimes It's initial enthusiasm and excitement due to novelty. So you you start off on something new, whether it's ministry or service of the Lord or it's or it's vocational, whatever it is, and you're really enthusiastic about how God's going to use you in this, and and you have initial enthusiasm, but when you actually get into it, it's not it it it becomes mundane after a while It's not exactly exciting after a while. And so you have that initial enthusiasm or excitement. Sometimes in the middle of your of when you're serving and wanting to be faithful, there's a shift in motives over time that happens. And we'll talk more about motives. in a few moments. Sometimes you'll recall of, you'll, there'll be a sort of recall of previous ministry joy. Now here's what I mean by that. God wants us, as we'll find in John 15, to be fruitful. He says that he wants us to abide in the vine so that we bear fruit. God intends for us to do that. He wants us, and the fruit, by the way, is not necessarily just leading somebody to Christ. Fruit is actually Service. When you actually serve, that's fruit. If you're putting chairs away after service, or if you're cleaning something, that's all can be fruit of your relationship with the Lord. Um doesn't necessarily have to be leading a soul to Christ, so that would certainly include uh be included in that. All that to say, um Sometimes what happens is you are really walking with the you look at past times where you're really walking with the Lord, and you're serving the Lord, and you're walking with the Lord and you're serving the Lord, and there's this abundant joy And you look at what your situation is now, and you don't have the joy that goes with serving, and you think that it's that it that it's because you're serving the serving is the problem. Or you're serving wrongly, or something's going on with you. So maybe you try harder to serve. And in many cases, it's not your service that's the problem. Sometimes maybe it is, but a lot of times it's not your service to the problem because there's all this this spiritual kind of thing going on behind the service that we have to look at. Just a spiritual misalignment, which is what we're going to talk about tonight. Let me just start off by saying this: that faithful ministry results from God's sustaining power rather than human adrenaline. Okay, and I'm going to show uh in uh in Isaiah 40, this is a passage that is written. Prophesying how the nation of Israel should respond to the captivity of of Babylon, which was going to be arduous for them and and difficult. They were going to have to be faithful to the Lord during in a time where every their surrounding Um circumstances were going to be entirely pagan. I mean not that far off. We're not that far off from that basically. In fact, our surrounding culture is pagan now. So here's what he says. And we often we know 31 well, Isaiah 40, 31, but there's a couple of verses before it that we need to keep in mind. He says, He giveth power to the faint. What is the faint? When it says that are we talking about actually fainting? Are we actually passing out? Let me give you another term that will help you. When you see this term faint, In the Old Testament and sometimes in the New Testament, it's often the idea of losing heart or being discouraged. That's really what the term faint means. It's like you are spiritually or emotionally passing out. It's losing heart. And sometimes it's translated that way. To lose heart. And that's what that means. So he giveth power to those who lose heart, and to them that have no might, he increases strength. And he points this out. Even the youths shall lose heart and be weary. And the young men shall utterly fall. Young men, you guys are you got some young men back there? I think I'm still in that young man category. Not to you guys, I'm not, but some of you I might be. But you know, a lot of times we think we us guys we're just going to get this done by our own might We're just gonna we'll just pump it out. You know, we'll just we'll just do what we need to do. We're gonna get it done. We're gonna we're gonna make it happen. You know, those kinds of things that that we think of. And um and so we sort of run off adrenaline for a long time. We can You know, you just sort of have that mentality, you're just gonna get this thing done. Well, event you can't have sustainable, consistent faithfulness. On adrenaline. You can get something done on adrenaline, but you can't have a sustainable, faithful ministry on adrenaline. I think it's very important to understand. And a lot of times the reason that we burn out is we're trying to run on adrenaline. And we're really not getting our strength from God. He is the only source of strength that is going to give us a sustainable ministry. Now I don't when I say ministry, I'm talking very somewhat broadly here, even your own vocation and your own work with your kids, and all these things are ministry. And if you want to have a consistency and a faithfulness about these things, it can't be off of adrenaline. Youth tend to have a high high adrenal glands. They They got all kinds of energy, but even they're gonna lose heart over time when it comes to the real battles, the spiritual battles that they're gonna have to face. But they that what They that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings as eagles. They shall run and not be weary, and they shall walk and not lose heart. So we see from this passage, folks, isn't it true? That often the symptom of the problem is that we have lost heart. We're discouraged. We're faint about something That's really the really the the the symptom of the problem. You sort of know that you're not in spiritual alignment when you are feeling like you're losing heart when it comes to what God has God is wanting you to do You have seen this before. How many of you all can see that enough to read it? I'm curious. Can you probably farther back there you wouldn't be able to do that? I'll just point out a few things to you. I have passed this out on multiple occasions. If you don't have a copy of this, let me know and I'll give I'll I'll email it to you or email me and I'll email it That would be better than letting me know. And uh uh but but this is this something that I put together a long time ago, quite a quite a while ago now And it hit really helps me to understand to to to think through these things Let's do this. Let's read John 15 and read a few verses here to get our bearings here. Then I want to point some things out about this outline. I am the vine. This is Christ talking here. I am the true vine, and my father is the husbandman. Every branch in me that beareth not fruit, he taketh away. And every branch that beareth fruit, he purgeth it, that it may bring forth more fruit. Now you are clean through the word which I have spoken unto you. Abide in me, and I in you, as the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine. No more can ye accept ye abide in me. I am the vine. Ye are the branches. He that abides in me, and I in him. The same bringeth forth much fruit, for without me he can he can do nothing. Now let me just ask you a simple question. What is the what is our responsibility in this passage? I've preached in this passage a couple of times since I've been here. What is our responsibility in this passage? Good. Alright. Everybody agree with that? That our responsibility in the passage is to abide in Christ. What does that mean? What does abiding mean? It means the word means to remain in. 1 John really gives us fleshes this concept out as the concept of fellowship with God that we are in we are we are in fellowship with him. We know him. We're increasing in our knowledge of him. We have an open relationship with him. We're praying to him. There is this walk, this Christian walk that we are experiencing, this fellowship or this abiding in Christ. That's our responsibility. Then what should naturally flow from that, so we have this chart here. What should naturally have everything, by the way, is based upon God's character. And the person and work of Christ, the gospel. That's all, everything is based on that. You don't have that, you don't have anything. The next We'll skip this one for just a minute. We're up here to the believers' fellowship or abiding in Christ or filling of the Spirit. Those are all really the same kinds of concepts. It's all having a relationship with God, is really what we're talking about And you'll see an arrow that goes up to this point that when this is right, when fellowship is right, then we will be bearing fruit. Fruit, more fruit and much fruit. And fruit, I said, is activity, vocation, ministry. Fruit is really a very broad term. It's really talking about results from your spiritual walk with the Lord. Now, in order for this to be right, you've got to have to be secure in who you are in Christ. If you don't know where your standing is with God, in other words, if you say to yourself, I am not sure where I am with God. You'll never have fellowship with God. This must come first. Some of you in this room may not have a relationship with God at all. And you're really wondering about how to have a relationship with God, or you're thinking about it, and it is through accepting Jesus Christ and to pay the punishment for your sin. Come and talk to me anytime, I'll be glad to explain that more to you Many of us, or most of us, have a relationship with God, but sometimes it gets shaky. It's like we don't feel like we're really accepted by God, or we get tricked into thinking that we're not. There's something not quite right there. But folks, sometimes what happens here in this situation is this gets placed down here so that our fruit becomes the basis of our fellowship. We think, in other words, that if we will do more for God, then we'll be closer to God. Folks, when that happens, it's a cycle that will never, you'll never meet it. It's a vicious cycle. Your relationship with God, your fellowship with God is not based upon your activity. Your fellowship with God is based upon who you are in Christ, which is secure, not because of you. but because of Christ and what he's done for you. And understanding that is extremely important. I I I there's a lot more I could say about this, but I have enough enough other things to say I really need to boop on. Um I could explain how trials move into this. What do trials uh I will I will say this, what do trials do for us? Yes. The idea of the purging. Okay, that's true. Very good. It does purge from us sin. Okay. But uh in James 1, what do trials do for us? It it goes along with what you're saying. It gives us patience. What okay, when when when the new when the King James Version is using patience in James 1, what is it talking about? Not talking about patience the way we think of patience. It's talking about perseverance or endurance. Okay, now follow me here. What is the difference between endurance and faithfulness? Not much, right? I mean faithful you need endurance in order to be consistently faithful. And so trials do work in this, that we're going to continue to serve the Lord, be faithful in these areas while the trials are happening. So we're going to base our fellowship on who we are in Christ. The fruit is going to come from that. And as the trials are happening, it's going to teach us how to how to be how to persevere through these kinds of things. I could go this is so there's so much here I could go into, but I I will move on for the sake of time. Now what I want to do in in under I what I really want to do is is to help you get an overview of how to have in your own mind sort of a spiritual alignment when it comes to what you are doing in the Christian life and how you are serving and those kinds of things. And another serious consideration with all this is your consideration of who, what your motive is. There are, let me see, I just gave you two. We'll leave those two up there. There are, biblically, there are about four motives that I can find in Scripture. Three of them are found in 2 Corinthians chapter 5. What are the other two? I put fear and reward up there. What are the other two motives that you might find in Scripture? Love. Love, good. And what else? Pride. Okay, duty and and love. Pride pride is is um um Pride is a sin attitude. I'm not sure it would be a m I would say it's a motive. Um but I understand where you would get that. Okay, so we got four all four of these. Alright, let me just ask you a question Which one of these are wrong? Be careful. How many of you say that okay, which one of these are right? All of them Alright, what okay I get the the the you know the three I'll be careful. Uh the three somethings. Um three musketeers. Uh anyway, over here. What um What uh what it depends, as what I'm hearing. What does it depend on? What does it depend on? Yes. What you're afraid of? Okay. Alright, in a very simple sense. Yes, Kim. Okay. Alright, these are all motives. What does it depend on whether these are good or bad? Who are you doing them for? Yes. Are they for God? Are they man? Let's go through them. Fear. Should you fear man? No. Should you fear God? Yes. Reward. Should you fear, should you be looking to your reward from man? No. Should you be looking to your reward from God? Yes. Duty. Should you be looking to your duty? I'm not sure that one I mean definitely our duty is sort of inward and for for for the Lord. We have a sort of an inn innate human sense of duty. But You could maybe factor that in if well I guess I'll tell you this way. Should you be looking other than maybe spiritual leadership in your in your life Should you be looking for your duty based upon based upon what everybody else thinks your duty should be? And that's probably the way to look at that, and it could be wrong, other than spiritual leadership. Then the fourth one is Is love. Now, love is good for both. Right? Love is the highest motive. So you ought to love God and love man. The other ones, you shouldn't be fearing man. You shouldn't be getting a reward from man. You really shouldn't have your duty have to do with factoring in what man thinks. But love both ways. You ought to love God and love man. Alright? So when now let me just say this. Um which is the which are the I've already said it already, but which was the highest of all these? Love. Alright, love If you are struggling with whether or not you're fearing, you're doing what you're doing because you're afraid of God or you're afraid of man, what's your best bet? What's your best answer? Change your motive to love, and you don't have to worry about it. Right? I mean if your if your motive fear is kind of a baseline for us. The fear of the Lord is the what of wisdom? It's the beginning of wisdom. We do need to move on past the fear of the the fear of the Lord to the place where we really love God supremely and we're doing what we're doing because we love God. If we wane in our love for God, and we all do, you sort of have this backdrop of, well, I'm afraid of him too. I'm I I fe I would fear consequences of sin. So I'm not gonna I'm not gonna go out and do s things because there are consequences to sin. But very honestly, if you live on that level, you're gonna experience burnout. If all you ever do is what you do, is because you fear God And you're never doing anything because you love God, then you are going to experience burnout. Really, folks, with all of these, with the exception of love If you stay there, if you stay what you're doing and all you're doing because you want you're you're looking to reward for reward If you're doing that, even if it's let's say it's in a job situation, and all you're doing, what you're doing, you're doing it because you're you're doing it for a pa A check only. You're gonna get burned out Eventually you'll get burned out. Duty, same thing. The only thing that what so what we ought to be focusing on, if we're not, if we want a mode of alignment here, we've got to be focusing on we We do what we do because we love God. Now, let's just flesh that out practically. How, well, I'll just go through this. And if you have any questions or thought about this, I'd be very interested in we uh I try to leave a couple minutes here uh to to field any Am I having, let's just talk about make how we make the alignment now. Alright? Am I having consistent personal time in worship with the Lord? That's your first question. If you come to the place where you say, you know what, I'm burnt out, I'm discouraged, I've lost heart, I'm not, something's not right. Sometimes we want to change everything about our lives. I'm going to not do this and I'm going to do this and I'm not going to do this. We want to change everything up. Sometimes the first thing we need to do is just ask you Am I consistently worshiping God? Am I spending time in the morning? Say, well, you I do mine in the evening. Okay, fine, do yours in the evening. But I really think that the morning is better. That's my personal opinion. But uh if you're you've got to spend time worshiping the with the Lord. It's extremely important. And if it means getting up earlier than your earliest riser in your house, you can have competitions with the other ones, you know. Then I really would encourage this this is so important. That's your first step. Why is that your first step? Because that's got to be your focus. Your focus has got to be on your fellowship with the Lord And it really just requires that you have worship time with the Lord every day. And corporate worship as well, by the way. Sunday mornings, Wednesday nights. You know, we can be here and not really be here. Right? I heard three people. Yeah, everybody said you're right, so you know you're with me now, you're like here. Anyway. You can be here, but not really be here. And that's something that you've got to ask yourself If you are so, you gotta stay, you've got to worship the Lord, both corporately and in your individual walk. Nothing else, none of the rest is going to work unless you're doing that. Am I serving as a result of my relationship with God or to improve my relationship with God? Which one is right, guys? Folks As a result. We do not we do not serve God. We don't do ministry. To improve my relationship with God, but as a result of my relationship with God. Charles Ryrie said this in his book, Balancing the Christian Life. He said, He said, if somebody has a commitment problem, it's a gratefulness problem. And what he meant by that is simply that the reason that we ought to serve is because we're so grateful for what God has done for us. If we lose the gratefulness for what God has done for us, that's really the key If we lose that, it won't be long before we're serving out of some other motive and burnout will occur. Behavioral alignment. So let's talk about behavioral alignment. We're going to talk about another kind of alignment in a minute, but we'll talk about behavioral alignment. Number one Make sure you're having consistent personal times of worship with the Lord where you are thinking about the gospel. You say, you just said that. Yes, I just said that. I'm saying it again. Okay? Because it's really, really important. Number two, ask the question. Here's a question. Am I doing all that God wants me to do? And only what God wants me to do. Alright, you follow that question? Am I doing all that God wants me to do? And only what God wants me to do? The question then is, well, how do I know that? I bet at least half of you thought to myself, well, how am I supposed to know that? The key is knowing the difference between spiritual desires and fleshly desires. And to be very honest with you, I don't have the time to go over that. But if you over go if you go over to Galatians chapter 5, that's where you're going to find the passage where it talks about the spiritual uh wrestling with the carnal. And carnal desires may cause you to f resist uh service that God wants you to do, which will actually bring you great joy. Sometimes If we are living carnally, we won't serve the Lord the way God wants us to. We will resist ministry because we think that it won't bring us joy when it actually would bring us joy So, carnal desires may do that. Or carnal desires may cause you to take on tasks that you should not. Sometimes you may choose to do things because of fleshly desires, even though they seem to be good things. Because of wrong desires. Spiritual desires, consider how God provided gifting and needs that you are aware of. And oops, and considered and spiritual desires will cause you to make right choices according to God's will. So what you really have to do is do some soul searching, which begins really with focusing and worshiping God. That's where it begins. And you really have to kind of come to come to some thoughts here and you have to say, okay, am I doing all God wants me to do, and am I doing only what God wants me to do? Well, how do I know? I know because I have the Spirit of God within me, and I'm in the Word of God, and there are certain desires that the Bible says I'm going to have that are spiritual desires And there are other desires I'm going to have that are carnal desires. And I need to know the difference between the two. What if you are doing here's a question. What if you are doing a lot and you believe everything you are doing is according to God's will? Let me give you give you an illustration of this. A few years ago, my wife and I were sitting we were uh sitting at the beach together at in Ocean City. This is uh quite a few years ago. And um we've always used that time. It it's normally in August or early September that we go. Uh there's just somebody that gives it gives us a condo for free free a week it's really all been a huge blessing to us. We always sort of use that time to sort of assess the next year or the next you know semesters or whatever and the fall and the rest of the and all that. And I I I started kind of ticking off everything I'm gonna be I was planning on doing that s that coming semester. I was gonna work a full-time job I was going to uh work in a part-time ministry. I was going to uh teach in a Bible college, another part-time job essentially. And I was working in my doctor my doctoral work all at the same time. And I said to Elizabeth, I said, I said, Elizabeth, I said, um I said, I've been praying about this and I, what do you think? I said, I think I ought to do all this. And she looked at me and what did she say? She said, I think you should too. She did. She said, I can't see any of these I don't think I think you need it. The Lord has provided all these opportunities. I think you need to be involved in every single one of these And I said, you know that that that's gonna really occupy my time a lot. I mean I'm really it's really gonna be a bit difficult And she's and I and she said, Yeah, I know, but I really think I think that all these things are things that you ought to be doing. And I I really felt in my own heart that every single one of these things were was what I should be doing. That I needed I I just really believe that. And I did all of them. Again, so with that in mind, we're going to turn to adn adunal adjustments. There are some times, folks, where if you're going to do all God wants you to do, You're gonna have a very full schedule. And there are sometimes you can't help but have if you're a pastor, there's sometimes you really can't help but have a full schedule. I mean there's just no ch you have no choice. It's just like other times it's easy things will let up a little bit, but there's sometimes it's just you don't have any choice on it. You've got to be at three places at once and you've got to figure out how to do it. And and in those kinds of cases You the key is you've got to make sure your attitude's right. You can't change the behavior. You can't change the activity level sometimes. Sometimes you can, sometimes you can't. But if you can't Then what you've got to do is number one, make sure you're worshiping the Lord. You can tell I'm really thinking that this is important. But number two, you need to realize that the Lord is probably teaching you to depend upon Him. That probably what he's teaching you is that you are going to have to daily depend on him. And there were days going through that kind of level of of busyness. that I just knew I was I started to get my attitude wrong, I was doing too much, and and I would I would get to the place where I was really a little frustrated and I would think to myself, no, no, no, I want to do this faithfully And I really need to understand that that God wants me to be able to look I want to look back at this and say, I depend on God through all that. Not I was just upset all the time And so so I really focused on the attitude part of this. I couldn't change the behavior, so I had to adjust the attitude. Make sure that your focus is on the Lord, not man. Folks, when when it comes to when you're in those kinds of pressure cooker situations You can't look at man. You don't have time to look at man, frankly. But you really can't, you you really cannot compare your life to anybody else's because you're just going to get frustrated And make sure you are receiving and not just transmitting. And here's what I mean by that. Even in times where you feel like you've got more than you can handle You've got to be receiving, be in a mindset where you are listening and receiving truth. You need to ask yourself the question: Am I receptive to truth? Sometimes we can be so busy, our mind is running so fast, we're so cluttered, that no longer is our mind able to receive truth. And if that's the case, you're really in actually a very dangerous place. And the key to that is at that point you probably have to stop. You probably have to change behavior. You probably have to cut things out But the reality is you can go through very busy times with a lot going on, and you could depend on God through those times if you will, number one, make sure you're worshiping God, whatever it takes. And number two, you are thinking to you're realizing that you're doing this and you're depending on God through this. And number three, you're thinking to yourself, yes, I am still in a place where I'm receiving truth I'm not just, my mind's not so cluttered that I can't receive it. And don't forget to enjoy what God has given you to do. Whatever it is I never thought I could enjoy working at Chick-fil-A. But there were times where I learned to enjoy it. I did. I really thought about how nice it was to be able to punch buttons on a computer. Or it was or I mean I really tried. I really in my a honestly in my attitude, I just thought to myself, you know what I could be out I went roofing uh with Frank Dumpsha one day and then I was really thankful for my job How in 120 degree weather, literally up on the roof in a hundred and it's it's a hundred and it was a hundred and five down everywhere else. You go up on the roof on black, it's a hundred and twenty-degree. I literally got sick. I threw up Uh and then the next day I was really thankful for my job. My whole point is that uh it maybe hundreds maybe it's a hundred fifteen, maybe it didn't get past Anyway, it was really hot. That's all I could tell you. How is that I literally was so hot I was breathing in hot air, breathing out hot air. I could feel my body it was just it was I've never been so hot in my life Anyway, all that to say that that we've got to the the key there is attitudinal adjustments. Now what I want to do here real quickly, I we're we're one minute over time, but I just I want to go ahead and do this Take a couple of questions or comments. Any any questions or comments