But I do want us to realize the importance of having a balanced approach when it comes to giving. And we noted last week at the end of our lesson that the passage that really is going to help us in the most comprehensive way when it comes to this concept of tithing or giving. is 2 Corinthians chapter 9. And so what I'd like to do is work through these verses. And what I've done to help us is I've given you a handout. Did everybody get one of those handouts, hopefully I've uh made a handout. It's very simple. I just have a bullet pointer on each one so you can add notes to this. But these are really just six simple guidelines from 2 Corinthians 9. That if you would share with a new believer, it would really probably help them to understand with as much clarity as possible what their responsibility is when it comes to this area of giving I mentioned last week as well that of course I've never really um since my I've started here I don't think I've ever talked really preached on the subject of tithing or giving and I'm only doing it really uh as I've had opportunity to go when we're as we're going going through this this exchange series. And the other time I would usually do it is if I'm going through a passage of sc you know going through a book of the Bible like 2 Corinthians or whatever book we're going through. So those are the times I would usually address this subject. I don't normally, it's not one of my annual subjects that I address no matter what kind of a thing. The truth of the matter is, as I mentioned last week as well, the Lord has blessed us with good, faithful givers. And so I I don't feel as though this is I I think reminders are always helpful and there might be some confus uh confusion that can be clarified tonight. Um but at the same time uh really as a as a a whole this church is to be commended for its faithful giving. Let's pick up here in 2 Corinthians chapter 9 and we'll we'll look at verses 1 through 2 here first. For as teaching the ministering to the saints, it is superfluous for me to write to you, for I know the forwardness of your mind, for which I boast of you to them of Macedonia that Achaea was ready a year ago and your zeal hath provoked very many. He's talking here about the fact that the church at Corinth at one time had boasted that they were going to give uh and actually they had ever all the plans to to help out really with with giving faithfully to other church planting kinds of works. And he's pointing that out. And in fact, Paul used them as an example of someone who was who is giving. But now he has to address this church at Corinth, which you know uh to be a troubled church. Most of you are aware of that, Church of Corinth. Corinth a in Scripture is a a very troubled church. First Corinthians particularly um addresses the issues that went on in the Church of Corinth. But by the time we get to 2 Corinthians A lot of those things have been resolved because of the work, the effective work of 1 Corinthians and Paul's epistle there. And actually some non-canonical epistles as well that were written to them that were probably effective as well. First, number one, just and I'm not gonna we're not gonna get into the details of the grammar in this passage. Um I'm just gonna try to keep things simple, but Number one, believers should give willingly and cheerfully. That's a good principle. It should not be with anxiety or guilt. And this is something that I really feel Is sometimes imbalanced in some uh Christian circles. When it comes to this area, there seems to be a lot of guilt and sometimes anxiety, sort of pressure. to give. And it can be in um I mean it sometimes you'll see it on television, right? Um you need to give a lot, you need to give if you don't give then you're you know God's gonna do something bad to you and those kinds of things you'll see on on uh the televangelist will say those kinds of things. But even in even in independent Baptist churches, sometimes there's this press to give and you're stealing from God and those kinds of things. And we sort of addressed that last time. Well, what God really wants for New Testament believers is for us to give willingly and cheerfully. And we see that uh in this passage. And that was the desire. They had they gave with zeal. Uh and so they gave willingly That was the jo desire, and he they were commended for that desire, the Church of Corinth was. And we see also in verses five through seven, the same admonition. Therefore I thought it necessary to exhort the brethren that they would go before uh unto you th they would um and make up before uh hand your bounty, whereof ye have noticed before that the same might be ready as a matter of bounty and not of covetousness. But this I say He which soweth sparingly shall reap also sparingly, and he that which soweth bountifully shall reap also bountifully. Every man according as he hath purpose in his heart, so let him give not grudgingly nor of necessity, for God loveth a cheerful giver. So number one, believers should give willingly and cheerfully. Number two, believers should give faithfully, regularly, and generously The problem in the Church of Corinth that Paul is going to address is that the that the motivation of the church of uh of these people are is waning a bit. They have said and they have purposed that they are going to give. They've really given their word that they're going to give a certain amount I I don't know if it's a certain amount of money or or just a certain regular uh uh giving. And now they're really struggling with this. Um and they're just Needing encouragement from Paul to be faithful. And so we see a principle there that's helpful for us that believers ought to be faithful in their giving And they ought to give, what we see here is to give regularly. There ought to be a regular a regular giving pattern And we see that in the New Testament here in this passage. And we ought to give abundantly or generously. as it says in some translations. So 9, 3 through 5 helps us with that. I'm going to move quickly here to the next one just because I want to get through all of them tonight Number three, believers should give confidently. Now, what I mean by that is actually we can see verse six gives us what we're talking about here. But this I say, he which soweth sparingly shall reap also sparingly. He that soweth bountifully shall reap also bountifully. Now, if you remember from last week, I said that we need to be careful that we don't apply directly the promises that are given to the nation of Israel in in in um in Micah six eight or in Micah uh in Malachi I'm sorry not Malachi in Mal Malachi. And we talked about about the fact that these were in the most direct way given to the nation of Israel. It's not that you can't take some application and some principle from there. But those were given directly to the nation of Israel. And so what I want to point out here, though, is that there is a general principle that God says. He says, if you sow sparingly, you'll reap sparingly, and if you sow bountifully, you'll reap bountifully. This is in the context of giving So he's using an agrarian concept that every farmer would understand completely. If you put down a few seeds, you're not going to get more than you'll never get more seeds. more plants than the amount of seeds that you put down. And so he's using that concept. What he doesn't do, I think, in this passage, is he's not specific on how you will reap. And I think we have to be sort of careful that we that we allow God to give us what he wants to in response to our giving to him. In other words, it's not It's not as though he's and I've heard it preached this way, but I'm not it's not as though he is necessarily saying that if you give a certain amount of money, then God will double your money. Okay, or something like that. Well maybe God's going to give you maybe the reward is not even in this life at all. Maybe you're going to reap in the next life when you're going to have rewards in the next life. Or maybe he's going to just give you more grace. Or maybe he's going to he is going to be maybe he will give you more. So I think we need to be careful about how we apply this and interpret will really interpret this But one thing is true that God owns all, and he also distributes the way he chooses. So we don't have to worry about it. We can give with confidence, knowing that God will supply our needs. We never have to give saying, oh man, if I give that, um I maybe I'm not going to be able to eat. Because for the Christian, according to Matthew 6, the Christian is guaranteed essentially food and raiment. Those are the two things they're guaranteed. You're not guaranteed shelter biblically. Okay. Now, God um usually gives us shelter. I don't need I don't but but but biblically we will at least be able to eat and be clothed. So we don't have to worry about that, just like the sparrow who falls from the tree doesn't have to be you don't have to worry about that. God will take care of those things. So we never should be giving and saying, okay, well I don't know if I'm not going to be able to eat now. On the other hand, to try to give, and sometimes this passage is used to suggest that what we ought to do is to give from what we don't have And I would really caution that you there. I don't think that's what this passage is saying. It's not suggesting that you guarantee, have you and this is sometimes in this This is sometimes mentioned in the concept of faith promise giving. You've got to be real careful with that. God wants us to give into proportion to what we've received from Him. He is not suggesting that we look ahead and we plan to give what we of what we don't have. There's a lot of problems when you try to promise God something. That you don't have. So I would be really careful with that concept. I don't personally feel that the faith that faith promise giving is a good concept. I think it's it's it's got some several problems with it personally. I'm not saying that every church that does God can't can't use it because he does use it, but I really don't feel that this passage is teaching that But believers should all that to say believers should give confidently. You don't have to give worried about whether God's going to provide for you or not because as a Christian He will provide for you. Now He will provide for our needs, right? He won't necessarily provide for everything we think we need or provide for what we want, but he will provide for our needs. And the the other thing I wanted to mention along with this as well is that we if we begin to see that we are just stewards of whatever God gives us. So it's all his. Everything that comes into our into our possession is his. Our lives are his. Everything there are his. It really is a matter of just directing it where he wants it to go. That means that if he wants it to go into savings, then it goes into savings. If he wants it to go into church ministry, then he if he wants it to go to save for college for your kids. I mean all you've got to what you really have to do is think How does God want me to use his funds for the furtherance of his kingdom? If God wants us to go on a vacation, okay, is that possible that God might want you to go on a vacation? Sure, it's possible. So so for you to plan for that so that you can I mean you can please God that way. So you just have to decide you you've got to be between you and the Lord have to decide um what is How am I going to be the best steward of God's money for his purposes? And so it's really a matter of managing his property, managing what he's given us Just like we looked at this past Sunday morning with the talents he gave them for them to be able to use to multiply for him, for his sake. Number five, believers should give preparedly and purposefully. Verse 5 again says, Therefore I thought it necessary to exhort and brethren that ye should go before unto you, or the idea is prepare, and make up beforehand your bounties. So he's saying, prepare ahead of time. whereof ye had noticed before that the same might might be ready as a matter of bounty and not of covetousness. And what he's talking about here is that Paul was going to come to collect money for the churches, and he said, prepare ahead of time to give. Don't wait until I get there to decide what you're going to do. And it's the point there, the principle there for us is that we give regularly and we we give in a we we prepare ahead of, we think through, okay, what should I give? What m and we we we really think through those kinds of things. The best way to really, and and and purposefully, verse 7, every man according as he hath purposed in his heart, so let him give. And just just by way of application, if you just sort of thinking about this, if you are setting up a budget, which I really the Bible doesn't say you have to live by a budget, but I really think it's a good idea. Um it's a I If you're setting up a budget, that's going to help you prepare how you're going to give. So I'm going to prayerfully consider what I'm going to do in my heart. I'm going to think, Lord, what do you want me to do for the furtherance of your kingdom? There ought to be a thinking that goes on here. It shouldn't just be, okay, 10%. That's all it is. I don't know. It's just 10%. Maybe that is it. But it ought to be a little bit more purposeful than just an automatic ten percent. I just would suggest that to you. I'm not at all saying that it should be less or more or what I mean that's between you and the Lord really. But I I think it needs to be something very purposeful, that you're very confident that what God is giving, what you are giving is what God wants you to give. And I did mention last week that usually my experience has been that most mature Christians are not comfortable with giving less than 10%. Now that's just my experience. There may I I you know I that's just me m my experience. It doesn't mean and of course I don't know what people give usually anyway, I but I um you know I have family, for instance, that are saved and things like that and we talked about those kinds of things and I grew up in a church and stuff. So so that's just been my general um observation about that. And and And so I would I think that's probably a good baseline. I do think that there's a sense in which I really do think that it's probably unwise to think to to think that God expects less of us than He did than He did for of the nation of Israel when it came to the tithe. But the emphasis here is cheerfully. And because we want to. Number six, believers should give readily. What I mean by that, look at verse eight. And God is able to make all grace abound toward you, that ye always, having all a sufficiency in all things, may abound to every good work. And so he's first of all guaranteed, he's first is saying, God, look, God is a God has it all. He is able to give you whatever he wants you to get to give you. He owns a cower cattle on a thousand hills, and he owns the hills, and he can give you what he wants to give you. But there is what he's also suggesting here is that God may give you more so that you can give above what you regularly give. So there's sort of this principle that we ought to, okay, we ought to have a prepared mind mindset of what we're going to give regularly. But in addition to that, we ought to We ought to give, we ought to be ready to give above that if God wants us to. And there might be a need that you see. May not be even be through the church. Maybe it is, maybe it isn't. Maybe it's uh just a need in the body that you happen to see or whatever. However but but to say, okay, you know what, I have an ab I I'm have an abundance, I'm going to give above what I'm I'm um I usually give We need to be ready to do that if the Lord would ask us to do that. And most Christians that I know, if they're sensitive to the to the needs of people and and of what God wants them to do. Usually there is a sensitivity to these things and there is a desire to give above above what you have whatever you have planned regularly to give occasionally. And I think it's also just by way of application, that's why one of the reasons I think it's wise to have a few different funds in our church. that you this is just an application that you can give to. For example, you can give to Missions Fund. And there are people that give to that in addition to their regular giving. Or um or benevolence fund or uh that's a really a good place or other other funds that we have. And there might be times where you the Lord leads you to do that. Or It has nothing to do with going through the church. You're just going to meet a direct need of somebody else, and that's certainly fine and appropriate as well. So we need to be ready to get and I and I think I think my point in saying that and the point of the passage is is that we just need to be Good stewards of what God gives us and realize it's all his and that we're gonna it's like we gotta manage it and distribute it the way that God wants us to Now let me ask you, I I don't is there any comments or questions? I went I was pretty simple on this. I didn't want to get into a lot of details, but is there any comments or questions generally? I'm not talking about any I don't want to talk numbers tonight, but uh but is there any comments or questions uh about about this or thoughts? It's all pretty clear. I hope so. I I I I wanted to put these principles out because I thought it would be clear. Josh? When you sit number five believers should give preparedly and purposefully. I think that takes a little bit more thought sometimes to actually consider or even pray over The giving. Because oftentimes I've grown up with that whole it is here. Did you write it? Okay, good. Okay. checklist type things. Right. And not considering really the kingdom sake or any of that, it's just a duty sake. And so to Think about it and purposefully prepare your heart in doing that. It's almost another blessing. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Oh yeah. And that and God wants us to give He wants it to be a blessing for us. He wants it to for us to Yeah, so I think that's probably maybe the t the best the the probably the sort of top takeaway here is Is not, it is that we ought. Is it a duty? I mean, God says do it regularly, do it faithfully. I mean it it's pretty clear here that way, but at the same time It shouldn't we we ought to be more purposeful and more thoughtful and more um concerned with God's kingdom than just, okay, I'm just gonna write my 10% check. or whatever uh it might be. Um and so that's that that would be that would be just my th uh thought there. Kim I don't know. I I mean I I think it's more it's more an idea of the heart because you've already like you said if you budgeted and you basically know what you're gonna give and if you've got to stand in That you will predominantly give the same amount. But if you remember as you're writing that check or whatever, that even though it might be the same amount, that This is God's money, it's going to God, it's gonna help, it's gonna serve him. Right. Yeah, I agree. money would be of good use. Yeah. Well right. What we're doing is for the furtherance of God's kingdom. That's what we w that that's what we're thinking when we give It's my duty. And um so yeah. So that makes uh yeah, I I agree. It is a heart thing. I I definitely Yes, Lisa. So a more specific example, what is If you got like a work bonus and you're going, oh yes, you know, I can go on vacation with my family. Oh, I gotta do I don't think we should look at it that way. leads you to uh give and you don't. Um that would be my easiest that would be the b but I don't I don't I really think that we're kind of I think we're missing the point if we're asking to be honest with you, I think we're missing the point if we're asking is it's I'm not saying you're wrong for asking the question, because you want to do what's right. But I I think that human nature, not just in a Christian to be like, oh I came across this money I didn't know I was getting I really need a new car. I really need like should you uh does God want to Okay, let's think about that for a minute. Let's say you get an extra bonus. Okay, and you really need a new car And and let's say that the amount that you're getting is exactly the amount that you're going to need for the new card that you know you need. Okay. And so you know you think to yourself, well, if I give some to the church, then I won't have enough money for it. Let me just throw this out there for you. If that car will be for the furtherance of God's kingdom, then I I'm going to tell you I don't think there's any problem there with just buying the car. That my personal opinion. If your conscience bothers you, don't violate your conscience. But I don't think personally, because it's all for God's kingdom. I mean, if we're doing the Bible says what you eat whatsoever you eat or drink or whatsoever you do, do all the glory of God. So if I think to myself, you know what, I need to buy this car because I believe God wants me to buy this car and it's for the furtherance of God's kingdom. I don't think it's I I don't personally think that you have to feel as though that bonus has to you've got to give some of the now you are to give biblically up in proportion to your income. So if you have an increase in income you would think then sen essentially that there would be a a proportion given. But I but I don't I just I don't know. I'm gonna play that take it on it. Fine, you could fine. Ah let's say ten grand. Yeah. Two two thousand go, we'll just use the ten number, ten number. So you make thousand dollars. So maybe the car that you thought you needed at ten thousand isn't the car that you really have to have a $10,000. You can still do the servants. You can still use that $8,000 buy still a good car and still use it for the Lord. And you You've in essence done what you're looking to do. If that's the war speaking of the Lord. Sure. I can't argue with it. If that's the Lord, the Lord leads, that's great. I no. I if that if the Lord it doesn't rule that out. If the it doesn't. If the Lord leads you to buy a Corvette, then that's what I'm saying. Yeah. Then no, I my question is if the verse that talks about giving based on your increase is that old testament or new both. Okay. That particular is both. Well that's just how I would do it though. The big thing is the original question if we remember is is it sin? And I I don't think that's what we're dealing with here. I think I d uh that's what I'm trying to get away from. But uh Old Testament it was that's the difference. Nation of Israel, you give your ten percent of your grain, or you are sinning and you're robbing God. I don't think we see that in the New Testament. I do think there's a difference there. But um um but anyway, I do think it's a matter of doing what you believe the Lord wants you to do. I I would I t I agree I can kind of see both sides of this. Honestly, I can so Anyway. Yes. But if you're saying that you should be giving cheerfully and willingly, then what if you do get that bonus and you feel guilty and you feel like, well I should give part of this, even though I don't want to, then with No, I think then we just need to change our hearts or ask like God to change our heart Honestly, I d it's kind of like do you do you come to church even though you don't feel like it? What's the answer to that? Yes, you come to church even though you don't feel like it. Okay? Alright. Why? The answer is not, okay, well my heart's not right, so I'm just not going to do it. You do it. The Bible says commit your way into the Lord and your heart will be established. So I don't think that it's one or the other. I think it's both. Yes? I think part of this is also driven by probably thirty years of hearing it the other way. Sure. Ten percent, you got doorhouse giving, you got and we've been bowed round before Or beat up into that, and that's part of where some of that guilt thing probably comes from. We've been hammered with it for quite a while. It's it's refreshing. Yeah. Isn't it wouldn't it be nice just to give because you love God? I mean is that right? Yeah, that's a that's God wants you to give a car, you can I oh I I d I don't disagree. And by the way, let me just say this. Um there have been many times it doesn't work out on paper for me. Frankly, on many occasions and I just know that there's a need and I I don't give out a debt, I don't do that, but But I know there's a need and I'm looking down down the head and I'm seeing that I n have a need down the down the road, but I'm gonna give that my there have been times where that's happened and I just give and trust the Lord and there are times I don't know I still don't know how it works I there are times I look back and I still know how it's working on paper, but it's working on paper somehow. So um uh the Lord does that. And I I think we need to sort of um Yeah, so look, the bottom line is I can't, you know, I could not tell you what to do with any of this. Okay, and you can't tell it isn't something that you want to do between you and the Lord. But I do think, I would say this very strongly, and I think Dave kind of made this point, it's not about guilt. It's about love. You want to do it out of love for God. And it doesn't mean you don't do it if you don't love God. But because but you do but you you that's the goal. The goal is I do it because I really love the Lord. I want to give for the furtherance of key of his kingdom. And I think that and that that's probably the biggest, the most important thing that we we at least move forward towards. All right, let's pray together. Lord, we do thank you for this time. Thank you for the discussion and the questions and the thoughts. Um it's good to good to think through these things, and I do pray that you would help us um to give cheerfully and not of necessity, knowing that you love a cheerful giver, that we would give to you. with a heart that wants to see your the furtherance of your kingdom in this world and the furtherance of the gospel. And um so I I just pray, Lord, that you would um you would we we all struggle from time to time with these kinds of questions and we want to do what's right, but there is this there's tension sometimes in our hearts with these things. Lord, I pray that you would just help us to know you and love you and to know your word and then simply to be faithful in the things that you've given us to do. And we uh thank you, Lord, for the I thank you for this church and I thank you for the giving. There isn't any question that people are giving. And I I thank you for that, Lord. Thank you for their desire to see the gospel go forward in this community and around the world, Lord. And I pray that you would just uh we w provide for us as you have done um in in in uh uh time and time again. Uh we thank you for that. And uh we pray that you dismiss us with your blessing. Pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.