Father, we do come to you, and our desire is that our soul would be still. We don't live in a world that's very still But as the psalmist said, you delight when we are still and know that you are God. When we think of who Christ is, the Son of God, the living water who came to earth. And um become who became a sacrifice for us so that the deepest need of our heart Could be satisfied. Lord, I pray today as we look into your word this morning and we look at John, and we look at Christ's offer of water, not physical water that we would think of, but spiritual water, living water. I pray, Lord, that you would teach us that although many of us have trusted you as Savior, we often have a written River of with streams of water that are that are ours for the taking, we have access, and ye yet we don't take from That water sometimes. I pray, Lord, that you would teach us how to satisfy the deepest longings in our soul Help us to understand that living water that you offer to each of us. May we know Christ more today. May we appreciate more of what he has done and who he is. Because he has given us complete access to you. And we can know you because of it. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. John Chapter four. John Chapter Four. There are all kinds of appetites and desires and affections that we have in life. Some of these are emotional. We desire companionship and the respect of others and love and acceptance. Some of these are physical comfort and food and fresh air and Beauty, those kinds of things. Sometimes uh they are personal. We have personal goals. We have different things that we want to do. And of course we also have spiritual desires that we know that we have. It's interesting as we kind of walk through life and we go through life, we have different needs and desires and goals and we sort of sometimes we're we're like we're we're like uh um you remember the the old pinball games? How many of you ever remember playing those? I don't see them anymore very often Um they probably you could probably just like upload one on a website and go ding ding ding now. But anyway. Um but the old pinball games, you know, you'd you'd you get them you get it down here and the balls would just Go back and forth all over the place they think ping ping ping ping ping ping ping ping ping. And sometimes the way that we live it's like we've got these goals And we've got these different desires and they're we're just going pick, pick, pick, pick, pick, pick, pick all over the place. And every day we have all I have to do is that desire, and I'll go over that desire, and I'll go over that des Okay, that I need to meet that desire. And we we're we're like ping pong balls in a ping pong um game It is extremely important that we learn that although we have these various desires and goals and affections, many of them are God-given, some of them would not be God-given. We have got to learn to see that our greatest, that our deepest need, our greatest affection. The appetite that needs to be filled the most is the spiritual. The spiritual satisfaction of the soul. And what we've got to do is we've got to align our desires and centralize them around the spiritual desire that every one of us has. But unfortunately, because of the busyness of our life, or because of the world that we live in, or because of the responsibilities that we have We are often distracted by the peripheral desires and we sometimes, if not often, ignore the deepest soul desire that we have. And sometimes we don't even think it's there. We become cold and insensitive to the spirit and to what we need spiritually. We become, there's a deadening that can actually happen in our very souls, even as for those of us who know Christ as our Lord and Savior. And certainly for the unbeliever, there is a spiritual need, but many, if not not even many, most are not aware of it. And they run around their entire lives meeting one need after another like a ping-pong ball. And what we've all got to do is we've got to centralize our focus and centralize our desires. on that which is spiritual, the need in our souls that can only be met by Christ alone. There are all kinds of needs that can be met various ways. There are all kinds of things that even God chooses to supply for us in various ways. But when we ever stop seeing our spiritual need It is because, or it may be because we are fulfilling all of our desires to the exclusion of that spiritual need. And we're going to understand more, Lord willing, we're going to understand more of this this morning as we go into this passage. In John chapter 4, Christ is going to redirect the approach to his ministry. He has, as you may have be may be aware, he has been ministering in Judah, and he has had great popularity at this point. In fact If you recall from last week, the disciples of John came to John and were concerned about how many people were now following Christ. And of course, John the Baptist says, He must increase, I must decrease. This is a good thing. But apparently the Pharisees got wind of this, and the Pharisees were always watching out for who was the most popular and who had the political power. They were always concerned about this, and oftentimes The Pharisees would use those kinds of things and they would sort of twist the intention of what people were trying to do, particularly Christ. Christ would, his intention was that people would come to him And find rest for their souls, that people would come to Him and find eternal life. That's what Christ was desire was. But the Pharisees often questioned the motives of Christ. And because they questioned Christ's motives, and because the Pharisees would often twist things, in some cases Christ decided it is time for me to simply move on. Because at this point In Christ's ministry, his primary goal is that he would be able to become that light, or he is the light, but that the light would be revealed to people. Later on in his ministry, he's going to sort of shut that down. He's not going to be so concerned about that. He's going to look toward his death. But at this point, he wants to reveal himself to the world And so he redirects his ministry from Judea, and he's going to go up to Galilee, which is north of that, but in between Galilee and Jude and Judea is this place called, this region called Samaria. And so we find here that he's going to redirect himself geographically. Would you notice in the text, chapter 4, verse 1? When therefore the Lord knew how the Pharisees had heard that Jesus made and baptized more disciples than John, though Jesus himself baptized not but his disciples, He left Judea and departed again into Galilee. And he must needs go through Samaria. Now, as I have already mentioned, Samaria most of you know that probably that Samaria is in between Galilee and Judea. Some scholars suggest that there was such Jewish prejudice against the Sumerians that they would actually cross over the Jordan River and go like double or triple the amount of time to go over or around the the east side of the Jordan River to come up to Galilee. But I will just tell you that I think that that is unlikely. It seems from what Josephus says that it was a common practice for them to go through Samaria. So that may be something new for you. It seems that the historians, the secular historians, noted that. Now sometimes that would happen, but that was not actually the normal case. However, it should not cause us to think that there was not prejudice against the Samaritan people, because there very well was. And what Christ is going to do is he's going to take this occasion to reach out to these to these this group of people. He does not avoid them on any uh on any level, and in fact he's going to redirect his ministry that way. He is going to essentially redirect his ministry ethnically. And he's going to do so with these Samaritan people. The Samaritans came about, they are a mixed group of people. Back in um uh years before, prior to the Assyrian captivity, King King Amri named this area, uh this kingdom of Samaria, and sometimes even it was the whole air region was called Samaria But in 722 to 721 A. D. BC, the Assyrians captured Samaria along with a lot of other area in that region. And during that time, in order to assimilate them and to sort of break up the power, they deported all of the wealthy Jewish people out of that area. And they imported people from various foreign areas into that area. And then obviously they intermarried with the Jewish people. And as a result, you have an entirely new different group of people with a different religion, primarily based upon the Pentateuch. They they believed in the five books of the Old Testament, but they did not believe in any of the rest the rest of the Old Testament being inspired. You had essentially a different religion, a different group of people, and the Jews, I'll just be very blunt with you, the Jews, many of them hated the Samaritans, hated them. And in fact, the Jewish leaders gave great reason for that to happen. In fact, in the Mishnah, which was the Jewish rabbinical writings, You actually find that it said that to sit, to eat with a Samaritan Was to make someone unclean just by eating with them. And they were so specific as to what that meant, they said, if you eat one olive with a Samaritan, then you are considered ceremonially unclean. They actually said that the women, this the Mishnah, this the rabbinical writings suggested or said, asserted, that the Samaritan women were so from birth were unclean. Just from birth. They were immediately unclean. And everywhere that the Samaritan woman sat, if you sat there, you would be unclean. In other words, folks, what you find here is not only is the nation of Israel, the Jewish people, they are just really having prejudice against them, they are being validated in their prejudice by the leadership of the Jewish nation at this point. And so Christ is now going to redirect his ministry socially. Because what you find is that he is going to go to the poor people He's going to go to the people that are outcasts. He's going to go to the people with the this sort of odd religion. In fact, this religion was so odd that back um During a certain point in history, a temple was built specifically for them. And we'll actually talk more about that next week when we look at the worship practices of these people. But you have also here on a social level a contrast in Christ's redirection of his ministry. You have a contrast between Nicodemus And the Samaritan woman, Nicodemus, was educated and powerful. He was respected and orthodox. He was theologically trained. He was a man, a Jew, and a ruler. In contrast, you have the Samaritan woman who was unschooled, without influence. She was despised even by her own people. She was capable only of folk religion. She had no formal training at all and was very confused about what she even believed This was a Samaritan woman was an outcast. You have this contrast. And if you recall over in chapter three of this of this book of John Nicodemus came to Christ by night under subterfuge, and what you find in this chapter is that Nicodemus, we don't have any indication that he comes to Christ. In other words, it doesn't seem as though he receives the eternal life that Christ is offering. It doesn't say he doesn't, but the indication would be that he does not come to Christ. You're going to find the exact opposite found in chapter 4 here, where the Samaritan woman is going to come to Christ. And so you have all of this redirection of Christ's ministry, and we ought to take note as to how Christ approaches this Samaritan woman. It will help us at a couple of different levels. It will help us as we consider how to witness to others. How can we establish redemptive redemptive relationships with others for the sake of the gospel? But that isn't actually the primary message of this narrative. The primary message centers on what Christ offers to the Samaritan woman He offers her living water. And he offers her a way to worship in spirit and in truth. The effect of this narrative on our hearts and lives ought to be primarily, not Certainly secondarily, we could look at the different methods that Christ used, but primarily it ought to be that we see Christ and what he not only offers a Samaritan woman. but offers every one of us. And has offered this, but also will continue to offer this. And so we pick up here in verse 5 where it says this: Then cometh he to a city of Samaria, which is called Sikar. near to the partial of ground that Jacob gave to his his son Joseph. And we actually found find that at the end of the book of Genesis. We won't take the time to turn there for now Verse 6 says, Now Jacob's well was there. Jesus therefore, being wearied with his journey, sat thus on the well, and it was about the sixth hour. So that we find here the setting, the occasion where Jesus is now going to reach out to minister. And the occasion is this: Christ comes into Sychar. He sits down at Jacob's well. This is an ancient well that Jacob dug for his family. He dug for his people. It's interesting when you look at some of the background of why Jacob would have would have uh would have dug this well, because there were many fresh streams very close to this location. They could have easily gone there. But apparently Jacob did this for the sake of convenience, that it would be even easier for them to be able to gain water. It's also interesting to note that this Jacob's well is actually still running, as far as I can tell from what it says on the internet, what you can But as far as I could tell, it's still working to this day. You could still go to Jacob's well and you can draw water from it. And this became, because it was in the region of Samaria, it became really a valued place for the Samaritans to come to draw well, to draw water. It says here in this passage that Jesus was here at the sixth hour, which was noontime. And that is significant for a couple of reasons. One reason is that at noontime is the hottest time part of the day. No one else would have been there. And yet Christ sits down there. Obviously, Christ has had a long journey. It's about a three to four-day journey from Judea up till up to Galilee, and this is sort of midway in between that. So he's had a long journey. He's tired We see the passage that John notes this demonstrating the humanity of Christ. Christ was human. He got tired. You ever get tired? He got tired. And so he sits at this well, but the thing that is really kind of amazing about this, this is un what is unusual about this situation. Is that a Samaritan woman is coming to the well at this at the heat of the day? That would not have been normal In fact, during that time, normally even Samaritan women, as well as Jewish women, when they gained to draw water at wells and streams, they would come in groups for the sake of safety. This woman comes alone. They would come early in the day, usually, or late at night. This woman comes in the middle of the day It demonstrates that even the Samaritan woman among her own people was considered to be an outcast. She came because she was embarrassed, and she probably had very few, if any, friends. This is the kind of person that Christ reaches out to. And we have a very unique situation as we consider this. And Jesus says this to the woman. Verse 7. There cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water. Jesus saith unto her, Give me to drink. Now we've already noted this is an unusual situation, but it would have been even more unusual for Christ to ask this woman to touch a vessel and fill it with water and give it to him to drink. It immediately demonstrated to this woman that Christ was unconcerned with the ceremonial the ceremonies of the Jewish people. Christ was never unconcerned with the Old Testament law. Christ kept the Old Testament law to the letter. And of course, he demonstrated, he fulfilled the law and showed that the spirit of the law is what's more important. But when it came to the rabbinical writings, Christ did not always follow them. When it came to the ceremonial things that were added to the law, Christ often rejected them, and in this case, he certainly did. And so he demonstrated from the very beginning of his just by asking that question, this would have struck something in the mind of this Samaritan woman, and certainly find that it did, because we read in verse Well, we'll read verse 8. We have a parenthetical note there. For his disciples were gone away unto the city to buy meat. So the disciples were gone. They went to buy food. They left him there. It's interesting just by way of imagination to think for a minute of why they would have left him there. Why would he have not gone with them? It is possible, though, that Christ knew what was going to happen, or perhaps Christ saw the woman sitting there and decided that he needed to reach out to her. Whatever the case is, they left. They probably took all of the vessels. They probably took all of the thing, everything with them as they went out. So he would not have had anything with him, like a cup or anything to draw to draw from the well. Verse 9 says, Then said the woman in reply to his request, So then said the woman of Samaria unto him, How is it that thou, being a Jew, askest drink of me, which am a woman of Samaria? For the Jews have no dealings with Samaritans. She was shocked that Christ would ask her to have a drink. She was amazed that this would be the case. So she says, why would you do this? Christ does not go into the details of why. He does not say, well, I really actually reject the rabbinical writings of the Old Testament. Not the Old Testament, the rabbinical writings of the Mishnah. He doesn't say that. He doesn't say, well, I actually just don't follow the ceremonial things. Or I think that the ceremonies are a bunch of nonsense. He doesn't do that What he does, though, is he directs the conversation to where it really matters. But he does so, folks, in a way that it would connect with this woman. He takes a physical illustration of water that is right in front of her, and he says to her these things in verse 10. Jesus answered and said unto her, If thou knowest the gift of God, and who it is that saith to thee, Give me to drink. Thou wouldest have asked him, and he would have given thee living water. He redirects the conversation and he says, if you knew who I was and you knew the gift that I'm about to offer you or want to offer you, you would be saying to me, please give me water. But he uses a term living water. Now, this word living is an important word to understand. He could have only been saying, when he said living water, he could have only been saying fresh water. The word living could have taken that meaning. In other words, he could have been saying, Would you give me, or I can give you fresh water. Give me that stagnant water out of that well. I actually have the ability to give you fresh water from a stream Which would have been more desirable than the well water. But of course, you and I all know from the rest of this passage That Christ is talking about something different entirely. He is talking about living water. Water that is of spiritual nature. And so let's ask this question: what is Christ actually talking about at this point? What is he talking about when he talks about living water? Christ has meant, or John, I should say, has mentioned in this in this book a couple of times this con this uh he's mentioned he referred to water. Do you remember when he turned the water into wine? Or do you remember when he said to Nicodemus, you must be born of what? Of water and of the Spirit. And in that context, when he said you must be born of water and the spirit, as we searched that out, we found that the term water and spirit are really essentially an interjoined idea. An interjoined concept. And we said that from what we can tell, the water referred to the Word of God. And of course, had to be worked in conjunction with the Spirit of God. Let's look a little further at what this living water means. Also, I'll just mention this: that when cr that it was prophesied that Christ would come with living water in Isaiah 44, 3, he says For I will pour water upon him that is thirsty, and floods upon the dry ground. I will pour, and we have a great Indication as to what this water is from 44-3. My spirit upon thy seed And my blessing upon thine offspring. He says, I will pour my spirit But with that in mind, would you take your Bible and turn to John 7, just a couple of chapters over, and we're going to see Christ identify what this what this living, when we attach this term living to it, what this living water is Verse 37 says, In the last day, that great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried, saying, If any man thirst, let him come unto me and drink. He that believeth on me, as the scripture has said, out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water. But this spake he of, John says, tells us, he tells us what this is, spake he of what? The Holy Spirit. Which they have believed on him should receive. For the Holy Ghost was not yet given, because Jesus was not yet glorified. What Jesus was offering, in very simple terms, what Christ was offering this woman at the well was the Spirit of God. You may ask yourself the question, why did he not say, I offer to you the Holy Spirit? What would immediately be your thoughts? Well, would the Samaritan woman understand the concept of the Holy Spirit? Not likely. They would have believed, according to the Samaritan religion, that there is one God But they would not have even understood or entertained the idea of having three persons in one being. And yet, what Christ is offering her is the Holy Spirit of God, the Holy Spirit living water. And so it's it is the case that that um she wouldn't have offer uh he that she wouldn't have understand stood that John chapter 6, verse 63 says this: it is the Spirit that quickeneth. The word quicken means to give life. The flesh profiteth nothing. The words that I speak unto you are spirit, and they are life. It is by means of the Spirit of God that someone receives eternal life. You need the work of the Spirit of God in order for this to happen. And we have noted on many occasions before that the Father has the plan for salvation in eternal life. Christ executes that plan of eternal life, but it is the Spirit of God that applies the eternal eternal life to an individual. And what we find in this passage and actually in other passages is that Christ had the ability to at any time, because the God gave him life to give. We talked about that At any time, he could give this spirit that he had full measure of to someone else so that they could receive eternal like. And they would have to, of course, as they're doing this, they would believe on Christ for this. Looking, of course, forward to the propitionary sacrifice that Christ was about to make, the death of Christ on the cross And so what we find here is that Christ is offering the Holy Spirit to this person, the Samaritan woman. Now with that in mind, would you turn back to ver to chapter 4 of John, and we'll look at verse 11 here. The woman saith unto him, Sir, thou hast nothing to draw with, and the well is deep. From whence then hast thou that living water? She didn't misunderstood that he said living attached to the word water. That was not the problem. The Samaritan woman, however, thought that she meant More than likely thought that he meant that he could go and get fresh water. And she said to him, You don't even have a bucket. You have nothing to draw with. Of course, she had not grasped what he was talking about. It is interesting how then Christ moves into this. He doesn't say, well, look, I'm talking about the Holy Spirit here. He again is now going to move a little deeper to deal, to work toward her understanding her deepest need by saying this. Verse 12. Art thou greater than Oh well let's actually finish up what the woman said Art thou greater than our father Jacob, which gave us the well and drank thereof himself, and his children, and his cattle? He says are you are you not greater first of all are you not greater than than than than my our father Jacob? The answer is no. In her mind, you're not greater than him. And so he still she still has no idea who he really is. So Jesus says this, verse 13. Jesus answered and said unto her, Whosoever drinketh of the water shall thirst again. But whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst. But the water that I shall give him shall be to him a well of water. springing up into everlasting life. Christ is, of course, we know using an analogy between physical water and spiritual water. Physical water Meets physical thirst, it satisfies physical thirst, but the satisfaction is temporary. This living water, this spiritual water, satisfies a different kind of thirst. And the result is eternal. So he's talking here about a spiritual thirst. It demonstrates here folks that every single individual on the on planet Earth, whether saved, and I'm just going to apply this eventually here to unsaved as well, but I mean uh unsaved and and is and to saved has the deepest longing of his soul is is needs to be met by God alone You may have needs. I may have needs. We may have desires and affections and goals, but our deepest need Is for God. And until that need is met, we cannot meet these other needs appropriately. And in fact, we will wreak havoc in our lives as we look to satisfy these other peripheral needs in ways that we deem necessary rather than looking at how God supplies these needs. Now, with this, I'd like to ask you a simple question. Christian, is this true in your life experientially? Can you say that you have drunk of that spiritual water and you are completely satisfied so that you have never been spiritually thirsty again? And if you are honest, you are going to have to say no And you are not alone. If you are honest with yourself this morning, folks, what I'm saying here is what you're honest with yourself this morning, there is a sense in which all of us have had spiritual need. in our lives in our deepest souls after we have come to Christ and that is not just automatically met There is this tension between the fact that it has been met and yet it spiritually isn't always met. We've got this need that is deep in our soul that must be constantly met. I mean, how is this all supposed to work? And what is Christ actually saying here for the Christian? Is he actually saying that we ought to have no spiritual needs anymore at all? What is he saying here? Boy, I just created a whole controversy out of a simple passage. Well, I want to illustrate the struggle this way. Hudson Taylor, many of you know him, know who he is. You don't know him, but you know who he is. He was a missionary to China, in fact. Hudson Taylor um was a very prolific writer and he would write uh he would journal a lot and he would write letters a lot. Many of his letters to his mother and to his sister and other people he He was very, he wrote a lot of letters, and many of them have been preserved for us in various biographies and autobiographies. But there was a certain time in his life, in fact six years of his life, he had already gone to China, he had already gone through the rigors of getting over there, he had then returned over back to England. to try to recruit more people for the work. And for six years of his life, we find nearly no journal entries and no letters. It is considered to be one of the darkest time in Hudson Taylor's life. We do know of one correspondence where he writes this to his mother. He says this. The need for your prayer, that's in parentheses because this is in in fragments here a little bit, but but he must have said that, has never been greater than at present. Envied by some, despised by many, hated by others, often blamed for things I have never heard of or had nothing to do with, an innovator on what w what have become established rules of missionary practice, an opponent of mighty systems of heathen and heirs and superstition, working without precedent in many respects and with few experienced helpers Often sick in body as well as perplexed in mind and embarrassed by circumstances, had not the Lord been specifically gracious to me, but not my uh had not had not my mind been sustained by the conviction that the work is his and that he is with me, I must have fainted or broken down. But the battle is the Lord's, and he will conquer We may fail, he continues to say. You're going to see sort of this roller coaster in his mind. We may fail, do fail continually, but he never fails. I have continually to mourn that I follow at such a distance and learn so slowly to imitate my precious master. I cannot tell you how I am buffeted sometimes by temptation. I never knew how bad a heart I have. Yet I do know that I love God, and love his work, and desire to serve him only and in all things, and I value above all else the precious Savior to whom alone I can be accepted Often I am tempted to think that one so full of sin cannot be a child of God at all. May God help me to love him more and serve him better. And that I would say would suggest all of us as Christians that have been saved for any length of time can identify with Hudson Taylor's struggle there Struggle with the dark times of life. Struggle with the times where there is this need in our souls. For God to fill and we feel empty or we feel overly riveted by temptation, we feel just difficulties in our lives, and on the other hand, we love God, want to please Him. So what is Christ saying here when he says that he gives living water where you will never thirst again? Well, I want to illustrate this struggle further. I want to take us down even further. Are you ready for this? I want to stru illustrate the struggle, and I'm going to illustrate it, don't get scared off by this, but I'm going to illustrate it by by something that a Greek philosopher, Plato, wrote about his His mentor, Socrates. Now, I just for you visitors, I don't quote Socrates every week or anything. But this will be helpful for us to really think about the entire issue here. of desires being met. Now he does not uh approach this from a from a religious or for well maybe it's sort of quasi religious, but not from a spiritual Christian perspective at all. We don't think I don't think Socrates knew the Lord at all, but he was a very deep thinker and he said this. He was talking to a friend of his, and he said this. Let me request you to consider how far you would accept this as an amount of the two lives of the temperate and intemperate. There are two men, both of whom have a number of casks. Those are just cup uh jars. The one man has his cask sound and full, one of wine, another of honey, and a third of milk. besides others filled with other liquids, and the streams which fill them are few and scanty. And he can only obtain them with a great deal of toil and difficulty. But when his casks are once filled, he has no need to feed them again anymore. and has no further trouble with them, or care about them. The other, in like manner, can procure streams through not, though not without difficulty But his vessels are leaky and unsound, and night and day he compelled to be filling them. And if he pauses for a moment, he is in agony of pain Such are their respective lives. And now would you say that the life of the intemperate is happier than that of the temperate? Now what is he saying here? I'll I'll put it in English for you. What he's basically saying is this. He's saying, you know, you have some people that seem as though they have they are full, they're satisfied. And yet and they seem to have no desire, and they're like dead. They don't have any desire anymore. They're full already, and there's this coldness and deadness. in their lives because they're full. They got everything they need. They're sort of comfortable. And you've got these other people that their their jars are so leaky they gotta keep filling them up over and over and over again. And he surmises that the person that has the leaky jar is better than the person that has the full jar that's that's filled to overflowing and doesn't need the desire, doesn't even know he has the desire anymore, doesn't have the desire anymore because he's he's fulfilled Now, I want to take that illustration, and I want you to keep that in your mind, and I want you to take your Bibles and turn to Jeremiah chapter 2. Jeremiah chapter 2 and look at verse 13. And we're going to find what God says at this point in Israel's history about this nation. Now stay with me here if you would, please stay with me. This is going to be this is going to be crucial for us to understand how the Christian is going to deal with this passage in his life because all of us would admit, we would all admit there are times where we've got spiritual needs, even though this passage says that our thirst is quenched forever. Would you notice what it says, Jeremiah 2. 13? For my people have committed two evils. They have forsaken me, the fountain of what? Living waters. And by the way, it assumes then they had access to them, right? They had access to the living waters of God. They had access. The problem was they've forsaken them. Why? They hewed them out cisterns. Broken cisterns that can hold no water. Now, I want to illustrate this this way by application. What is your cistern like? Or what is your jar like? There are some people in the world, there are some Christians in the world, that it is as though they have plug every leak in the hole in their jar and they they are just comfortable and they are fulfilled in their lives and they are just sort of they're just sort of coasting. And that is deadness to the soul. And there are others whose jars are leaky, and they're trying to fill them with everything. Except they really need. And what God is saying is this. Essentially what he is saying is that you and I have access to a flowing stream. Whereby we can gain more of God. I'll just tell you this: my jar is leaky. It's very leaky. And Hudson Taylor's jar was very leaky. So, like, we're in good company here. But the stream of flowing river flowing water from Christ is always there. And the the great the great truth for us is that as though our jar is leaky, as though we have this insatiable desire, this spiritual Desire for God, this desire that we have got to constantly be met. It was really in God's plan for that to happen, this side of heaven. That really all of the needs that we have should point us to the one spiritual need that we ultimately have, and that is Christ, and we have full access to fulfill it at any time. And it really is really up to us, isn't it? It's up to us to draw from Christ and His Spirit and His Word. And if you are feeling as though you've got these desires and you're like the ping pong ball going all over the place everywhere. Just admit that you are, and that I am, and that what we need is Christ's Spirit. We've got it if we know him. He is indwelling us, but what we need is his influence in our lives. What we need is for him to take the word of God and to satisfy our very souls in our lives. That is what we need. And that is what Christ is offering to this woman. For this woman, it was the first time. For this woman, he is offering himself so that she can look on Christ, she can believe in Christ, and she can accept him for who he is, and she can be saved. For you and I, if you if you and I know Christ is our Savior, and I'm not assuming that, but most of us probably do, and if we do, folks Then we have the same need. The Spirit of God can dwell in us, but we are not accessing that stream that is right next to us or even inside of us. Hudson Taylor will return back to him because he says this. Well let before we're gonna close with that, what I want to do first is actually look over the narrative and see how crut how how the woman responds real quick. The woman saith unto him, Sir, give me this water that I thirst not, neither come hither to draw. And I want to make this application at this point She still thinks that this is physical water. Later on in the passage, we're going to learn how Christ deals with this. She still realizes this, but what does at this point she understand? She knows her need. It is, folks, the first step to somebody coming to Christ. They've got to know their need They've got to know that they have a need that they cannot fill, and Christ is going to use this illustration to demonstrate in a spiritual sense that they've got a need of sin, and he's going to hit them right in between the eyes next week. Well, in the passage there. There he is going to go on to say that you are living in sin. In fact, he lets her tell him that. He says, you're right you have no husband. You've had five husbands, and the man you're living with now is not your husband And he draws out from her and moves from this physical need that she knows she had to causing her to realize you have a spiritual need. And I just want to make this application. If you and I know Christ is our Savior and we're witnessing to others, we need to show them, we need to ask God to help us to show them their need. They've got to know their need. They've got to realize that they are not alright, that they're not okay before they can come to Christ But for those of us who know Christ is our Savior, I wanna I wanna make this application this way. Thankfully, after six years of this struggling and and and really his whole life, he was saved at 17 years old. Then he had a lot of spiritual victory in his life. He went over to China, uh did some great things over there, came back to to England, met spent six years in England in great struggle. goes back over to China, has some major crises in his lives in his life, but then he ends up the he ends up saying this on September 4th, 1869. He says, oh Mr. Judd. Can you put that up on the screen, Tony? He says, oh Mr. Judd, God has made me a new man. God has made me a new man. Now I just want you to think about this. When did John when it's clear, it's clear in the biography biographies. He has a detailed biographies. Uh it's clear that he came to Christ at seventeen, not at this stage. And yet he says here, I am a new man. And he says this, he continues. What happened that day was not ephemeral. He looked back almost thirty Oh, actually this is a commentary by the person who wrote this, and I'll just read it because it is good. He looked back almost thirty years later giving thanks for the abiding experience that he had. So he says this, I'm a new man, and 30 years later, this lasted for him for 30 years. And he says this. He quotes this. He said, we shall never forget the blessing we received through the words. And John, what do you think? This passage, 414. Whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst. Neither nearly 30 years ago, as we realized that Christ literally meant what he said, that shall meant shall, and never meant never And thirst meant thirst. Our heart overflowed with joy as we accepted the gift. O the thirst with which we had sat down, but O the joy with which we sprang from our seat. Praising the Lord that the thirsty days were all past and past forever. Now I want to add this note. In the 30 years time that followed, I am sure that Hudson, it was not as though Hudson Taylor had become sinlessly perfect Or that Hudson Taylor never had a struggle again. I am sure that Hudson Taylor still struggled with circumstances And difficulties. But there was a difference because Hudson Taylor at that point knew in every situation, in every circumstance of his life, he knew where to go. To fulfill the desire, the deepest desire of his soul. And he knew what it meant to draw from that living stream, that spring. He knew what it meant to have God fill the deepest parts of his soul, the deepest longing of his soul. He knew what God meant by that, and so he was able to go and and and just and just go and drink from it. at any time. That would be my prayer and for myself and for all of us. That we would learn, and we're not done with this passage, we're like in the middle of it, frankly. There is really no way to stop this passage, but for sake of time, unless you all want to be here all week, we have to. But we are going to learn in the next coming weeks Exactly, what does Christ mean by this? How do we do this? What is involved in just accessing this living water? And it will and and I think we just need to ask God to help us with this, don't we? What I want to do at this point is this. I want to give you just a couple of moments in the quietness of your own heart and soul before the Lord, just in quiet, total quietness before the Lord. And maybe the Lord's working on your heart. And you say, as you look at this, and Hudson Taylor's experience, as you look at the Word of God and what Christ is offering, as you look at all of this, and you you realize in one sense or another you've been And you've been maybe you've been like the ping-pong ball, maybe you're just bouncing from one thing to the other. You've not really centralized on the greatest desire being your soul. And you and you would just say in your heart before the Lord, I I just desire this. I desire to know how to access this living water as a Christian. I know how to do this. I want to know how to do this. And you would ask God, just in the quietness of your own heart, Lord, would you teach me how to do this? I'd really encourage you to do that. And I'm going to do it with you. I've done it already, but I'm going to do it again with you. And ask the Lord to teach us all how we can do this in our lives. Yeah, did I have to Father, we do come to you this morning. morning and we admit before you our need. Our greatest need is a spiritual need. And if there is anyone here that has never had that mean met by you, Lord, may you work in their hearts and draw them to yourself. The rest of us, Lord, I pray, that you would help us to really hone in. On the centrality of Christ and what He offers on a continual basis to each of us to satisfy our soul's deepest need. It is your spirit working with your word that does this. And yet we admit before you that we are so prone to run to everything else. And I think it's probably because we lose trust and belief and faith That you can do this, that you can meet our deepest need, and that you supply all that we need according to your riches and glory in Christ Jesus. And I pray, Lord, that you would help us to learn how to supply our deepest need through Christ alone. And then to look for all of our other needs And we are needy people, and to look at all of our needs in light of that, and that we would look to your supply for our greatest needs and and just for our needs in general, Lord. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.