Continue with our series on um glorifying God in the gray areas. So so we'll look at that in a minute. Um it's in a larger series that we're looking at we're entitling Straight Thinking in a crooked culture. And we're going to be dealing with all kinds of issues. But in the beginning of this, we want to lay down some biblical principles. Let's first look at Proverbs chapter 2. And we'll pick up here. It says, My son, if you receive my words, and treasure my commands within you, so that you incline your ear to wisdom and apply your heart to understand. Yes, if you cry out for discernment, and lift up your voice for understanding If you seek for her as silver and search for her as for hidden treasure, then you will understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. The Lord gives wisdom. From his mouth comes knowledge and understanding. He stores up sound wisdom for the upright, and he is a shield to those who walk uprightly. And we could read more of this, but let me just point this out. There is essentially one condition in this passage for gaining wisdom. What is that condition? You've got to search for it. You've got to focus on it. It's something you've got to pursue. And what we've been talking about last week, and we're going to continue this Wednesday. Is the idea that there are things in the Bible that are clearly spelled out in the Bible. And if we go against those things that are clearly spelled out in the Bible, Then we are not doing something that is clearly in the realm of immorality. It's not moral if it's against what Scripture says. Those shouldn't be too much in question for Christians, frankly. The question really comes Is what do you do with those areas that are not clearly spelled out in Scripture? And you have often two extremes. You often have the extreme of legalism. Which basically legalism uh often is is trying to make things that are are um non-moral things moral But you also have another extreme that is extremely important to understand, and that's licentiousness, where everything you license to just do whatever you want. If it's not sp specifically stated in Scripture. then you have then you have the license to do whatever you want. And unfortunately there there is there are some Christians that that When they are when they are looking at their behavior and activities and considering making decisions They they are sh they shy away from legalism. They sort of say, well, the Bible doesn't say specifically this or that And and then the determining factor in what they do is pretty much just whatever what what I want to do. Is that the only criteria? Now here's the problem. And the answer is to that is no, which we're going to get we we went we looked at last Sunday, or last Wednesday, and we'll look again at this Sunday, this Wednesday to tonight. Here's the problem with that, the difference with the licentious versus the the legalism. If you are only looking at what scripture what scripture states, And that's your your your your morality. And then you are not and then everything else is essentially what you want to do. So you have essentially two modes by which you make decisions. What the Bible scripturally states and what you want to do. Those are your two motivations. What are you going to miss? It's wisdom. Wisdom is what you're going to miss because you're you're you're not pursuing the wisest thing. You're pursuing basically what you can get away with and what you still want to do. So what you want to do, but what you can get away with doing. And then you're not concentrating, you're not focusing on wisdom. And if you're not inclining your ear to wisdom, if you're not focusing on wisdom, then according to this passage, if you take the reverse side of this passage, what's going to happen? You're not going to gain it. And I think that in our culture, sometimes as Christians, we are we're not careful in the sense of saying, okay, what is the wisest thing for us to do? And that's really in the in glorifying God in the gray areas. What I mean by gray areas are things that are not black and white in Scripture, and yet we still need to, do we not need to glorify God in every area of our lives? All of it we need to glorify God in. So how do you know when the Bible when the Bible doesn't clearly say, for instance, it's very clear you don't lie. It's very clear you don't steal. Those things are clear. So when the Bible doesn't clearly sc scripturally state what what it is what what you're supposed to do, well how do you know? And the answer is that you look at principles of scripture Principles of Scripture are not going to tell you definitively this is right and this is wrong, but they are going to guide you into a wise course of action in making life decisions. So we looked last week at this and there just pointed out there's a difference between clear morality and gray areas. Randy Leedy says it this way: our adversary keeps an ever-changing kaleidoscope of attractions before our eyes. As soon as we think we have a pretty good handle on a matter, it morphs into something different that is once again challeng challenging to assess. As we seek to grow in discernment, that's the key, discernment An important point to consider is the fact that cultures and therefore some of the boundaries of worldliness are constantly changing. So the question is, how is it that we deal with this? In other words, what he's saying, Randy Lady is saying, is this. He's saying that you've got to be vigilant. You can't think that that okay if I have a certain set of rules that I'm fine and you you you really have to be vigilant about new things coming How am I going to deal? We talked last week about how do I deal with a screen? How do I deal with a phone? How do I deal with those kinds of things that are, you know, that are my you know, I didn't have to grow gr I didn't grow up with There's there's there's we we have to be wise. What is the opposite of wisdom? Foolishness is the opposite of wisdom. What does the Bible say happens to a fool Can you think of Proverbs? What does it say that happens to a fool? He's destroyed. The foolish man, his end is destruction. So that means that wisdom is really important for us to gain in life. And in fact, our focus ought to be is what is the wise course of action in our lives? And if we're if that's what we're always thinking about, then we're not even getting we're not really probably going to be all that often too close to the moral decision. We're trying to make the wise decision in life Alright, so let's look at a couple of them. Number one, we looked last week at the edification principle. And the edification principle basically it has to do with what will what will help me to build up. Says all things are lawful to me, but not all things are helpful. All things are lawful, but I will not but not all things edify. So there are there some activities that don't do anything to build me up spiritually or build you up spiritually. Is that am I right about that? Okay We need to ask the question: if something is not going to build us up, if something is going to tear us down instead of build us up, even if it's morally permissible, Is it possible that it's something that would be unwise for us to participate in? Does it make sense? I mean, this is this is so give me some examples of things in that category And let me say we're not going to say that they are morally wrong, but we're going to say, you know what, these are things we ought to be careful about because they may Maybe they are not categorically, or maybe they are, something that will won't edify, but they could very well lead to that. Any ideas? Any thoughts on anything? Everybody's too nervous or tired. Which one of the two? Yes. No, is it wrongly four, maybe not? Is it wrongly ten to that line or it's happening Okay, sure. So um yeah, that's that's one example of something that might not build you up. Is it wrong to eat could could could eat a chocolate chip cookie chocolate chip cookie Could could that be fine as a as something that that could build you up? Sure. God made did God make chocolate chip cookies? Well I mean he made the materials that made chocolate chip cookies. Sir. So in moderation that would be fine. Um that's an interesting example. Um any other examples that you can think of? Um yeah, Lisa. Okay. Sleeping too much. You guys are staying away from from the hard stuff. You guys are just skirting right around the heart of you like sleeping too much chocolate chip cookies okay come on now guys Alcohol, okay. Right. So so there's one, okay. Is that something that will build you a hub? I mean I uh my personal opinion is alcohol I I can't think of too many times it'll build me up. Maybe if I'm about to go into surgery, but they have something called anesthesia for that. Okay. Alright. Um so yeah that that would be something you have to ask yourself. That's would be one of the things that you're gonna say. So edification principle. Very general principle, we need to ask the question, will it build us up? Acts Acts twenty thirty-two says now brethren I commend you to God and to the Let the word of Christ dwell in us richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in Psalms and Hymns of Survey. spiritual songs, sing with grace in your hearts the Lord. Now what helps us with this is this. What is it that builds us up ultimately? It's God's Word that builds us up. So anything that would keep us from God's Word would be something that we really would need to consider. So let's take that criteria into effect just really quickly because we want to we want to move on from this. But what things might Hinder us from reading and meditating and absorbing God's Word. Because that's what's going to edify us. Jeff. Okay. Right. Better indulgence there. Overindulgence and leisure is gonna could could potentially do that, sure. Karen? Social media. Is it possible to to get addicted to social media? Man, I I just gotta find out what they're saying on Facebook about so and such and such. I've got 100 likes on that. How many likes do I have? I mean, can we could we possibly could that possibly happen where it actually have you ever been in the middle of devotions and you're and you switch over to Facebook real quick? Okay? Uh or whatever it is, or Snapchat. I know some of you younger ones are not Facebook sets for old people apparently now. So whatever you end up, uh you know, Instagram, those kinds of things. All right. So um Uh so yeah, so you have to think in terms of okay, well well, will it is it possible that you can you could be so into uh some of these other things, social media or or video games or television, that you lose your appetite for God's word. Is that possible? Okay. So so we really need to think about it. If you begin to lose your n those things may not be in and of themselves wrong. But if you lose your appetite for God's word because of them, then you either need to cut back or cut it out or something like that, right? Because it's not edifying. All sc scripture is given by inspiration of God and it's just explaining that it's thorough uh for equipping, it's it's it's there to uh so that we're thoroughly equipped for every good work. The next one is enslavement. Now, this is one that is really something that we need to consider. All things are lawful to me, but not all things are expedient, all things are helpful. So those things that may be lawful But all things are off of me, but I will not be brought under the power of any. Paul says, those things that are going to enslave me I am going to be careful about. That's wisdom. Will certain things enslave some people that won't enslave others? Yes. Are there certain things that seem to be categorically enslaving? There are. Crack cocaine is categorically enslaving. I'm picking up something safe, okay? Not safe in the sense of not safe, but safe in the sense of sense that nobody can really argue with it. Okay? But even out somebody mentioned alcohol? I mean that is something that have you how many people have you met that have been enslaved by alcohol? Many people have been enslaved by alcohol. I I worked at the Bowl and Rescue Mission for a summer. And I'll tell you what, after working down there, I never want to touch the stuff. I'm not saying that it is a moral it is a moral thing that the Bible specifically says you never could take one drink of alcohol. I do drink I have had Nike Wilk occasionally But but but but to you've got to be careful with that because it is it has this ability to to be in s to to bring us under enslavement Um it's uh television can do it, our computers can do it, our cellphones can do it. Those things have that ability to bring us into the power of them. They don't have to, but they can. So we have to use wisdom to know when those things are going to do that. By the way, if you don't have the wisdom, what must you do? Well you've got to rely on somebody that does. In some cases, you know, full grown adults need accountability partners to help them to know when they have gone too far. Teenagers who are How do you know when when something is enslaving you? Your mom and dad. They will know when something is enslaving you. Um and trust them. Help them let them know, help them realize that. The exposure principle is the next one. Just the idea of exposing certain things. Or do you not know, 1 Corinthians 6 619 says, Or do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you, whom you have of from God, and you are not your own? For you are bought with a price, therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. Romans 12. 1. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God that you present your bodies. A living sacrifice. What is our body? Our body for a Christian is to be a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service. And do not be conformed to this world. How do you keep from being conformed to this world? Be transformed by the renewing of your mind that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. You're trying to determine what is God's will. How how can what's the wise thing to do here? There is this Ephesians 5. 12, uh, for it is shameful even to speak of those things which are done to them than in secret. There are certain things that we really should not even expose ourselves to. You know, sometimes we by the way, let me mention this. We talked last week a lot Wednesday and it was a lot on parenting. Okay, we we kind of got into parenting kids. But folks, this is for us. It's not just for our kids Isn't it true that there are some things that even though we know we know categorically what it is, That we should not just be exposing ourselves to it, whether it's television or movies or those kinds of things. To expose yourself is almost like experiencing it. So to to categorically read some and and and the perfect place to know what things are is the Bible. The Bible covers, we mentioned this last week, covers just about everything. So we're not saying that you isolate yourself from knowing what's what is out there. But the b there's nothing new under the sun. The Bible covers everything. So read the Bible if you want to know have you read some of the passages in Leviticus? I mean there's some it's all there. And so we talked about that l last week as well. Exposure, the best exposure to sin is from the Bible because it's going to be the right context. We don't need to expose ourselves to sin outside the world uh in the world in the wrong context. And we need to we need to ask ourselves the question, is this something that I really should be exposing myself to? The esteem principle is the next one here, and this is, I think, where we stopped. In 1 Corinthians 8, verse 8, it says, But food does not commend us to God. Nor neither if we eat are we the better, nor if we do eat or uh or are we the worse But beware lest somehow this liberty of yours become a stumbling block to those who are weak. Now, this is in the context of eating meat offered to idols. So is it, according to 1 Corinthians chapter 8, it's also in Romans chapter 15, was it biblically categorically wrong to eat meat offered to idols for a Christian? The answer is no, it wasn't. But what does it say, what is this verse telling us? So we're going to call it then a liberty Right? Because we have the liberty to do it. It's not categorically wrong wrong. But what does the Bible say? When we when there is a liberty, what does the Bible say here? Don't allow it to be what? A stumbling block to those who are weak. What does it mean? What what does that mean? What does it mean? How could eating meat offered to idols be a stumbling block? Tony? something but you do it in front of them anyway because oh I don't have that same condition then it's gonna cause them to struggle in their mind. Yeah you're flaunting your liberty And you're right. Scripture says don't do that. In fact, Galatians says don't use liberty as a as an occasion to the flesh. Be careful about that. So liberty is something to be very careful with. If you're not showing care when it comes to this issue of liberty, then what are we being? We're being unwise. I mean can't we categori can't we say that that if we are not careful with liberty, we are unwise. First Corinthians, our Philippians uh uh two, one, we should be caring about what other people think about. Uh Uh we should be considering other people. Therefore, if there uh is any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any Affectionate mercies, fulfill you my joy, they be might like minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. Let nothing be done through strife, uh or selfish ambition or conceit, but in lowliness of mind let each esteem other better than them s himself. Let each of you look not only on his own interests, but also on the interest interests of others. So have you ever found yourself saying, Well, I can do this because I know I can do it and I don't really care what everybody else thinks. How many of you ever thought that before? That's not biblical, is it, right? I mean all of us have had that kind of feeling before, like, you know, I don't I'm tired of being judged and I don't really want to be judged, and so I don't Well, it's not about we shouldn't you shouldn't judge on moral things. But on the other c but on the other hand, we ought to be careful when it comes to these things because we want to consider the other brother uh uh a brother or sister in Christ. We want to be careful about those things. Um Let us not look on our own interest, but also in the interest interest of others. Romans 13, 10. Love does no harm to his neighbor, therefore love is the fulfillment of the law. So this is a big one. This is an important one. This is going to require wisdom for us to figure out. Let me give you the other extreme. Is it ever possible that you could go too far with this where you feel as though you'll never be able to do anything? Okay, so I'm just kinda kinda go the other way. Whereas though you okay, because so so somebody help me. How if somebody says, Well uh man I mean I can't do anything because that might cost somebody to stumble Ha somebody help me with that a little bit. How do you how do you deal with that? Does it mean that we we we can't Do anything or is that in t is that what Paul intends here? Yeah, Jeff? is always going to be stuck that way out there. Good point. But a middle ground where where I'm willing to not do something certain things but the other person in the course of time might need to grow as well in grace and to realize that you know I don't I don't know. the presence of something they used to be addicted to isn't going to really damage them. But it might take some time to get to that point. Okay. I don't know. Yeah, that's a good point. How um Let's take this, you don't you you we uh let's take this and apply this specifically. Are there times in a person's development that they may be weaker? in certain areas that you'd need to be more careful. Right? I mean how many of you say, yeah that y you know what? It's it's true. There's certain times in a person's development that that it might be a weak area, that other times it might not be a weak area. How do you know? It takes wisdom. I mean that that's why you have to be careful. That's why you have to think and be wise about these kinds of things. When someone is in adolescence, for example. That is the time to be careful. Because as I'm as I mentioned last week, when you are an adolescent, when there's an uh adolescent time, those times are the times where things are you get are are most inclined toward becoming dependent upon certain things. There's just a lot that happens during that time. So we have to have wisdom to know that. That means as parents, and I'm getting into parenting now, that means as parents, I need to know my kids. I need to know what their weaknesses are and what their not their weak are weak. But I gotta know myself first. I gotta know my by the way, you know how you know your kids They come from your loins. Just know yourself and realize your kids your kids come from you. Okay? Alright? And so uh and so realize that. And that that that will help you. If you if you might have a weakness in the area probably maybe no you might find it in your kids as well. Um or as you in your spouse, you know, e either one. Um or both. Some cases. The next principle is the evangelism principle. So Paul's entry Paul says he not only with will he withhold his liberty for for edification. But he will also uh and and and so that he doesn't um he doesn't um tear down uh a a weaker brother or doesn't cause a weaker brother to stumble But he also says that he will do it, he will be careful when it comes to this issue of evangelism. So we know Matthew 28. We know the Great Commission and the importance of making disciples. Here's what Paul says in 1 Corinthians 10. 32. Give no offense Either to the Jews or to the Greeks or the Church of God. Not seeking my own profit, but the profit of many. Why? That they might be saved. You know what Paul is saying in this passage in the context? He's saying that I will withhold from certain things. For instance, he's in that passage he says, When I'm a Jew, I'll be a Jew. In other words, he will practice Jewish things when he He's with Jews. Why? So that he has an opportunity to be able to witness to them. Now, some people would say, well, see, that means I can indulge in things. in order to be able to um to reach somebody for Christ. I gotta you know kind of get down with them and and indulge in those things and maybe I'll reach reach for Christ. That was never Paul's approach. Paul's approach was I will withhold From something in order to reach somebody for Christ. And he was willing to withhold from things that he may have otherwise been able to do in order to be to reach somebody for the cause of Christ. First Corinthians nine nineteen For though I am free from all men, I have made made myself a servant of all servant to all, that I might win the more Under the Jews I became a Jew, that I might win and win Jews. And those who are under the law, as under the law, that I might win those who are under the law. To those who are without the law as without the law, not being but notice he says, he cautions, he says, not being without law toward God, but under law toward Christ. He says, I'm not talking about lawlessness here I'm just saying without the Mosaic Law. So the law of Christ is what he's talking about. That I might win those who are without the law. To the weak I became as weak that I might win the weak. I have become all things to all men that I might be uh all that I might by all means save some. Now this I do for the gospel's sake that I may be a partaker with you. So that's the evangelism principle. So we need to really think in terms of what What are we doing? Uh are there certain things that maybe we would have the liberty to do? But it would it would hinder our testimony or it would cause us uh And uh doing that might cause someone to um someone to have a mixed signal about what the gospel or that kind of thing. Uh Uh any question any thoughts on the evangelism principle? You ever find anything like that? We are moving much quicker this week than last week. Okay. Okay. So thank you. I appreciate that. That's good. Um I no, that's good. I uh uh th there's nothing wrong with saying I don't I let's let's elaborate on it more. Okay, so um actually let's turn to the passage. Go ahead and turn turn to first Corinthians chapter nine. And uh we're in verse nineteen. He's talking here about, if you look at the chapter in general, he's talking about the idea of denying self. That's the context of the chapter. And he says that he's willing to deny self for uh for the sake of the gospel. Um For instance, he says he says, um well let's pick up in verse twelve. If others are a partaker of of this right over you, are we not even more? Nevertheless we have not used this right, but endure all things lest we hinder the gospel of Christ. So he's concerned about hindering the gospel. Do you not know that those who minister the holy things eat of the things of the temple, and those who e who serve at the he's talking about an illustration of eating eating the things of the temple. Even so the Lord has commanded that those who preach the gospel should live from the gospel. So he's talking there about Actually in the context he's talking about somebody should get paid if they preach the gospel. Um there's nothing wrong with them being paid. They live by the gospel. So um a pastor or preacher get being paid by the gospel. Then he says in verse fifteen But I have used none of these things. So for him he withheld from that for this particular situation. I have used none of these things. Nor have I written these things that it should be done so to me. For it would be better for me to die than that any one should make my boasting void. For if I preach the gospel I have nothing to boast of, for the necessity is laid upon me, yes, woe is me if I do not preach the gospel. For if I do this willingly I have a reward, but if against my will I have been entrusted to the s uh with a stewardship. What is my reward then? That when I preach the gospel I may present the gospel of Christ without charge, that I may not abuse my authority in the gospel. For though I am free from all men, I have made myself a servant to all, that I might win the more So and then he goes on in that passage. The whole idea is, he says, I am willing to withhold from things that I could partake in, and even in remuneration. in the particular case that he's talking about here, if it will be for the sake of the gospel. So we're not talking about right or wrong here. We're talking about, okay, in pr s in specific situations I'm going to withhold from a particular liberty that I rightfully have because I want to see somebody come to Christ. The point is simply this, that there are some times that we ought to be willing to deny ourselves for the sake of the gospel. Does that make sense? Okay. Um if in other words, if we contrast it with I could okay, if the Bible just If the Bible s doesn't say it, I can do it. If the Bible doesn't prohibit it, I can do it, and I can just kinda do whatever I want. We're not thinking about the unsaved world. We're not thinking about how what we do might affect somebody who knows the Lord doesn't know the Lord. Trying to think of a uh uh an example of this, a modern day example. I think that would probably help if I could think of something. Um I'm I'm not I'm trying to come up with something here. Probably I would think that so I I'll tell you one it just comes off the top of my head. So when I was working doing tree work, this is sort of interesting it mentions that Uh this is just this is just the example I came off the top of my head, so don't judge me too much. So um so one day I was talking to a couple of guys uh that were we were just got in a discussion and they didn't know the Lord. And one guy said to me, he said this. He said, um, hey, why is it that some Christians uh use rock music in their music. Why why do they use he said, I don't understand it. I don't get that. That's that's our music, not your music. I mean he literally said, I I don't I don't understand it. Um and uh he said one time I I was he said I have a had a neighbor and I went into his house And I at first I thought it was and he mentioned some secular I didn't know what it was, but some secular group. And then I realized it wasn't and the words were were different and he said he said he said, That makes no sense to me. He said, That's just like hi hi hipoc hypocrisy. Isn't that interesting that an unsafe person said that now I'm not gonna debate whether or not that music is good music or not, because that's not the point, but I tell you what, maybe we are sending the sit the wrong signals to unsafe. Maybe we need to think about the kind of signals that we're sending. So that's just an example of what's what's why. I never in a million years thought that an unsafe person would would think that Christian quote unquote Christian rock music would be would be a they would see it as duplicitous. But if you knew that that was the case, wouldn't it be wise not to perhaps So maybe maybe withhold for that. There's other reason to withhold from that too, by the way. But uh that's one that just sort of So it's it's some of it is just just being careful. I'll give you another example, and a lot of this has to be with has has to be with being careful with what language you use. Um so I was working uh doing tree work one day and um and I mentioned that night It was a Friday night that I was going to go to a party. Now, I didn't mean a party like they meant a party. Okay? And I said I it was like a cr you know, a Christian get together You know, that that's what it was. I was getting together with some of my friends t for a s time to spend together. It wasn't the p and they were they dropped their jaw and they said, You party And I said I was a little naive and I said, Yeah, yeah, uh yeah, I like to go to parties He said, Really? Like what and they asked me a few questions about what I what I did in my parties and I I said, Oh we just hang out and talk and And you know, I I I can't remember what I said. And they said uh I came to find out what they meant by party is something very different than what I meant by party. And uh so I never use party again Okay. When I was saying what I was gonna go do because what they thought it was party was why? Because I'm being sensitive to what things mean. I wanna be a good testimony to the So those are two examples of things. I'm trying to think about what I'm doing and saying and being careful with those things to be a good testimony to the people around me. The ethics principle. Okay. This has to do with conscience, and this is an interesting one. Somebody tell me what is a conscience What is a conscience? The conscience is the warning system That God placed in us. Romans chapter 2 we find there there. It's actually a moral law within our hearts. God places a conscience within unsaved within everybody. Everybody's got one. The conscience, as we'll see in a few minutes, can be trained one way or another. But there is one thing in Scripture that says, look at Romans 14, 23. He who doubts is condemned if he eats. Talk about eating meat offered idols is a major problem back then. Because he does not eat from faith. For whatsoever is not of faith is sin. 1 Corinthians 10 25 says this, eat whatever is sold in the Well, I'll get to that in a minute. So we're talking here about the conscience. And I'll just summarize First Corinthians ten twenty-five. The bottom line is he says, don't violate your conscience. Now No matter where you come out on these different this issue back then, eating me your off your aisle, whatever you do, be very careful that you don't violate your conscience. And so he says here, if you doubt, don't do it. How how does that play into being wise? Well, it's actually morally wrong to violate your conscience. Is it possible that your conscience could be trained the wrong way? It is possible that your conscience conscience could be trained the wrong way. But he is basically saying here that even if your conscience is trained the wrong way, you still should not violate it. Then how do you deal with that? How what's the answer? You've got to retrain in some cases you have to retrain your conscience. Your conscience has to be retrained. So in Ephesians 5 8 it says, For you were once darkness. How do you train your conscience the right way? For you were once darkness. But now are you light in the Lord? Walk as children of light, for the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness and righteousness and truth, finding out what is acceptable. So according to this verse, how do you find out what's acceptable to the Lord? How do you do that? You walk as what? You walk as children of light. You're going to walk in the light. What is the light? The light is truth. Okay? So you're going to walk in the truth. When your con as we know the truth, our conscience is trained by the truth. And if it's if what we are really absorbing is truth, our conscience will be trained the right way. It's possible our conscience can be trained the wrong way, and the answer to that is that we need to let truth train our conscience the right way. But as long no matter w whether or not your conscience has been trained the right way or the wrong way When in doubt, if your conscience bothers you, you're not supposed to do it. It's not right to do it, basically. Do you follow what I'm saying? So how does that factor into our practices in life? Have you ever been in a situation and your conscience bothered you? You couldn't think of a passage that said, don't do it. But something about your conscience, it bothered you, and you chose to do it anyway. How many of you ever could say I've been there? Be careful about that. Teenagers, be careful about this It doesn't even matter if it's right or wrong. If it's bothering your conscience, you need to withhold from doing it until your conscience can be trained in the right way. And many times your conscience is trained in the right way biblically. Okay, and there's a warning system that's setting in before your your your conscience is kicking in before your brain does. Don't ever violate your conscience. That's wisdom. And so that's essentially what he's saying saying there. The next one is the exal exaltation principle. We want to do everything we do to glorify God. Therefore we make him uh it our make it our aim, whether pre uh uh whether present or absent uh to be well pleasing. So everything we would want to do, we want to. So this principle is the idea of it's not just that I want to do the, you know, get as close as I can to the line It's I want to actually exalt Christ and please Christ. It's a po it's thinking positively rather than negatively. Therefore, we make it uh uh first Corinthians, or I'm sorry, first John two sixteen. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, is not of the Father, but is of the world. Ephesians 5. 15 See then you walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as what? But as wise. Ecclesiastes 11:9. Rejoice, young man in your youth And let your heart cheer in the days of your youth, walk in the ways of the heart and the sight of your eyes, but know for all things God will bring you uh into judgment. So there is this need to exalt God in everything that you're doing. Is it possible then, folks, that there are certain things that wouldn't be clearly defined in Scripture, but you say, you know what, I that per that activity, I really can't find any way to exalt God in that activity. Is that possible? What do you guys think? I I think it's I think it's entirely possible. It's entirely possible that there are things out there that we should not be involved in. Not because the Bible prohibits it, but because we can't find any way that it's going to exalt the Lord in what we're doing. So all of these things are things that we need to consider. Now The question is, how how does this all come about? Well it all c uh and how do we have the right perspective when it comes to these things And the answer is we need to to it's the lordship of the uh of Christ. It's the demands uh the lordship of Christ demands submission to Christ. See, all of those different principles A person who is who is living for self doesn't care about those principles. I mean just kind of think through your mind. Evangelism principle, edification principle, all those different principles. are not things that a person that is living for self cares about. Right? It's only when you care, you want to live for Christ positively, live for the Lord positively, that those things become something that you care about. And so why that's why all of this boils down to the Lordship of Christ. God has given each of us a limited number of resources in particular, time, money, talents, and energy. And we are commanded to be good stewards of these things. So we're now looking at time, for example, and saying, well, I want to please God with my time. I want all of my time to be a I'm I'm a steward of the time that God gives me, and I want to make sure that my time that I'm all my time is being used in a way that pleases him under his lordship. So he's the master of my time, and I want to make sure that I'm I'm using it in the right way as a good steward. How many how many what would happen to our lives if we were constantly thinking that way about our time? Well, the average person, recent studies show that the average American watches more than four hours of television per week per day Which spread over 70-year lifespan span amounts to nearly 12 years of viewing time. 12 years of life. Now, if I'm thinking to myself, okay, time is a resource that's limited, and God has given me a resource that is limited, and I need to be good stewards of it. Well then maybe I'm not going to watch four hours of television today. Does that make sense? Is it sin to watch four hours of television today? It's not sin, but is it wise? Is it good stewardship of my time to watch four hours of television a day, which amounts to 12 years of my life? Is God going is that faithful stewardship? I mean that's the kind of question that we need to ask ourselves. The Lordship of Christ denounces imp impurity and worldliness. For fornication, all uncleanness, and covetousness, let not even be named among you as is fitting for saints. Neither filthiness, nor foolish talking, nor coarse jesting, which are not fitting. So those kind of things that are impure and worldly, they they they the Lordship of Christ denounces those things. And then the Lordship of Christ denounced determines right priorities. The American dream, which used uh to consist of a loving family, a nice house, a white picket fence, now includes in uh instant fame, endless riches, easy but romance, the blank check promise that anyone can achieve his or her dreams, reality television and the rise of the internet are perhaps somewhat to blame for this p phenomenon But ultimately the pr the problem lies in the human heart. I mean, have you real y uh I haven't seen much reality TV Thankfully. I c but I don't have time for that. But but the little I've glanced at or seen or something, I mean or read about, more more likely I was actually there's there's this came with a whole artic of uh more information about it. And they're glamorizing all kinds of things that are creating a value system that we really need to be careful about. And so the Lordship of Christ, if we are really under his lordship, we want to have the right priorities in our lives. Our identity is defined by Jesus Christ, not by the society around us. That distinction should be reflected in everything we think, say, or do. We live in a world carried along by ungodly lusts and entertained by sin. Yet we are called to walk in thankful holiness. John MacArthur continues, he says this. Now listen to this, he says Though we are in this world, we are not of this world. That means we can't watch every movie, laugh at every joke on television, download every new music album. Click on every online video or visit every internet page. Taking a stand for righteousness in your own life and family is not being legalistic. It's being Christian. Now, is that not sober? Is that not I mean we think about that. Now If you're summarizing all of this, what do we say? We're saying this. That that if we're going to make wise decisions If we're going to live a life that's wise, we're going to think in terms of how is my life going to please God on a day-to-day basis? It's not just just merely the question of what's right or wrong here. It's got to go beyond that. Now, I am not saying that you could judge somebody else. Now, let me be clear about that. So I'm not saying that somebody else, you can judge somebody else and say, well, they they are doing this, and so they must be wrong when the Bible isn't clearly wrong. But when it comes to our lives as individuals, and certainly when it comes to our families, me, my me as the head of head of my household I do have to ask myself the question, what is the wisest thing for my household? What will be best stewards of our time? What would be the best stewards of our resources? How can we best uh serve the Lord as a family? And we're responsible, I'm responsible for my household, not just to say, okay, well, uh this is permissible. No, I don't want to get I don't want to stand up before the Lord someday and He say, Well, well done, you did what was permissible. I wanted to stand I want to stand before the Lord someday and say, Well done thou good and faithful servant. You have been a good steward with what I've given you. That is a very different kind isn't bo isn't boiled down to an attitude So what we're then going to do is all of these different principles for the next several weeks, we're going to take all these different principles and we're going to apply them to all kinds of things. We're gonna look at dating next week. I've already started preparing for dating. We're gonna look at dat yes, I mean un I mean young I mean dating before you're married. We're gonna call it premarriage. Because I don't like any of the terms out there. I don't like dating, I don't like courting, I don't just we're gonna call it pre marriage. The Bible says marriage is biblical. Getting there is hard. Okay. Honestly, I had a dream a few weeks ago, a few months ago, uh, that I was I was back at college and I wasn't married. And I'm like and I thought to myself, I was really confused. I was like, wait a minute, I thought I was married. And then I and I'm I'm thinking, I gotta I gotta find some of the marriage ah I woke up from my nightmare Look, turn over Elizabeth, I was like so thankful I was married. Anyway, uh so all that to say that uh it's not really all that bad guy teenagers, I'm sorry that I don't want to scare you. But you know what, scaring you is not necessarily a terrible thing. Um because you can get into really some bad situations in that time of time of life. But we're going to look at that and we're going to see biblically how do we take these principles and apply them to these kinds of things. We're going to look at We're going to look at uh all kinds of things. And in some cases they're going to be clear, cut, and dry biblical things, in other cases they're not. But we're going to we're going to look at look through all these things. We're going to look at how to how to evangelize how to give the gospel to homosexuals. Now these principles aren't necessarily we're well we're we're gonna the evangelism principle will come into play there. We're gonna look at all of these different kinds of things here and and try to uh and try to sift through this. So the the goal is that we have we make wise decisions when it comes to a life that is really crooked. I mean the c the this culture is really sending us some curveballs, is it not? And we need to really think wisely about these things. And we do not want to come out legalistic, but we do want to come out Christian. Don't we? All right, let's go ahead and pray together. Father, we thank you for the time that we can gather together tonight, and we pray that you would help us. As we look at uh these different things this coming summer, just we're gonna work through all kinds of different different issues. I pray that you would help us to come to wise conclusions, that this would provide a forum for families to discuss various things in their lives for uh families to really consider um what areas maybe it's not a moral issue but maybe it's just an issue of stewardship Maybe there's just a a matter of being more under the under the under your lordship and pleasing you. Lord, I help uh I help us Lord to have a balance when it comes to these things, but help us to have the attitude that we want to please you. Help us to realize that if we really are unwilling to follow the principles of Scripture It may be that the inner problem is really a heart problem. And I pray, Lord, for anybody here today, that there might be there might be a real struggle in the heart. With the resistance to these kinds of discussions. I pray that you would work on all of our hearts Help them, help our hearts to be moldable. May we be like the Proverbs 2 person who is going to pursue wisdom with all of his heart. Knowing that if we'll pursue it, and James 1 says, if we'll pray for it, then you'll give it to us. And then we'll be able to live in faith, and we'll be able to live pleasing you. I pray Lord that you'd help us with that and help us as dads and parents and moms and and help the teens that are here to understand the importance of not just asking the question, what can we do? But asking the question, what should we do to please you? And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.