It's a convicting passage that we're going to look at tonight. There's been a lot in Daniel so far on the subject of pride. And uh we're going to see more of that tonight in chapter 5, I believe. And um Lord, I pray that as we as we go through this, that our hearts would be receptive to your message and to your word. Pray that you'd be with Zach and that you'd help him as he just communicates your word. We thank you that when we get up here to preach, we're really just dependent upon communicating your truth clearly so that you can do what you want to with your word. We're just the vessels. And we thank you for that, Lord, and we thank you that the reliance can be entirely upon your word and your spirit to do your work. And we pray tonight that you just be with Zach and help him to communicate your word clearly, help our hearts to be receptive. And that we would be changed and know more of who you are tonight because of the preaching of your word. We pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, Zach, come on up. Please open up your Bible to Daniel chapter five. It's after Ezekiel, I'm finding out. Okay. We're just going to go ahead and read it, the first 16 verses. Belshazzar the king made a great feast for a thousand of his lords and drank wine in the presence of the thousand. While he tasted the wine, Belshazzar gave the command to bring the gold and silver vessels which his father Nebuchadnezzar had taken from the temple, which had been in Jerusalem that the king and his lords, his wives, and his concubines might drink from them. And they brought the gold vessels that had been taken from the temple of the house of God, which had been in Jerusalem And the king and his lords, his wives, and his concubines drank from them. They drank wine and praised the gods of gold and silver, bronze and iron, wood and stone In the same hour the fingers of a man's hand appeared and wrote opposite the lampstand on the plaster of the wall of the king's palace, and the king saw the part of the hand that wrote Then the king's countenance changed, and his thoughts troubled him, so that the joints of his hips were loosened, and his knees knocked against each other. The king cried aloud to bring in the astrologers, the Chaldeans, and the soothsayers. The king spoke, saying to the wise men of Babylon, Whoever reads this writing and tells me its interpretation shall be clothed with purple. and have a chain of gold around his neck, and he shall be the third ruler in the kingdom. Now all the king's wise men came, but they could not read the writing, or make known to the king its interpretation Then King Belshazzar was greatly troubled, his countenance was changed, and his lords were astonished. The queen, because of the words of the king and his lords, came to the banquet hall. The queen spoke, saying, O King, live forever. Do not let your thoughts trouble you, nor let your countenance change. There is a man in your kingdom in whom is the Spirit of the Holy God. And in the days of your father, light and understanding and wisdom, like the wisdom of the gods, were found in him, and King Nebuchadnezzar your father, your father the king, made him chief. of the magicians, astrologers, Chaldeans, and soothsayers, inasmuch as an excellent spirit, knowledge and understanding, interpreting dreams, Solving riddles and explaining enigmas were found in this Daniel, whom the king named Belteshazzar. Now let Daniel be called, and he will give the interpretation. Then Daniel was brought in before the king. The king spoke and said to Daniel, Are you that Daniel who is one of the captives from Judah, whom my father the king brought from Judah? I have heard of you, that the Spirit of God is in you, and that light and understanding and excellent wisdom are found in you. Now the wise men, the astrologers, have been brought in before me, that they should read this writing and make known to me its interpretation. But they could not give the interpretation of the thing. And I have heard of you that you can give interpretations and explain and explain enigmas. Now if you can read the writing and make known to me its interpretation You shall be clothed with purple, and have a chain of gold around your neck, and shall be the third ruler in the kingdom. I'm just going to go ahead and pray again. Our Father in Heaven, thank you for your word. We pray that you would help us to understand what is here and to see what you would have us to see in our lives that connects and help us to honor you. with our lives and not ourselves. In your name we pray. Amen. Earlier this year we were all hit with the totally unexpected to sum um pandemic. A few people seemed to have their ears up about it before, but if you were like me, it was a total surprise. And all of a sudden we're all checking ourselves for shortness of breath and uh fever and all these different symptoms that beforehand we would have just thought, oh I have, you know, a cold. Maybe I should call out sick or maybe just go in anyway because that's what you do sometimes because you just have to. But now all of a sudden it's life and death and you're terrified as soon as you start coughing. Well imagine that there was a disease in which you knew all the symptoms, but its most deadly symptom was You couldn't actually tell that you had any of the symptoms. A disease that cloaked itself. That is essentially what pride is. We all actually struggle with pride, whether we think about it on a daily basis or not, and probably the less that we think about it, the more it's growing. C. S. Lewis, who Hisham quoted last week, Mr. Hisham quoted, in his article on pride in mere Christianity, he says, pride leads to every other vice. It is the complete anti-God state of mind. Does this seem to you exaggerated? If so, think it over. The more pride one has the more one dislikes pride in others. In fact, if you want to find out how proud you are, the easiest way is to ask yourself How much do I dislike it when other people snub me or refuse to take notice of me or shove their oar in or patronize me or show off? The point is that each person's pride is in competition with everybody else's pride. It is because I wanted to be the big noise at the party that I am so annoyed that someone else is being the big noise He goes on, but you get the point. Pride is in a sense in its essence competition. You're in competition with everybody for glory, with other people, and especially with God And we are all infected with this all the time. Now, if it weren't for the Word of God, we would be totally lost and unable to diagnose ourselves. But God in this passage has given us an example of a proud heart and what comes out of it. It says later on in the passage that That God was right that he wrote this judgment to Belshazzar because he had lifted up his heart against God And so we can see what a heart looks like that is lifted up against God if we look at what Belshazzar is doing So as we look at this, these symptoms of a proud heart, let's ask ourselves if we see any of these things in ourselves and ask the Lord to give us the grace to overcome those. Before we can even really get into it, there are a few things we have to understand about the story. So this guy, Belshazzar, okay, one of the most commonly used in words in this text is the word king, kind of ironically, because the guy actually isn't even a king. All the commentaries talk about how there was this other guy, and his name was Nabonidas, and he was the son Well not the son. He was the um son-in-law of Nebuchadnezzar. And that guy was the real king. But that guy would always go to this other city that was like 500 miles away for religious reasons. So he would leave his son Belshazzar in charge while he was gone. So that's who this guy is. He's just the stand-in while the real king is gone. And beyond that. Nabonidus, the real king, has actually just fallen into some real trouble. Okay. Just before this event, Nabonidus, Belshazzar's dad, the real king. Just got in a fight with the Medes and Persians and lost big time, totally wiped out and embarrassed. So what does Belshazzar do? Well, what you and I would do, right? He he throws a party That's confusing. Well, this guy has absolutely no fear of God or of these other people because he's so consumed with himself. Okay, he probably thinks he really is king. Um and he has no real concern, even though this very devastating thing just happened. So he throws this party, all this kinda stuff happens. He thinks that he's totally safe in this city because there's really thick walls. They have about twenty years of food supply in the city in case something like this ever were to happen. Someone were to attack. And they've got a river that runs right into the city. So you're totally safe. I mean you got water, you got food, you got a wall, you're pretty much fine. Well, he didn't realize that the Medes and Persians knew how to dig and pre-direct the river so that it would go down, so they could sneak under the gates. that the river passed through and totally overtake the city by surprise, defenseless. And later in this passage you say you see that Belshazzar was killed that very night. completely shocked him. So the Lord's providence had a different plan than Belshazzar, but he didn't factor God in at all. So what does it look like when a heart does not factor God in at all? Well, first of all, a proud heart worships idols If you look at verse 4, it says, They drank wine and praised the gods of gold and silver, bronze and iron, wood and stone. Now, we can commonly think that when we read these Old Testament passages about idols, that, oh, that's not my problem. I'm not bowing down to a statue, so I don't really have to worry. about this idolatry thing. I can move on to the other commandments. But idols are not just statues. Okay, in Ezekiel 14, 3, it says that we set up idols in our hearts. It's not just a matter of a physical bowing down. It's who are you actually serving? Where is your worship going? Now how is that connected to pride though? Okay, well, there's uh there was this book I was reading Called Side by Side by Ed Welch, in which he talks about how we get our sense of worth from our connections as people So as soon as we stop thinking about God and glorifying Him, as soon as we stop thinking that I'm worth something only because Jesus died for me And because I'm loved by God and made in his image. As soon as we stop thinking about that and start, we we only have other things created things that we can connect ourselves to to get worth from. Okay. And we all know this, okay? We we determine people's worth based on their connections. It's just what we do. If somebody's really, really good at football, okay Uh Tom Brady until like last year was pretty famous for football. We think that, oh wow, that's just a wonderful, glorious guy because He's really great at football and he's got all these rings to prove it. Look at all those connections he has. Or if you hear that somebody's a cousin of a famous guy, there was that that one guy What was it? Kevin Bacon or something. You would look up your Bacon number to see how many people you would have to go through to find your connection to this guy, Kevin Bacon, and like if you got the lowest number, you were the coolest person. So our connections are what we base our value on. And as soon as we're not basing our value on our connection to God, what do we have but things? And so we start in our pride collecting these things which are our idols that we have to be we have to show this reverence for and worship for, okay? So let's say that You are really good at soccer. Okay. Soccer is your idol. That's what you get your value from. Well, all of a sudden you might be staying up super late to watch soccer games and then come in late to work. It starts bearing bad fruit in your life in other areas as well because you are getting as much out of this idol as you possibly can. So a proud heart worships idols. We in order to fight this idolatry, we have to be very careful to jealously guard our worship for God alone. It says in 1 John that we are supposed to keep ourselves from idols. We also have a promise in Ezekiel that God, if we are his children, he's going to cleanse us from all our filthiness and all our idols. But he does give us a responsibility as well to keep ourselves from idols. So how do we do that? Well first Jesus said, where your treasure is, there your heart will be also So you need to look at where your time is going and where your money is going, where your energy is being expended. Maybe sit down with a sheet of paper and just look at the past week. And think, alright, where if I have an idol, where is is the manifestation showing up? Where is my money going? Where's my time going? That can probably tell you where your idol is. Also, you could ask yourself this question. I heard this when I was in Myrtle Beach with my family, and we visited this church, and I was very convicted by just the Wednesday night service. The pastor said You know, do you actually want Jesus Christ to return today? And if you don't, what is it that you want to happen first? Shouldn't you want that? Shouldn't you want to see his face? Shouldn't that be the most valuable thing to you? If there's something else that you're saying, I'd rather have that first. Then that may be an idol for you. Of course, we all want to see people come to know the Lord, and that's the reason why He's waiting, because He's patient. But if if we have something else in life, That we s that we think if I can just get to that point before he would come, then I'd be happy, then I'd be able to rest eternally. That might be an idol for you. And of course, also to guard against idols, you have to actually be worshiping God. We'll talk more about that later So we've seen that a proud heart worships idols, but what does a proud heart trust in? Well, a proud heart trusts in its earthly resources. Belshazzar was trusting in his city's invincibility. Okay, he had these thick walls, he had all the food, he had the water running through, he he knew that he was going to be totally fine if somebody attacked, so he thought. So he he totally threw off all fear of God and just had this drunken party using the temple vessels. If we're not careful, we can start to trust in the things that we've accumulated to keep us safe from danger and the things that we fear. In Isaiah chapter 9, which we heard the beginning of that passage read this morning. Later in the passage it says, the Lord sent a word against Jacob. And it has fallen on Israel, all the people will know, Ephraim and the inhabitant of Samaria, who say in pride and arrogance of heart The bricks have fallen down, but we will rebuild rebuild with hewn stones. The sycamores are cut down, but we will replace them with cedars. These people had been attacked and their solution was not let's seek God, let's figure out what is going on in his providence, let's humble ourselves before him. No. Their solution was, okay, the walls fell down, well build them back up. Duh. But that's actually showing that their trust was in the wall. It wasn't in God. They weren't seeking to do his will and to please him. They just wanted to keep themselves safe. If they would have been meditating on the law of the Lord, they would have known things like this don't happen unless God is trying to tell you something, and they would have sought him. What do we look at in order to feel safe? Is it our bank account? Is it our relationships? Is it control? Is it our own abilities or discipline? Is it having a certain political leader in office? Did we maybe get a little too complacent and relaxed about the kingdom of God when we had somebody who was a little bit more in line with what we believed in office? We're not supposed to trust in these things. And if we find that our hearts are more at rest when we have those things than when we're thinking about God and and And even when those things go away, meditating on who he is, then we might have a problem. It says in Psalm 62, surely men of low degree are a vapor, men of high degree are a lie. If they are weighed on the scales, they are altogether lighter than vapor. Do not trust in oppression, nor vainly hope in robbery. If riches increase, do not set your heart on them We can't set our heart on the things of this world to keep us safe Nebuchadnezzar also relied on the worldly wisdom that was available to him when he faced uncertainty. So not only was he looking at worldly earthly stuff, he was looking at earthly thoughts as well. That's what he was trusting in. When he had this problem, the first people he calls is the Soothsayers, the Chaldeans, the astrologers, the people who knew about earthly wisdom and didn't actually have the knowledge of God. He actually would have probably known about his grandfather's um interactions with Daniel before and would have known that Daniel kind of got it right before, but he didn't call him. He called the earthly wisdom. And we can have a tendency to do the same thing sometimes, either just letting our own thoughts process things that happen to us. or even going to the news media and just listening to their interpretation of things, even conservative news media. Because a lot of times you don't see the fruit of the spirit coming out, even though maybe they have some of the right values coming out. We also can even do something that's kind of subtle and something that I was really guilty of for a long time. When we come Across a struggle in our life, we can just buy a bunch of Christian books about it and not really tell anybody. Think we're going to solve it ourselves with God and not actually be connected with the body of Christ. All of the people in the body of Christ, like Daniel, have the Holy Spirit of God. So we need to be connected to them as well. When the king needed answers, he turned to these astrologers, and they got it wrong. When he turned finally to Daniel, he was able to get the right interpretation. We must trust in the Lord alone. We need to take advantage of his means of protection and wisdom. We must labor to know our God so we can trust Him in the hard times and understand what's going on But a proud heart has a big problem with that. A proud heart doesn't seek God. A proud heart isn't even conscious, really, of God because it's so conscious of itself. Belshazzar was so impressed with himself that he threw this party in the presence of a thousand people. Some commentators think that it was customary for the king to not even be seen at a party like this, and yet he puts himself right at the center so everybody can see him in the presence of the thousand. Why was he having this party? There's a few reasons why people think he's having this party. One of them was because people think uh might have been we because he wanted to boost morale after that battle was just lost by his father That's possible. Some people think he was maybe using that defeat of his father to take over the kingdom, kind of usurp things and say, hey, I'm the new king now. And others believed that the feast was just a regular traditional feast that was supposed to happen that day anyway, so he Just thought, all right, let's just keep on going with the piece. But no matter which one of these reasons he actually had, any of them would have been prideful. Because When you're faced with such a terrible defeat, and you just have the feast as normal, you're communicating, there's nothing wrong, there's nothing to fear, I've got this. Look at me, I'm totally fine. That's what he wanted to communicate. Say the New Orleans Saints, okay, had a great season out of nowhere and just made it all the way uh to the Super Bowl and they're gonna play the Patriots. Uh if the Patriots had a celebration, right, the night before the Super Bowl for victory Um what would they be communicating? They think they're better than the other team. And that's what Belshazzar is communicating. He thinks he's better than everybody else. He's not in trouble even though people are threatening him. A good test of pride, like C. S. Lewis said, is to just see how It's to just ask yourself questions like these. So say you have a new pair of shoes or you know You're married, you have a spouse, or you have a nice car or a necklace or something. That's great. But what happens when somebody else walks in who's got a better one? All right? Do you all of a sudden feel upset? Does something go off inside of you? Those kinds of things are evidence that we want to feel better than other people. This stuff is alive in all of us. We're more conscious of ourselves sometimes than we are of God. Belshazzar also presented himself in in in a very prominent way. And we all know that the tendency to want to be the center of attention. We we live in the era of social media and people are constantly posting about how wonderful their their house is or their this is or their that is or their food they just ate. Um it doesn't matter. People just seem to oppose to all these different kinds of things. And it doesn't always come from pride, but You have to wonder sometimes when you're about to post something, um, am I do I just want to seem cool? Do I just want to seem better than other people? Or am I actually posting this thing for the glory of God? And if someone isn't saved, then most likely the only thing they can do is do things for their own glory. So we see all of this kind of stuff all the time. It says and and we can even do things in church that are for the wrong motive. In Matthew 6, Jesus said, Take heed that you do not do your charitable deeds before men to be seen by them. Otherwise you have no reward from your Father who is in heaven. We are even able to do things that are technically the right things, but when we do it from the motive of I want people to see me and how good I am. Then we're doing that from pride. And we can really be we we lose our reward before our Father in heaven. And we can actually be coming be becoming a worse person by doing the right thing for the wrong reason. Belshazzar was very, very aware of himself and his own reputation, but he also, on the flip side, was not very aware of God. He thought so lightly of God that he used God's temple vessels for debauchery. Now that kind of seems like alright, we that's something I would obviously never do, like use God's temple vessels for debauchery. But have you forgotten that your own body is the temple of the Holy Spirit? It says in 1 Corinthians 6 that we were bought with a price, and these vessels were made of gold and silver. But we are bought with the very blood of Jesus Christ. We don't even understand how much of a sacrifice it was for Jesus Christ, the very Son of God, who had been in the bosom of the Father. For eternity past, knowing joys that we can't even imagine. We don't know the sacrifice that it was for him to even become a man and to live under the law. And to not be in that bosom of the Father in that same way. In a sense, he never left, but he subjected himself to suffering. He learned obedience through the things that he suffered. He didn't know suffering before in the same way. He entered into that experience and he even bore the very wrath of his father God. on the cross. The deepest relationship you've ever known with another human being doesn't even compare with what he lost on that cross. Though it was a short time, it seems, compared to some of our trials, it was a deeper loss than anyone's ever known. And that that is the price I haven't even gone into details. That's the price that we were bought with. And yet when we commit immorality in our mind, in our heart, We're we're doing the same thing as he was doing. We need as Christians to have an awareness of God so that we remember what price we were bought at, and so that we live for the glory of God Now I'm totally out of time, so I'm just going to kind of skip to the end It's possible that we don't have a very strong awareness of God in our lives practically. We go to church and we worship him and we probably have our devotions, but sometimes uh Kim Scholes, I mean, when he led the home groups here. He said one of the scariest things for him was when he would go to work and then three hours later realize, wow, I didn't think about God for three hours. That kind of thing should really scare us when that happens in our lives. If you look at what King Belshazzar said to Daniel in describing what had happened when the Jews came into captivity, he totally left God out of it. Whereas in the Holy Spirit's account in Daniel chapter 1, it says that God was the one who gave Israel to Nebuchadnezzar. But he totally leaves that out. We tend to leave God out of the picture of our lives, and that is a manifestation of pride. We're not giving him glory for what he's doing in his providence. So how can we avoid that? Well, we need to keep a continuous awareness of our proper place before God. And this doesn't happen without diligent, constant, you know, intentional meditating on God. The uh Puritan Thomas Goodwin, he says that It's you always need to have Christ illuminating the things in your life. Maybe you can't always look directly at him. You're working on a hard math problem and you can't really think about Jesus Christ while you're doing this math problem But you need to, in a sense, like the sun illuminates everything that you see outside. You need to, in a sense, always have Christ illuminating whatever you do. I'm doing this math problem because I want to please him. Even though I'm not really thinking about directly him. So we need, how can we do this? How can we do this when we have all of these persuasions inundating us all day long? Well, it actually takes work and it actually takes intentional repetition and memory. When God was about to bring Israel into their land in Deuteronomy, he warned them in Deuteronomy chapter 8 that if they did not remember their God, Then their hearts were going to be lifted up, and they were going to turn from him. So you have to ask yourself, do I have a devotional life? That actually gives me thoughts of God for the day? Do I have some way of reminding myself throughout the day? Am I memorizing scripture? Am I processing things and taking time to pray? It says even in Daniel that Daniel took three times a day to give thanks to God. He's a slave. And he took three times a day to look at the things that God had done and thank him for them. This does take discipline, but it is worth it for the blessings of humility because God gives grace to the humble. So, um concluding applications up there, it says we must jealously guard our worship for the Lord alone. We must trust in the Lord alone. We must labor to keep a continuous awareness of our proper place before God. And I want to just close with this little story because I've kind of Propose for you that we should maybe be thinking a little bit more about some more discipline in our lives so that we can think about God more. We have so much opportunity and so many blessings. Some people really don't have that. And there was this young girl named Doris Duckworth. She wrote an autobiography. It's called Dory the Girl Nobody Loved. And she was a little girl who was She was abused growing up, but her mother rejected her and her little sister and sent them to an orphanage at a very young age, her mother who called her ugly constantly. At this orphanage, Dory learned quickly that no one was going to adopt her because all of the girls bullied her for being ugly. And then eventually, when parents would come to try to adopt a child, she became so tired of being rejected that she would cry and scream and claw at the ground. as people would have to drag her to the line to get rejected again for being too ugly. Um and then The gospel was preached in that orphanage and she was saved. And she was given a New Testament. You know, probably a little bit smaller than this. And she ransacked that New Testament. And she became so aware of God that the biggest problem in her life After a while of that was she really wanted God to give her help to always love and forgive her bullies in that orphanage. Now, we have not only a Bible disc big, but we have all of the resources on the internet. We have all of these people in this room who love us and can always help us in our growth. And she was one girl in an orphanage. We don't really have an excuse for not burying ourselves in God's word so that we can know Him. So let's let's endeavor to do these things and I think it will be pleasing to the Lord. All right, let's pray. Our Father in heaven, we thank you so much for your love and goodness to us, and we thank you that you do give grace to the humble. We pray that you'd help us to be honest about um our own pride and to turn from it and to rely on you to give us the grace we need um every day. In your name we pray. Amen.