Our days are over here, and we are with you. Then Sarah, his wife, and and their family was up here this weekend. And Omer was a court, or was two courts, the equivalent to two courts, so they were supposed to get two courts for each person in their family per day. And you are one step farther closer to going the way of Satan and being destroyed by the destroyer. Jesus came, lived a perfect life, died to take your sin on himself, so that he could give you his righteousness There are strangers passing through. But one of the longest things. And when the sun became hot it melted. And also they drank of the that followed them, and that rock was. Verse fifteen says, Teach me your way, O Lord, I will walk in your truth. The fact that your goodness truly does never fail through all the length of days. uh take over in our hearts. One omer for each person according to the number of persons, let every man take for those who are in his tent Then the children of Israel did so and gathered, some more, some less. And the house of Israel called its name manna, and it was like white corn to our seed, and it taste uh and the taste of it was like wafers made with honey. And the way that God does that is by providing for us. Respond in it the right way. Uh that's what it tasted like and but it was like dew that covered the ground in the morning and they had to go in to collect it and they were supposed to collect omer But for now we really want to focus in on what God is teaching us through the book of Exodus, and we're going to see here about God's provision and it being And we pick up in verses 17 and 18. You know, you're looking at it and going, okay, God says, don't collect more than you need. If we're going to really depend on him, it's going to include careful listening to him and obedience to him. And they were written for our abonition, upon whom the ends of the ages come. Or we're trusting it too much, or we're not responding the right way to the provision of God, and we're and we're not handling it right. And we pick up in John chapter 6, verse 30. The Bible says. And your role is to respond by faith, by dependence, by not depending on what you do and being a good person and doing everything to have a right relationship with God, but by depending on what Jesus did for you on the cross Just will my most friend my car with blessing. And we turn to the We are away to the We do see ourselves. And may you uh place these truths in our hearts and put them uh in the core of our being. And a mob of violent men have sought my life, and have not set you before them. are patient with us. Dick Hill Cup's life. regular heartbeat Lord I I ask that um that you would intervene in in this situation. And reading uh today's text for the message, it is Exodus 16, 13 through, should actually be 36 there And when the layer of dew lifted there the surface of the wilderness was a small round substance as fine as frost on the ground. For they did not know what it was. Then he said to them, This is what the Lord has said. Bake to day, and boil what you will boil, and lay up for yourselves all that remains to be kept until morning. until they came to an inhabited land, they ate manna until the until they came to the border of the land of Canaan. It says in Exodus 2020, a few chapters later, it says, And Moses said to the people, Do not fear, for God has come to test you, that his fear may be before you. And so that you may not sin. And as they realized his presence, they would then have what they needed so that they wouldn't sin And then he provides through giving them manna, provides through giving them water. And what he's actually doing is he's actually trying to teach them that he's with them through his provision. Roberto was recognizing God's provision. Or you have some sort of need and you're hurting or you're bothered or whatever it is, and then God just at the right time and the right place gives you what you need. They weren't seeing the presence of God because they weren't responding correctly to the provision of God. The provision of God teaches the presence of God. And in the morning the dew lay all around the camp, and when the layer of dew lifted, there on the surface of the wilderness was a small round substance, as fine as frost on the ground So when the children of Israel saw it, they said to one another, What is it? But it was also at certain amounts at a time. And they'd be reminded that God was with them. So when they measured it by omers, he he who gathered much and had nothing left over, and he who gathered little had no lack. We learn from this that responding independence, that's how he wanted the nation of Israel to respond. through dependence. But some of them left part of it until mo morning, and it bred worms and stank, and Moses was angry with them. And you're gonna you're gonna uh uh prepare it in a in a in a in a way that will preserve it. That is what the Lord had said. Let every man remain in his place. You can collect two days worth, and you it won't be there. We're not liking the manna that God's given us. for these Corinthian Christians to help them to understand exactly why God puts all of this in Exodus and how it applies to us as New Testament believers. And we pick up in verse 1 of 1 Corinthians chapter 10. It's the same thing every single day. That all our fathers were under the cloud, all passed through the sea, all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea. Now, it's interesting in the passage in verses 32 through 36 that this is sort of an editorial note, very likely Joshua, perhaps, or somebody else. came in and put this in here to help us to understand. But notice what it says, picking up in verse 32, and Moses said, This is the thing which the Lord has commanded, fill an omer with it, and be kept. for your uh for your generations, that they may see the bread with which I fed you in the wilderness when I brought you out in the land of Egypt. for your genera uh to be kept for your generations, as the Lord commanded Moses, so Aaron laid it up before the testimony to be kept. And actually, this is the text tells us that for 40 years God does this every single day, gives them manna. You'll remember that this was the feeding of the 5,000 where God broke fish and bread and distributed it to over 5,000 people. Did not give you the bread of the heaven, but my father gives you the bread the true bread from heaven. But I said to you that you shall have seen me and you do not believe. No one can come unto me unless the Father who sent me draws him, and I will raise him on the last day. I am the bread of life. In taking on your sin and giving his righteousness to you, but you must accept it by faith. Well I like not an honor. Well, and takes me for his mercy. Let's pray, Father, we thank you so much for being a merciful God. You are so patient with us as you grow us and mold us into your Son's image. Indoors. I will glorify your name forevermore. And gracious, long-suffering, and abundant in mercy and truth. Off, but we recognize the the what reality is. We have your truth. in in helping him. Now it happened that some of the people went out on the seventh day to gather, but they found none. How long will do you refuse to keep my commandments and my laws? Let every man remain in his place, and let no man go out of his place on the seventh day. And Moses said to Aaron, Take a pot and put an omer of man in it, and lay it up for the Lord to be kept for your generations. He knew that. Well, what did he want them to understand? So clearly he was testing them. In other words, the Bible actually tells us that God's with us, but sometimes we need to be assured of God's presence with us. And in the midst of discussing his condition a little bit, she mentioned and God knew exactly, she says, God knew exactly what he was doing because this week, my uh this weekend my son uh Ben and his In the life of the people of Israel, he was assuring them that he was with them by providing for them the way that he chose to. What we want to see in this passage is that God's provision does teach us, if we'll respond to it correctly, it does teach us his presence. continual provision assures us of his presence. Uh little little balls of s there were seeds, okay, but in this case it was that there were s sweet honey like wafers that we need to learn to respond in the right way. Now in verses 17 through 31, you're going to see several things going on here. You're going to see some different things. He wanted them to learn to depend upon him. for each person's need for that day was in and we learned something from this And when they do that, they begin to trust in the provision rather than in the God of the provision. Do we do this? it was on the sixth day that they gathered twice as much bread to Omer. We look to the next the next um the next thing that we just expect to be there. Where it was a daily thing. Now with that in mind, look at verse twenty-two. Nor were there any worms in it. Verse uh then think verse 27. you the Sabbath. You see, God provides so that we know his presence, but if we don't respond to his provision the right way, Then we will not be assured of his presence. And God was so patient with them, kept teaching them through their failures that He's going to continue to provide, and His presence is still with them. But eventually, what did the nation of Israel end up in? If you'll turn back to Exodus, you're then going to see that God's provision here is eternal. And Moses said to Aaron, Take a pot and put an omer of manna in it, and lay it up before the Lord, and be kept He said, lay up this omer of manna to be preserved forever, for a long time. And what work will you do? He who comes to me shall never hunger, and he who believes in me shall never thirst. And it's a kind of provision that will give you eternal life. Later on in verse 47, he says, Most as surely I say to you, he who believes in me has everlasting life He is the provision for your soul so that you can have eternal life. But as many as received him, to them gave you the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. On the rock of a discounted, one can sing a glory pose with salvation all surrounding the Please high thought that makes me bring his power on his women. Can pass off through that race when I walk through the shades of death. His presence is my say one word of his soul grace. Try all my tears away. His all anoints my head such drawmission of my God. sing Merciful God Oh no, working yes. Cursive was from And we will stand over A long-suffering God. And Lord, I can imagine that nearly every one of us, as your children here this morning, can think of times in our lives where there was great need. with us and is patient with us. we aren't satisfied and that's because our our flesh can sometimes rain and it can Notwithstanding they did not heed Moses, but some of them left part of it until morning, and had bred worms and stank. Then Moses said, Eat that today, for today is a Sabbath to the Lord. As the Lord commanded Moses, so Aaron laid it up before the testimony to be kept. How many of you all like failing? Now it's interesting as you go through this passage, what you see as a theme over and over again is that God's providing for them. Then we're going to see that God's repeated provision teaches us about His presence. Later on in the passage, at the very end of this chapter, it actually says it was like coriander seed. Now, it's very important for us to understand that as God provides these things for us, it was this continual kind of provision. And when that happens, we are not responding right to God and His provision. Dependence. Verse 19 it says, And Moses said, Let no one leave any of it till morning, notwithstanding that they did not heed Moses. When we get ahead of God, when we want to trust the provision, so we want more of the provision, we start leaning on the provision. You can uh you can are right the day before the Sabbath day on Friday, you can collect two times as much for everybody, and you're gonna bake that Did you catch that? They were blaming you know it's funny in in Israel and in Exodus, they're blaming Moses for not having bread, and now here they're blaming Moses for having giving them bread, and Moses had nothing to do with either one Again, years later, what did the Jews do when they heard Jesus says, I am the bread, I am the provision of God for you? We're going to see it today again. That you provide for us in ways that actually test us. We ask that you'd be working in the lives of those who are listening and perhaps don't know you. And take all of the knowledge that they have about you and about the gospel and personalize it, that they would today make Jesus their Savior And Moses said, This is the thing which the Lord has commanded, fill an omer with it, to be kept for your generations, that they may see the bread with with which I fed you in the wilderness, when I brought you out of the land of Egypt. And then you say, I'm just thankful God's with me. God was so kind to them, he also provided quail. a continual provision. And that's important for us to understand. And so we see here that God's repeated provision assures of God's presence in verses 17 through 31. Responding independence recognizes that God is the one that gives the increase. Not trust the provision. We tend to be able to rely on provisions better than other countries. And God says, depend on me and what I'm doing daily in your life. As some of them also complained. To all mankind that we find in this passage in John chapter 6. The Jews then complained about him, because he said, I am the bread which came down from heaven. How is it that he says, I have come down from heaven? If there's anybody here today who has not responded to the provision of God that way, may you accept Jesus today. Father, we come to you this morning and we admit before you, we confess before you, that we are so prone to wanting more than what you want us to have. So that we can be assured of your presence in our lives. And all I were me bring, and I don't know. Lord, we confess this before you that we are our hearts are so easily turned the wrong direction. To take every thought into captivity, into the obedience of Christ, we confess this today before you that we need to do this. Certainly reminds us of that fact. Working in our midst. Every man had gathered according to each one's need. I would think it would be pretty weird. God was coming, he was with them, his presence was with them, and he wanted them to realize his presence. But the problem, folks, is that they were responding in a way where they didn't, they didn't, they weren't learning the lesson very well to be kept until morning. Now, there are three applications that we finally need to come to. Responding dependently to the provision of God assures us of the presence of God. Responding dependently or well to the provision of God prevents our hearts from turning away from God. Saving of our God, He whose words cannot be broken for me for his own Romney. Outdoors tonight. And desires to show your presence through your provision. Or we respond to it in the wrong way, and yet you are still long suffering with us as your people. That when you provide in these timely ways, that in doing so, you're showing us that you're with us. We we recognize that we're not always um where you want us to be in today's past So in Exodus 15 through 17, Israel is failing a lot. God knew that Israel was going to fail as he provided for them. So Moses says in Exodus 20, 20 that the reason that God was testing them was so that they would learn to fear him. Verse 26, and the Lord said to Moses, How long do you refuse to keep my commandments and my laws? Can I ask you a question? Because the Apostle Paul in this passage is actually going to take this illustration and he's going to drive it home. And your heart is going to be directed in such a way that you're really going to go a wrong direction. As some of them did. John Chapter Six. And Jesus has to tell them, look, it is God who gave your father's bread. It wasn't Moses that withheld food, and it wasn't Moses that gave food. You are dead, the Bible says in trespasses and sins. That you respond to God's provision of Jesus. To not being happy with what you give us, to not trusting you when it looks like but marked by contentedness and satisfied in you and in who you are. And as it is written, the people sat sat down and eat and drink and rose up to play, nor let us commit sexual immorality. If you are not responding right to God's provision, it is a faith problem. Looks like you're not providing the way we expect. My shed And Lord, we thank you for that promise. give him and the doctors wisdom in in finding out the cause of this and that a solution would be able to be found and uh that it would be effective And truly above and beyond what we need. To the message and worship and praise. Who can make what our river never was never making we don't want a man? And you, through your perfect timing, provided for us. But until then, Lord, we recognize that we are here, and we are in a world that is not our home. Responding to the provision of God assures us of the presence of God. Lord, would you help us today to resolve, to be content with your provision, to be dependent upon it? And we praise you, Lord, that what you intended to do back then is the same thing that you're intending to do today. Be working in the lives of those who are here this morning and for those who are perhaps listening and watching on the stream. Recognize fully their need of a savior, and that they would see that need Beginning in verse 13. We have so much in this country, it's very easy for us to get away from the fact that God desires us to depend on him daily Responding independence includes careful obedience, careful listening, careful obedience to what God is saying to do. God had provided everything that they needed needed, and they were doing it, and it was every day. And God says if you complain about your provision, it's going to lead you down a path where you're going to want what you want. Idolaters as some of them. Verse 35, and the children of Israel ate manna forty years until they came to the inhabited land and ate manna until they came to the border of the land of Canaan. So they start following Jesus all over the place because they want more of this bread. He said it says they're they're saying to Jesus, look, we need some sort of sign. In John 6. that you are right with God because you are receiving the gift of Jesus, the provision from God. Murciple is bond to all the In indoors. Lord, I we confess before you that we often don't see that you're with us. Father, we we confess that sometimes we we look beyond your provision. Or sometimes we depend too much on the provision. And number three, we pick up here, and this is so important. I just need to know God's with me. So this is actually an eternal lesson. You're much more patient with us than than we are with each other, than we are with you. And Lord, as we think about all that is going on, and you have provided for us in such magnificent ways Notice what it says, has given you the Sabbath, therefore he gives you on the sixth day six-day bread for two days. Indoors at six o'clock. Now these things became our example, what they wanted. This is serious business. Oh, I see. Now folks, what did they do wrong? Oh no, those I don't know. And we understand that from verses 17 through 18. Now with that in mind, I'd like us to take our Bibles to 1 Corinthians chapter 10. It's this extra assurance of knowing that God is with us. Responding independence requires daily dependence. It's a warning to us. And they wanted more. And folks, the most important lesson that you can learn today is that Jesus is the bread of life. We thank you for those some of those last words that Jesus gave His His followers, that He is with us even unto the end of the age And Moses said to them, This is the bread which the Lord has given you to eat. God gives them quail. You would go and glean a harvest from the field on a daily basis. Verse 34, then they said to him, Lord, give us this bread always. It will be indoors. The main thing that you're going to see is that God, in this repeated provision, God wanted them to learn dependence. And what God intended is to take the failures and for Israel to really learn, to really understand. Tomorrow is a Sabbath rest and a holy Sabbath to the Lord. So they laid it up till morning and Moses as Moses commanded, and it did not stink. We do fail. 32, it says, that Jesus said to them, Most assuredly I say to you, Moses did not give you bread from heaven, but my Father gives you the true bread from heaven. We we know that he's uh being monitored and uh not doing well and and has uh an This was something that God provided daily, day in and day out. And so it was on the sixth day that they gathered twice as much bread, two omers, for each one, and all the rulers of the congregation came and told Moses, then he said to them But Jesus came as a provision of God to give you life. Folks, the reality is these are the lessons that we need to learn in our lives as Christians. We need you to do that work in us that we really can't do ourselves. And in one day 23,000 fell. We know that passage. One good to see everybody out this morning on this sort of rainy day. We can so often stray and go off the path. And we we ask, Lord, that you would help us to be a people that are not marked by complaining. And yet Israel kept failing over and over again. And Moses said, Eat that today, for today is a Sabbath to the Lord, and today you will not find it in the field. Now it came it happened that some of the people went out on the seventh day to gather, but they found none. Let no man go out of his place on the seventh day, so the people rested on the seventh day. We're going to see it again next week. Maybe you're saying to yourself, you know, I just don't, I'm not assured of God's presence in my life. By the way, like in Exodus 15, notice what it says, verse 25 and 26, it says, There he made a statute and ordinance for them, and there tested them. That was by the inspiration of God that it happened, so it's God's word. We do this all the time. Why? Our fathers ate the man in the desert, and it was written, he gave them bread from heaven to eat. He was providing for them, and he was with them in his presence with them. They most of them ended up in idolatry. We have an eighty percent chance of rain, so that just sounds like a accident waiting to happen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. If we're complaining about our provision, if we're not responding Notice what it says. He may be there, but we will not be assured of it. It says verse 17, and the children of Israel did so and gathered some more, some less. But on the seventh day, the Sabbath, there will be none. We're complaining about what God is doing in our lives. We know the verse wherein you think he stands taking he lets you fall. Number three, responding dependently to the provision of God prevents our hearts from turning away from God. For great is your mercy toward me, and you have delivered my soul from the depths of Sheol. But the truth is, Lord, that you are long suffering towards us. Tomorrow is a Sabbath rest, a holy Sabbath to the Lord. Nobody likes to fail. And that really quickly brings us then to to God's repeated provision. Because he wanted it to be a constant reminder of his presence. And God wanted them to understand this and to learn this. Find out in numbers. See the streams of living waters springing from eternal law Um and also um to uh there's something else And so it was on the sixth day that they gathered twice as much bread, two omers for each one, and all the rulers of the congregation came and told Moses It was repeated. And what? We can sing your praises forever. I was talking yesterday for just a brief few minutes with Roberta. And they go out and collect when it's not there. Don't forfeit assurance of God's presence because you're unwilling to respond in the right way to God's provision. The book of Numbers, which we're going to look at next week a little bit, talks about why the quail was provided, and we'll get to that. We do forget. We also ask today, Lord, that you would uh be For the people stood afar off, but Moses drew near the thick darkness where God was. Are you responding to God's provision the way that He wants you to? It's amazing how often we just want more than what God provides, and you see that here in this passage as well Now all of these things happen to them as examples It says, Moreover, brethren, I do not want you to be uh be unaware You are born that way because of your sin. You are a God who constantly provides for us And sometimes I'm not sure God's with me. I want you actually to see the ultimate lesson that God wants you to learn from this. Okay. They're continually complaining. And at times, Lord, it can feel a bit lonely. We have very different words at that moment. There is a provision that God gives It was God. And we pick up in verse 13, it says, so it was the quails came at the evening and covered the land the camp Well, how do you respond? And yet so often we are complaining and we We look to the paycheck, and when the paycheck's not there the way we want it, we lose trust. Do you remember what happened to Israel, the people of Israel? Because in your heart you are discontent. We also, Lord, we recognize that even though we have your presence And you may say, well, what was he wanting them to learn as he was testing them? It was continual day after day after day. And we pray these things in Christ's name. And Moses said, let no one leave any of it till morning. See? And there I I think all of us in times in our lives when we find ourselves in need and then we see God provide through that need, and we were seeing It assures you. Well, how does it do that? Dependence is what he wanted them to learn There's some countries in today's society, and there are in the past and this time, this day, where you really didn't know where your next meal was coming from Therefore they said to him, What sign will you perform then that we may see it and believe you? And they go and collect more than they need. So quail and mana, every single, oh man, now I'm getting sick of this. Some clear direction given from God through Moses to the nation of Israel. Well, they didn't realize that what God really wanted was daily dependence. I don't know any, I actually don't think I've ever heard somebody say, you know, I just really enjoy failure. Over and over again, he's providing for them. May we learn to respond in the right way. What do they do, verse 41? We are so prone to this. Let's stand together and begin doing that with glorious things of thee are spoken. Unite my heart to fear your name. And God just knew that we needed them Were destroyed by the destroyer. The issue was their belief. Today you will not find it in the field. For the Lord has given you the Sabbath, therefore he gives you on the sixth day bread for two days. So when they measured it by the o by omers, he who gathered much had nothing left over, and he who had gathered little had no lack. Responding in dependence recognizes that God is the one that gives the increase. Let's pray together. So of course you know what happened. For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world Verses 22 through 30, look at the passage it says, and so Nor let us tempt Christ, as some of them also tempted, and were destroyed by serpents, nor complain. The Bible says this. We're going to learn on later in the passage that they begin to collect more than they ought to. You bring in a harvest and you'd eat what you would provided by God for you. Therefore, check what it says, verse 12. And as this last song, Lord, we uh said, we we want, we thank you And your goal for us is that we would know your presence through your provision. For they did not know what it was. Would you give us some bread so we know who it is? Jesus therefore answered and said to them, Do not murmur among yourselves. And we know from your word that your provision, your presence is with us all the time, but there's this extra measure of assurance. And if you've I actually had to look that up, what it looks like. And then the next day you won't you won't need to go and uh and and collect any because it is the Sabbath day So the people rested on the seventh day. Well, we're going to see in the passage, first of all, we're going to see that God's continual provision teaches us about his presence. Wanted when they wanted it. Reality is found in your word, and your word tells us that your presence is with us We all are free. And they're not listening very well, are they? Did you know it was in the context of this that you're one step closer to falling when you're complaining? Then finally, we're going to see that God's eternal provision teaches us about His presence. And if you do this in the right way and you'll follow me and you'll be careful to obey me, you're going to know my presence is with you. But you, O Lord, are full of are a God full of compassion. He knew that they would fail in responding to him correctly and they would be complaining, continuing to complain, complaining again. And do you know that that's what God was doing in the life of Israel? It was continual, it was repeated, but the the command every single every single day No question about that. It is written in the prophets, they shall all be taught by God. Now moving over to my shepherd will supply my need And we we we trust the provision rather than trusting the provider. And Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life. We don't know your presence. Lord, I do want to ask for your help in in um And the Lord said to Moses, And they said, Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? Okay. We won't know his presence in our lives because we're not responding right. Jesus proclaims who he is to them. Now look at verse 31. Number one, responding dependently to the provision of God happens by faith. We're on number two. When we when we see Israel, sometimes we don't want to admit it, but And yet you are a God who is long-suffering as your people complain about your provision. And you are born separated from God. One thing I need to say at the very outset is that we will not be having services And the children of Israel ate manna forty years. Oh So they laid it up till morning, and Moses commanded, and it did not stink, nor were there any worms in it But you know, I think God's God's perspective on failing is very different than ours. God said on the Sabbath day. Or we depend too much on the provision. And we pick up and we see this in verses 19 through 21. And then God says, okay, on Friday. See, for the Lord has given You'll note that earlier in the chapter And it's amazing how Israel keeps getting all this wrong even thousands of years later. This is the thing which the Lord has commanded. 1 Corinthians chapter 10. You think, well man, that's a big jump from complaining to idolatry. So it was that quails came up at evening and covered the camp, and in the morning the dew lay all around the camp. I know what the Bible says, but I don't feel like he's really with me. You are going against God's provision. It is a trust problem. Verse three. Now we have a chance to respond Pray that you would bless us as we go our ways today And we see this in Exodus as your people continue to complain Father, we thank you He provided quail in the evening, he provided manna in the morning. Father, as we come this morning, we praise you because you are an And uh we Not by complaining, not by getting ahead of God. And you know, in our country, so far, this doesn't always it isn't always necessarily going to be the case God wanted the nation of Israel to continually remember the provision of God And then it says in verse 32, Moses, surely I say unto you, Moses. Amen. In fact, that's what is it? Can we remember that? We pray in Jesus' name. We we pray that um that you would They know about you, they know about your word, but they have not We pray this in Jesus' name. And Moses was angry with them, so they gathered it gathered it every morning, every man according to his need So they gathered it every morning, every man according to his need, and when the sun became hot it melted. Bake what you will bake today and boil what you will boil, and lay up for yourselves all the remains, and be And we see what the direction is. No, no, for Allah's dranger. So it'll be at six o'clock, by the way. I will praise you, O Lord my God, with all my heart For their bodies were scattered in the wilderness. But it was also repeated each day. Verse I mean he already he'd already given them. Six days you shall gather it, but on the seventh day of the Sabbath there will be none. Now an omer is one tenth of an epha And yet we forfeit knowing your presence. And we often don't see it. So when the children of Israel saw it, they said to one another, What is it? Three separate occurrences in this passage. We must learn to always look to the provider and trust the provider. Secondly, responding independence requires daily It's almost like they were surprised. They are deceitful and desperately wicked, and it is so important for us to guard our hearts. It started off with complaining, and they kept failing the test. Complaining is a big deal to God. That it says We thank you, Lord, that And they wanted more than what God was willing to give them. It's a warning to us that it can end in idolatry. 40 years. The Jews then, what did the Jews do? And it is important that you respond to that in the right way. Same spiritual food. Well over. Have you seen that before in your life? Beginning in verse eleven, and we'll read and through On a daily basis. The testimony had to do had to do with the with with the part of the Ark of the Covenant May we learn them well. That faith will become sight We want what we want when we want it rather than wanting what you want when you want it. It can feel uh like you are far off Every day in the morning, they'd wake up, they'd collect the manna. He provides for them through quail, giving the birds the quail. They're not really paying attention very well to what God is saying You don't usually put complaining and sexual immorality in the same category. Now, this is such an important lesson that God wants us to learn through this. That he is We thank you for being a God who is They're complaining about God's provision Notice what it says. He kept over and over teaching this Would you take your Bibles and turn to John chapter 6? We're not assured of that because we respond wrongly to your provision. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Let every man gather it according to each one's need That's what manna means. Therefore, let him who thinks he stands, take heed lest he fall. And you are born headed toward hell and death for eternity. It's basically little balls. So you have that provision on a daily basis. That you test us with your provision. I mean I mean for us from a bird's eye view this looks kind of crazy, doesn't it They complain. We look forward to the time when Amen. And he really, really wants them to remember this. O God, the proud have risen against me Can we number two? And finally, together What do you want them to learn? Every man had gathered according to each one's need. He's talking about the s the food given by God, the manna and the quail Number two. Of course, you know that Dick is in the hospital He'd already given you know provided for them. Amen. This was not just, the way God provided was not just continual. Six o'clock tonight We lose faith. It means what is it? Glorious things of the spoken zion. We need your spirit Bake what you will. Therefore, everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me. So X is 2020 actually gives us the answer. First of all, we see that God's If we're going to respond to God's provision, Destruction came to them. Let's pray together. He provided a certain amount for them And do not become what? You've got Israel, they're failing, failing, failing, failing. Don't complain, he says. Now I just want us to pause for a minute and think about this. They wanted to give them. Please come and talk to me. He wanted them to respond to his provision. Look at what it says It's a warning to us. We're complaining about his provision. Amen. Six days you shall gather. He wanted to do it again. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure. There was enough And then on top of that, in the evening It wasn't just all the time.