Bibles if you would and turn to the book of Ruth this morning. We're in our s in a s returning to the series uh that we started two weeks ago in Ruth chapter two this morning. As a father, I really enjoy um making my kids happy. And I think that every parent just really loves doing that, loves just enjoys making their kids their kids happy. You know, Jesus, God as our Father, I don't know if you ever thought of it this way, but are you aware that our Father also enjoys giving us good things from his hand? He, there's a sense in which, if I could say it this way, he wants to make us happy. Now, his greater goal is to make us holy But I remember one time saying to a somebody, um I I uh was in a situation and I I just was struggling with it because I wasn't um happy and um I said uh to somebody, you know, I'm I'm just not not very happy and they said, Well God hasn't made you God God hasn't um God doesn't want to make you happy, he wants to make you holy. Well, but he doesn't want you to be miserable either, right? Uh actually God Does his main goal is for us to be like Christ? There's no question about that. That's his primary goal. But in the process, the Bible actually tells us that if ye know these things, happy are ye if ye do them. Psalm 84, 11 says it this way: For the Lord God is a sun and a shield. The Lord will give grace and glory. No good thing will he withhold to them that walk uprightly. Did you have you ever noticed before that there seemed to be some kids, maybe you notice in the group grocery store or in the mall or something, you ever notice that there seemed to be some kids that They're really hard to make happy. You could tell the parents are trying to make them happy. But it's really hard. In the old days we call that spoiled. Right? You ever met tell your kids I don't w my parents used to tell me we don't want to spoil you. I hadn't heard that lately in a long time. Anyway, yeah, I don't know. Um and and then the old and and because what causes a child to become spoiled? Well, it's expectation of kindness rather than being grateful for the kindness that is given. I remember um I'm hearing a lot of echo and the sound. It's it's actually if you maybe just turn me down a little bit or something. Um maybe too much bass or something. I'm not sure what's going on. So um Anyway, uh I remember a particular um uh episode, one of my favorite episodes of Andy Griffith. I don't talk about TV shows every single service or anything, but but um There's a particular one that it's it opens up with Barney Fife is is uh walking along the sidewalk and a kid comes up with his bike. and uh is riding on the sidewalk and Barney Five says, no, you can't do that. You can't ride on the sidewalk. Stops him and says, get off the sidewalk and ride there on the road and the kid does it for a second and he turns his head and he goes back and he's back up on the sidewalk. So they ended up uh Andy uh uh Andy Griffith ends up impounding the bike And um the father comes. Anybody else seen this episode before? Okay, I'm not the only one. The father comes and uh of the s of the son and wants to get the bite back. And In the process, to make a long story short, Andy says, okay, well you've got two choices. He said, either we keep the bike for a couple of weeks or you're going to spend the night in jail, says the father. And the son says, he'll be glad to spend a night in jail. He wants the bike back And at that point, the father sort of woke up and said, Whoa, we have uh we have a pro problem. And he said, Sheriff, you will not have to impound that bike. I'm gonna sell it. And then the whole show ends by this old-fashioned way of dealing with spoiled children. And they say there's a back room and I have a belt. And the show ends, basically. They don't make shows like that anymore, I'm telling you they don't. Anyway But you know the truth of the matter is there is for a parent, there has to be some conditions for being able to pour out kindness for our kids, right? We don't want to spoil our kids. You can't give a child a whole cart of ice cream. Right? And the truth is God desires to pour out his incredible kindness. But there are, but he has to do it in his time and in his way. The Bible says this in 2 Chronicles 16, 9, for the eyes of the Lord run to and fro throughout the whole earth to show himself strong in the behalf of them whose heart is perfect toward him Herein thou hast dealt done foolish foolishly. Therefore, from henceforth thou shalt have wars. That passage is talking to the nation of Israel, and they had been foolish, and he He is explaining in that passage that God's desire is he's looking for for he's looking throughout the whole earth To see whom he might show himself strong to on the behalf of whose hearts are complete toward him, are devoted toward him, are focused on him. We have a per a great example of that in Ruth, do we not? Here is a woman, if you recall from a couple of weeks ago, here is a woman who has left everything she knows, she has left her land, she has left her. her family. She has left the gods of the Moabites, and she has gone with Naomi to a new land. She has followed after the one and only true God, and she is going, she has expressed this great, these great words of faith in chapter 1. And she is, her heart here is perfect toward God. It is not perfect in the sense of flawless, but perfect in the sense of it is wholly following after God in faith. And what we're going to see here in the life of Ruth is that this is going to continue. And we're going to see how God is able now to pour out his kindness. Because of Ruth's faithfulness and how all of this works together. And certainly we need the Lord's help before we do this. Let's go to him in prayer. Father, as we come to you this morning, I pray that you would help us to see perhaps an aspect of you that we have not thought about in a while, the fact that you are richly kind. And you desire to those people that you can to pour out your kindness to us You know the end from the beginning. You know what you can do and what you can't do. You are the all-wise, all-knowing God And there are times in which we don't know why you do what you do. But I pray that you would help us to understand that for your children, your disposition toward us is one of desiring to pour out your kindness to us. May we see that today in this passage. May we live in light of it. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. This is this idea of kindness is a theme throughout the book of Ruth. I want to show you a couple of places where we see this. It is the Hebrew word hased. And the truth is, as many times in languages, there are sometimes certain words that don't really, they don't have a good translation. It doesn't, it doesn't really, it's the, you know, you have to sort of choose the best. word you can. And that's the kind of idea when it comes to this term kindness. If you've done any linguistic work or you know another language, you know sometimes that there is sometimes no direct equivalent from one word to the other, and so you have to sort of use the best. Sometimes a word has a whole concept attached to it. uh rather than just a simple thought. And that is really the case with this Hebrew word Hesed, which comes, which which is is used throughout the book of Ruth. I want to show you a couple of places real quick. Romans chapter 1 or Ruth, sorry, Ruth chapter 1, verse 8. It says, And Naomi said to her two daughters-in-law, go return each to your to her mother's house, the Lord deal kindly with you as you have dealt with the d with the dead and with me. He says He bl she blesses his her her daughters and says daughters-in-law and says, the Lord deal kindly with you. Would you look then at chapter 2, verse 20 for a moment? You'll see the same kind of concept, but now it's It's in recognition of Boaz's kindness toward Ruth and really noticing that, realizing that it's God's kindness toward Naomi and Ruth. Then Naomi said to her daughter-in-law, Blessed be he of the Lord who has not forsaken his kindness. to the living and the dead. And then you'll see also, if you look at chapter 3, verse 10 for just a moment, I want you to see this as well. this this idea of kindness. Then he said, Blessed are you of the Lord my daughter, for you have shown more kindness at the end than at the beginning. There is throughout this book this concept of kindness. And it begins in a very dark scene in Roman in Ruth chapter 1 where Naomi and Ruth are in a foreign land. They are essentially destitute. They have nothing to their name. They're having to return to their pro uh the r return to uh Ruth's or Ruth's husband's um uh family, uh the clan of of alimelech, and yet they don't they don't really have know what to expect because they have no Uh their fat uh Ruth's father has likely passed away. I'm s yeah, Ru no, um Naomi's father has likely passed away And uh they don't know there's no male heir or male uh person to to to protect them and take care of them. And of course, in that day that was a necessity. Uh it's a little different in our culture today, but that day that certainly was the way it usually worked. And so these people these this was a these were ladies that were absolutely destitute. And we have these blessings of kindness that are throughout this book. And really, what we're going to see today as we look at chapter 2 is we begin to see God's immense And incredible kindness that is unveiled to Ruth as she is faithful to her God and to Naomi. We pick up in chapter 2, verse 1 here. This concept of kindness, I just want to reiterate before we get there. This concept of kindness is this undeserved covenantal loyalty and faithfulness and goodness and mercy and love and compassion. It's all of this wrapped up into this one word Hesed. And what we're going to see happen is that God is going to be the source of this kindness, and he's going to begin to pour out his kindness through two people in this passage. Certainly Ruth, but also now another man is on the scene here, and his name is Boaz. We'll see this in chapter 2, verse 1. There was a relative of Naomi, or a kinsman of Naomi's husband, a man of great wealth of the family of Elimelech. His name was Boaz. Now, at the very start of this second chapter, we have this concept that is put out right in front. In fact, there are several characteristics of Boaz in verse 1. His name is the least of concern. It's the very last thing mentioned, because it doesn't really take priority in this verse. There are far more things far more um important, most importantly of which is this concept of a kinsman And that's going to become very, very important as we go through this book of the Bible. Really, we're talking here about Boaz as having the qualifications Of what is known in the scriptures as a kinsman redeemer. We find this concept is fleshed out in a couple of different places in the Old Testament law We'll look at one place in Leviticus 25, real quickly, verses 47 through 49. You can turn there or you can just listen as I read from that passage. Leviticus twenty five forty seven says this And if a sojourner or stranger wax rich by thee, and thy brother that dwelleth by him wax poor And sell him sell himself unto the stranger or sojourner by thee, or the stock of the stranger's family, after that he is sold, he may be redeemed again. One of his brethren may redeem him, either his uncle or his uncle's son may redeem him, for any that is nigh of kin unto him of his family may redeem him Or if he be able, he may redeem himself. Of course, it was back in those days where sometimes people had to sell themselves into slavery in order to make ends meet. They were destitute and so they they were put into positions where they had to had to do things in in in as far as just selling themselves into slavery. But there was this possibility that someone that was a blood family member would be able to redeem them would be able to buy them back. And so we have this vivid illustration of this concept of redemption. that the very beginning books of the Bible begin to unfold. This redemption means, that's what redeem means, it means to be bought back. And so we see this concept of the kinsman redeemer being a clear illustration of redemption Now I want to mention something else when it comes to this man Boaz, and we're going to get into Ruth's actions here in a few moments, but we need to establish a couple of things. in order to really understand not only this narrative, but as we continue to unfold these passages of scripture in the book of Ruth, we have this concept of a kinsman redeemer. And it would appear then that Boaz is what is known as a type of Christ. Now I want to mention something about types. Often there are different takes and approaches to this whole concept of having a type of something that's uh of an Old Testament, an Old Testament picture of something that is further fleshed out in the New Testament. I would suggest to you that we need to be very careful about what we actually call a type. A type in the Old Testament needs to have a clear New Testament connection. There are some people that seem to see types where um where you really have a hard time seeing them. How many of you ever read um Arthur Pink's works on the on the on the tabernacle? How many have ever read any of those before? He finds types in everything. The bolts that are in the tabernacle, the pegs that are keeping the tabernacle down, everything's got a type to it. And I would just suggest to you that we need to be a little bit more literal than that, that a much better approach would be to say, okay, well there might be some things that are illusions. And maybe there's some pictures there, but when we're going to call it a type, let's make sure that there is at least some New Testament connection. And I really wanted to do enough study to really establish in my mind that this was indeed a type of Christ in Boaz. And a type does not, by the way, also mean that it's a per like a per like Boaz was perfect or something, or that he was he is God or anything like that. But simply that there was an established purposeful picture of who Christ, what Christ was going to do, or who he was, or who he was, or some aspect of Christ. Let me give you a very clear type. You remember in John, we just went through the whole book of John. You remember John chapter 3, where it says, As Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up. That is a clear type in the Old Testament with a clear antitype in the New Testament. So you have it clearly said that that's what that is in the Old Testament. And so that's really the approach that we want to take here. And what we find in this passage then with connecting uh this idea of a kinsman redeemer, which is clearly what Boaz is going to be as we go along in this passage, in in this book in Ruth. We can connect Leviticus with Hebrews chapter 2. And in Hebrews chapter 2, verses 10 through 12, it says, For if because For became for whom are all things, and by whom all things, and bring bringing many sons unto glory to make the captain of our salvation perfect through sufferings. Now who's the captain of our salvation? He is Christ. For both he that sanctifieth and they that are sanctified are all of one, for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren. Or could we say it this way, folks, to call them kinsmen. So this passage teaches us in Hebrews that Christ is our kinsman redeemer. And so it is safe, I'll put it that way, to call Boaz a type of Christ. Now, there are other applications we can learn from Boaz as well. And we're going to see that in this passage as well. But as we begin to work through these passages in the book of Ruth, I think it's safe to say that he is going to picture for us what it looks like. practically that Christ is truly our loving, kind Redeemer. And the same way that Boaz is going to show kindness to Ruth in magnanimous ways. Christ is the is the conduit through which the Father shows kindness to us. Through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. So that's very important for us to understand as we look at this. The other thing It's important for us to realize. It says that this man Boaz is 1, chapter 2, verse 1, a man of great wealth. Now, this word wealth can sometimes be referring to monetary wealth. And we find in the pat in the book that Boaz is a wealthy man. But also we find about this man that he is a man of great ability. In 1 Kings chapter 11, verse 28, for example, that's the way the word is used. It's used To mean one who is of great ability, maybe because of his wealth. But whatever we're talking about, we're talking about a man who is established in the very beginning of this narrative as someone who is worthy He is qualified. He is worthy to do what the narrative is going to say that he is going to do. This is a very qualified man. And not only that, he's qualified for this reason, he's of the same clan, the same family of the same clan. as Naomi's husband, the clan of Elimelech. We see that as well in verse 1. So all that is in verse 1 as sort of this preparation to establish this man Boaz and his qualifications and who he is to then be able to continue to understand what is going to happen. Really not only in this passage, but in in as this unfolds as we work through this book of Ruth. Now, with that in mind, then we come to Ruth and her initiative and her faithfulness that we find in verse 2. So Ruth, the Moabitis, said to Naomi, Please let me go to the field and glead heads of grain after him, in whose sight I may find favor. So Ruth says to his her mother-in-law Naomi, it's sort of amazing that she's even asking permission to do this, but out of respect, which we see Ruth always respectful. Out of respect for her mother-in-law, she just turns to her mother-in-law and she says, May I go and and and glean grain. Now it's sort of interesting as well. There's a lot of background here we're looking to sort of set this up. But Ruth must have known about the provision that was also made in the Old Testament law. for those who were destitute to be able to gain grain. And so we see, for example, in Leviticus chapter 19, verse 10, It says, and when ye reap the harvest of your land, thou shalt not wholly reap the corners of thy field. So of course they're plowing the field And I the best I I've never plotted a field. How many of you ever plot plot a field? Oh, we've got people that plot a field. That's great. Somebody needs to tell me about this later because I've never plotted a field. But anyway, what I have done is mowed the lawn. That's about the best I could do, right? Okay. And when you mow the lawn and you're on a riding lawn mower, it's pretty easy just to go in a circle. It's a lot harder if you're gonna get all the corners, right? So you just stay in it and basically what he's saying, if I get this right, because I've never plowed a field, he's basically saying when you're plowing, just just Just keep going and make and curve the corners and leave those corners for alone so that the poor, the destitute, would be able to get grain from those And so it says in that passage, and thou shalt not glean the vineyard, neither shall there gather every grape of thy vineyard. Thou shalt leave them for the poor and stranger. I am the Lord your God. So for the poor And a stranger. Was Ruth a stranger? Yes, she was the definition of a stranger. She was a Moabitish. She was not Jewish. And so she was a stranger in that land. And so God made this provision in the Old Testament law for there to be people that were that who were destitute, who couldn't have their own fields to be able to survive and to eat from uh from the land. But this tells us something a bit about how destitute and how how helpless Naomi and Ruth are, does it not? They are in a very helpless state. Now, what's amazing about this passage is he God's about to pour kindness. I can hardly wait, you know, it's like I can't, but he's about to pour kindness on them. But for a while first, they're in a really bad situation. They're really destitute. They're really they're really hard up, if you will. And sometimes God allows us to do allows us to come into those times, really, part of what he's doing is bring us to a place of humility. God, the Bible says, gives grace or kindness, if you will, to the humble. And so we have in this passage Ruth, who is very kind and very humble. We also notice something about Ruth here. Ruth is now following through on her faith. We learn from, in fact, if you could turn there for just a moment, look at Ruth chapter 1, verse 19, you'll see this. It says, so they they too went unto uh they too went until they came to Bethlehem. And it came to pass when they were come to Bethlehem that all the city was moved about them, and they said, Is this Naomi? And she said unto them, Call me not Naomi as oh that's actually talking about the fact that she they're destitute and everything But prior to that point, Ruth is basically says in verse 17 or verse 16, entreat me not to leave you or to turn back from my from following after you. This is chapter 1, verse 16. For wherever you go, I will go, and wherever you lodge, I will lodge. Your people shall be my people, and your God, my God. Where I where you die, I will die, and there will I be buried. The Lord do to me, and more also, if anything but death parts you and me That was a very firm and very complete commitment, was it not? It was this demonstration of faith that's incredible. But Ruth has follow-through here, doesn't she? She's gonna go out and she's gonna do what she said she would do. True faith has follow through. True faith, she see, we see here she is following through on what she said. she would do. Now I want us then to notice in verse 3. This is this is amazing how God puts this together. It says then she left and went and gleaned in the field after the reapers And she happened to come to the part of the field belonging to Boaz, who was the faith of Elimelech, or who was the family of Elimelech. Now this is incredible, this is really interesting how this narrative is worded. The first thing we see is that that Ruth fulfills her responsibility. She's faithful and she goes out and she quote unquote randomly chooses a field. But the bottom line is she wants to be that vessel of kindness for who? For Naomi. She wants to be used of God to show kindness to her mother-in-law. She wants to be that conduit of kindness. So we see here that she fulfills her responsibility. She, her true faith Causes her to follow through. But then we see this other indicator here, this very last phrase where it says Where it it says verse 3, and she, well not the very last phrase, but right before that, and she happened to come to part of the field. It's interesting how it's worded. She just happened to do this. Now think about that for a minute. Do you most of you know at least enough of the story to know that this was not just a just this was not just chance. From her perspective, she had no intention. She didn't know who Boaz was. She didn't know he was qualified to be a Kenseman Redeemer. She didn't know all the only thing she was doing was arbitrarily picking somewhere to to get grain and to feed herself and her mother-in-law. And it sort of happened by which she went to the right place. What we see here as Ruth fulfills her responsibility, as she is faithful and diligent to follow through on her faith. God directs her providentially to the place where he wanted her to go. There's no question about that, is it not? As you go through the passage, there any question about this? But so oftentimes in the Old Testament you see this, you see this combination of man's responsibility with God's providence. Man goes the direction he believes God wants him to go, and then God provides. You rarely see God's providence. without man's responsibility. Now sometimes you do. Sometimes he just says he throws out like an unconditional covenant. And it's he's just going to do what he's going to do. The new covenant is that way But oftentimes you see this combination of man's responsibility versus God's providence. And what God says for us is that we need to be faithful What we can gather from this is is that we be faithful in what God has given us to do. And as it says, as we read in the beginning, No good thing will he withhold to them that walk uprightly. Stay faithful in fulfilling what God wants you to do. Live a life of faith. Live a life of obedience And God will provide for you, and He will provide for me in the way that He wants to. It's like Christ said, seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added unto you. And so we see that God pours out his incredible kindness through his faithful servant Ruth. But how else does God pour out his incredible kindness toward us? Well, there is another person that God is going to use in this passage. We find in verse 4, this man Boaz now comes on the scene. And it's interesting the way it's worded. This first phrase, now behold, it's like this. Boaz jumps on the scene. The way that the writer writes this is it's to demonstrate that now we have someone who's going to solve the problem, who's going to step in and help in this situation. It's like you know, a superhero that comes on the scene to save the day or something. That's kind of the picture that you have here in the first part of chapter four, where it says, now behold Boaz came from Bethlehem and said to his reaper, so now he's going to talk to his reaper, he's going to talk to the managers. They're in charge of getting all the grain. He's obviously very wealthy. And he says to them, The Lord be with you. And they answered him, the Lord bless you. Now why do you think that would be included? When I read that I sort of said, well, you know, I mean I'm glad he He took up two verses to just in general's overall blessing toward his toward his um his workers there. Well, it really speaks to the character of this man Boaz, doesn't it? This is kind of like this precursor to this man who is a generous man. This man who is a kind man, who even to his servants, even to the people working for him, he is one who says, the Lord bless you. He's kind to them. Now that was not common back in those days. Now, the master-slave relationship back then is different than the master-slave relationship that was in our country. There was no race, racial overtones to it at all. Um but but the master slave relationship was still one of you're down here and I'm up here even back in that day as far as the master slave relationship. But Boaz is blessing his servants. And we see this character of this man who is generous and kind and blesses his servants in this passage. And he has a good relationship with them. Verse we see here it says, and they answered him, the Lord bless you. Then Boaz says, verse 5, he inquires of this lady Ruth. Then Boaz says to his servant who was in charge of the reapers, Whose young woman is this? Did you catch how he says that? That is does not follow very well with our uh politically correct um way of thinking in our society. Whose woman is this? That would be not well taken if somebody said that in our culture. But in that culture, that was the way it was. You were either a w a woman was either under her her father Or was under uh her husband. That's just the way it was in that culture. And so he's asking, whose is this? Now, at this point, I don't think that we need to read into this too much that Boaz ha Boaz has any any intentions here beyond just who is this person? When he finds out it's Ruth, we know later on in the passage that he's heard about this woman. He's heard about Ruth. And he likes what he has heard. He is he is quite impressed. with the faith of this woman, with the faithfulness of this woman toward her mother-in-law, with the choice to leave her place of comfort in the land of Moab, Moab and go. We're going to see all of that in the passage. So it's very clear that once he realizes who this is, that he's he's impressed by her. So he inquires for those reasons. And so the answer, the answer is found in verse 6 to the servant who was in charge of the reapers answered and said, It is the young Moabite woman who came back with the with Naomi with the country of Moab, from the country of Moab. And she said, Please let me glean and gather after the reapers among the sheaves. So she came and has continued from morning until now, though she rested a little in the house So she was working hard, she got up in the morning, she gets out to the field, and she is reaping. She's really doing a man's job here in working these fields. And it says here, it's interesting the way she says this. It says that where the servant describes this, there was a point at which she rests. Now in the Hebrew there is this term house there. So maybe there was this structure of some kind that she stopped and she rested in. We don't really know exactly what it may maybe not, maybe it was just a there's probably some sort of structure involved. But what we see from what Boaz says in offering her protection On some level, she became uncomfortable with the situation that she was in, and she was about to leave Boaz's field. We don't really know the extent to which she was uncomfortable. In our vernacular of our modern day, we would say that there was there was physical harassment. here. We don't know the level to which she was, but she obviously was uncomfortable, and it was very uncommon very common in those days to treat women, but particularly women that were that were str were strangers. They weren't Jewish people in whatever way these men chose to treat her. And so um we shouldn't go too far into what that is, but but at least to understand that this woman not only was poor and destitute, but we're going to add something here, this woman was was in harm's way. She was in danger. Now we're build we're building up to understand all of what Boaz is going to do for this woman and it's going to help us understand that. That's why I mentioned that. Then we pick up here in verse 8. And in verse eight, we have um actually wait a minute. Uh Verse 7. Well we verse 7 we have what she did. She asked the men. Verse 8, then Boaz now says to Ruth. So from this point, Boaz now m comes up to Ruth and is going to talk with Ruth and she's and he says this. We will listen, my daughter, will uh you will listen, my daughter, will you not? Do not go to glean in another field, nor go from here, but stay close by my young women, my the the maids. Let your eyes be on the field which they reap, and go after them. Have I not commanded the young men not to touch you? And when you are thirsty, go to the vessels and drink from what the young men have drawn. Now, let's look at Boaz's invitation. But Az looks at Ruth and he she's he he says, number one, you don't have to go anywhere else to get what you need. He's basically saying you can be I want I want my fields to provide for you exclusively. Don't go to other places. He wants to be what we see here is amazing amazing amount of provision. Because folks, the reality is these corner for her to reap from the corners of the field May not really have given much as much she she may have needed to do this in several fields in order for her to be able to survive But Boaz is saying, no, just stay here. And she says, and he says here as well, stay close to my my maids. That's that's sort of uh They'll guide you so that you don't go into areas where you're going to be in harm's way. There is this provision. Bottom line is Boaz wants to provide. Then we see here also verse 9: there's protection. He says, Don't let your eyes look on any other field. He says, I've commanded the young men to leave you alone, not to touch you, leave you alone. So you don't have to worry about that anymore. I've dealt with that. And he says, not only that, look at this. He says, and if you get thirsty, Then the water they've drawn, those people that mistreated you, you drink from that. He essentially made these men her servant. See, traditionally it was it was very uh sort of a c custom to force strangers of a different land to serve those of the land. And so she it would have been normal for her to actually him to actually say the exact opposite. Hey, while you're gleaning these fields Give my servants some water to drink when you get a chance. That would have been a sort of a normal he did he reverses it. In other words, folks, this might seem like not a big deal But this is a huge deal. This he is being extremely magnanimous toward Ruth. He is this is incredible. She has a place to get what she needs to provide. She has protection and she has uh the ability to be able to refresh herself. All of this is provided by Boaz This is an amazing amount of provision. And really this is the exact kind of provision that she would have had had her husband had her husband been alive Or had she had a father that had been alive. He is now really, without any kind of actual relationship, he is now stepping in and he is saying, I want to provide for you in this way. Now, how does Ruth then respond? Now, before we get there, let me just mention this. Do you realize that God wants to provide for us the exact same way? God will for his children provide what we need. He will make provision for us. He will protect us. He will sustain us. And frankly, God even offers for us times of refreshment. Boaz is a picture of God's provision to us. Isn't God an amazing God? Is not God kind? Let's not move from this. We're going to see Ruth's reaction here. But let's remember that we serve a kind God. And if we're not careful, we can begin to see God in a way that God doesn't want to be seen by his children. God is a God who provides, who protects, and who refreshes. And so when when Ruth hears of this, listens to this invitation, Ruth responds this way. She says, yeah, I pretty much deserve that. She says, yeah, that's that's what I you know what I've been working hard. I've been doing my dues, I've been putting it in. I'm glad you're saying this. Is that what Ruth does? No, Ruth doesn't do anything like that. Ruth doesn't she is anything but spoiled, right? Ruth is so humble. And so meek and so submissive, Ruth responds to Boaz this way. As we look at verse 10, it says, So she fell on her face, bowed down to the ground, and said to him, Why have I found favor in your eyes that you should take notice of me, since I am a foreigner? And do you know that is exactly, brothers and sisters in Christ, that is exactly how we ought to respond to God. When we see God's provision in our lives, when we see God's protection in our lives, when God gives us refreshment, we ought to respond to Him. In the same way, Lord, why would you do this seeing I am such a sinner? I'm a foreigner in your land. Now God has made us a son He's made us the child. But folks, let's not forget who we really are without him. We're nothing without him We're destitute without him. We are poor without him. We have not there is nothing of any value without him. And it's only because of God's kindness toward us, His grace toward us, His love toward us. That we have what we have. It comes from his hand. And we ought to respond with gratefulness for whatever kind of provision God gives us. We ought to look at it and say, Lord, thank you for your provision. Thank you for your protection. Thank you even for your refreshment. And when we have that humble, submissive spirit, when we, as it were, will bow our face to the ground. The truth of the matter is it provides Christ, God, the opportunity to provide more for us. What we're going to find later on is Boaz, this is just a beginning. Boaz is going to even do even more for her in the future. But Ruth is going to stay humble. Ruth is going to stay faithful. Ruth is going to stay, she's going to follow through on her faith and on her decision to honor Naomi and to follow after her God. And that is the kind of response that we need to have. This incredible provision that God has given to us ought to cause us to respond in humble gratitude toward Him. We see Boaz's explanation here, and this is quite amazing in how Boaz explains why he's doing what he's doing. He says, and Boaz answered and said unto her, It has been fully reported to me all that you have done for your mother-in-law since the death of your husband, and how you have left your father and your mother and the land of your birth. and have come to a people whom you did did not know before. He said, I've heard of this, and you know what he's saying here? Now here's what he's not saying. He is not saying here, and understand this, that he is not looking at her and saying, You're working hard, so I want to work hard for you. That's not exactly what he's saying. He's really pulling to Ruth's character. And Ruth's character is as a result of what? It's a result of Ruth's faith. You see, that really is the key to this whole thing. Why is it that Boaz is going to reward her? Well, because Ruth has the kind of faith that sticks. You know the kind of faith? Let's talk about Hebrews 11. Now listen. Hebrews 11 says it this way. That faith, that he that believeth must believe that God is a rewarder of them. That diligently seek him. And Ruth here is now going to be rewarded. And what he says here in this passage is verse 12, the Lord repay you, repay your work. And a full reward be given you by the Lord God of Israel, unto whose wings you have come for refuge. Now, here is what Boaz is saying here. This is in the form of a prayer. He is saying this to Ruth, but he is saying this in a the way it's worded in the Hebrew, there is a particular construction that causes it to be something where he is really praying that God does this for Ruth. He sees Ruth as as changing her allegiance from a false God to the true God. And he wants God to reward her faith. He wants God to reward her. And you know what? Here's what's amazing about Boaz. Boaz wants to be that vessel with which God rewards Ruth. Obviously that's the case. Boaz looks at the situation and there's a sense in which Boaz is saying, Lord, would you let me be used of you? to provide for Ruth who has put her faith in you. Now there's two very important lessons for us there is not. Number one, Boaz is a type of Christ. Is that not the case about Christ? The Father sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. Christ is the vessel with which the Father was able to provide his grace to us. Jesus went willingly to the cross. He wanted to be that person. That was used of the Father to make provision for our sins. Jesus did that for you and for me because of his great love for us. But I also want us to realize this, there is this application here that I can't help but mention. Jesus wants us to be that for other people. He wants us to be that kindness that finds its source in God. God gives us as His children the ability to be that conduit of kindness to others. So that when people look at us and say, Why are you doing this for me? We might be able to say, God is kind, is he not? God is the source of kindness. And we ought to have the mentality of Boaz that we want to be able to show kindness to others who are in need. Whether it's physical need, of course. But more importantly, spiritual need. You and I need to be constantly aware that we are ambassadors of Christ. God wants us to be that vessel with which He wants to use to show His kindness to other people who are destitute and lost in their sin. And that's what Boaz desires to be for this woman, Ruth. Then we find in this passage Ruth responds to this. Oh, something else that we I want to mention as well. Did you notice this picture that Boaz gives of Ruth being under the wings of the Lord? Under whose wings you have come for refuge. He saw Ruth as coming by faith to the nation of Israel And coming to God for the refuge that she did not have in Moab. Now that is a new thought, is it not? We don't see really that fleshed out in in the first in the first chapter of Ruth. But here it seems to be two things. One, it seems to be that Ruth Came to find refuge in the one and only true God. We see sort of a development of our understanding of Ruth's faith here. But not only that We also see that Boaz desired for God to be that for Ruth. And we're going to see That Boaz desired to be the one through which God uses that and protects Ruth. Psalm 91 says this, he shall cover thee with his feathers. And under his wings shalt thou trust. His truth shall be thy shield and butler. It is a picture of a bird tending to a helpless chick. And you know what? If we're really honest with ourselves, are we not that way? When we think of our true need, we are so prone to try to To do it ourselves, to pull ourselves up by our own bootstraps. That's the way we are. And yet the reality is God sees us as this helpless chick that just needs help. Would to God that we would start seeing ourselves as God sees us And when we start seeing ourselves as God sees us, then God it puts us in the place For God to be able to pour out his kindness toward us in our lives. God wants us to be faithful to Him so that we can see His faithfulness. toward us. So Ruth responds, let let me find favor in your sight. And actually what it says when it says let me find, it really a better, maybe a better word would be I have found favor. Verse 13. I have found favor in thy sight, in your sight. For you have comforted me and have spoken kindly to your maidservant, though I am not like one of the other maidservants. She's constantly aware of what she should be getting. She's constantly aware of what she should be receiving, what she how undeserving she is, and yet she keeps speaking of the kindness Of Boaz, and you and I ought to be the exact same way. So how do we sum all this up? Number one, do you view God as one who desires to pour out his kindness on you? Do we view God that way? I'm afraid too oftentimes we're not viewing God that way And the reason we're not trusting him in the way that he wants us to trust him is because we're not viewing him as one who wants to reward us. Who wants to reward those who diligently seek him? That's what faith is. And we have to start with the understanding that God wants to pour out his kindness toward those who will trust him by faith. Number two Do we live faithfully so that we can be a conduit of God's kindness to others? See, God wants us not only to give us kindness, but he wants us to be a conduit of God's kindness to others. And the key to doing that is living faithfully, as Ruth did, and frankly, as Boaz did as well. And number three Are we humbly grateful for God's incredible kindness toward us? We ought to respond every day of our lives. And I admit before you that I don't do this as much as I ought to. But we ought to respond every day with our lives with a humble gratefulness for God's kindness toward us. And there is not a person in this room that God has not been kind to. There would be in our perspective varying degrees of kindness in different ways, but God has been kind to us all. And we ought to wake up every day of our lives grateful for the kindness that we don't deserve. And we ought to go to bed every day of our lives. Grateful for the kindness that we don't deserve. And we ought to live every day of our lives humbly grateful for the kindness that we don't deserve. And then I would just ask this question. The greatest provision of kindness is when Christ died to pay the punishment for your sin. Have you received that? kindness, of having your sins forgiven, having a having a relationship with God, having the God who must judge sin Also satisfy those just demands by his own son. Do you have a relationship with God? And if you don't, God desires to pour out his kindness to you as well. That starts. By receiving that gift of eternal life through Christ alone. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you can have a relationship with God if you do not know. Come and talk to me afterwards. I'd be glad to help you with that as well. Let's go, Lord, in prayer. Father, we come to you and we are Overwhelmed as we look at this passage that tangibly demonstrates your kindness in this story form. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to be mindful of your kindness toward us every day. But not only that, dear Father, would you help us to be faithful in following through In the decisions that we make, to follow after you with all of our hearts, knowing that it puts us in the right position not only to receive your kindness, to know your kindness, But also it puts us in the right position to be a conduit of your kindness to others. And we pray, Lord, that you would help us in that way. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.