To Genesis chapter forty two. I feel shame and regret now after I was uh Fair was mentioned that I didn't put any questions down for tonight because I got a look from a certain individual sitting in front of me As if, oh no, now I have to work during the sermon. Thanks, Sam. I appreciate you. Really do. Oh boy. Well let's um let's go ahead and begin with prayer and we'll go ahead and and get right into the message today. Father, we we thank you for the blessing it is to be yours. And Lord, we We thank you that you are a God who can be trusted and depended on. And it is with you that we get 100% guarantees. And as as much as we'd like to think that we can have that in this world, it's it's the opposite is true But Lord, you are the one that we can fully rely on and not be disappointed. So, Father, as we go into this passage, Father, I pray that You would unlock truths that would sink into our hearts, that would be a part of our core and who we are Lord, I ask for your help. I I cannot speak apart from your grace and strength. So Father, I ask that there would be great clarity. That your truth would come forth as crystal clear as possible. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. What is the ultimate test of someone's character? What is the, or on the flip side or or maybe on the other side of the coin, what is the ultimate test of someone's view of God? Those are the questions that come to my mind as I look at this passage. You might say, you know, we've been in John for a while and And so forth. Why why are we back in Genesis and and so forth? Well there are a couple of reasons. One is Um with the teenagers in Sunday school for the past uh two and a half years or so, we have been going through the study of Genesis and now into Exodus And I thought it might be neat for some of you parents to see at least a taste of what we've been studying together as uh with the teens. Second is, this is a message that I've wanted to preach for a while and have not had the opportunity through various circumstances. But as we go into this book and the section that we're going, admittedly, is sort of in the middle of everything. We're jumping in like halfway through the movie type of thing, right? here. And I admit it, I admit that. But there are some serious truths that we can glean from this these passages here. And admittedly also we we are we're going to take on a chunk. We're going to do some flipping of the pages or if you have your phone you'll be doing a lot of this type of thing. And Genesis, though, as you study through Genesis, Genesis is a book that is all about what God is doing through his people that he chose. And because of this, we can learn about the character of God, and we can really see him through the eyes of those people that he chose to use. The decisions they make, the examples that they give us, then also gives us the opportunity to learn from them. Whether their examples are good or bad, I've heard it said, you know, if you if you have a bad example in the Bible, well you can learn from that too, just as much as a good example, and to not follow in their footsteps. But truly with Joseph, we have probably one of the best examples you could possibly find in the pages of Scripture. The man is someone who is defined by supreme character and patience. But more than anything, as I look through the pages of Genesis and specifically Joseph, I see a man who was defined by someone who waited on God. Waited on God in the fullest sense. He had to wait on God for everything, because everything that happened to him was out of his control. His story is so unique and so powerful. He had to wait on God To be vindicated. He had to wait on God to be out of some of the most poor circumstances that you could find, being in prison, being falsely accused, and so forth. You had to wait on God for all of that. Chapter 42 brings us Right to the point where Joseph is recognized as someone who is of God The Pharaoh of that time even recognizes that the Spirit of God is upon this man. He can tell that the presence of God is on him. And after After interpreting the troubling dreams that Pharaoh has, Pharaoh decides, well, there's no man more qualified. to bring us into these years of famine that are going to come than you. So since God has gifted you with this, I'm going to put you in charge. And essentially Joseph becomes the second in command in the whole region of Egypt. It was at that point that when he comes out of the dungeon, out of that place that he was for two years, after being forgotten, God exalts him. into what was probably the highest possible position that he could have found himself in. Also in chapter 41, just by way of introduction here, continuing, He not only is exalted, which I'm sure he appreciated being out of those nasty circumstances. Not only is he put in charge and has a tremendous and tremendously important job to fulfill. in taking those seven years of plenty and using them as as storing up and getting ready for the seven years of famine that are going to follow after. But it says there that also that he marries and he has two children. And So God not only gifts him with putting him in in much better circumstances, but he gives him a family. And after thirteen years of being away from home and being alone, God gives him the gift of companion. At f at chapter 41, by the time we get there, if that was the end of the story, I think we could be pretty fulfilled. And I think Joseph could even be pretty fulfilled at this point. He has a new life with a lot of contentment and a lot of purpose. You could think that, well, you know what? Everything has been reconciled. Everything is okie dokie sure. But the story doesn't end there. Chapter forty-two, you might put there in parentheses, meanwhile, back at the ranch. We see that the famine, which has now been going on for a couple years, has spread as far as Canaan and Jacob, or Joseph's family. Is being affected. His father, his brothers, their families are being affected by this famine. And so they are sent. Jacob through the grapevine hears that in Egypt there is food. There is plenty of food. So he sends his sons, unknowingly, what they're going what he's going to send them into, he sends them to get food so they will not starve, so they will they can survive. And that's where we pick up then. In ver in chapter forty two, verses six through nine. You can turn there. I asked a little bit ago, what is the ultimate test of someone's character? What is the ultimate test of someone's view of God? I think it is this. It is having complete authority and power over someone else who hurts you greatly, and it's what you decide to do with it. It's having complete authority and power over someone else who hurts you greatly and what you decide to do. That's a true test of your character. That's the true test of your view of God. This is what happened starting in verse 6. And Joseph was the governor over the land, and he it was that sold to all the people of the land, and Joseph's brethren came and bowed down themselves before him with their faces to the earth And Joseph saw his brethren, and he knew them, but made himself strange unto them, and spake roughly unto them. And he said unto them, Whence come ye? And they said, from the land of Canaan to buy food. And Joseph knew his brothers, but they knew him not. And Joseph remembered the dreams which he dreamed of them, and he said to them, Ye are spies. To see the nakedness of the land ye are come. It has been roughly at this point over 20 years since Joseph has been betrayed and sold into slavery by his by his uh brothers. It is in this case when the brothers come before him, when it's their turn to to buy the food. He recognizes them immediately. There is no question in his mind who these brothers are. But the passage is very clear and it says that that they do not recognize him. And that's understandable. He's probably an Egyptian guard garb. He probably uh is dressed differently. He probably looks a lot different than when he was a younger man. But can you imagine being in Joseph's position at this point? Remember, everything is okay. There is contentment, there's purpose, there's companionship And suddenly his life is receiving a shock, a jolt, an unexpected surprise. He sees his brothers. And the last time he was with them, they really weren't that nice to him. In fact, if you were to go back to chapter 37 and read some of those those accounts of of how they interacted with him. They they could only speak cruel things. Their thinking towards him was only hostile. So that any time that they saw him, all they could think about was doing bad things to him. And when the opportunity came, they took When they were far away enough from home, they took the opportunity. Initially, they wanted to kill him. Initially, they wanted to get rid of him. Judah, seeing a monetary profit in this, decided, well, let's let's let's sell them instead. Here come some some Ishmaelites, let's sell them to them. Can you I don't know if you've ever experienced something that just shocked you so much that it made your stomach churn. that that the the you felt lightheaded and you and you almost you know you you almost staggered at what you just experienced I gotta believe that that's the sort of thing that happened to Joseph, where the blood just sort of drained from his head as he saw them approach. And not only that. But they bowed down. And it says there in the passage we just read, he remembered the dreams that he dreamed. Remember, that was part of why they hated him so much, was because of those dreams. That he had all that time ago that predicted that his brothers, his older brothers, would bow down before the younger brother. Which is not ever supposed to happen. And yet here it comes. The dream has been fulfilled. And it's not the first time they're going to bow down either. Now, if I were a person reading this count account for the first time And I didn't know this story. If I came to this point, I would expect two things. Knowing what I know about Joseph. Knowing what I n what we know that what he's been through, I would expect one of two things. I would expect either one At this point, Joseph is so bitter towards his brothers that he mounts some kind of false accusations against them, throws them in prison for maybe two years, something like that, and then executes them. Or something along those lines. Or number two, if he has forgiven them And he has gotten past it, I would expect him then to reveal himself, to say, Hey, it's me. I really wish he hadn't done that, but you know, I think we'll be friends now. We'll be okay. You know, and and and have that restitution and and and reconcile. And yet he doesn't do either of those things. Which to me is is rather perplexing. Because I don't if obviously these brothers he didn't hold in the highest of regard. But it's clear from the passage that he he definitely had a deep love for his younger brother Benjamin. He certainly had a deep love for his father Abraham, who is now much older. And who knows if he is even alive at this point as far as Joseph is considered. Why wouldn't you just jump right in and try and find out all you could about your family? Why wouldn't you want why wouldn't you do that? He does neither of those. He doesn't he doesn't be cru he isn't cruel to them Nor does he seek immediate restitution and reconciliation. Instead, he chooses to hide his identity. And not for a couple of hours. For at least months. At least months. How do we take How do we take Joseph's response here? Some would suggest that, well, he's actually very torn and he's very he's been through a very traumatic experience and he doesn't know what to do. And so he's just sort of going to play games with them a little bit. We won't take time to read the passage, but in this in the following verses, after what we just read, he He acts like he has no idea who they are. And he accuses them falsely of being spies. Now what's what are ten men doing in my area? And maybe there could be some grounds for that. I dunno I'm not sure. But Uh as far as if he really didn't know who they were, but he does know who they are. And so he he makes up these false accusations that no You this thing that you're talking about, your brother and this one that's died and this father way back over at home. None of that's true. I think you're spies. I think you are And this dialogue goes back and forth, and they the these men, they um they they know the truth. They're not spies, they are just hungry and they want to have food to keep their families surviving. And so they tell this to to Joseph, but they he doesn't believe them. And this goes back and forth. And Joseph finally says, you know what? Here's how you're going to prove it to me. You can prove to me that you're not spies, and here's how He says in verse 19, if ye be true men, let one of your brethren be bound in the house of your prison Go ye carry corn for the families of your house uh for the famine of your houses, but bring your youngest brother unto me, and so shall your words be verified, and ye shall not die And they did so. So one of the one of the men is held back. And he says, go ahead and take what you need for these families that you say you have. But you need to come back. You need to come back with this youngest brother that you've you've talked about to verify that your words are true. And so it says that they do, but on their way out, we see we see a window into the minds of these brothers Look, if you will, at um at verse 21. After everything is said by Joseph, they say to one another, We are verily guilty concerning our brother. And that we saw the anguish of his soul when he besought us, and he and we would not hear. Therefore is this distress come upon us. And Reuben answered them and said, Spake I not unto you, saying, Do not sin against the child, and you would not hear. Therefore, behold, also his blood is required. And it says there in verse 23, and they knew not Joseph, understood them, for he spake unto them by an interpreter. So Joseph is completely posing as an Egyptian. In that he's not even speaking Hebrew to them, he's speaking to them through through an interpreter. And so they dialogue with themselves in Hebrew, thinking that nothing is going to be understood, and Joseph understands everything. Everything. And it says in verse 24, he turned himself about from them and wept, and then returned unto them again. And so Simeon from verse 24 is the individual that gets bound and held back in Egypt while the rest go. So we see here the brothers' reaction then. They react in a very surprising, but maybe not so surprising way. There is guilt there, isn't there? There is fear. And there is a connection that they make. The connection they make is that the events that they're experiencing right now, they believe is directly tied to their sin against Joseph so many years ago. Twenty years ago, as a matter of fact. Now let me ask you a question. Is the way that they are being treated at this juncture in their life, does it have anything to do with their sin 20 years before? No, not at all. And yet, folks, we see a very clear demonstration of what a guilty conscience looks like and what unconfessed sin looks like. Remember, these brothers They have lied to their father for twenty-some years. And they have lied to themselves for twenty-some years. And maybe the the the the text never is clear. They perhaps Lied to their brother Benjamin all of these years as well. It's a good assumption. And they have carried on this lie for years, for decades. And because they've never made it right, and they've never sought to make right with their father, especially. It haunts them. It haunts them so severely. These are the effects of a guilty conscience. Fear, guilt, and an incorrect connections. And it's true. If you have a guilty conscience, you may feel like God is out to get you. You may feel like he is ready to pound on you at any moment. Now, does God chasten us? Yes. Absolutely. But when we think of God pounding us after us out to get us, that's very different than when God is trying to chase us. If God was just someone who wanted to pounce on us and get us for doing wrong, well there would be no purpose behind it except vengeance and wrath But God's chastening is very different. Because while there might be wrath involved, and there might be sorrow involved on God's part, the purpose behind it is our benefit and our growth and our restitution and reconciliation with him and with others. But that's not what these brothers are expecting. These brothers are expecting God to get them. And it starts now. The time is up. And they believe their sin, while it's been hid from everybody else, God knows, and now God is going to get them They carry this burden. They are suddenly made aware of these actions of the past. Imagine the pain, and it's obvious that that Joseph was clearly moved by what he heard from these individuals. Imagine the pain that Joseph felt when he hears the events that cost him so much. Now, at this point, he has maintained his composure, but by the time we get to verse 24, he has to leave. He has to leave. He can't he can't control himself anymore. And so he he he puts himself away in order to not reveal that he's so emotional over this And so this begins then, this act that Joseph has. And we haven't answered the question yet, why? Why is Joseph acting this way? Well Did he have this all premeditated? I don't know that he ever sat down, you know, with one of his kids on his lap and was thinking, you know, if I ever see them again, this is what I'm going to do. I I don't know. There's no way to know for sure. I feel like more this is a little bit more spur of the moment. That he's actually maybe coming up with the plan as things move along. But this is how ultimately I would take Joseph's actions. He wants to see who these brothers really are now. And apparently he desperately wants to know. You know, with with him being there and them not knowing that it's him, he gets a window into their lives like he would not any other way. He can listen in on their conversations. He can hear the guilt in their voices. He can see the fear on their faces. He can see all of that and it not be uh encumbered by by his relationship to them. He wants to see if these brothers of his have changed. Or if they're the still the same old guys that they were back when he was a younger pran younger man. Well, the individuals, the brothers, they go back. And in basically summing up the next couple chapters here, They go back to Jacob. Jacob is still alive. Benjamin is there. They tell Jacob everything that happened. And they they are very detailed in everything that happened. So much so that, and and we didn't necessarily read it before, but they they say to Joseph that these things, that we are we are brothers. There is our youngest brother at home, our father is there, and one of our brothers has died. And I do, I truly believe that if you tell a lie long enough, that you end up coming to believe it yourself. And they have held on to this lie for so long that I don't I I don't believe they even bat an eye when it comes to saying that Joseph is dead. The truth is they have no idea if he's alive or not. But their lie, if you remember specifically, was they took his coat, they put blood on it, they made it look like he was murdered by some kind of by by some animal That's the lie that they've held on to. And they go back to Jacob and they reiterate all this and they say they say everything just like that. And Jacob does not like the idea at all of sending Benjamin all that distance over to Egypt to this ruler that his sons are talking about. And he he basically says, there's no way, there is no way at all that I'm ever going to send him because something is going to happen to him. I've uh and he says I've already been bereaved of one son. I've already lost one son like that. I'm not going to lose another one. Well, it's no surprise Eventually their food runs out. They they brought stuff from Egypt, but it didn't last forever. And so as they as they um as it winds down The brothers approach Jacob, their father, say, it's it's time to go. And Jacob says, then go. We need food, let's go. But Judah reminds him. Judah speaks up and says But Father, you remember the ruler over there that we told you about, he spoke harshly to us. And he he left no uncertain terms that if we go back We have to, we have to, have to bring Benjamin with us to so that he can trust us. Otherwise, I don't know, he's gonna he's gonna put us in prison or he's gonna put us to death. And Jacob argues some, but eventually comes to the point where he says, Okay, I don't like it. But I I will allow Benjamin to go. And Judah in there, in that dialogue, says, leave Benjamin in my care. I will watch over him. I will make sure nothing happens to him. He will be my responsibility. I don't know if Jacob took him seriously or not. Nevertheless, ultimately Jacob's resolve he it goes down and and he says that the it it's all in the Lord's hands essentially I give it to God. Whatever happens if I if I'm if I lose another son, so be it. And that really is trusting God. Whether you anticipate a good ending or a bad ending, you let God determine the outcome and know that whatever he decides is good. So the brothers return. And they return, and you can imagine they're they're sort of shaking in their sandals. They're not happy to be in front of this man again. who has already you know treated them kind of poorly and they they took one son and and and he's one of their brothers and he's there and so they go before They go before Joseph. And let's look in um chapter forty-three. So what takes place here we're we'll be looking at verse twenty seven. What takes place here is is He shows nothing but kindness to these brothers. He he treats them well. He actually s sits them down, washes their feet. Um And uh he he he puts them in a in a in a very nice position. And as he has them together in verse twenty seven he he says uh he says this, and he asks them of their welfare and said, Is your father well? the old man of whom you spake. Is he yet alive? And they answered, Thy servant our father is in good health, and he is yet alive. And they bowed down their heads and made obedience again that the dreams coming true again. And he lifted up his eyes and saw his brother Benjamin, his mother's son, and said, Is this your younger brother of whom ye spake unto me? And he said, God be gracious unto thee, my son And Joseph made haste, for his bowels did yearn upon his brother, and he sought where to weep, and he entered into his chamber and wept there. And he washed his face and went out and refrained himself and said, Set on bread. And so they actually ate together at this point. They ate together. Now we see again months have gone by now after after their food supply has diminished. And they come back and he is obviously greatly moved. by the fact that his brother his father is still alive and there he sees his younger brother face to face. Now, at this point, Joseph has had plenty of time to think things over. The initial shock of his brothers coming to him and all of that taking place is over. And we see now that Joseph has hatched a plan, an ultimate test, if you will, for his brothers, to see what they're really made of, to see who they've really become over these years. So in in verse in chapter forty four, verses one through twelve, what Joseph does is he He takes one of his own cups, his one of his drinking vessels, a very expensive one, no doubt, and puts it in Ben's Benjamin's sack. So that as they all have sex, it looks like Ben Benjamin is someone who has stolen this from Joseph. He's essentially framing him. And so in verse sixteen and seventeen, excuse me, um not there yet, let's look at uh So that's right, Joseph makes it look like that he's just found out that this silver cup is missing, and he goes and he he hunt as as his brothers were leaving, he goes after them. And this is what happens in verse seven. And they said unto him, Wherefore saith my lord these words? God forbid that thy servants should a should do according to this thing. So Joseph has said, One of you has stolen this cup, and they said, There's no way. None of us would do such a thing. After the kindness that you've shown us, we would not steal a thing. And then in verse eight, Behold the money which we found in our sack's mouth, we brought again unto thee out of the land of Canaan. How then should we steal out of the Lord's house of silver or gold? This is a reference to the fact that when they left Egypt the first time, Joseph put money in their sacks. And even though this was a good thing, because of the guilty conscience that his brothers had, they felt like this is a bad sign. This looks really bad on us. So when they came back to Egypt, they brought it back, and they did. They gave it back. And Joseph actually said, No, you you can keep it. That was for you as a gift. But they're saying here, look, the money that we had and found in our sacks, we brought that back. Doesn't that prove to you that we would never steal something from you? Well, they continue talking to Joseph, and in verse nine they say this, with whomsoever of thy servants it be found Both let him die, and we will also be my lord's bondsmen. Boy. Wouldn't have said that if I were them. They they can clearly show that they're not careful with their words. Well, verse 10, Joseph says this, and he said, Now also let it be according to thy word. He with whom shall it is found shall my servant, and ye shall be blameless. So Joseph changes the terms and he says, well, how about this? The one who is guilty, he's the one that can be my slave. The rest of you can go free. Now that wasn't the terms that they wanted. Why do you think that is? Because they could not have borne the sight of their father if they went back. And any of them didn't come back. They would rather have stayed in Egypt than to face their father again. And you'll see that as as we read through this portion here. Verse 11. Then they speedily took down every man his sack to the ground and opened every man his sack. And he searched and began at the eldest, and left at the youngest, and the cup was found in Benjamin's sack. Then they rent their clothes and laid laid every man his ass and returned to the city. So the the trip is over. Benjamin has been found out. They head back to the to the to the city now And Judah and his brethren came to Joseph's house, for he was yet there, and they fell before him on the ground, yet again bowing before him. And Joseph said unto them, What deed is this that ye have done? What ye not that such a man as I can certainly divine? And Judah said. So Judah now speaks up. You know, he is the one that said to Jacob, I will be responsible. So he takes the leadership role here and says, what shall we speak unto my Lord? What shall we speak? Or how shall we clear ourselves? God hath found out the iniquity of thy servants. Behold, we are my Lord's servants, both we and he also whom the cup is found. God has found out the iniquity of thy servants. Yet again, this is not in relationship to something that they have done recently, something that they did a long time ago. Judah says, God has found us out. We accept the consequences. Let us all be your slaves in your house. And he said, God forbid that I should do so. But the man in whose hand the cup is found, he shall be my servant. And as for you, get you up in peace unto your father. Joseph leaves in on no uncertain terms. No. The only one the guilt only the guilty one is staying with me. The rest of you can go back. You know, at one point His brothers were willing to leave Joseph out there to die and go back to their father and sp and spring a lie. Joseph is about to find out if they are willing to do it again. Slightly different circumstances, but yet very similar So Joseph puts it in this way. And so Judah then speaks up again. In verse 18, Judah says, came near unto him and said, O my lord, let thy servant, I pray thee, speak a word in my Lord's ears, and let not thine anger burn against thy servant, for thou art even as Pharaoh. So Judah then goes into this dialogue, basically recounting a lot of what already has taken place about the questions that Joseph had when they initially met. about his father, about his younger brother. And Judah basically says in a nutshell, we can't go back under those terms that you're giving us If we go back without Benjamin, our father will surely die of heartache. And they do not want to see that. Because they've already seen what it did once. You know, they have moved, I think it's obvious, that they have moved from very callous, jealous individuals to people of much more compassion than they had before. Before they couldn't care less. All that mattered to them before, get rid of Joseph. He's a brat. All he does is talk about these dreams and us bowing before him. We don't want him anymore. Does it matter what it does to us, our family, our father? No. What's more important is what we want. And let's get some money on the side with it. Not this time. Not this time at all. So Judah goes on this dialogue with him Then skipping down to verse 30, if you will, verse 30 of chapter 44 Says this, Judah still speaking, Now therefore when I come to thy servant my father, and the lad be not with us, seeing that his life is bound up in the lad's life, it shall come to pass when he sees that the lad is not with us. that he will die. And thy servants shall bring down the gray hairs of thy servant our father with sorrow to the grave. For thy servant became a surety for the lad unto my father This is now Judah talking to Joseph about that promise that he made to his father. He says this, if I um For thy servant became a surety for the lad unto my father, saying, If I bring him not unto thee, then I shall bear the blame to my father forever. Therefore, now I pray thee, let thy servant abide instead of the lad, a bondman to my lord, and let the lad go up to be with his brethren. For how shall I go up to my father, and the lad be not with me, lest peradventure I see the evil that shall come on my father? I'm sure Judah had no idea exactly how significant these words were. What we see in Judah is a commitment to keep his promise, even to the point of sacrificing his own freedom for the rest of his life. For the sake of his brother and the sake of his father. And it truly is A tremendous picture of someone that will be a descendant of Judah many pages later in this book. Of Jesus. Jesus from the Lion of the tribe of Judah, who would be our substitute, to take on our sins in our place, so that we would not have to bear the punishment. That is what Judah is doing. He's saying, guilty or not, you are accusing Benjamin of this. These are the consequences. I will take the consequences on myself. Let Benjamin go free. Let him go free. I will receive the penalty for the sin that he has committed, just like Jesus. When we have trusted on him, he receives the penalty that we justly deserve to receive. So, not only does Joseph see the compassion and the care that the brothers have for his brother. And and their father. But Judah takes it to the next level. And maybe a level that Joseph was not anticipating. Because Judah was the one. Judah was the one who said, Well, we don't have to kill them, but let's sell them. What a contrast a couple decades make. And it's at this point that Joseph can bear it no longer. In chapter 45, it says there in verse 1, Then Joseph could not refrain himself before all them that stood, and he cried, Cause every man to go out from me, he says. And there stood no man with them while Joseph made himself known as brethren. So Joseph now comes to the point where, okay, it's time to reveal myself. Everybody get out. Everybody leave this room. Leave me with my brothers alone. And so they do. And he says, in verse 2, he wept aloud, and the Egyptians in the house of Pharaoh heard. He wept so loud that it was heard for such a long distance. Verse 3, and Joseph said unto his brother, brethren I am Joseph. Doth my br father yet live? And his brethren could not answer him, for they were troubled at his presence So you remember that feeling that Joseph most likely had when he saw his brothers for the first time? Now his brothers are feeling that. I mean, can you imagine the swirl of thoughts going through their head? You mean all this time? All this time we've been dealing with Joseph All this time we've been talking amongst ourselves and he's heard it and understood every bit of it. All this time The fear obviously escalates at this point, not decreases, at least not initially. At first it says they are troubled at his presence. Now Joseph is fine. Joseph's okay. He's ready to make it all right. And he says to his brethren, Come near to me, I pray you. And they came near and he said, I am Joseph your brother, whom he sold into Egypt. Remember I'm that one. I'm the same one. And this is what Joseph says in verse 5. Now therefore, be not grieved, nor angry with yourselves that ye sold me hither. For God did send me before you to preserve life. For these two years hath famine been in the land, and yet there are five years in which there shall neither be earring or harvest. And God sent me before you to preserve you a pro posterity in the earth, and to save your lives by a great deliverance. So now it was not you that sent me hither, but God. And he hath made me a father to Pharaoh, and Lord of all his house, and a ruler throughout all the land of Egypt. At this point, you have to ask yourself the question How does a man like Joseph, who has been through what he has been through, respond like that? How is it that the years away from family, the years in prison How does all that not make him so bitter and so angry with circumstances, with God, with his brothers? That he can say those kinds of words to him. How is that possible? I asked the question earlier, what is the ultimate test of someone's view of God? Well, we see Joseph pass the test with these words. Because we see in these words Joseph's view of God. And it is clear that his view of God is what brought him through all of these circumstances. You've probably heard the illustration before at one time or another. And I think it's a decent one. That illustration of a parade where you have basically three main perspectives of a parade. You are either a participant in the parade Somewhere in the parade, you're the drummer or you're the baton twirler or whatever, and you're in there, and you have that perspective. You see what's in front of you, you see what's directly behind you. And that's where you are. But there's a second perspective. And the second one is that of a uh a um uh what's the word of uh spectator a spectator of the of the uh of the parade so you have a different perspective as a as a spectator you can see the beginning And as time goes on, you see the parade go by until it ends up at the end. But then there is a third perspective Perhaps that chopper or that blimp that is above all of it. And you can see from that vantage point, you can see the parade. From beginning to end, no time needs to lapse. It's all there in front of you. And all the details are there for you to see and witness. You know, for Joseph, he is the participant. But Joseph never just saw himself. Through those circumstances. He understood that there was someone with a different vantage point, someone with a higher perspective that saw the beginning from the end. And that is God. God is the one that looks over and sees the beginning from the end and has it all mapped out and all worked out. And Joseph very clearly understood that fact. The most amazing statement that I see in this in this in these words right here. In verse 8. Now it was not you that sent me hither. I mean that's almost not true. Right? I mean, his brothers did intend to kill him. His brothers did put him in a pit. And instead of killing him, they did sell him into slavery. They did that. And that is what caused him to be in Egypt. But to Joseph. At this point in his life, he can say it wasn't you? He can say that It wasn't you. God did it. God meant for it to happen. And for this purpose, and and Joseph, at this point in his life, he can see a fuller picture He can see that this was all ordained by God so that lives could be saved. That his own life could be saved, that his family, his brothers, and his father could be saved from this famine that's coming What is the ultimate test of someone's view of God? Well, maybe it's to experience some of the worst kind of wickedness at the hands of your own family members. And maintain God's perspective throughout. Experience some of the worst kind of wickedness at the hands of your own family members and maintain God's perspective throughout. He waited on God. He trusted him to work it out. And let's be reminded, just as a quick reminder, although Joseph had the dreams. And although there was definitely some interpretation going on there in those initial dreams back in chapter 37, God never spoke audibly to Joseph. You know, Abraham got that, Jacob got that, Isaac got that, Joseph did not. Joseph never had a definitive, this is exactly what's going to happen. No. For Joseph, the school of faith that he was enrolled in took a long time and left a lot of questions unanswered. And yet he passes the test. Even though bitterness would consume even the best of people. Joseph does not let that happen. He sees God's perspective throughout. And really, what do we see about God at this point? There's a tremendous truth, foundational truth, that we can glean from this section of Scripture. And it is this God is not limited by the wickedness of mankind. God is not limited by the wickedness of mankind, the evil deeds that they commit, whatever it might be, he's not limited by it. You know, obviously the the question of evil in the world, how can evil live in the world and a good God exist at the same time time is is a prevalent one and one that many of us wrestle with, maybe many of us think about, and maybe haven't even come to a solid conclusion on. It's a difficult one to wrap your mind around. But I will say this that God's sovereignty See, many people, when they see the evil thing take place, when something heinous happens, they they say, well, why did God not intervene? If a good God really exists, he should have not let that happen, right? And that would be great. And you know what? Sometimes God does work and operate that way. But He is not bound to operate that way all the time. You see, I would submit to you that to be truly sovereign God could not just automatically intervene all the time. What do you mean, right? Well think about this. Are you truly sovereign if you are dictating and determining every single outcome in a person's life? Hear me out on this, okay? Are you I mean let's say I go out and I make I'm about to make a bad decision and God says, Oh nope, that's a bad decision. I am going to make sure you don't do that. And he imposes his will on me, and I don't make it. Is that true sovereignty? Or could we say, is that ultimate sovereignty? See, I believe that God does not operate that way because he doesn't have to. His sovereignty is so authoritative and so complete and so ultimate that he can allow We humans to do the things we do, whether they be good or evil, and still be in control. You know, in my household there are times where my kids go bonkers. Okay, and and some of you have probably experienced that too, where something happens to all of them all at once and they are uncontrollable. And I tell them to do something and they don't obey. And I tell them again, and it's like, I'm not even in the room, right? They are just bouncing off the walls and going from one thing to the next. Am I in control of that situation? Nope, not even a little bit. Well Technically, we all don't bounce around the walls all the time in our day-to-day activities. But when you look at this world and you see what the people are doing in some cases, there is a lot of chaos There is a lot of wickedness. There is a lot of calamity Is God just not in control like I'm not in control of my kids when they get that way? This is my point. Even though the world out there looks chaotic and the wickedness of mankind is real and active God is still in control even though the wickedness is taking place. You see, if something wicked happens to me, or something wicked happens to you. What can you do about it? Nothing. It is it what's happened has happened, and you can't turn it around for anything But when God is in the picture and he sees what has happened and he sees the beginning from the end He can use that wickedness for his purposes and his plan and for his ultimate good. God is not limited by the wickedness of mankind. If he was less than sovereign, then he would be. If he was less than truly sovereign, then he would be limited by the wicked deeds of men. We can't do that. We are limited. But that is not how God operates. God operates on a much higher plane than we do. God brings about His sovereign will, not apart from the choices that we make, but through the choices and the actions that we do, whether they are good actions or evil. Some choose to look at the wickedness and the evil in this world and use it to say that there is no way a good God could exist and these evil things take place. Therefore, he does not exist. But true dissovereignty isn't controlling people like robots. True sovereignty is not just making decisions and determining one's will and making sure it happens. The mark of true sovereignty is allowing the people of this world to live the way they do and yet still be in perfect control. Perfect control, not just slightly in control. That is the kind of sovereignty that God displays throughout time Through the pages of Scripture, and in the time period that we live now, and every time in between, He is the Lord of all history. He is sovereign over all of it. God, and it's because he is not limited by the wickedness of people, he can use it to further his purposes to glorify himself. Which brings us then to the end. In Genesis chapter fifty. Genesis chapter fifty. We'll be reading in verse 19. Basically what takes place is Jacob finally does pass away. Time has gone by. Um everyone, all of Joseph's family, his his relatives, his his uh um Nieces and nephews as well, they've all come to Egypt. The Bible says that that Jacob's family at this point was seventy in total. And so they all go to live in Egypt where the food is, and not where the food isn't. And so, and this was ordained by God. God tells Jacob that it is alright for you to go to Egypt and dwell there. It's part of the plan. But Jacob passes away, and it is at this point that the brothers begin to distress again. And they begin to think and talk among themselves and think, well, maybe, maybe Joseph was just being nice because dad was still alive. And now that he's gone, I mean I I think all bets are off. What do you think, Judah? I don't know. What do you think? I mean, that's kind of how it went. And and so they go before Um they go before Joseph and they bow down again, which I just I find so interesting reading through this how many times they bow down when they said they would never bow down to him. And so they, in verse 18, they bowed down before him and said, You know what, we just we pledge our servitude to you. We are your servants, we are your slaves. You know, don't kill us. And Joseph says this in verse 19. And Joseph said unto them, Fear not, for am I in the place of God? But as for you, you thought evil against me, but God meant it unto good, to bring it up to pass as it is this day to save much people alive. Now therefore, fear not. I will nourish you and your little ones. And he comforted them and spake kindly unto them. Joseph's first thing, he says, don't be afraid. Your your fear is needless. And he says, am I in the place of God? Again, directing the purpose that God had, directing their focus to the big perspective. to the big picture saying that look you you meant it evil yes your deeds were evil and in so many words Joseph is saying God wasn't limited by it. Yeah, you did it to me. Okay, I've moved on. God was not limited by it. He had an ultimate purpose, and here it is, and we get to see it. We get to see it with our very eyes, what God is doing in front of us. God meant it for good so that many people would be saved, including you, including me. So I will take care of you. I will take care of your little ones. God has saved us. And Joseph and his family and his relatives all stay there. And our our dwelling there. You know, Joseph waited on God roughly for for about twenty-two years or so. 22 years to see how God was going to bring about his life and what was going to take place God he waited and waited, but the the point is is that he wasn't disappointed. There could have been opportunity for disappointment. There's no doubt about it. But he would have had to put his eyes somewhere else. His perspective would have had to have been only on himself and only on his circumstances. But Joseph, in his spiritual maturity, even for a young man chose to look at things not just from his perspective, but from God's perspective, to have divine perspective To recognize that, yes, here I am, and this is all I can see, but I know God sees so much more than I do. Joseph waited and he was not disappointed. And that really brings us then to the conclusion. What is the conclusion of Joseph's life? Yes, I mean we see from God, he is not limited by man's wickedness, but ultimately Ultimately, we see that Joseph never wavered in his commitment to God because Joseph believed that God was worthy of his commitment In the face of false accusations, in the face of great temptation, in the face of cruel treatment, he truly believed that God was worthy of his commitment. So I ask you, in light of all this, do you believe, do you believe that God is worthy of your commitment. You know, as I look at all your faces, and even I look into my own heart, I know that we have all faced hardship of one kind or another. Different, some more severe than others, and yet we can be tempted No matter how the severity is of those circumstances, we can be tempted to doubt. We can be tempted to doubt whether or not This Christian life is really worth living. We can be tempted to doubt God's goodness and his sovereignty. And we see this evil that maybe be coming on us, and we wonder, can anything good happen out of this? Maybe you're wondering. Maybe you're questioning. My friends, I want to remind you, God isn't limited. God is not limited by the wickedness that you have received. And he is completely worthy of your commitment to him. Joseph, his life is a testament. To that, one of the strongest, strongest examples of these truths that we could ever see in the pages of Scripture. And let us be reminded that the God that Joseph served back then is the very same God that we Father, we are thankful that That these truths that we have seen today are undeniably verifiable. I pray, Lord, that that as we move forward, as we think about our past And the things that we have gone through. We think about the present and what we are going through, and we think about the future and the unknown that that lies there. That we would be unwavering in our commitment to you. That we would resolve in our hearts that although some people might mean things for evil, you mean it for good, and you are not limited by it And help us to be people that never waver in our commitment to you, but rather we see our commitment to you as completely and utterly worthy That you are worthy of our commitment. I ask Lord that if there is anyone to t this morning That perhaps is unsure, is on the fence, doesn't know if it's really worth it to live for you. I pray that those doubts would be washed away today Pray that that your truth would sink in and replace those doubts instead. And Father, as we spoke about Judah and the the substitute that he offered himself as a substitute for Benjamin Foreshadowing how Jesus would offer Himself as a substitute for us. I pray, Lord, that if there's anyone that hasn't accepted Christ to be their substitute Here today, that today would be the day where that they inquire and find out what it means to be a Christian, to believe the gospel. And to have full forgiveness of sins because Christ has paid for all of those sins. Pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen.