I got saved. This is not part of my message. I got saved um back in nineteen sixty five. Well I was at the University of Rhode Island and it was the Lord used that blackout that went all the way from New New York all the way up to Ontario to get me together with two Christians. And that's what it took. And from that day to this, I've I like to say that the Lord had to turn off all the power from New York to Ontario just to get it through my thick skull. That my power for living is not going to come from electricity, because I was elect studying electronics and electrical engineering at the time. It's going to come from the Lord Jesus Christ. Okay. I'm starting off with Jeremiah twenty-three, verse twenty-three. Am I a God at hand, saith the Lord? And not a God afar off. What he's saying is, I am a God near at hand. I am not afar-off. At hand means close enough that you can just reach out and touch it. At hand. God wants to be near us because he loves us. You've heard the verse, God is love. It's his nature to love. So I want to start off by pointing out three things about loving. First, when you love, you want to give. John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. Second, when you love, you want the object of your love to love you in return. And the interesting observation about that is God wants to be loved. God actually wants to be loved. Deuteronomy chapter 6 verse 5, all the way back almost to Genesis. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy might. takes the form of a command. Do you command love? Well, okay. They understood what he meant if he put it in the form of a command. And even in the middle of the Ten Commandments, Exodus 20, verse 6, and showing mercy unto thousands of them that love me. And keep my commandments. Third, when you love, you want the object of your love to be close or near. Chocolate. Maybe a better example would be your wife. I want to be near you, you're the one, the one, the one. I wanna be near you, you're the one for me God keeps trying to come near. So that and even in the Old Testament, there are people who met with God face to face. We call these Theophanies. A theophany is when God, especially when God appears in human form, so to speak. But it's not the same as the incarnation with Jesus. We'll get to that later. But a theophany is is God appearing in a humanoid form, so to speak, so as so as to be able to communicate with with someone. And we have examples of that. Adam and Eve, first of all. It says God met and spoke with them in Eden, but because of sin they hid from God. Sin separates from God, we know that. Sin puts us afar from God. And when when they sent, God sent them out, afar, separated from Him. God spoke with Abraham face to face. The Lord was one of three men who appeared to Abraham and spoke with him before destroying Sodom and Gomorrah. When they got to Sodom and Gomorrah, there were only two. The two angels. The Lord did not go. He stayed and talked with Abraham. But Abraham spoke with him the same as if he was speaking with another human being. Then God wrestled with Abraham, also known as Israel. Genesis 32, verse 30, I have seen God face to face, and my life is preserved. Face to face. When he wrestled with that angel, he took it to be, this is God face to face that I have seen God spoke with Moses, Exodus 33, 11. And the Lord spake unto Moses face to face as a man speaketh unto his friend. God spoke with Gideon face to face. Judges chapter 6, verses 22 and 23. When Gideon perceived that he he was an angel of the Lord, Gideon said, Alas, O Lord, God For because I have seen an angel of the Lord face to face. And the Lord said unto him, Peace be unto thee, fear not, thou shalt not die. Other men, such as Enoch, Levi, Noah, are said to have walked with God, implying a close daily relationship. And this is all Old Testament. We're not even getting into the New Testament yet. God told them to make a tabernacle so he could dwell among them. Exodus 25, verse 8. and let them make me a sanctuary, that I may dwell among them. Now the ark was also meant to be a symbol of God's presence, but they took it to be more like a uh a magic good luck charm sort of thing. You remember they they brought it into battle with them at one time and God actually allowed the Philistines to capture it. to indicate that no, this is not a magic good luck charm. It is a symbol of the presence of God and no more. We tend to run away afar and keep God at arm's length. Okay, away from me. When God spoke the Ten Commandments from the top of Mount Sinai, if you remember. Exodus 20, verse 18. All the people saw the thundering and the lightnings and the noise of the trumpet and the mountain smoking. And when the people saw it, they removed and stood afar off. And they said, let not God speak with us lest we die. God came near. They ran off. And then Moses alone came near to God. That's not what God wanted. He wanted to be able to talk to them directly. We remove a far from from for fear of God, because he can be overpowering, and you can understand that. When God speaks in a voice like thunder, we just naturally, like children, put our hands over our ears. Because it's just too much. In Revelation chapter 1, verse 9 and 19, verse 6, God or Christ, speaks with a voice that's like thunder. Very loud, especially when it's close. Like a multitude, that is like a crowd of people all shouting at once, or like many waters, like a thundering waterfall if you've ever Stood right next to there's a waterfall in western Maryland on the Yoyogene River. And boy, if you get you can get up pretty close to it, and boy, it makes an awful lot of noise. And it's only like twenty feet or something like that. As there's waterfalls that are like sixty feet and so forth. They can get pretty overbearing, intimidating. Or uh with a voice like a trumpet in one place, which can get very loud. They use bugles to to communicate you know the charge and the retreat and so forth on the battlefield, or they used to, they don't anymore. But they used to because the sound of the bugle is a a higher pitch and it's loud and you can hear it over the thundering of the guns But it's loud and it can be intimidating. We remove afar from God because we're afraid of him. Judgment, that kind of thing. If you were a sinner, you would be afraid to appear before God because you would figure, first of all, I've offended him Second of all, I'm embarrassed about having to appear before him. Third, he's probably angry with me. And fourth, he's going to punish me. Stay away. Keep me away from him. We don't let's Keep as far apart as we can. We remove afar from God because we just rejected him, or we hate him, or Jesus. Moses said in Numbers 11, verse 20, You have despised or rejected the Lord which is among you. God was among them in those days as they came out of Egypt. And yet they rejected him. In Samuel, God says to Samuel, first Samuel eight, verse seven, they have not rejected thee They have rejected me, that I should not reign over them. They wanted their own kind of king. They did not want God to rule over them. They wanted to be all like all the other nations. And they rejected God as king. Isaiah 29 verse 13, this people draw near me with their mouth, and their lips do honor me, but they've removed their heart. Far from me. Now at Sinai, they physically removed themselves from the mountain. But here they are emotionally removing themselves from God in the heart. Jeremiah 8 verse 9, it says, the wise men have rejected the word of the Lord, and what wisdom is in them? In Isaiah 53, verse 3, speaking of Jesus the Messiah, he is despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And we hid, as it were, our faces from him, so that we don't have to meet him face to face. We hid our faces from him. He was despised and we esteemed him not. of Jesus in John chapter 1 verse eleven. He came unto his own and his own received him not. Same as rejection. In a parable, Jesus said, Luke 19, verse 14, but his citizens hated him and sent a message after him saying, We will not have this man to reign over us. And that echoes 1 Samuel 8 verse 7 where he said, They have rejected me that I may not reign over them. Same same idea, but Old Testament, New Testament. The crucifixion of Jesus was the ultimate rejection of God. They wanted to get rid of him. Once and for all. Jesus is God. So rejection of Jesus is the equivalent of rejection of God, who is the great I am, Yahweh. When you receive Jesus into your heart, you receive God into your heart. And therefore, Paul can say, Christ in you, the hope of glory. Jesus said, I and my Father are one, and he meant it literally. When you have Jesus in your heart, you have God in your heart. We remove afar from God because we perceive him, God, as a grouchy old man who doesn't know how to have any fun. When he looks over the battlements of heavens and he sees someone having a good time, he thinks, now cut that out. Well, that's the way some people do perceive God. And if if that's your perception of him, of course it's all wrong, but If that's your perception of him, you sort of can understand why they don't want to have anything to do with him. Now, although we wanted to keep God away, He has made himself accessible by coming near. I think this is the primary message of the book of Daniel. In the book of Daniel, King Nebuchadnezzar had a dream. He couldn't remember it. It was a dream about a multi-sectioned image that was destroyed by a stone cut out without hands. He demanded that his wise men tell both the dream by the way, Daniel was one of his wise men. He demanded that his wise men tell both the dream and the interpretation, and they complained. Daniel chapter 2, verses 10 and 11, this is their words, there is none other that can show it before the king, except the gods whose dwelling is not with flesh. Whose dwelling is not with flesh. Now, what they're saying is the gods are not accessible. They are not near. They stay away from us. But, by contrast, same chapter, verse 28, Daniel says, but there is a God in heaven. That revealeth secrets, and maketh known to the king Nebuchadnezzar what shall be in the latter days. Now to reveal a secret, you must come near. Yahweh is near, at hand. Yahweh does dwell with men. Yahweh is accessible. And Yahweh did supply the answer to Daniel, and that proves the point. This God is near. Finally, God came near as Jesus, the Messiah. Isaiah 7 verse 14 calls him Emmanuel, which means God with us. Not as some people say, God is with us. The word is is not there. It's just God with us. The baby that it was predicting would be literally God with us. And that's exactly what Jesus was. Jesus was God with us. Not God is on our side, but God dwelling among us. John chapter 1 verse 1 says, In the beginning was the Word, referring to Jesus, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. And verse 14, same chapter. And the God, the word was made flesh and dwelt among us. Dwelt among us. And we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. Now, this is almost an aside, but you'll see how it fits in. Your children may ask you, how big is God? Well, I have the answer to that in three parts. The first part. God says, Do not I fill heaven and earth, saith the Lord. God is big enough that he has no trouble throwing galaxies out as if they were frisbees. I know a galaxy is round and it's flat like a frisbee. Okay. So you can sort of imagine God flinging a galaxy the same as he would fling a Frisbee. And he has no trouble with that. But that's kind of hard to wrap your mind around. It's kind of hard to really understand a God who is that massive. Second, the Bible says that a thousand years is as a day, and a day is as a thousand years with the Lord. Now, this means that God can deal with a thousand years. as easily as if it was one day. And he can deal with one day in as much detail as if he had a thousand years to do it. So what this does is it gives you the other end of the spectrum that God can follow, has no trouble following the path of an electron orbiting around an atom. And he can do it with just as as much facility as he can fling an entire galaxy like a Frisbee. But that's hard to understand. A God who can be that big and that small at the same time, how in the world are we ever going to get our wrap our minds around that? Now, third point. Somebody took the geometric mean between the largest and the smallest objects in the universe. I don't know exactly what he used I suspect that he used the s width of the known universe that is as far away as we can see stars. And probably something around the size of an electron. And when you want to average something that's that's that big a difference, you have to take the geometric mean, which means you multiply the two numbers, and then you take the square root. You probably appreciate that. kind of a thing. But when you think it's it's kind of amazing to take something that small and that big and multiply them together and then take the square root. What they got was just about six feet. The size of a man. Isn't that interesting? So God became a man from conception. Not a theophany, like we had talking about before, where God took the form of a man so that he could communicate with people, but rather no shortcuts. From conception all the way up. He was a baby at one time, he was a fetus at one time, he was a baby at one time, a child, a teenager. That's probably a little hard to imagine. But anyway, he was a teenager and finally became a man. And uh Not just like a man, but that made him, without losing anything that he was when he was God. See was 100% God. Without losing any of that, he became 100% man. It's kind of hard for us mathematically to figure something 100% and 100%, it's like 200%, isn't it? But This is the way it really works out. He is 100% God, 100% man. The angel told Mary in Luke chapter 1, verse 35, therefore also that holy thing. That is born of thee shall be called the Son of God. Now, sort of related to this, the Greeks believed that their gods appeared as men. So that's to justify that belief, they said that if the gods are to influence the affairs of men, they must appear as men. Well, they've got a point, but that's not dependent on their theology. Their theology is kind of deplorable, but real but as far as human nature is concerned They're right on. That's that's is pretty much uh the way it is. If if God is to uh uh influence the affairs of men, he does need to appear in human form. Otherwise, well I'll get I'll give an example a little bit later of what happens if If he didn't, and it but I'm not not at that point yet, that's another page or two away. When God became Jesus, it was so he could come near. And be at hand. That is, close enough to touch. Matthew 3, verse 2, John the Baptist preached that the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Matthew 4. 17, Jesus preached that the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Matthew 10, verse 7, Jesus told his disciples to preach that the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Matthew 26, verse 18, Jesus at the triumphal entry said, My time is at hand. Matthew 26, 45, Jesus just before his betrayal. When Judas was coming, said, the hour is at hand. And then Matthew 26, 46, when Jesus, as as Judas approached, said, He is at hand that doth betray me. And then, sure enough, when Jesus betrayed Jesus, how did he betray him? With a kiss, a touch. At 1 John 1, verse 1, it says, That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have handled. touched of the Word of God, of the Word of Life. And then at the Last Supper, John rested his head on Jesus' breast. That was again, he's touching him. After the resurrection, Luke 24, verse 39, Jesus said, Handle me, touch me, and see, for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have. Jesus offered to let them touch him. It was not a spiritual resurrection, it was a real physical resurrection. It's interesting that there's no mention of blood. Jesus gave his blood because the Old Testament says the life of the flesh is in the blood, and it meaning the blood. have I given to you upon the altar to make atonement for your sins. And sure enough, when Jesus rose from the dead, he had open wounds, he invited them to put their his fingers in the in the wounds and their hands in the side and uh but they weren't bleeding because he had given his blood. Jesus had a form of life that did not depend upon blood. John chapter 20, verse 27, speaking to Thomas, he said, Reach hither thy finger, behold my hands. Reach hither thy hand and thrust it into my side, and be not faithless, but believing. He invited Thomas to touch him. Jesus was God at hand, close enough to touch Jesus is God in a form that you can not just wrap your mind around, but wrap your arms around and give him a hug. That you can understand. Now, there's a story told of a man who did not accept the deity of Christ. One winter he saw some birds in the snow near a warm barn. He tried to get them to go into the barn out of the out of the wind, the cold wind, but he couldn't because they were afraid of him. And he thought, if I were a bird, they wouldn't be afraid of me, and I could help them. Suddenly it dawned on him why God had to become a man. God as a spirit is sparing. God as Jesus is lovable. Seeing God face to face can be scary, but it depends on your relationship if you have one. A sinner, for example, would be afraid to appear before him because it would be like a criminal appearing before the judge. That would be scary. A rebel, someone who would uh rejected Christ, would not want to face him. Because it would be like facing a king that you had rebelled against, and they captured you and you brought you before the king. You would not want to face that king If you were had rebelled against him. But if you have a real relationship with God through the blood of Christ, then it's more like David, a man after God's own heart. Or like Abraham, who was called the friend of God. And then it's more like Psalm 1611, where it says, in thy presence. presence in the presence of God. In thy presence is fullness of joy. At thy right hand there are pleasures forevermore, as opposed to the pleasures of sin for a season. That nearness, when you have a real working relationship with God through the Lord Jesus Christ, that nearness becomes joy and a pleasure. We want to then we then want to see him face to face because we love him. We love him because he first loved us, but still we love him. And we want to see him face to face. 1 Corinthians 13, 12 says, For now we see through a glass darkly, but then face to face. And that desire to see him face to face is evidenced in a lot of the hymns that we sing, such as, Just a closer walk with thee, nearer still nearer, nearer my God to thee. He leadeth me. He's my friend. In the garden. I come to the garden alone. While the dew is still on the roses, And the voice I hear falling on my ear, The Son of God discloses By the way, do you know God's first name? God's first name? It's Andy. Andy walks with me, and he talks with me, and he tells me, I am his own. Gotta be careful about taking your theology from hymns. Or hymns like Face to face I shall behold him, close to thee, Saviour let me walk with thee, near the cross, near to the heart of God, nothing between my soul and the Savior. And God does say, James 4. 8, draw near to me, and I will draw near to you. Now God draws near first, but still. If we endeavor to draw near to him, he will draw near to us. So in conclusion, you say, what am I doing? Just about right. Just about what I figured. In conclusion, Revelation 20, verse 11, heaven and earth flee from the face of God. One last time the sinker earth flees afar from God. And God lets it go and it disappears forever. And then he creates a new heaven and a new earth wherein dwelleth righteousness. Revelation 21, verse 3, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them and be their God. And he emphasized it three times in the same verse. He says the same thing in different words. God never gave up his original intention. That was where he was going in the book of Genesis. And now he's gotten there in the book of Revelation. Now he has fulfilled it. Revelation 22, verse 4, and they, his servants, shall see his face. And that fact is something that's rather unusual about the kingdom of God. You remember Jesus talked about the kingdom of God. Paul talked about the kingdom of God. Peter talked about the kingdom of God. Most kingdoms are compelled to obey by force, by threat of force. And that's why the Bible says in the Romans, he beareth not the sword in vain. the threat of force. You are their subject. The word subject means to be uh thrown under. Sub means underject is the word that we've looked like inject, project. It's it's the comes from the Latin word to throw. And uh Yeah. That's that basically what the word subject means, as opposed to submit, which means to put yourself under. Pastor King Hair's bread from saying that one last Sunday or the Sunday before I came my hair's bread from saying that. Anyway, in the kingdom of God it's not like that Not like that at all, because every subject, first of all, has met the king. When you receive Christ as your Savior, you met him Second of all, you have chosen him as your Lord willingly. There's no force involved here It's your will to receive Christ as your Savior. He does not force you. He may draw you, but he doesn't force you. And every member, every subject of the kingdom of God has a personal relationship with the king. And therefore, all fear is gone. There is no fear of he's not scary anymore at all. He is a comfort, if anything. And that is not true with any other kingdom. The kingdom of God works more like a family than like any other kingdom on the face of the earth. Isn't that something? I hope I've given you something to think about. These uh it's taken me several years to put this together. I I saw the thread at one time and started copying all these things down and putting all together and um there's a bunch of other things I find. I remember um a man, his name was Mr. Fuchs. said that there was a red thread that runs from Genesis to Revelation, and he was referring to the blood of Christ. That Not what I'm I'm not going to try doing that tonight. This is this is enough for tonight. Let's let's have a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we'd like to thank you for the scriptures. We thank you for the Lord Jesus Christ. We thank you for giving us that. comforting relationship, family sort of relationship that you we have with you through his blood. And we we treasure that and we look forward to Spending an eternity with you and the Lord Jesus Christ. And uh whether it's here in the new heaven, the new earth, or whether it's in heaven, matters not as long as we are with Him. We give you thanks and ask for your blessing in Jesus' precious name. Amen.