Sometimes we get a little bit lopsided. When it comes to our understanding of the of the providence of God and the sovereignty of God and our responsibility Sometimes we think it all depends on us. And of course, we know that to be false. But other times we think of God as one who is going to to work sort of aside from our fulfilling our responsibility instead of working as we fulfill our responsibility. Now of course God is sovereign and he will work in spite of us if he chooses. I mean he will certainly work in spite of us. But it is God's desire for His people to work as we fulfill our role and our responsibility. Uh a good illustration of this problem of m having a misunderstanding of how these things play out is a personal illustration. When I was in college I remember uh maybe sophomore, maybe uh maybe junior year of college, there was an opening, maybe a little, I don't remember exactly when it was, but there was a there was an opening. for um to be a proofreader for a Becca book for the for the the um the uh curriculum that was uh associated with the school. And um uh they I guess they recognized I had some some relative language ability and things and so Anyway, uh I had a phone interview and he said, yeah, he said uh looks like you're qualified. Why don't you come up uh in a couple of weeks and we'll you'll you could take a we'll have a a a personal interview and and take a test, uh a proofreading test. I said, okay, sounds good. So in the meantime, two weeks were about were were going by, and in the meantime, I broke my glasses. Okay. Now back then, you know, you you can get things fixed pretty easy quickly th these days, but back then it wasn't quite as quick or I didn't know how or whatever. But anyway And my eyes weren't quite as bad as they are now, so I could operate without glasses. I could even read if I closed my left eye. Sounds like kind of But I if I close my left eye I could even read without my glasses. And I had this bright idea that, you know, I don't really need to take my glasses. I don't you know what what what would what would you have done in that situation? Well the logical thing would have been that the to say, hey, I broke my glasses, I need to get them fixed. Can we postpone that test until I get my glasses fixed? Well no, I was I was set on the sovereignty of God in my life. And I said, you know what? If God wants me to have this job, I will go in and I will be able to close my left eye and I will be able to do all the proofreading I need to do, and God will just give me that job. And you know what they call that? Well, we've got little kids here. Not that bright I have other words for that that I would use in other contexts, but so I I went and I had the interview. The interview went fine because you don't really need your eyes for interview. But when I came to take that test, I had real problems I th I w was reading it just fine, but in trying to find some of the errors, apparently I missed a lot and I got the m a memo in my in my mailbox saying, you are really not qualified to do this I could have at least told them I didn't have my glasses. I didn't do any of that because I thought, you know what, I mean God is sovereign and if He wants me to have this job, then I'll have the job regardless of what I do with my do with w what what happened Whether I can see or not. See that's a an example of immaturity is what that is. It's an example Of taking God's sovereignty and providence not too far, because God is completely sovereign. And God is providential. But what I had done was I had taken it to a point of of presumption and to a point where I was willing to not really consider what would be my responsibility in the thing Now that's a silly example, but I think it demonstrates the point here that as God works in our lives, we also have to work. In this passage in Ruth chapter 3, we find structurally that is very similar to Ruth chapter 2. In Ruth chapter 2 and 3, both chapters, Naomi and Ruth come together and they devise a plan. And in both chapters, Ruth goes out and executes the plan. And in both chapters, Boaz becomes the provider of the plan. But there is a significant difference between chapters two and three. One of the most prominent differences is in chapter two, the executor of the plan, Ruth, Ruth, she goes out and her sole purpose is to simply glean grain to take care of Naomi as she has promised to do. But really had no intentions beyond that. And God providential clearly providentially worked in chapter 2. to give Ruth far more than she ever was intending to receive from growing going and gleaning the corners of the fields that she was by the law allowed to glean. We come to chapter three, and now Naomi and Ro Ruth are devising a plan, but this time they are going, they are actually proactive in their thinking that they're gonna they're going to respond to God's providence that they have seen in ja chapter two and they're going to move forward on a particular plan and we're going to see how all that works together. But what we see here Because of the way that this is different than chapter 2, what we see here is that chapter 3 really emphasizes more, particularly in the first part of the chapter, on human responsibility. Chapter 2 was clearly God's providence. Chapter 3 now is man's responsibility. How should we respond to God's provision in our lives? We do have a role to play. We do need our involved. God providentially works in our lives as we fulfill our responsibilities to Him. We've also noted in the past, actually let's go ahead and pray, ask his blessing on our time, and then we will get into the text here. Father, we pray, Lord, that you would help us as we look at your word this morning to understand in a in a more in a deeper way, in a maybe a clearer way, our role and our responsibility. And I pray, Lord, that we would never in our lives um we would never ignore your sovereignty And that we would always be aware of your providence. But, dear Father, I also pray that we would not feel as though we can take a back seat to our own responsibility. That we would understand how these things really you desire for these things to work in tandem with each other. You being the initiator, as clearly Boaz was, our being the responder, but our choosing to respond With behavior that is consistent with your providence. And Lord, I pray that you would help us to understand this today as it is illustrated in the life of Naomi, Ruth, and Boaz And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, we have seen in chapter one of Ruth that Ruth had pledged her allegiance to Naomi and really to her God. We see in chapter 2 that Boaz is specifically identified as the kinsman redeemer. And we noted last week that in ver chapter 2, verse 20, we have this pivotal verse where Naomi recognizes the great blessing of God and providence of God through Boaz, and then she identifies him as the key kinsman redeemer. She says, Blessed be he of the Lord who hath not left off his kindness to the living and to the dead. And Naomi said unto her, The man is near of kin unto unto us, one of our next kinsmen. And we have noted the fact that Boaz really is a type of Christ, as we have identified that other places in the Old Testament, we'll recover this a little bit this morning as well. Christ is prophesied as the kinsman-redeemer, and Hebrews identifies him as the kinsman-redeemer. And so Boaz is in this passage a type of Christ. And we also noted last week that as God often does in the lives of people that he is drawing to himself He will show his goodness. He did this with the nation of Israel, and Paul identifies this in Romans, the book of Romans, chapters 2 and 11, where he says that the goodness of God is intended to lead them to repentance. And so we see this working. We also noted chapters 1, 2, and 3, that there is this theme of this word Hesed. has said there is no good English equivalent with one word, the closest we would have is this word kindness. But it is of course not just kindness in in w terms we would think of it, but we would think of kindness and Kindness and undeserved goodness and commit covenant commitment all wrapped up into this one term. And we've seen this, of course, it's noted there in Romans chapter in Ruth chapter 2, verse 20. And it's again going to be mentioned in Ruth chapter 3, verse 10, which tells us That one of the primary themes of this chapter that is continuing is this whole concept of kindness. And God is the benevolent source of kindness. Ruth, as she devotes herself to God and to Naomi, becomes a conduit of kindness. Boaz responds to Ruth's kindness for Naomi and he becomes A grand example of God's kindness. And now we come to this passage and we see that chapter 3, verse 1, Naomi wants to extend kindness to Ruth. Naomi, if you'll recall, was in a bit of a stupor, if you will. Naomi was in despair. She actually said, Don't call me Naomi, call me by a name. Whereby people would know that I am actually cursed of God. She had experienced great calamity as she was in Moab. And now we come to this passage, and it was the kindness of God through Boaz, through Ruth, that brings her out of this And she responds with blessing toward Boaz and blessing toward God. And now she looks at the situation and she looks at Ruth. And she desires to bless her daughter-in-law, who has been such a blessing to her. Chapter 3, verse 1. And Naomi, her mother-in-law, said unto her, My daughter, shall I not seek rest for thee, that it may be well with thee? We find in this passage then that Naomi opens up with some clear motivation of of of uh goodwill toward her daughter in law. It's very likely that she does have in some sense in the back of her mind the continuing of the line of her husband and the line of Ruth's husband as well. We know that this was on her thinking in chapter 1 verse 12 ex it explains that if you recall. But we see here that as the narrative is begins, the prominent thing in chapter one is the motive of Naomi wanting to express kindness to Ruth. And so she comes up with this rather interesting plan And we find in verse 2 it says, And now is not Boaz of our kindred, with whose maidens thou wast. Behold, he winweth barley tonight in the threshing floor. Well, Naomi is recognizing an opportunity that might come about here. Her motive is to take care of Ruth. There is great love for Ruth. Now to really understand what is going to take place here and the plan that Ruth is going to pro that Naomi is going to propose to Ruth, we're going to have to understand a couple of things. It's very easy for us to read into some things that should not be read into. If we take our 21st century Western mentality and put it into here, we will see things that are a bit disconcerting and they don't need to be. I mentioned this as a warning to us actually. You're going to see some things like the uncovering of Boaz's feet by Ruth and some of these strange behaviors that we would not see as particularly uh something that we want to emulate today. This is not to be a um you know a guidebook on women, this is not a single woman out there, this is not a guidebook on how you find a hus how you get a husband. It's not to be identified that way and this past week I there's some uh uh m family that um I'm very concerned about. I went to school with them and they have gotten caught up in a in a church out in out west that is I i let's just say they have real issues with how they interpret scripture And they're finding all things, all kinds of things in the Bible that just aren't there. And I encourage them to really consider the the historical contextual grammatical interpretation of the passages that they were that they're really misinterpreting and they actually said that they shouldn't do that and This is a perfect example of why you've got to do that. I mean if you don't understand the historical context behind what's going on here in this passage Number one, by the way, we all know this to be true, that the Word of God is intended to be a revelation of who God is. This is not to be, in its primary approach, a guidebook for us. Not that it isn't a guidebook, it is. But its primary uh its primary emphasis is to reveal God and to reveal Christ. If we don't understand that, we it becomes a problem. And if we don't understand the historical background in that that these contexts rest in, we can come up with all kinds of very odd things. That was for for free as we go through this Naomi has this idea, but to understand the idea and the plan, we need to go ahead and recover a couple of Old Testament concepts. One concept we have covered before, and I think I won't take the time to go to that particular concept. It is the concept of the kinsman redeemer. And we have read this before in Deuteronomy 25, verses 5 through 10. We clearly see that the kinsman, Redeemer, in that passage is um is uh one who was there was a provision made for a close relative uh to redeem somebody that was indebted and and there's this concept that is just an il an initial illustration to demonstrate a grand point because the time you get by the time you get to the Ezekiel in the Old Testament, which we'll look at in a few moments, then you find that Christ is prophesied as the kinsman redeemer. In fact If you would actually take your Bibles and turn there, would you take your Bibles and turn to Isaiah? You know what? I'm not going to have you do that. I'm sorry. Would you take your Bibles and turn to Leviticus 25? And while you're taking your Bibles and turn to Leviticus 25, I will just read for you Isaiah 59, which speaks of the kinsman-redeemer, Christ being that kinsman-redeemer. Verse Isaiah 59, 20 says, And the Redeemer shall come to Zion. And unto them that turn from transgression to Jacob, saith the Lord. As for me, this is my covenant with them. Saith the Lord, my spirit that is upon thee, and my words which I have put in thy mouth, thou shalt not depart out of thy mouth Nor out of the mouth of thy seed, nor out of the mouth of thy seed seed, saith the Lord, from henceforth and forever. There is this covenant binding covenant relationship that is mentioned in I Isaiah 59 and this word Goal which is kinsman redeemer is mentioned there as well Israel was rightly called the bride of God in the Old Testament. And so we see there this concept of the kinsman redeemer as it is fleshed out in Isaiah. is mentioned here in mentioned also in Deuteronomy. Now, that's the one concept we need to remember, the kinsman redeemer The other concept we need to be aware of is this concept of the leverate marriage. And that's why I've had you turn to Leviticus 25. You know what? I've got I've got them wrong. I'm sorry about that. Leviticus 25 is on the Kinsman Redeemer And the leverate marriage is in Deuteronomy I'm gonna make sure I'm right about this. Yes, the leverate marriage is in Deuteronomy Yes, Deuteronomy twenty-five. Would you turn I'm sorry. Would you turn to Deuteronomy twenty-five, verse five? And we'll look at the leverage marriage here. So the other concept is the leveret marriage, Deuteronomy 25, 5. And I apologize for having you flip. to a passage. Maybe mark that one, come back to it later. Deuteronomy 25, 5. It says, if brother, and so we're going to go over this and you'll and we'll you'll understand how this applies to to Ruth in this passage. 25-5 says, If brothers dwell together and one of them dies and has no son, the widow of the dead man shall not be married to a stranger outside the family. Here her husband's brother shall go into her, take her as his wife, and perform the duty of a husband's brother to her. And it shall be that the hut that the firstborn son which she bears will succeed to the name of his dead brother, that his name may be may not be plotted out of Israel. So what you find here is a provision. that in a particular clan with a particular indiv man who dies, their brother or their close relationship. It doesn't have to be technically a brother. It could be a a cousin or somebody that's close and and closely related within their clan. Can marry that woman whose husband has died, and can have offspring that will continue that family line. Now, then pick up in verse 7, but if a man does not want to take his brother's wife, then let his brother's wife go up to the gate of the elders and say, My husband's brother refuses to raise up a name of his brother in Israel. He will not perform the duty of my husband's brother. Then the elders of the city shall call him and speak to him, but if he hands fur but if he stands firm and says, I do not want to take her Then his brother's wife shall come to him in the presence of the elders, remove his sandal from his foot, spit in his face, and answer, and say, So shall it be done to the man who will not build up his brother's house And his name shall be called in Israel, the house of him who had his sandal removed. Now, the truth is we don't have a lot of biblical references other than this one to this concept that is known as the levered marriage. A couple of things we need to note. Ruth was a Moabitist by heritage. She was what we would call a proselyte. She has now converted to Israel as as now a citizen of Israel, essentially, although she would be considered by a foreigner in some respects, and certainly by faith she has accepted the God of the nation of Israel So we find in this passage later on in chapter in verse 10 of this chapter that Boaz is very clear that she doesn't really didn't really have to do this. She did not have to fulfill this role specifically. So she wasn't actually bound to this, probably because she was from the land of Moab Something else that's sort of interesting about this in this in this passage that we're going to see is that although Boaz was a close relative, he was not the closest to to to Ruth and to Naomi. And there was somebody else that had to be uh consulted with all of this. And it's also interesting in this passage that that there's no provision in this particular passage for there being another uh Redeemer, another kinsman redeemer that's not closer. This person that kids redeem was sort of had to be cursed, but there wasn't there's no provision for that. But basically this is an application. This is not a direct And this is little commentators are really unsure about the are a little they're in con conflict about this. But basically what you find is that this is a an application Ruth 3 is an application of Leviticus 25 rather than a direct correlation because in this particular case there is a In Deuteronomy 25, this is a sort of a command to that brother. In what we're going to find in Ruth, they're using this essentially as a provision. Now what we're finding then here is that this is a further development of the concept of the leverett marriage, and really this is all in initi eventually going to picture what Christ does for us later on the New Testament. But we've got to have to sort of sift through some of the background here in order to get to this point. Now, all of that, this concept of kinsman redeemer, and the concept of leverant marriage, brings Naomi to a point of seeing an opportunity for Ruth. Also the fact that clearly Bohas has extended far beyond any kind of provision that he would have been required by law He has actually brought her Ruth into to eat with him at a lunchtime hour. We saw that last week. There is this extended and continual uh provision that Boaz has made toward Ruth. And so what we find here in chapter three is that Naomi sees this This opportunity. Now culturally, let's look at the cultural situation here Culturally, of course, it was a very agrarian society, and Boaz was likely a very wealthy man. He made his wealth by uh by harvesting this grain. Part of the harvesting process after the grain was harvested was that it was taken to a threshing floor and there's this term winnowing. or um or dividing the grain from the chaff that occurs on the threshing floor. Now you might say to yourself, why in the world would he be sleeping there? Well, the threshing floor was at a separate place usually from the owner's home. It was on a place usually uh where it was There was up on a hill where it could it could the the west winds could pass by and take away the chaff so that there would be uh grain that was settled on the threshing floor. And very likely it was common of that day for the owner, once this was had taken place, for the owner to stay there and to and to and to rest there as a protection. In other words Boaz was and uh Ruth was, or Naomi I should say, was anticipating Boaz going up and laying on that threshing floor and spending the night to protect the harvest. And Naomi sees a great opportunity here through all of this. Now just consider as we read what takes place here. Verse 2. And now is Boaz now is not Boaz of our kindred, with whose maidens thou wast, behold, he winnowed barley to r to tonight in the threshing floor. Now he this is what Naomi says to Ruth Wash thyself therefore, and anoint thee, and put thy raiment upon thee, and get thee down to the floor But make not thyself known unto the man until he it he shall have done eating and drinking. So here's Naomi's plan. She says, you need to go down to the refreshing floor. She says, first clean get cleaned up. Put some perfume on, put some clothing on. Now, here is what we need to understand about this. Up to this point, it's very likely that Naomi and Ruth were still in mourning for the loss of their husbands. They were they were in a place where they were not they were not really keeping themselves up. They it would have been obvious to the nation of Israel that they were in mourning. This was a common practice, although we don't know the length it would usually was. But that is more than likely what's happening here, and what's happening here is that Naomi is sort of saying, okay, we are done with mourning God has blessed us, we're moving past this, get cleaned up and go. And there is this sort of sense of a of of get dressed up for attraction, but there is no reason to to in to to read into this to to think that she is anyway getting dressed for seductive reasons. By the way, this is just for free. You know, there is a difference between seduction and attractiveness. Ladies, you know the difference. Men, we know the difference. There's nothing wrong with being dressed up for attraction. Seduction is something entirely different. That's for free. But the whole point here in this passage is that she was dressing up and getting cleaned up to go and to see uh to see Boaz. We see here also that we have some sort of sage advice, some just good logical advice. She says, wait till he's done eating. He's he's finished and he's settled. He's eating and drinking. He's in a in a good place. Uh hold off until that point. The the idea was that he was probably working all day doing this threshing. And she's giving him very particular logical advice. It's kind of like somebody saying, you know, put your glasses on before you go and uh and and try to uh do some proofreading. Verse 4, and it shall be when he lieth down, that thou shalt mark the place where he shall lie And thou shalt go in and uncover his feet and lay thee down, and he will tell thee what thou shalt do. And she said unto her, All that thou hat sayest unto me, I will do. So Naomi and Ruth come up with this grand plan There is not to be read read into any kind of sexual overtone or anything of that nature in this However, I will point this out, and the commentators tend to agree on this: this was a risky move for Ruth. Now, although it was it was within customs for Ruth to do this, as we'll see, essentially a marriage proposal. What the narrative wants us to see is that this is something that is risky because it was practiced in those days for harlots to make the same kind of approach knowing that there would be men alone in a particular place in a vulnerable situation and to try to capitalize on that situation. Now that's not what's happening here. And but that is something that did occur back in those days. And the point is simply that Boaz Could have taken it that way if he would have chosen to take it that way. Now, here is one of the key indicators to understand why we don't want to take, we don't want to read any of that into the passage. Number one, what have we seen so far about the character of both Boaz and Roof so far? We're talking about exemplary character And they are going to continue to be exemplary in their character throughout this book. There's no reason to believe that there is a falter in character here on the part of Ruth. Number two, Boaz didn't take it the way that it could have been taken. We'll see that clearly in the passage. Boaz did not interpret it in that way, which meant means There could have been an option to reinterpret it another way, besides the the way that that would have been a shady kind of a way. So there are indicators in the passage that demonstrate that there is nothing shady about this in their approach, although it was risky if Boaz would have interpreted it wrong. Boaz, of course, did not interpret it wrong as we'll see in the passage. Now, with all this in mind, let's just reflect on the intent of this text. Which is to demonstrate proper response to God's providence in chapter 2. And I want us to note four principles, four factors to consider when fulfilling our responsibility. To God's providence, our responding to God's providence. And we see all of these in this passage. First of all, scriptural truth. We see here that Naomi really understands the Old Testament. She understands provisions made for both the kinsman redeemer and the leverate marriage. Sort of putting these things together and applications of both of these things caused her to realize that there's an opportunity here. And the same thing that we need to do when we are considering our responsibilities is really to consider scriptural truth and how we can accurately and effectively apply scriptural truth to our given situation. Number two, what is our responsibility? It is it needs to be based on right motives. You see, if we have impure and wrong motives in what we do, we will never be fulfilling our responsibility. And what you have here with Naomi is although this is a risky move, we have clear motives here, clear right motives. She wants to provide for Ruth One of the things we ought to factor in and to check in fulfilling our responsibilities is what is our motivation? Number three, clearly this is a response to God's providence. Naomi looks at the situation. She sees what Boaz has provided. She sees it as God's provision, clearly in chapter 2, verse 20, and now she is going to respond. And then we see this other one. That's a little more difficult and less concrete. Actually, the only one that's really concrete is scriptural truth. The rest of these we have to really sift through. And that is opportunities in light of cultural practices. Now, let me just mention this. Did you know that God desires for us to live within the culture? Now, some of the culture that we live in. Has such sinful influence that we need to understand it is actually influenced by the world system, which the New Testament tells us to really stay away from. But culture as a whole is something that really is created by people which are created by God. And there are we need to understand that culture does factor in to what we do. And we are to consider what is culturally acceptable and what isn't culturally acceptable. And what is what is an opportunity within the culture versus what is not an opportunity within the culture. We need to understand that this is part of our accurately fulfilling our responsibility and practical truth. And I'll I'll illustrate it this way. I was dialoguing with this one family that and it was I don't do this very often in this in long dialogues. Usually what I do is quick and but uh it was a longer dialogue. It wasn't a on a social media platform that you're f familiar with. And And in the process of this, it became odd somebody they were trying to say that the Old Testament says that women shouldn't wear pants. And I replied, where in the world do you find that in the Old Testament? Where can you find pants at all in the Old Testament? And they did discover an obscure passage where the priesthood wore breeches and it was a kind of pant-like shape and the only the priests did this and only the priests could be men and so therefore women shouldn't wear pants. It's a real stretch. And they asked, I said to them, I said, look, you've got to consider the historical interpretation of this. And the real issue is not whether or not women wear pants or not. If you don't want to wear pants, fine. If you want to wear pants, that's not really the issue. The issue is how you're interpreting Scripture and what that is causing in your practice to really move toward a legalistic approach to life. And it is very interesting that in talking with them, and the illustration I think will will help us, they said to me, Well, would you wear dress when you're in the pulpit? And I said, yes, if I were in Scotland. Or in the Pacific, and they did they would be very offended by calling an address. I simply was simply trying to make a point. that in Scotland, that particular shape, culturally, is not female dress, it's male dress. At least historically and they still do it in formal settings to this day. In other words, folks, we do have to consider what is culturally and then a missionary just blew everybody out of the water by saying, you know, my husband in the Pacific That was what they did, and they wore a shirt and tie and a skirt. It wasn't called a skirt, it's all called something different. The whole point here is simply this You and I have to be wise about how we consider what culture what is culturally identifiable as a dominant association It's not acceptable for us to identify things that are not dominant cultural associations and impose them on our script on scriptural truth and say that is an applicable standard. Folks, what we see here in this passage is something that would not be wise to do in the in our day and age. For a woman to you know, if back when I was single, if I ever would have seen a woman come up and uncover my feet and lay there I would have said, you're creeping me out, get out of here. That is not would not be acceptable However, in this culture, this was something that was apparently acceptable under certain circumstances, and so we need to understand this as we continue. Well, what occurs? How is Boaz going to respond to this bold move? And what does Ruth do? So we continue here in verse 6. And she went down under the fl floor and did according to all that her mother-in-law bade her. And when Boaz had eaten and drunk And his heart was merry, he went to lie down at the end of the of the heap of corn, and she came softly and uncovered his feet, and laid her down And it came to pass at midnight that the man was afraid. Like the word afraid there means like frightened, like startled. Not afraid as in you're going to kill me. It's just really startled. And turned himself, and behold, a woman lay at his feet. And he said, Who are you? That's my interpretation. Who art thou, or who are you? And she answered, I am Ruth, thine handmaid. Spread therefore thy skirt over thine handmaid, for thou art A near kinsman. It's interesting he's wearing a skirt here. For thou art a near kinsman. Now, all of this is a little weird, right? So we need to understand what's going on here. Obviously, the way to take this, very very candidly, the way to take this is that Ruth is going and sh this is this is essentially I am available for marriage. That's what she's saying. By going and doing this and uncovering her feet and laying down, this was a gesture, a very obvious gesture, that I am available for marriage to you, Boaz. And we see here that she came very wisely, she came softly. Boaz was obviously startled by all of this. And the point that we really want to see is in verse 10 as he responds to Ruth. He says this, verse 10. And he said, Blessed be thou of the Lord, my daughter. Notice what he says, folks. Don't miss this. For thou hast showed more kindness in the latter end than at the beginning. Inasmuch as thou followest not young men, whether poor or rich. Boaz says this. He says this is of extreme kindness. And he compares it to the kindness that he that that Ruth had expressed to to Naomi in chapter one. Do you remember when Ruth and Balboaz first had their conversation? And Naomi's, and um Ruth says to Boaz, Why are you so benevolent toward me? Why are you providing for me the way you are? And Boaz says, Well, I am aware of the commitment, the covenant commitment that you made to Naomi. I'm aware of this. Well, what Boaz then is doing here, just so we get we understand, Boaz is saying, you are extending to me an availability for a marriage covenant. That number one we need to understand there's a comparison here. There is, folks, then another comparison. He interprets this as great kindness to him, and he says to him he says to her You didn't have to do this. This was of your own choice. He says you could have gone out after younger men, which indicates that Boaz was was older. He was a bit older than Ruth And he said you could or you could have gone after money. Now we probably Boaz was was wealthy to some degree. But he identifies this to demonstrate that Ruth was not did not care about money And Ruth didn't care about youth. She wanted to do and follow after God's will for her. We know that because she says in verse 5, Nail me, I'll do what you tell me to do. She did that as a practice of her covenant commitment to Naomi that we find in chapter 1. In other words, folks, why did why did Ruth find herself here? Ruth found herself here because she had made a commitment, a faith commitment in chapter one. to make her God, Naomi's God, her God, and as an expression of that commitment that she would take care of Naomi and she would not be separated from her. There is then this in verse 10. There is this continued commitment and expression of kindness, and Boaz recognizes the connection. Boaz says you could have been distracted by other young men. You could have been distracted by wealth. You could have been distracted by other things But not only was there a decision in Chapter 1, faith commitment in Chapter 1, but there was this decision to continue staying focused on her covenant with her God and with Naomi, which brought her to this place. Now what we're going to find is that God just continues to bless Ruth through Boaz. We see great results that are going to occur here. But folks, all of that, hypothetically, Would not have occurred, at least in the same way it did here. God's sovereign, so he would have worked out what he wanted to, obviously. We won't try to overthink that. But all of that would not have occurred this the way it did here had Ruth not made that faith commitment in chapter one. She would have, she was obviously focused and undistracted in her commitment to her God and her commitment to those whom she had committed to. There's great application here for us. Now some of you young ladies are saying, okay, yeah, I see I I see this, so don't go after younger men. That's smart. And number two, that's just a side note too, by the way. Uh number two uh num number two, you know, a little a little a little a little age is not a bad thing. Uh a little wisdom Uh along the way. Young men are dumb. I'll just put it that way. Okay. So just be aware of that, young ladies. And young men, young ladies, are not that bright either. So that's all for free. I'm doing a lot of freedom free freebies a day. Okay. Ver verse ten though, what we see here in this passage. More importantly, is this connection of devotion to her God. Can I ask you a question? Can you recall the first time that you settled in your heart? that you were were totally committed to your God. Can you think about it? And very candidly, by application, if you take the space of time that you just you you know you said Lord it's all it's all about you and what You want to do whatever you want to do with me. I'm going to place myself entirely in your hands for your disposal and your use. And if you look at the time that you made that decision, God does usually move his people to make those kinds of decisions. To the time that you are reflecting now, can you say that your life has been like Ruth? That time period has been undistracted. It's been focused. You've been unwavering. You've been unselfish. You have looked for To bless others and to be kind to others and to be a conduit of kindness to others from the hand of God. You have been focused on the provision of God and your responsibility to God's providence. Can you say, as Ruth has said, this is very practical, that I have remained committed to your God There is this application for us. We're going to get into all of the implications of Boad being the kinsman redeemer in the future. We're going to see how that that pictures Christ. But let's pause for a moment and just ask ourselves the question as we reflect. on our personal responsibility. It is to live by faith, folks. But living by faith does not mean that I just that I just say I live by faith Living by faith means that my affections are different. My focus is singular. My my My course is straight for my God and what he wants to do with me and through me and frankly for me. And I'd encourage you this way. Take the example of Ruth In her fulfilling her responsibility in the light of God's providence. And And renew again your fervor to be wholly committed to God for whatever He chooses for you to do. I think of the song that says, Lord, send me anywhere. You know that song? Only go with me. Sever any tie, save the tie that binds me to thy heart. O Jesus, my King, I consecrate my life, Lord, to thee. Brothers and sisters in Christ, can you say that that is my life? I want to be holy Dedicated in service to God. That doesn't necessarily mean that you're going to be a career missionary or that you're going to go into the ministry. It may be mean that you're a plumber. But you're going to do it for God every day. As Ecclesiastes says, whatever is thy hand findeth to do, do it with all thy might. You're going to live for God every day of your life. And willingly do whatever God wants you to do. You know, there is no better life than that. And we see God's continued providence. Constantly working in Ruth's life as she remains completely committed and focused on her God. This ought to be an encouragement for us. It ought to strengthen us and challenge us. In our, the Hebrew word is hased. our kindness slash devotion slash commitment slash covenant that we see throughout this book, we ought to have that kind of attitude toward our God. So, how do we apply this? Number one, we must never think that God's sovereignty exempts us from our human responsibility. Let's keep from doing that. Number two, we must fulfill our God-given responsibilities factoring in right scripture application, right motives, divine providence, and appropriate opportunities Number three, we need to make sometimes we need to make a decision or we need to remember the decisions that we made, a decisive, complete devotion to God in every area of life life that will lead us. into God's providential will for our lives. You say, I really am not aware of the providence of God. By the way, it's there whether we realize it or not. It's there whether we're fulfilling our covenant commitment to God or not. Folks, there is a truth That we're not aware of the providence of God oftentimes, and we don't see this continual providence as bo as as Boaz uh was with Ruth, and Ruth and Naomi observed with Boaz Because we're not we're not wholly devoted in faith to our God the way that Ruth d i is. And God desires for us to be that way. Let's pray together. Father