I don't think he can help you can help getting sick. Ephesians chapter six. Ephesians chapter six. And um we're looking today at a subject that I am sure will be applicable to everyone in this room. There won't be anybody here. Well, there might be a few kids that need to look will have to look ahead to having a job, but the majority of the people in this room um are going to be very this is all going to be very applicable to us. At least in application, although uh the sit situation that we're in in this passage is going to be a bit um pecu uh peculiar to the context. And you'll see all all what I mean in a minute. Let me ask you a question as we begin here. How many of you, I just am curious, how many of you would say that this week has been A particularly stressful week at work. I'm I'm just curious how many of you would say that. You're not complaining. This is just Honesty, I've got two hands in the back. You're going okay, all right. Um good, good, good. You got got a few. I say good. That's not good, is it? Um let me just encourage you that if you didn't have a stressful week this past week, you probably will next week. See, didn't you come to church to be encouraged? Isn't this a blessing, you know? And the reason I say that is because what I have found in my own life is when I go through when we go through scripture in the in the this this past these different passages in Ephesians I feel like the Lord teaches me by experience what I'm going through what what's happening in the passage. Um the one week that I was um um preaching on a husband's responsibility to love his wife. My wife got her dishes done a lot that week. And um so anyway, the Lord works these things out and and helps us as we go through life and and uses these passages of scripture. um uh uh to to to teach us. Um you know the reality is Uh it's reported that only one tenth of American workers say that they are satisfied with their jobs. One tenth. The overwhelming majority of the of the workers say that their work is dull and meaningless. Patterson and Kim in a book called The Day America Told the Truth tell us that only one in four employees give his or her best effort on the job This then creates a situation where pre-people are pretty much working a four-day work week rather than a five-day work week if you do the mask. Studs Turkle writes a widely acclaimed book called Working. People talk about what they do all day and how they feel about what they do. And this book about, and he says this about this book. He starts the book off this way. He says, this book being about work is about its very nature, about violence. In the spirit as well as in the body. It is about ulcers as well as accidents, about shouting matches as well as fistfights. about nervous breakdowns as well as kicking the dog around. It is above all and for all and beneath all about daily humiliations. This tells us folks that people are often not very happy with their work and not very happy with in their vocations in our country. And if you are happy in your work, you are actually in the minority, according to the statistics, rather than the majority. And you are very blessed to the Lord to be able to have a job that you feel fulfilled in. But I have heard from many people, including and many people in our church, who have been transparent enough with me and with others to say, you know, I really struggle in the job that I am in. Um sometimes they feel that their work is uh the things that I hear occasionally is sometimes they feel like they are they are being asked to do t two persons work for one person's pay. Or they feel very unmotivated to to work for their employer and to make him to prosper when he is not exactly the nicest man in the world. Or you'll hear comments like there is just so much bureaucracy. We live pretty close to the bureaucratic capital of the world. um or at least the country. And and so there's so much brute bureaucracy in their job because they're quasi quasi governmental that it's just hard to operate in those kinds of circumstances. There's all kinds of things that that I hear and that others have expressed. And I think, frankly, it's many of these things are a reality when it comes to the workplace and working. Paul addresses the believer's vocation in this passage. We have seen already that he has addressed the church. And the believer's relationship to the m his marriage, if they have a marriage, and then with the family with children and fathers and children, we see we saw that. Now he moves into another context, but it's very interesting. It's really amazing that the New Testament is written during a time where it's really. Presents the worst case scenarios when it comes to a believer's vocation. Because, as you see in this passage, we are talking here about a different kind of vocation. Look at chapter 6, verse 5. You see that first word. What is that first word? It is the word servants. And that is a bit of a misnomer because what we're really talking here is about slavery. He is talking now to slaves. It could easily be translated here, slaves, be obedient to them that are your masters. Now, before you say, well, I'm not a slave, so this doesn't apply, do you ever feel as though you are enslaved at your work? And just by the laughter, I I think that you can identify with that. You feel I know that fee people sometimes feel trapped at work. They feel like there's no way out of this of this situation that they are in, they feel discouraged and they feel like they're not moving anywhere. Work can be just really work Well, Paul is going to talk to people who are slaves. And the benefit of this is that he takes the lowest, you know, the worst case scenario and teaches them how they're to be able to operate in their situation. And so, folks, for our application, we all will be able to follow these and know we'll be able to follow them because of the of the situation that they find themselves in in this passage. Now, when we're thinking about this concept of slavery, it's important for us to understand what this is. And before we get up on that slide, go ahead and wait, wait, wait for just a minute. I want to first to talk about what it is not. Slavery was not the same as we think of as American slavery prior to the Civil War. There is there are some differences, one of which is that race and color of skin is not a factor in in the slavery in the first century, in the Roman slavery. That wasn't a factor in the first century. There were all kinds of different different different ethnic groups that were enslaved. And this is primarily because the Roman Empire was assimilating all kinds of different groups and conquering all kinds of different peoples. And as a result, you have a large amount of slaves from those different kinds of ethnic groups. So what you don't have is one particular race that is singled out to be enslaved. So that's a very different situation than what we found found ourselves in. uh prior to the Civil War. Free persons would sometimes actually sell themselves into slavery in the first century. That is very foreign to us, but the reason they would do that was that after excuse me, after a time, they would actually gain their freedom and be automatically deemed as Romans, or not automatically, but they would they would have to go through a process But they would be deemed as Roman citizens. So they would go into slavery in order to, a few you know, years later, come out as a free person and be a Roman citizen. And do you know why they wanted to be a Roman citizen? Because Roman citizens didn't pay taxes. Now you all can identify with that, can't you? Okay. If you live in Maryland, you know what it's like to pay taxes Uh now I don't think any of us here would want to put ourselves in slavery over it, but there would be people that would do that. So that would be very different. And then the other thing that would be different is there was usually a time limit to slavery. Not always, but there was usually a times limit. But the folks, the reality is that there were about 50% of the Roman Empire were enslaved. Roughly 50% Were slaves. In fact, there were so many slaves that they really just assimilated into the society, and you could not tell the difference between a free person and a slave, an enslaved person. It was interesting, I was doing a little reading on this, and it and in fact the the uh the empire and the leadership of the empire began to think that they ought to caused the slaves to wear certain kinds of clothes that would o would identify them as slaves. And they decided not to do this. Because they were afraid that if everybody knew how many slaves there were, they would all revolt against slavery, and so they chose not to identify them. This is the kind of situation that they were in. And you might be asking then, well, what was a slave? I mean, what limitations did they have? Well, there were four limitations. What was a slave? Number one, a slave could not represent himself legally. He had no legal status until he was freed. Number two, a slave resisted, he could not resist seizure from property. In other words, he really had no right to personal property. Number three, he couldn't choose his own vocation. It's not like he graduated from college and decided what vocation he wanted to go into. It was chosen for him. And number four, He could not live any place he wanted. He had to live specifically where his master told him to live. Now there are reports in the first century of bru of brutality and great misuse of slavery, uh just like there was in our country years ago. But as a whole that wasn't always the case. But these five these four things were always the case when it came to the kind of slavery that was found in the Roman Empire in the first century. Florentinus in the mid-first century said this. It was an institution whereby someone, contrary to nature, is subject to the ownership of another. And of course I've mentioned already that nearly half of the people were slaves. And it is estimated that they only, their remuneration was only half of a free person. So they were they were paid half of what they were really due as as slaves as a whole as they accumulated their own wealth. Now folks, all of this would demonstrate to us, just all these facts would demonstrate that slavery was a very difficult thing. It was not easy. It was hard. And as we get into this passage, we are going to find what Scripture says. about slavery, and we're going to be able to make some very clear applications for us when it comes to our own jobs, our own vocation, and how God wants us to treat those vocations. Let's go to the Lord in prayer first. Father, we come to you today and we look and we desire to look at your word, and these things that we are getting into are of extreme practical value to us and will really help us to live lives that honor you. I pray, Lord, as we get into this text. That you would cause us to realize that we are a very blessed people. And even those of us who are in the worst of situations in our vocations Can please you in them and honor you and glorify you through them And we admit before you sometimes we make an unnecessary separation between vocation and service to you I pray, Lord, that you would help us to see that as we work out our vocations, we also can be serving you in the same roles. Father, we pray that you just bless us and give us clear understanding of your word today. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. I want you to begin by just wanting you to think with me about slavery in the Old Testament for a few moments. This is not something that was uncommon to Scripture, even in the Old Testament. In fact, we find specific passages in the book of Exodus, and I think in Deuteronomy as well, regulations about slaves to the nation of Israel. But if you just kind of kind of kind of think through the Old Testament characters, you're going to actually come up with several people that were slaves. Hagar was a slave. But more prominently, Joseph. You remember Joseph? Joseph was sold by his brothers into slavery. And then we find that the entire nation of Israel is enslaved to Egypt. Moses and Caleb and Joshua were all born into slavery. And there were others. You go you they get out of slavery and it's not long well, you got several you know, several centuries, but eventually they get into uh you think of Daniel as a slave, and Nehemiah as a slave, Ezra and Ezekiel during the Babylonian captivity. All of these folks are slaves The Old Testament is not as though this concept of slavery is foreign. In fact, many of our many of the our most Many of the leaders in the Old Testament that did the most good for God and were really the most exemplary in their in their pleasing of the Lord were slaves I mean if you think of Joseph and Daniel, those always stand as some of the most um exemplary characters in the Old Testament. I mean you you go through the rest of the Old Testament and you see a lot of failures You see failures in leadership and you see failures in morality, but we come to people like Joseph and Daniel, what we find is exemplary service, don't we? And yet these men were enslaved. Now, I say all that to say this: that the Bible treats this concept of slavery much differently than what we might expect living in the 21st century in this country We are used to freedom. We value freedom. And we value a free enterprise system. Our way of life is that if we are not free, something is wrong. Our approach to slavery is somewhat incongruous with what God's Word says about it, because the Bible does not restrict the concept, not at least explicitly. In other words, folks, it doesn't say anywhere in the Bible that slavery is wrong, not explicitly. But it does not certainly condone slavery either. In fact, if you look at 1 Corinthians chapter 7, in fact I'd like you to turn to that passage. Will you turn to 1 Corinthians 7, verse 21? It's kind of amazing how many passages in the New Testament discuss this issue of slavery. We won't turn to most of them, but we will turn to this passage. And in this passage in 2nd 1 Corinthians chapter 7, verse 21, it says, uh Paul is giving instruction to slaves. He says, Art thou called Being a slave. I'm using the term and from now on out I will use the term slave because servant does not give the right kind of connotation here Art thou called being a slave. Care not for it. But if thou mayest be free, use it. In other words, if you can be free, be free. For he that is called to the Lord, being a servant, is the Lord's free man. Likewise also he that is being called free is Christ's slave. Ye are bought with a price, be not ye the slaves of men. Paul says in this passage, he says, if you can be free as a slave, then you ought to be free. But don't be particularly worried if you are enslaved. Don't think to yourself that you are less, and he reminds them that you are, if you are a Christian, you are God. You are Christ's slave. There's another passage in First Timothy. I won't take the time to turn I won't have you turn there, but it's in First Timothy chapter six. And in that passage, the Apostle Paul tells people that you need to be, if you're a slave, you need to follow your masters and do good to your masters, and you need to love your masters. He says that if anybody teaches against this concept, let them be accursed. And later on in the passage it says, for godliness with contentment is great gain. His exhortation to the people that were enslaved in his day was, you need to learn contentment. Folks, contentment in our day is a rare commodity, isn't it? It is a character, it is not something that we find very often in our world It is because we often think that we've got to arrange our own circumstances in order to be content. That if we will control our lives, it will produce happiness and contentment. But what we find in God's word is that contentment and happiness is not pursuable That is something that is very different than our thinking in our culture, in our country. We have these kinds of phrases that say that we ought to pursue happiness In the very founding documents of this country we have this, but what we find in Scripture is that as we follow God, happiness and contentment are a byproduct. That's why Scripture says godliness with contentment is great gain. Now, with all of that in mind, Take your Bibles and turn back to the passage, and now we're really ready to understand what he is about to say here in chapter 6, verse 1, verse 5, where he says, slaves, and he gives a command to them. He says, slaves, be obedient to them that are your masters according to the flesh. His admonition to these folks was that they need to be obedient to their masters. We find the same admonition, essentially, the same kind of admonition to children of their parents and to wives as their to their husbands. We have this concept of obedience and submission that actually goes all the way back to Ephesians chapter 5, verse 18. Would you notice what it says in Ephesians 5, 18? It says, And be not drunk with wine wherein is excess, but be what? but be filled with the Spirit. Would you notice in verse 21 of that same chapter, it gives us, and this is almost universally understood, That in verse 21 we have a result of being filled with the Spirit. If you really want to know whether or not you are under the influence of the Spirit of God in your life, there is something that you've got to do in verse 21. It says, submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of God. Now let me just pause and ask us the question. Is submission natural? None of us submit naturally. None of us obey naturally. If you are parents, you know that your kids do not obey naturally. Let me ask you another question. Do we find an attitude of submission in our culture as a whole? In other words, when we think of the world and its attitude, do we think of a world that is submissive? One of the most vivid realities of the fact that our world is not submissive is what happened last night in Baltimore with the riots in Baltimore I mean, it's an example of people who who think they can justify themselves in violence. in what they did last night in the middle of Baltimore City. No, no. We the world is not submissive. And folks, it's not natural for us to be submissive. Submission requires two things. Submission requires disagreement. Did you know that? If you are in agreement, it's not submission, it's just agreement. And if you are um And the other thing is that it requires a lack of natural desire. These slaves did not want to be necessarily in the vocation that they were in. They were not always wanting to be in the situation that they were in, but God says to them that you are going to have to submit. And folks, isn't it true that the only way we are ever going to be able to submit is if we are dependent upon God's Spirit for it? That's a reality. We must be dependent upon God's Spirit. We will never naturally submit. Now, at this juncture, you're probably wondering, with all this said, you're probably wondering a couple of things. Perhaps you're thinking to yourself, why in the world does Scripture not condemn this concept of slavery? Well, Paul does, he's later on going to, in the passage, imply that slavery is not God's ideal. Because he tells masters of slaves that Paul says God shows no partiality. In God's eyes, all men are created equal in their quality, in their essence. And so he implies that God's ideal is not slavery. But he also doesn't condemn it. And there's another reason for that. As a rule, the Bible does not teach, it's not written to conform society to its ideals. In other words, folks, the Bible is not written to change culture or to change society from the outside in. God's way is to change people from the inside out. And God is able to use all kinds of cultural imperfections. To work out his will in the life of the believer, so that they from the inside out will be Christ-like. And one day he will conform society, won't he? He will establish his kingdom on earth. He will set all things right. But for now, what God desires to do in the li in his working in the world is to work through internal change. by means of the gospel. And so that's why you see in Scripture, you don't see they're trying God trying to change culture. He only wants to establish what is right as far as internal righteousness is concerned And so we have to remember that. That doesn't mean, folks, that we uh we separate from culture, that we're not citizens of this country, and we don't involve ourselves in the affairs of this country and That's not at all what it's saying. But as a believer, our primary concern has to do with our conformity to who Christ is and God's desire for us in that way. D. Martin Lloyd-Jones said this with this in mind. He said, the church must not spend her time and energy in dealing with conditions as such in this world. This is not her primary task. And it is interesting to notice that she did not regard that as her task in the early centuries. There is no protest even against slavery in the New Testament. I repeat that the business of the church is not with conditions as such, but rather with the way in which Christian is to work in existing conditions. And with the way in which he is to conduct and to comport himself, this is something of which we must never lose sight. God's desire is not for all not for us to always change our conditions, although if we can, there's no problem doing that. That's why he says the slave, if you can be free, be free. But folks, our primary goal is to learn to work within the conditions with which God has placed us and to do it with Christ-likeness. Now, how do we do that if in our in our vocation, or how was the slave to do that in his vocation in the first century? Well, we find in our passage it says that we are to do it with fear and trembling. What Paul is doing here when he says fear and trembling is he's using a play on words. He's using this because The primary motivation of a master toward his slave in getting him to do what he wanted to do was fear. It wasn't reward. It was fear And we find this later on the passage where the master is exhorted, a Christian master is exhorted not to threaten your slaves. It's a good principle there. If you are a supervisor, a boss of somebody, don't threaten them. That is not God's way. But we find in this passage here when it talks about this. That he is saying here, in fear and trembling, he's actually referring to God. He's sort of using a play on words here. He says here, in singleness of your heart, as unto who? As unto Christ. He is implying then that if you are fearing your employer, If a slave is fearing his master, that the antidote to that is that you ought to fear God, because that is whom you are really serving. The Bible tells us the fear of man is a reproach and a snare. It tells us in the New Testament, in 1 John, that fear bringeth torment. But the Bible tells us that the fear of God is the beginning of wisdom. And what Paul is telling these group of people that are slaves, maybe as much as 50% of the church, are probably enslaved. He is telling them that you need to fear God. Don't fear your master. Fear God. Get focused on God. He also says here, in singleness of your heart. Now can you just imagine for a minute being enslaved, not having your own vocation that you have chosen, not having your own location that you have chosen Not having your own property that you have chosen. You don't have any of those rights as a slave. And he says you need to have a singleness of heart. Now that would be a very unnatural thing as well, wouldn't it? Can you imagine the kind of animosity and bitterness And resentment that would well up and continue in a person who is being enslaved. The temptation to resist, the temptation to, if you even if you can't physically fight back, to fight back in your attitude and in your mind. to constantly be torn up inside, which brings stress and brings uncomfortable an uncomfortable state for these people. He says that the remedy to all this is, he says, you've got to have a singleness of your heart. Christ said something similar in the Sermon on the Mount when he said this. He said, No man can serve two masters. For either he will love the one and hate the other, or he will cling to the one and despise the other. He says, You can't serve God and mammon. Many of the reality is that in our first center our you know our our our current 21st century free enterprise system we are very tempted to be motivated by money And to be motivated by remuneration. But I just want to really, and this is going to be a challenge challenge to our thinking. What should if let's just, you know, it's not as though this is normal for Christians throughout history. Sometimes we think of, you know, the last 200 years in our country as being the norm for Christians This is really abnormal if you look at the at 2,000 years of Christendom from the time of Christ until now. We are living in an unusual unusual time in the history of our of our modern civilization. Now, let's just think about this. Let's suppose you're a Christian in communism. Or you're a Christian in Nazi Germany. Or you're a Christian in some in during a monarchy or a or a strong-handed rule by someone or a country or a sovereign nation. Folks, what kind of service does God want us to have in any of those situations? He wants our service to be exemplary. He wants us by the way we serve in our vocation to serve as unto God This is a concept that is very misunderstood in our 21st century Christianity. We make the mistake of making a distinction between our vocation and serving God. And God says in His economy that they are one and the same, that your vocation is your service. This would of course apply to a stay-at-home mom or a homeschooling mom. All of this, all of your vocation, that is what you do. is for service to God. Whether you are a plumber or a preacher, all of it is for service to God. You know how, you know the common misunderstandings of all this that we see Are we happier if our teenager comes to us and says to us, God has called me to be a missionary or a pastor? Does that make us more excited than if they come to us and say, God has called me to be a plumber? That's a test. Because if God has called you to be a plumber, you ought not stoop to be a preacher. That's true. If God's called you to be a preacher, don't be a plumber. But if God's called you to be a plumber, then you can serve God and glorify Him by being a plumber or a carpenter or a mechanic. Or an accountant, whatever it is that you are doing, if you are doing it, you are called by God to do it, you can do it for God. And you ought to. That's what Paul is saying here. He is saying with singularness of heart that you ought to serve God In this way. And we see a continuance of this in verse 6 where he says, You ought not be serving with eye service. Do you see that? Not with eye service, as men pleasers. You ever been on the job site? And um and you notice that when the boss comes around, everybody gets busy? I I I think every job I've ever been in I've noticed stress. You look around and you're like doing your thing and you're looking around and everybody nobody's helping and suddenly everybody gets busy and you look around and wonder why they're getting busy and oh yeah the boss is there. Okay that's why they're getting busy. That is an ice, you know, for a Christian, it ought not be whether it ought not be a difference whether the boss is there or not. That's the reality. There ought to be no difference in how we are working. Whether the boss is here there or not. Because, folks, God is calling us to not be men pleasers. To not work for the pleasure of man. Why? Because whose pleasure are we working for? God's. You say, do you mean to tell me that when I get up at you know 5 30 in the morning and I commute to work and I get to work That I am in service to God? Yes. That's exactly what I'm saying. And that's exactly what God is saying in this passage. He says, not with eye service as men's pleasers, but as the servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart. I want us to really understand what he's saying here. He is telling the slave that is beaten up inside. He is tempted to resent his job. He is tempted to think less of himself because of the vocation that he has. He is tempted to really be torn up inside over the job that he has. And God says that the remedy is that you stop doing it for yourself and you stop doing it for your employer and you start doing it for God. I think probably the greatest example of this is Joseph in the Old Testament. I mean, just think about Joseph. Joseph was forced into slavery by his brothers. Joseph then goes and he works for a man named Potiphar. And he is so diligent at what he is doing. Potiphar makes him the manager of everything in his estate, everything that he owns. He says he gives it all to Joseph. I would have to suppose that the reason that Joseph was able to do this in the circumstances that he was in, I would have to suppose that Joseph realized by God's, you know, God's working in his life that he was doing this for God. And then we know that Joseph is Is tempted by Potiphar's wife. Potiphar is away. Joseph's wife finds Potiphar's wife finds Joseph to be attractive. And Joseph flees the scene. I'd like to ask you a question about that. If Joseph had not been diligent in his work, if he had not done what he had done as unto the Lord, And if he instead would have had resentment and bitterness and all those things welling up in him. Do you suppose then when he was tempted with Power Far's wife he would have been able to resist? I tend to think he would not have been able to. Or then he would have wouldn't have wanted to He probably would have thought that he deserved it, or that he would be able to get back finally at this master who has been enslaving him. But Joseph didn't have that kind of attitude. And in fact, we know he is so focused on God in that situation in Genesis 39 that he says, he says. How can I do this great sin against who? It's not against himself It's not against Potiphar even, or Potiphar's wife. He says, how can I send this great sin against God? That's how focused Joseph is on God. Joseph then is thrown into jail after that. I mean, if you think of Joseph's life, then finally, folks, finally, he is finally rewarded, isn't he? He rises to second after many years, after uh it's estimated 14 to 20 years, somewhere around there, after that amount of time, he is he ri rises to be second in charge of all of the Egyptian nation. Now, what does God say? How does it all apply to us? It applies, it applies very practically. Because what God is going to then say in this passage is this. Would you look at verse 7? First of all, let's just remind ourselves, verse 6. It says that we are slaves to who? To Christ. You know you don't you never have to be as even if you're a slave, you don't have to be a slave to any individual if you look at Christ as your master. In fact, what we find in Romans chapter 12, verses 1 and 2, is that we need to put ourselves on the sacrifice, on the altar, Romans 1, 12, 1. And offer ourselves and present ourselves as a living sacrifice to God. And when we do that, then we will not be conformed to the world, and then we will prove what is that what? Good Acceptable and perfect will of God. God is telling us in that passage that in order to do the will of God, you've got to realize your own bond slavery to Christ. In fact, we find in other places that Paul calls himself a bond slave of Christ. He does not see himself as one who has his own will. He sees himself as one who lives to do the will of his master. That is the kind of picture that we see of a Christian. Because Christ, it says you're bought with a price. Christ owns us. And so as a bond slave, we have no rights. You say, I don't like this. This does not go well with my 21st century Western mentality. I mean, we do have rights, don't we? You've been bought by Christ. Now, let me assure you that we have the fairest, most benevolent master that we could ever have. Isn't that true? When you think of who Christ is and how much he loves you, And how benevolent he is, and how fair he is, and how equitable he is. We can follow Christ wholeheartedly because we have such a good master. But we do need to understand that it's not about our rights. It's about following the will of God from the, the word there is soul, suke. He says that you need to follow God with your very being, with your very soul, that you are all in it for the service of God. This is what he's telling these people that are enslaved. And if he says, if you will do this with a single singularity of heart, then you will be able to obey your master. And you the only way you'll do any of this is if you are spirit-filled. And you are depending upon God for this. But isn't it wonderful that as we think through this God has given us a means to which we can focus our attention in to make sure that we are serving God. And there's a motivation here that I don't want us to miss. And we find that motivation in, well, in verse 7, we see with good will doing service as unto the Lord. So we need to have goodwill toward our employers. We want to actually make them successful. As hard as it might be, as shifty as that may but they might be, or as unkind as they might be, we still need to make our choose to make our service our our master successful It says, with good will, doing service as of the Lord, and not to men, knowing, verse 8, that whatsoever good thing any man doeth, the same shall he receive of the Lord. Whether bond or what? Or free. Do you know what God is saying in this passage? He is telling us that if for some reason we are not in this life rewarded for our good service in our vocation that God is going to make up the difference in the next life. Aren't you thrilled about that? You never, as long as you the Bible says if you have food and raiment therewith to be content, you never have to worry about whether or not you are compensated correctly As an employer, if you're serving God with all of your heart. Because God's going to make up a difference. That gives us great freedom, doesn't it? It causes us to realize that what we are living for is not this life, but we are living for the next life. And folks, that is the ultimate goal. That's why it says in Colossians that we need to set our affections on things above and not on the things of this earth. With all of this in mind, D. Martin Lloyd Jones, in his explanation of all of this, says this. He says life in this world is always regarded in the Bible as being secondary in importance. It is just a pilgrimage, a journey. What are we? We are strangers and pilgrims. Men of the Bible rode very loosely to life in this world They did not want to settle down in this world. They knew that they were meant for another. It is the other realm that matters. It is the other eternal realm that counts. This teaching is found everywhere in the New Testament. Our Lord's teaching abounds in this. And you find in it the epistles, as, for example, in the words, set your affections and things above It is the great theme of the book of Revelation also. It is very important for us to remember this because it is the principle that controls the Bible's teaching about slavery and all these other matters The guiding principle is that man's relationship to God and the view that this present life is something passing, temporary, we do not put This life first. We do not think about this world alone. This world is only considered and understood in the light of another world. We are a colony of heaven. Our citizenship is in heaven. That is where we belong. God says that what we if we're going to live the way he wants to live, wants us to live, we are going to serve God with every part of our life. with a sincerity and a singularness of heart, doing everything we do as unto him. And knowing that our rewards, our ultimate rewards, are in heaven on this earth. Have you ever heard somebody be like super pious? And say, well, you know what? Even if the rewards weren't up there, I'd still love Jesus and want to serve him. Would you, you know, I feel like saying to people like that, you know, would you not be more spiritual than the Bible? Because the Bible offers us rewards. And we are going to have rewards in heaven. But if we do things on earth, and one of the best places to look at all this is in the Sermon on the Mount, where Paul, or where Christ says, in his greatest sermon, he says, Blessed are the pure in heart. For they shall see God. That's a reward. Blessed are those who are meek, for they will inherit the earth. He then talks about in chapter 6 he says about uh and probably referring to the Pharisees and other folks, he says, if you do things As uh in the sight of men, if you fast in the sight of men and you pray in the sight of men, if you do things in the sight of men, you have your reward. And really the key to all of this, of what God is saying in this passage, is that if we were to think the way Christ thinks, and think the way God thinks about our lives, then we have got to be living our lives not for this life, but for the next life. He says, knowing that whatsoever good thing any man doeth, the same shall he receive of the Lord, whether he be bond or free. Verse 9 then he explains to the masters what they need to be doing. He says, And ye masters, do the same things unto them, for forbearing threatening. He says to them, he says to the masters, now he turns the turn table and he says, Masters, don't threaten your slaves. And there is a very important there is a very important um admonition for us. If you are a superior over somebody, if you're in a job or you're managing over somebody, there's a very clear admonition for you in this passage. Don't threaten your workers. Don't motivate them through threatening. It is a temptation, doesn't it? There is probably at times when you have laziness or you have just ignorance or things like that. It's tempting, probably, I would imagine, to threaten them with something. God says, do not motivate them. If you are a boss, do not motivate your employers through fear. He admonishes us not to make sure that we are not doing that He says, and ye masters, do the same things unto them for bearing threatening, knowing that your master also is in heaven. He says, hey I'm just told, basically he's saying to the slave, hey, slave, Christ is your master. Master, Christ is your master. And then he says, Neither is there any respect of persons with him. Isn't it wonderful to know that no matter what job you've got, no matter what vocation you're in, Whether you are a doctor or a lawyer or uh or someone on a on a you feel maybe perhaps is on a lower end of things, folks, in God's mind, he has no respect of persons. And I am fully convinced, after reading this passage and studying it and studying other passages like it, I am fully convinced that the person who does the job well that's the quote-unquote blue-collar guy on the bottom rung Can very easily have more rewards than the guy that perhaps has a great status in this side of heaven. If he will just simply do his job faithfully and do it as unto the Lord. Let me just be just end by asking you this couple of coup couple of questions here. How do you view your life? I think that really is, as we apply all of this, that really is the n where we have to narrow everything down. Scripture says, what is your life? It's a vapor. Christ says, he that will give up his life for my sake will find it. But the best life you can have is one that you give over to Christ. Maybe you're listening today and you're saying to yourself, you know, I I understand that, you know, I've I've understood the gospel to some extent. But I have not understood that what a child of God really is, is he is a follower of Christ and he gives his life over to Christ. And if you're questioning whether or not you know the Lord in that respect, I really would encourage you, come and talk with me or talk with somebody else you're comfortable with. It is not as though, folks, we have perfection in the side of heaven. That's not the issue here. But if you know Christ, you want to follow him. If you know Christ, you want to please Him. If you know Christ, there is a desire with which we want to give our lives to Christ. And the way that we give our lives to Christ is by faith, isn't it? Knowing that the best life we can live is a life that we are living for Christ, as He is our Master. Whether you know the Lord or whether you don't, thinking about what life is all about is absolutely essential to living a life that is of any worth at all. Living a life with purpose. And the purpose that God intended us to live it is to live it for Him. It is the best life that we can live Maybe you've thought to yourself, all of us have been in times in our lives where we have struggled with our vocation. I remember when I was working at Chick-fil-A and And um I've told stories about Chick-fil-A before and probably will for a long time. It was very memorable. Uh and I I mean Chick-fil-A's a good company, uh it's nothing against the company at all, but I really didn't like the job. I seemed to be very convinced that God wanted me to be there, and in fact the Lord kept me there for three years as a shift manager. It was far longer than I thought that I was going to be there But God kept me in these positions. And I remember going to work, ready to clock in at 2 o'clock in the afternoon, already tired And knowing that I was going to have to be there to close. And I remember those nights, night after night, and I remember thinking to myself as I'm driving to work saying, Lord, how long? How long am I going to have to do this? How long am I going to have to work this job? It was not something I felt at all fulfilled in. It was something that was really a drudgery to me. And I don't remember the circumstances exactly, but I do remember that there was a switch in my thinking at some point. Where God said, where I just knew that whatever, whatever God wants- I knew that I just needed to be where God wanted me to be, and He was going to leave me somewhere else when He wanted me to go somewhere else. But for now, I needed to be content. And I remember thinking to myself, I don't know how long I'm going to have to do this for, but I need to do this as unto the Lord. I need to take every customer and treat them in a way that I'm doing as under the Lord. I need to go back into the kitchen. and work with the kitchen when they're when it's time to do that. If I need to bread uh chicken, that's what I need to do, and I need to do it as unto the Lord. If I need to take the trash out, that's what I need to do, I need to do it as unto the Lord. I just really something happened in my thinking that I that caused me to realize that I really needed to just do what I was going to do as under the Lord. And do you realize, I'll just tell you this by personal testimony that my attitude changed. And although I had a hard time liking it, I got to the place where I became very content Where I didn't have any stress in my spirit anymore. I didn't have any resentment in my heart. I I I didn't have those things anymore. I felt as though I was underpaid and overworked and all those kinds of things. But folks there there came a time where I said, You know what, Lord, I I've got food and I've got clothing, I've got what I need. God has given me a place a roof over my head. My family is being provided for It's not really what I would want, but I'm going to be content doing what you want me to do until you move me on. And there was an attitude change in my heart. And I began to try to live every single day doing Chick-fil-A work for God. I say all of this. To demonstrate to you that I'm not talking about something I don't know anything about. Some of you have worked years though, not three years 15 years or 20 years or 30 years in the same job, some of you um I wouldn't know what you're going through and wouldn't pretend to But I do know what the Bible says here. The Bible says that whatever state you find yourself in, the Bible says you've got to learn to be content. And that the decisions that we make for the sake of the will of God in our lives have got to be on the basis of contentment rather than discontentment. In other words, folks, we have got to choose to do what we do because we know God wants us to do it, not because we are discontent with the circumstances that we are in. And when we do that, then we will make far better godly decisions. To the place where eventually God led me to this church and And made it all possible by His providence and His sovereignty for me to come here and to do what He is doing in our midst. And I and on days On days where I I s have a little stress in my life over the ministry, and I mean this is a perfect ministry, so I never have any stress. Um, you know, uh everybody is perfect in our in our sur in our church, so I don't I really have no problems at all. But um uh on ca on occasion I will I will struggle with something and I always go back and say, boy, it's still a whole lot better than Chick-fil-A. All right, let's pray together. Father, we recognize that in our hearts It's so easy for us to follow the ways of the flesh. It's so easy for us to want what we want. It's so easy for us not to conform our wills to the will of Christ. And yet Christ has given us the perfect example. He is the one who conformed his will completely to you, and he condescended to humble himself to a low estate so that he could live a life that pleases you. And live a life where he dies for us. And rose from the grave victorious over sin and death. We admit before you, Lord, that this is a process for us. This is a a tall order for us to view ourselves as just being owned by Christ And it requires of us a large portion of faith. But we thank you that we have a master who is incredibly benevolent. A master who loves us and when he can give us good things he does. A master who is completely fair and equitable. And we thank you for that. We pray, Lord, that you would help us to present our bodies a living sacrifice. Because it is our reasonable service to do so. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.