And we'll be looking this morning at verses thirty-seven through forty-eight from the book of Acts. What is the difference? Begin with a question. What is the difference between an idea and a plan? Well, an idea is a simple underdeveloped thought, and a plan it considers the execution of a process that ends in a particular goal that's trying to be achieved. Now, have you ever heard of a plan that was suggested and you thought to my yourself, that just isn't going to work. I don't see it. It's just not gonna work. How many of you ever heard a plane like that before? I mean everybody at one point or another, it's just not gonna work. Um And and let's suppose one day um you you you decide uh actually there's a let's say let's put it in first person, I decided to I wanted to Develop a particular product. My grandmother makes this pie called Mystery Pie. And it's always been one of my favorite pies that she makes She made it this past uh Monday night and uh if you want to know what it is uh you'll have to ask me later and I c what what's in it. But it's it's it's really quite good and everyone once in a while she knows I like it and every once in a while she'll make it And um nobody Google it right now. You might be able to, I don't know. I haven't I haven't tried to Google what's in it, but anyway. And uh and let's suppose I decided I wanted to market this mystery pie So I wanted to I wanted to develop a process to mass produce it. And I came to you and I said you're an investor and I came to you and I said, Hey, um would you try this pie? And you try the pie and you say, Yeah, this is the best this is a great pie. I mean it's definitely something you could sell. And uh and I said, Hey, could you invest? And you sort of go, Okay. So so invest in what? I said, well invest in the produ in in producing this pie But I it's the only thing I show you, I just have you taste the pie. I don't show you anything about a process. I don't s I don't talk about w how we have a we have uh A factory that's already set up to make the different aspects of this. I haven't I I haven't done any of that. I just give you the pie. How unlikely are you going to invest in this pie, even though you might like to buy That's not very likely. But if I take you to a plant where this is already being processed and you can see the whole thing and we actually have We actually were actually profitable in making this pie and people are buying the pie. And what I ask you for is an investment uh and you're an investor and I ask you for an investment so that we can get to a certain level so that we can make we can make more of this pie. And you like the pie and you see how how this is really going to work to bring you almost an immediate immediate return on your investment, how m then how likely would it be that you would actually want to invest in that buy? It's far more likely, right, if you actually understand the process uh that's being that's taken place, where we have been, where we're going, and all of that, then you can sort of buy into the plan to buy uh to mass produce this mystery pie. Now that's a very trivial trivial illustration to explain what Peter is doing in his in his preaching of the gospel He is talking about how the process of where the gospel has been so far, starting with Christ. And what has happened in Christ's earthly ministry and the propagation of the gospel then, and he's going to continue this process of where the gospel has been to include Cornelius and the Gentiles as where the gospel is going, eventually to all the ends of the world. A couple of things to notice about this passage that will help us to understand what Peter is really driving at in this section of his sermon that he is preaching. to a very significant group of people. This is the first group of Gentiles as that's at least stated in Scripture. This first group of Gentiles to receive the gospel as a group And uh and it's going to it's a very a very significant uh significant passage here uh to and how it works out will set the trajectory for many, many, many Other Gentiles receiving the gospel as well. You'll notice in verse 36 of chapter ten here You see this, it says verse 36. It says, at Joppa where there were a certain disciple named, I'm sorry, not not 36. Chapter 10, and look at look at verse 44. Chapter 10 verse 44. You'll see while Peter was still speaking these words, it says, the Holy Spirit fell upon them. And then look at verse 45. And those of the circumcision who believed were astonished, as many as came with Peter, because the gift of the Holy Spirit. You see the Holy Spirit there mentioned again. And then you find in verse 47, can anyone forbid water that these should not be baptized who have received the Holy Spirit? And you see in this passage, you have the emphasis of the Spirit of God working throughout the passage as it works with the gospel. to do what God has intended it to do. And so we're going to see how the Spirit of God works to execute God's impartial plan of giving the gospel to the Gentiles. Before we do this, let's go to the Lord in prayer. Ask His help with us. Father, as we look at your word this morning, I pray that you would help us to see the outworking of your plan, the execution of your gospel plan. And the lives of these Gentiles, the Cornelius and the people that were with them, and how you worked, you gave, you developed uh the thinking of Peter and brought other Jewish people to witness the the the the conversion of these Gentiles to Christ and All of this, how this propels your plan to move the gospel forward. And Lord, how you desire for us to emulate certain lessons as we look at this, I pray that you would help us to rightly divide your word And to see the sovereign providential plan in this text that can help us to see how you want to work in our lives as well. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. So Peter has begun his message in verse 34 by explaining that God is an impartial God. He is a God that is no respecter of persons. He wants people to realize that. He also wants people to realize in verse 36 that Jesus is characterized by peace. He is the savior of peace. And he is also Lord of all, as we looked at last week. And I want to just mention this as we give the gospel and understand the gospel. The two major aspects of the gospel are the person of Christ and the work of Christ. And there are some people that emphasize the work of Christ, that he died on the cross for us. And there are some people that emphasize the person of person of Christ, but if you're going to get a complete gospel message, you must understand both the person of Christ That He is God, that He is the Savior, that He is Lord, and also the work of Christ. And today we're going to look more at the fact that Jesus Christ, what He did in living a perfect life, in actually preaching the gospel to people while he was alive, dying for our sin and rising from the grave And we'll pick up here then in verse 37, and we're going to see then in chapter 10 of verse 37. Uh the we'll dip in here to the middle of Peter's message. Verse 37 says, the word which you know, which was proclaimed throughout all Judea, and began from Galilee after the baptism When John preached. That word, word, there is the word that it indicates a spoken word. So it's talking here about the word that was proclaimed And the proclamation of that word was Jesus began to proclaim the word first. And then that word was proclaimed through the apostles as well after Jesus rose from the grave. and then ascended to the Father. The apostles proclaimed this word. And the indication here is that Cornelius And the Gentiles must have been aware of this gospel being preached both by Christ and then by the apostles. They may not have heard the word themselves yet. And they may not have, they certainly didn't receive the word yet, but they must have heard that this kind of gospel preaching was going on, starting with Jesus and then with the apostles. And now Peter, what he's going to do is he's going to explain uh what this is all about, the things that they have heard. In more detail, he's going to explain what this is all about. And he begins by Christ's baptism. He begins by citing the fact That John the Baptist was b uh uh uh baptized people. Verse 37 there, but then it says after the bapt the baptism which John preached And in the passage, it's really indicating the fact that Jesus as well was baptized by John as well to start or to inaugurate Christ's earthly ministry. And you recall from Luke chapter 3, it says this, when all the people were baptized, it came to pass that Jesus was also baptized, and while he prayed, the heaven was opened. You remember when Jesus was baptized? And the Holy Spirit descended in bodily form like a dove upon him. And the voice came from heaven, which said, You are my beloved son, and you I am well pleased. And so the word being proclaimed began with the baptism of John and the baptism of Christ. And it was propelled from there. That's going to become important later, this whole idea of baptism beginning something. You'll see why this is important in a few moments based upon what happens after Peter's sermon. Then you'll notice that in his earthly ministry, this was proclaimed in Galilee and in Judea, so you sort of see the spreading of the gospel. And then it says in verse 38 that God announced Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and in power. Look at verse 38. And God anointed, I'm sorry, not announced, anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power who went about doing good and healing all who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with him. So verse 38 explains that Jesus himself was anointed by God at his baptism with the Holy Spirit and with power. And then Peter explains that the works that Jesus did, both the healing As well as those who were oppressed by the devil, demon-possessed people, were cast out, were a demonstration of the Spirit's power in the life of Jesus. Why was Peter explaining all this? Peter was making sense of what was happening and what they had heard of. He was trying to make sense of these things. So that they would understand that this person, Jesus, whom they had heard about, is indeed the Savior. And so he concludes verse 38 by saying, For God was with him. God was with Jesus. Jesus was anointed by God, and the Spirit and power was with Jesus Christ. And that's why he was able to do what he was able to do. So what was Peter doing? Well Peter was making connections for these people. The Gentiles had heard. They had understood what was that that at least there was some things going on. They had heard of this person, Jesus. They'd heard of the miracles that Jesus had done. They perhaps had heard of the miracles that the apostles had done. And they heard of the proclaiming of some gospel But they were not at all sure of where how to put things together so that they would be able to understand the truth of the gospel. And I want to mention by way of application that that is an important lesson for us as well as we proclaim the gospel to others, as we as we give the gospel to others. You know, so often, and I've mentioned this on many times, many occasions Before it so often. What we do in our presentation of the gospel is we want to kind of give ten fifteen minutes of of the fact that Jesus Jesus is God and He's perfect and He died to pay the punishment for our sin. He rose from the grave, and we need to accept him. And all of that is true. But when we are relating to people who do not know Jesus We need to sometimes begin by helping them to make connections in their lives, helping them to make sense. of what's happening in their lives and showing perhaps how God is working in their lives. Does God work in the life of the unbeliever? I mean, that's a question to ask. And I think that some people realize don't really think that God does, that God only works in the life of the believer, he doesn't really work in the life of the unbeliever. The Bible says something very different from that, that God actually does work in the life of the believer. Psalm 145, verse 9 says, the Lord is good to all. The Bible tells us that the rain falls on the just and the unjust. It says in Psalm 33:5 that God's goodness is in all the earth. And it's possible not just for those who know Christ as Savior to see the goodness of God, but for the unbeliever to be able to see the goodness of God. And the Bible says in Romans chapter 2 and in the book of Jude that the goodness of God can lead to repentance. So when someone is noting the fact that they are happy about something in their lives that has occurred. Sometimes that can be traced to the goodness of God, even though they don't know the Lord as their Savior. What we call that is common grace. The idea that grace, that there is this general grace, not the efficacious grace if you will, not the specific grace of of the of of the gospel of of Christ, but there is a general grace that can fall on both the believer and the unbeliever And sometimes it's very helpful as we share Christ with others, and we share the goodness of God with others to help people understand that God is a good God. That God is a gracious God, that God is a merciful God, that we don't deserve all the gifts that God gives us. Even as an unbeliever, we don't deserve those things. Probably one of the biggest difficulties of people coming to Christ, one of the biggest difficulties is people thinking that they do deserve what they actually don't deserve. We know as Christians that we are deserving of nothing. We understand that our s that we are born in sin. We understand that our our sin has separated us from God. And when we begin to have a humility about who we are and who we're not, then we begin to also see We begin to also understand that when we have something good that happens to us, it is an outpouring of the goodness of God. the goodness of God in our lives. And that's why the goodness of God can lead to repentance. Sometimes people have a hard time making sense of the catastrophic things that happen in the world or the the difficulty, the problems in the world, and to explain to people that God originally, before sin, before the fall, God originally made this world to be perfect. without sin and without the problems that sin brings. But then sin uh has come into the world because of uh because of Adam and Eve's sin and because as a result you have the fall and everything's a mess To explain those things to a to an un to someone who doesn't know the Lord is often very, very helpful to help them to understand who they are who they are and who they what what what w uh and who God is and how these things work Peter is, before he gets into the crux of the gospel, begins by just noting that Jesus is is Sanctioned and anointed by God. But the Spirit and power was in him, and that's why he was able to heal, and that's why he was even able to cast out demons. Of course You may know this, that the idea back then of someone casting out demons back in the first century was something that was meant you had to have great amounts of power. You remember when uh the disciples were asked uh to cast out a demon in a particular situation? Uh I think it was a legion of demons, and they couldn't, and Christ said this comes only by prayer and fasting There tended to be an understanding that it took great power to do that kind of thing, and that's why Peter mentions it here. Peter then after he un after he be he makes these connections and helps them to see that these miracles that Jesus did and the great power that was on Jesus' life demonstrated the the credibility of Jesus. Then he begins to get into the reality of what Jesus did. And we pick up in verse 39 and we'll see that Verse 39 it says, and we, talking about he and the apostles, are witnesses of all things which he did, both in the land of the Jews, and in Jerusalem, whom they killed by hanging on a tree. So he says our role is to witness, we witnessed what occurred. And he said, This happened in the land of the Jews. Now he's now not in the land of the Jews, he's among Gentiles, but he's explaining that These people these this was in the land of the Jews, and in fact he then says that the Jews are responsible for the death. They killed this this per uh Jesus by him hanging on a tree Now this is not something that Peter only told to the Gentiles. You recall from Acts chapter 5, verse 31, that when he was speaking, when Peter was speaking to the Jewish people and uh the religious leaders of that day, the Saint the the Sanhedrin He said this in Acts chapter 5, verse 31. Him God has exalted to his right hand to be prince and savior, uh, to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins. And in the same context, he talks about the fact that they were they were hanging on uh hanging on a tree and that Jews put Jesus there. All of that was was indicated in Acts chapter 5. So Peter is extremely consistent with his message. Now, if you recall from when we went through that passage, what was the significance of Peter saying that Jesus hung on a tree? Do you remember what that was? Well, it comes from an Old Testament prophecy in Deuteronomy 21. In verse 22, it says, If a man has committed a sin deserved deserving of death and he is put to death, and you hang him on a tree, his body shall not remain overnight on the tree, but you shall surely bury him that that day, so that you do not defile the lamb which the Lord your God has given you. As inheritance, for he who is hanged is accursed of God. The significance of Peter saying that this man was hanged on a tree. The significance of that was that he was saying that Jesus took the curse of God on himself. That Jesus was cursed By God. Now that sounds really strange, doesn't it? But who, why was he, why did he take what cur what was it that took why was it that he took on the curse of uh God's curse on himself? It was our sin. Jesus lived a perfect life, entirely sinless. And it's we who receive Who deserve God's wrath. But instead, Jesus died on the cross, and when he died, he took on the wrath on himself. And by the way, you know, there's a lot of people that don't want to talk about that part of the gospel. The idea that that Jesus that that Jesus took the wrath of God on himself. That doesn't sound God is it God is a God who could have wrath. And there are some there are there are many people that really don't even want to want to talk about that. But the reality is, folks, that that sin has consequences and the wrath of God must be poured out on sin Some of you are aware of the of the well-known modern hymn in Christ Alone. It was uh written by Keith Getty and Stuart Townen. Most agree that this is probably one of those modern hymns that will stand the test of time that we'll see that not we'll see, but others will see a hundred, two hundred years from now perhaps that are s they're in our hymnals and and it's just one of those hymns that will stand the test of time. What you may not be aware of is that there was great controversy when it came to this hymn. The Presbyterian Church USA wanted this hymnal, wanted this hymn in its hymnal. But they reviewed the hymn and they realized that there was an objectionable phrase in the hymn. Remember when the hymn says that the wrath of God was satisfied? Do you remember that part of the hymn? Well, this particular group did not want that part of the hymn uh in their hymnal, and so they actually asked the Gettys If they could change it to, from the wrath of God was satisfied to the love of God was magnified. And here was Getty's response. First, they said this. First, it's important to express how truly honored we feel that these groups would consider adding in Christ alone to their hymnals We support the approach that they take of studying the lyrics of hymns as they select music worthy to be sung and preserved. However We believe altering the lyrics would remove an essential part of the gospel story as explained throughout Scripture. The main thread of what we see revealed throughout the Old New Testament is the need for man to be made right with God. The prov uh the providing the provided path toward reconciliation came through Christ's predetermined and perfect sacrifice on the cross, satisf satisfying God's wrath once. For all. So they did not allow that to occur, and rightly so. See, folks, we need to understand that what happened on the cross Was certainly an expression of God's love, but it was also a satisfying of God's wrath. So that we could be rightly related to God, so that we could have our sins forgiven, so that we could have a right relationship with God. And we then see pick up here that of course this is not where the story ends. In verse 40, we find that God raised him up from the dead the third day. and showed him openly. This was an open resurrection. Many, many people saw that he was He had risen from the dead. And we see that in verse 40. And Peter wants to explain that that Jesus is alive, that he is now in heaven. Verse 41 Now to all the people, but uh not to all the people, but to the witnesses chosen before uh before by God, even to us who ate and drank with him after he arose from the dead. And we find that to be the case when Jesus after Jesus rose from the grave, he appeared to the disciples. You remember the s the the the uh the disciples on the road to Emmaus? Jesus appeared to them and Luke 24 and verse 33 says, So they rose up that very hour and returned to Jerusalem and found the eleven And those who were with them were gathered there. And Jesus gathered and showed who they were, showed himself to them. In 1 Corinthians chapter 15, it says that that uh it it explains the gospel that Jesus rose from the grave and then it says that he was seen of Cephas verse 5 then by the twelve, after that he was seen by over five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater part remained to the present, but some have fallen asleep After that he was seen by James and by all the apostles. Then, last of all, he was seen by me also, as by one born out of due time. For I am the least of the apostles who am not worthy to be called the apostle, because I persecuted the church. So Paul explains that this was a verifiable resurrection. And Peter wanted them to understand that. Then Peter turns and he begins to explain what the apostles now were preaching. What were they heralding? What were they testifying of? Verse 42. And he commanded us to preach the people, preach to the people, and to testify what? That it is he who was ordained by God to be judge of the living. And the dead. Now that might sound a little strange. Who was ordained by God? To be a judge of the living and of the dead? The answer is Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ was ordained by God not just to be the Savior, but also to be the judge. Isaiah 33, verse 22 says this: For the Lord is our judge, the Lord is our lawgiver, the Lord is our king, he will save us. What qualified Jesus to be the Savior? Well, according to that passage, he was the one that was the lawgiver. He was the one that set the standard. He was the one that was the judge. Now in our in our uh in our system of government, we have a legislative body and we have a judicial body in our government. We have a executive uh branch as well But in those days, in that particular context, the legislative and the judicial would be together. They were not separate. So the judge was also the one who established the laws as well And so in saying that Jesus is the judge, Jesus is the one not only who judges the law, but he's the one who gives the law and establishes the law. And that means he knows what's exactly needed to satisfy the law. It's like if you think of a courtroom and Jesus is the judge, he's the one that is going to render the verdict. But then as he renders the verdict, he steps down from from being the judge and he also at the same simultaneously actually is establishes himself as the savior and he says, I will take my own punishment, the punishment of death and separation from, I will take my own punishment. so that you who are guilty do not have to take that punishment. He is the qualified man to be this, qualified person to be the savior, because he is also the judge. Now that really brings us to an interesting point. So far, in Peter's message, his gospel message, he has mentioned That the curse of Christ was established on the cross and it was satisfied, the wrath of God was satisfied on the cross, and now he has established that Jesus is the judge. These are things that we we don't like to talk about. These are things when it comes to the gospel that are not the things that we most like to discuss. We would rather talk about the love of God. And the grace of God and the mercy of God. But we've got to talk about the hard things and the problems and the difficulties as well as the good things, the good news. Let me illustrate it this way. So when I was up in Pennsylvania, I was pastoring up there. I had a uh uh Chevy Lumina was one of my cars. I had a toy the camera and a Chevy Chevy Lumina And um uh one day, one day a guy came up to me uh after a service, I think it was after a Wednesday night service, and he came up to me, he said, Let me have the keys to your Chevy Lumina. I said, okay. So I gave him the keys of my Chevy Lumina. He got in the car and he drove off with my Chevy Lumina. Three days later he brought it back and he said, Your car's in good shape. And he gave me the keys. You're all looking at me like, what in the world? That is a weird story. I don't see the point of that story at all. Because I left out a very, very important point My the transmission on my Chevy Luba had gone out. And the man was a mechanic. See now the story makes a little more sense I just told you the problem. I just told you the bad news. The bad news is that my transmission I w I think I I think I was only able to go forward. I couldn't go in reverse. That means your transmission is blown, by the way, if you don't If you don't know that. And so I was able to drive it to the church and on a Wednesday night I said, Would you get would you pray? I need I need some wisdom on on what I could do, uh what what w if we should try to get this fixed or not And the guy that was in one of the guys that went to our church was a mechanic and he just asked me for my car keys and I knew exactly why he was asking. He drove it and he he in a A bunch of guys fixed the transmission and brought it back to me the next uh brought it back to me three da three days later and said it's fixed. It's it's it's in good shape Now the story makes a whole lot more sense, doesn't it? See, if we miss those parts of the gospel that show us our need, That our sin is a problem. Why? Because God's wrath, His justice has to be satisfied If we don't include that in the gospel, then we don't, then the gospel doesn't make sense. I mean, why is the solution so important? Uh sometimes we we want to think we wanna we don't want to tell people that they that they're sinful. We don't want to tell people that And and and by the way, we should always say we're sinful, right? Because all it's not you're sinful and I'm not. We're all we all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. All of us are born into sin. But folks, that's something that we need to know It's something that our children need to know. Our children need to know that they are born into sin. Our children need to understand that, that their hearts are sinful. And that's not something that's derogatory. It's something that they've got to understand if they're going to be able to receive Jesus as their Savior. They've got to know the bad news before they can know the good news. I'll never forget a time where one of my children, after being uh disciplined, said to me, Daddy, I can't stop sinning And I thought to myself, you get it. That's the point. Why do I discipline you? It's not just to be angry at you or something, it's so that they realize that they're sinners. That they can't stop sinning. That they need a savior. And we all need a savior. That's why it's absolutely necessary For us to express all of the parts of the gospel which include the bad news Not just the good news. Romans 5. 12 says, Wherefore as by one man sin entered the world, and death by sin, and so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned. Then he says, after the bad news, then he says, next, he says, who will receive the remission of sins. He says to him all the prophets witness. He talks now, remember, he's a Gentile audience. They have not necessarily read the Old Testament, but he mentions He mentions to them, and actually they it is possible that that Cornelius did read the Old Testament. Probably he did. But he mentions this because he wants us to understand, he wants them to understand that there is this continuity between what God said in the Old Testament and what God says in the New Testament. For example, in Joel 2:32 it says, and it shall come to pass That whoever calls in the name of the Lord shall be saved. For in Mount Zion and in Jerusalem there shall be deliverance, as the Lord has said, among the remnant whom the Lord calls. So he wants them to understand that this remission of sins was prophesied in the Old Testament and that Jesus is the answer. He is the one that that offers Grace, he is but one that offers the remission of sins. Something else to note about this And this idea of the remissions of sins in this passage is likely also a reference to Jeremiah 31. In Jeremiah 31, verse 34, it says, No more shall every man teach his neighbor and every man his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for they all shall know me. From the least of them to the greatest of them, says the Lord, for I will forgive their iniquity, and that their sin I will remember no more that this their sin has been removed from them. Now, with all of this in mind, these people are prepared to receive the gospel. But before we get into the next section of this, I want to set this up this way. Let me ask you this question. If you think of the Old Testament, And what happened in the Old Testament and how God how God administered uh his relationship to his people, the administration of his people in the Old Testament versus what he did in the New Testament, what would you say is the distinctive difference? What is the difference? Like what is the identifiable difference between what he did in the Old Testament and what he did in the New Testament? Well, there's diff there you you could have a couple of different answers for that. But there would also be a couple of wrong answers for that. For example, if somebody said If somebody said, well, God shows his goodness in the New Testament, but not in the Old Testament. Well, I just read some passages to you that demonstrate the goodness of God in the Old Testament. How about God's grace? Well, no, not exactly. Actually, you know that the grace of God occurred in the Old Testament often. In fact, the New Testament tells us that Abraham received grace because of faith. It's not really grace either. Do you know the distinctive difference between what's in the Old Testament and the New Testament? It really is, folks, it is the role of the Holy Spirit. The role of the Holy Spirit is very different in the Old Testament from the New Testament. And when Jesus came, he said, When I go away, the Spirit of God will come into you. He will be able to indwell you. Until I go away, that's not going to happen, which indicated that in the Old Testament believers were not permanently indwelt by the Spirit of God. But when Christ went away and He was and and when He was when He was ascended, when He ascended The Spirit of God then was able to come, and for those who knew Christ as their Savior, he indwelt them. Now that then sets us up for verse 44. Would you notice what it says in verse 44? While Peter was still speaking these words, so he is preaching the gospel, and while he is preaching the gospel, notice what happens. The Holy Spirit fell upon all those who heard the word. The Holy Spirit falls on them. There is this dramatic and obvious working of the Holy Spirit. Toward those who hear the word. Now the question then becomes: what happened here? Well, we notice a couple of things. This indwelling happened immediately. I mean, it's as he's preaching the gospel, this indwelling occurs. And that's really consistent with what happens when somebody comes to Christ. Romans 8:9 says this. But you are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if indeed the Spirit of God dwells in you. Now, if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, he is not his. So when someone comes to Christ, when someone trusts Jesus as their Savior, that is, they understand their sin. They understand Jesus died to pay the punishment for their sin. And they accept them, accept Christ as their Savior. The Bible says that the Spirit of God immediately indwells them, and that's what you see in this passage. This becomes a problem for certain groups of people that believe that you get saved, and then later on, as a second blessing, the Holy Spirit comes. Now, we saw that the Holy Spirit did come later in Acts chapter 2, that they believed, and then the Holy Spirit came on them a little bit later. But folks, when it comes to this passage, that is not what you see. You see that at the time that people that they're saved, then the Holy Spirit comes. And this sets the trajectory for how the Holy Spirit works from here on. Now, this is important for this reason. The groups of people that suggest that there is this second blessing that comes later. Actually, try to, I try to say that Cornelius was actually saved prior to this time They will tell you that because he was devout and all those things in the first few verses of Acts chapter 10, that he was saved then He wasn't saved now, and what this is, is that second blessing. There's one very significant problem with that. Peter is actually going to explain what happened Here in chapter 11. So would you notice what it says in verse 17 of chapter 11, one chapter over? It says, if therefore God gave them the same gift as he gave us, when we what? When we believed on the Lord Jesus Christ, who was I that I could withstand God He identified the fact that when they believed, they came to Christ, the Spirit of God was given at the same time. Now, with that in mind, We then need to look at verse 25 and we'll begin to see the response of these people. Now notice, remember this, this is important. So Peter, Peter didn't come alone to Cornelius and to the people that were there. Peter came with other Jewish people. And there's an important reason for that. God was sovereignly setting up things so that the Jewish people would receive the Gentiles. And this was really the start of this. And when the Holy Spirit of God came, notice what happened in verse 45. It says, And those of the circumcision, now that's who are who are of the circumcision? Let's talk about the Jews, but it's pr but it's particularly interesting that it uses that phrase of the circumcision. We'll see why in a moment Those who were of the circumcision who believed were astonished as many as came with Peter because the gift of the Holy Spirit had been poured out on the Gentiles. What happened here? Well, actually keep reading, look at verse 46. For they heard them speak with tongues And magnify God, then Peter answered. Now, I want to mention a couple of things. So, so far in the book of Acts, how often have we seen tongues mentioned? Has it been frequent? Folks, it has not been frequent. In Acts chapter 2, it was mentioned. And then we find that when the Samaritans were saved, it was mentioned. And now we hear when the Gentiles are now saved, it's mentioned. The tongues was there as a sign to the unbelieving Jews, and really essentially a sign to the believing Jews here as well, that the Spirit of God was authentically and genuinely working to save a new group of people, but you don't see tongues throughout the book of Acts in all kinds of different areas as as is sometimes suggested. It is much less frequent than you might think, and it was for a very specific purpose Now, with this in mind, notice that Jewish people are astonished by this. Those who are of the circumcision are astonished. And they're astonished for a very for a couple of a couple of reasons. Realize, first of all, that they were probably they probably had the understanding that now the Gentiles were included In the fulfillment of an Old Testament prophecy in Ezekiel chapter 39, verse 29, which said, And I will not hide my face from them any more, for I shall have poured my out my spirit on the house of Israel, says the Lord. And in Ezekiel, we won't take the time to read that, but in Ezekiel chapter 11, Ezekiel chapter 36, you find the prophesying of the Spirit of God being poured out And up to this point, the Jewish people probably thought it was only they who were going to receive the Spirit of God in this way, that the pouring out of the Spirit of God would be would be relegated only to the Jewish people. But now they see Gentiles who are receiving the Spirit in the same way. And it astonishes them. And there are a couple of implications of this. Number one, there is this indisputable reality. They cannot deny it. They can't deny this fact. And we also see that it's a fulfillment of the prophecies in Joel and Ezekiel and other places. But finally, also this, up to this point, all of the Jewish people had had a very, very strict view, and rightly so actually in the Old Testament, of this of this, of circumcision That's why it's identified very likely. Luke says they were of the circumcision. This becomes an issue over in Acts chapter 15. Should do Gentiles have to be circumcised in order to be saved, essentially? And the answer to that is essentially no. We find here that they are saved. The Holy Spirit of God indwells them. They know the Lord, and they have not been circumcised. That sets the trajectory for the future that it's not by any kind of right, it's not by some kind of work that you do, it's not some kind of Religious practice that brings you to a place of a relationship with God, it's by trusting in Jesus Christ alone for salvation. It's by believing in the gospel, and when you believe in the gospel, you're saved. Not of any works at all. The Bible is very clear about this. Titus 3:5, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy, he saved us. And we see here clearly in this passage, these Gentiles don't do anything to be saved. They don't work any at all. They are simply believe the gospel, and they are saved. And notice what happens here in verse 47. Peter says, Can anyone forbid water that these should not be baptized who have received the Holy Spirit? In other words, the Holy Spirit should identify them as saved. We know that. Why would we not baptize them? Bottom line, we need to baptize them, Peter's saying. And Peter actually identifies, he he he identifies them as saved in water baptism. So that there is this joining, there's this symbolic joining between the Jew and the Gentile in Christ, and all of this is in front of these Jewish believers that have come with Peter. Verse 48, and he commanded them to be baptized in the name of the Lord. Then they asked him to stay a few days. So all these folks were baptized, but we see that Peter is now going to stay, and a very clear evidence of knowing Christ as your Savior, by the way, is that you want to fellowship with other believers. Immediately they're they're saved. The Spirit of God comes, they're baptized, and it's like instinctive for them. They ask him to stay a few more days. Would you continue to teach us? Would you continue to help us to learn of the truths? of of the gospel. And that is something that is a clear indication that somebody comes to Christ and really knows the Lord. It's when they want When they want to be taught, when they want to be fed by God's word, and when they want the fellowship of other believers, when they want those kinds of things, it really is a demonstration that they know the Lord as their Savior. So what are the things that we need to learn from this passage that we need to remember as we reflect on what we've learned? A couple of things. Can we advance this slide there? Yeah, and go ahead and give us the first one there. First, we need to understand that God's work is carried out by God's Spirit. You see that all the way through this. Even in the Spirit working through Christ. We see that the work of God is carried out by the Spirit of God. And so it is so important for us to recognize that. Number two. That God must include the hard that the gospel must include the hard truths of God's plan. When we when we share the gospel with others, now that does not mean that we in any way come across and by some unruly disposition or s or or just you know, uh arrogant or anything like that. We we we we have nothing. We are we deserve nothing. We know that. We're sinners saved by grace. But but we need to understand that that we've got to give the whole message, we've got to give the problem so that they can understand the solution. And number three, we need to continually depend upon the gospel and the Spirit of God together. to accomplish God's plan. It's the Spirit of God with the work of the gospel that accomplishes God's plan. So easy it's so easy for us To forget that. It's so easy for us to focus on our methods or our own flesh or our own ways of doing things. We must be relying on God's work Done God's way and then God that we will not lack God's supply. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we do come to you and we thank you for your word, and we thank you for the truths of the gospel. And I pray, Lord, that if there is anybody here that doesn't know you as their Savior, if they don't have a personal relationship with you, I pray today would be a day. That is, they heard the gospel that you would awaken them to the truths of it. So they can understand their sin, but they can understand that Jesus Christ died to pay the punishment for their sin. As we go into this communion time together, I pray, Lord, that we would have a reverence toward it, that we would, as a collective body of believers, proclaim Christ's death until he comes. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen