Well we have a uh You know, we're gonna write your lens and you leave. Do you have to be a good idea? Um so um staff who and uh the Actually, I need my Bible All right, welcome everyone this morning. Good to have everybody out. And uh and um not a lot of announcements. I do have a couple of announcements with regard to this evening. This evening we are going to be outdoors and I really hope that you'll come out to this evening. Um because it's a really good testament in our community. One of the reasons that that I've I've wanted to be outdoors as much as possible, there are several. One of them is is because we actually have sometimes neighbors on their porches listening to our service when we're outside. And it's just a great opportunity to be able to witness to people. And probably that's my primary reason now. I didn't realize it was going to happen, but when we start meeting outside That was the result. I do understand that there are sort of a lot of difficulties with meeting indoors on some uh outdoors on the morning service So what we're gonna try today um is do what we're doing now, we're being indoors for the morning service and outdoors for the evening service, but we will need enough people to continue to do that or it won't look it won't make sense. It'll be actually not a good test. I don't think we'll have that. I don't I'm not expecting that, but uh just sort of keep that in mind. And what we're going to do actually is we are going to you'll still need to come in with your masks on. You'll need to put them on as you leave your vehicles and come and bring your bring your lawn chairs tonight and have a seat. You'll need to keep your mask on during that time. But then after that you can take your mask off and I just got approval from from the leaders of our church that you while we're seeing just outdoors, not indoors, but while we're seeing outdoors, you don't need to wear your mask tonight. So we're going to have a um now You but you've got to be in your seat, at your seat and social distance or we're gonna get in trouble. Okay, so so make sure that you're that's that's the case tonight. But we want we want to give you the opportunity, give us all the opportunity to sing without masks and uh outdoors and so I think it's a it's gonna be a safe place for us to do that. So what that means actually we'll have more singing tonight uh than we usually do. We're gonna get the guitars out and have an enjoyable time. And also a testimony time. I'd encourage you to uh maybe just think of something the Lord's doing in your life or a scripture passage you'd like to read, that kind of thing And uh let's just come together tonight, have an have a just a uh uh blessed time together of fellowship and testimonies and songs tonight. Um and then again afterward you will need to put your mask on after you leave your you know before you leave your seat, put your mask on, and then head up to to talk or to head out of your car or that kind of thing. That will need to happen. But anyway, just so you're aware of uh of that tonight and uh that will be at six o'clock tonight And if it works well, we might continue this. We'll see how it goes tonight and how that happens. But if it works well, we might continue this and we might just move the time to five thirty to But we'll see how it all goes. It's one step at a time. There's uh we're constantly adjusting and constantly making changes because our world is constantly adjusting and constantly making Making changes and where there are certain things we can't do certain times, and then we can and we're not allowed, and now we are allowed, and anyway, uh it's all fun. Psalm twenty-three is where we're gonna start off with and in just uh our call to worship and this is a very of course very familiar psalm and it will uh go well with our message. It says, you know what, let's do this tonight this morning. Let's all stand together And this is such a familiar song uh psalm. Let's recite it together. Uh Psalm twenty-three. And I'm sorry about the mass thing, I guess you have to put your mask back on, but uh for that But uh Psalm twenty-three together. The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. He makes me to lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside the still waters. He restores my soul. He leads me in the paths of righteousness for his namesake. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me. Your rod and your staff they comfort me You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. You lend my head with oil. My cup runs over. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you, and we thank you that you are our good shepherd. And this passage teaches us that even though we go through the valley of the shadow of death And you make a table in the presence of our enemies. This passage does not teach that as your children we now live in some sort of utopia where we don't have problems and struggles and difficulties Circumstances, quite the opposite. But what this passage teaches us is that you are our good shepherd, and you guide us, and you lead us and you provide for us. And Lord, we confess before you that very frequently we do not live as though you are our good shepherd. We feel as though we need to take it upon ourselves to do what you're not doing as quickly as we want you to do it. Or to try to escape from the circum Circumstances we find ourselves in rather than finding our joy in you in the midst of difficult circumstances, or trying to force what you do not lovingly lead us to. We confess those things before you this morning, Lord, and we thank you. We thank you that you, despite our inadequacies and the fact that we are a sinful people, we Thank you that you do shepherd us. And your shepherding of us, your guidance of us is not contingent upon the fact That we are always faithful to you. In fact, Lord, we're thankful that you're faithful to us even when we are not faithful to you. And Lord, I pray that you'd help us to learn how to simply daily walk with you, to fellowship with you day by day. And to simply lead follow your leading and submit and hu hum humbly submit in dependency upon your will and your way. Lord, as we go through the service, I pray, Lord, that you'd help us Help us to honor you, to worship you, and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. You may be seated. Today's passage is Exodus thirteen. Verse seventeen through chapter fourteen, verse four. And it came to pass when Pharaoh had led the let the people go, that God did not lead them by the way of the land of the Philistines And Moses took the bones of Joseph with him, for he had placed the children of Israel under Solomon So they took their journey from Sukkoth and camped in Etham at the And the Lord went before them by day in a pillar of cloud to lead the way, and by night in a pillar of fire to give them light, so as to go by day And night. He does not take away the pillar of cloud by day or the pillar of fire by night from the people from before the people. Now the Lord spoke to Moses. Saying Speak to the children of Israel that they turn and camp before Piha Hiraf between Migdal and the sea, opposite Baal Zephan For Pharaoh will say of the children of Israel, They are bewildered by the land, and the wilderness has closed them in. Then I will harden Pharaoh's heart so that he will Pursue them, and I will gain honor over Pharaoh and over all his army, that the Egyptians may know that I am the Lord. And they did so. So this is a passage that uh in Exodus thirteen seventeen there you'll wanna if you haven't already beginning as we have gone through all of these various plagues and all of what God is wanting to do with his people. And now it's coming to pass. This is Extremely foundational pivotal passage, and uh we have much to learn from this passage. How many of you have have as we've thought now about the pandemic, which I think we're we're right around eight months of this, the whole COVID pandemic thing. How many of you all when we kind of shut down, I think sort of in March and February, February, March Maybe something like that. Thought, you know, it'll be so nice when we get back to normal. All the way back then. It'll be so nice when we get back to normal. How many of you all had that thought a lot? How many of you all going into June said, you know, it'd be so nice when we get back to normal? How many of you had that thought? How about July? How about August? How about now? Okay. We keep saying that. We keep thinking, oh man, it would be so nice we'd be back when when we get back to normal. And it this and and then on top of this, we we were not getting back to normal exactly And on top of this, you have in the middle of this whole pandemic, you have this whole George Floyd thing, and which has been which is a horrible event that occurred And then you have all of the protests and the riots and everything involved with all of that. And how many of you all thought that that would pass after about a month? If you were are you like me, I thought, uh, give it a month and it'll pass. Okay, not that it not that every aspect should pass, but after I th hasn't happened And I think in our lives as Christians, we do that. We sort of go, Man, I'm going through a difficult time, I'm going through a trial, and I just can't wait that this thing passes. I can't wait to get back to normal. I wonder if what God is actually teaching us Through these various experiences, as well as what he is teaching us in our own lives as Christians, is to stop saying, I can't wait to get back to normal. Start just depending on him. To stop asking for deliverance and to start asking and pleading and praying independency It's interesting if we as we look at this passage and see what's going on here, and as Enrique read it, that a lot of people have different views when it comes to what's going on in this passage. This is a passage of God's deliverance of his people. They are being delivered from finally from the bondage of Egypt But there are some people that take this passage and they actually use it in a way that is non-appropriate. It's not even biblical. Some people take this passage and say, see, God is the God who delivers us so that we can have liberty. And then they define liberty as we get to do what we want to do. See, God delivered Israel from the bondage of Egypt, and now we get to and now they get to do what they want to do. Is that what happened? You remember the foot of Mount Sinai? What happens? God now says, You are my covenant people, I'm going to give you my law, and you're going to follow it. And there's going to be conditions and it's going to be wonderful because my presence is going to be with you, but you're going to have to follow my commands. So we should not look at this passage and say, okay, God's delivering his i Israel and God needs to deliver us so that we We can do what we want. We can have that kind of a definition of liberty. Some people take this passage and say, well, this is teaching that God is the God of prosperity That God is the kind of God who delivers us, and if we'll have good thoughts about Him and faith and pray and do all the right things and follow the right kind of formula, then we're going to have a life of prosperity. They take the land flowing with milk and honey thing, and they then assume that God's goal for Israel is that they just have this great life of prosperity. Was that God's ultimate goal for the nation of Israel? Certainly, he was going to bring them into a land that was plentiful. He had promised them the Canaan land that had great resources. But God's goal Was to bring them to a place where they were clearly his people. And as we learned last week, it was so that he could restore ownership But let me just say this: that although God has created us to be owned, we're going to, in other words, we're going to be owned by somebody. We're going to be owned by ourselves, we're going to be owned by our sin, we're going to be owned by our flesh, we're going to be owned by the world, or we're going We're gonna be owned by somebody Although we are going to be owned by God somebody, God wants us to be owned by Him and to be in right ownership. With him, not just because it glorifies him, but because it benefits us. Because God is a benevolent owner. God is a loving owner God is a God who says, I'm not going to take you out of the trial, but I'm going to be with you through it. One of the things that unsaved people often say about God that they object to this idea of God even in some cases, or they just don't know how God could really exist with all the problems in the world and how he could let those things go. Is that they they really don't understand what God's plan is They don't really understand sin and the effects of sin and corruption and all of that. They're not seeing things from a w through a worldview, and they don't realize that God never promises for his people. He never promises that everything is going to be smooth sailing. What he says is, you're going to have a hard time. But I'll be with you. I'll be with you through the hard time. He doesn't say, okay, everything will go back to normal. He says, I'm going to be with you Through the abnormalities of life. He doesn't say, okay, I'll get you to a place of security and comfort. We were not meant for comfort in this life. He says, I'll be with you through the discomfort. I'll be with you through the lack of security. I will be with you. And what God is doing, it's clear in this passage, we see this in Exodus chapter 13, verse 19. We see this indicator in this past in this verse that what's going on here is a much bigger thing. It's the picture is much bigger than okay, God delivers a group of people from evil. Egypt. There's much more going on here. In verse 19 of this passage, it says, and Moses took the bones of Joseph with him For he had placed the children of Israel under solemn oath, saying, God will surely visit you, and you shall carry up my bones from here with you. Now what is what is this passage talking about when it says that and why does it refer to Joseph? Well if you go back to Genesis chapter fifty fifty, at the very end of Genesis Joseph is aware that God is far from done with his family. And Joseph understands that God is going to make of his family A great nation to fulfill the promises of Abraham. And he says to his brethren at that time, he says, I'm dying But God will surely visit you and bring you out of the land of which He swore to Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. Then Joseph took an oath from the children of Israel, saying, God will surely visit you, and you shall carry up my bones from here. This was to be a symbol of the fulfillment of the covenant promise of God of the nation of Israel, that God is going to do what he said he's going to do. God is going to make of them a nation where he can We have a uh a similar illustration a similar reference to the This is a John chapter fifty verse twenty four. In the judgment, but is passed, this idea of passing through the waters is passed from death unto life. In Exodus chapter three, verse twenty-four, it says, So God heard their groaning, and God remembered his covenant with Abraham with Isaac. So God was delivering them for a very clear purpose. He wanted them to glorify Him to bring greater glory to him and to really to share his glory with them. Now if we look at this particular passage, we're going to see It says over and over in the passage, several times, that God leads them here. He led them this way. He directs them this direction. And so we see from the passage, if you just do a cursory read through the passage as Enrique did, you're going to see that what God is doing here is He is guiding His people And what we can learn from this, since the goal of God for us as His people is to glorify Him And when we were saved, when we came to Christ as our Lord and Savior, He delivered us from the power of sin. Because our story is really a continuation of Israel's story. Story. There are some things that we can learn about God's guidance in our lives as well. And we want to go to the Lord in prayer, and then we're going to find out About how God guides his people. Let's pray. Father, we come to you and we ask that you would give us wisdom where wisdom is needed and comfort where comfort is needed. And Strength through the preaching of your word and faith to learn to depend upon you and to understand how you lead us And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well we see in verses seventeen through eighteen here. Notice what it says in the passage. It says, Then it came to pass When Pharaoh had let the people go, that God did not lead them by the way of the land of the Philistines, although that was near For God said, lest perhaps the people change their minds when they see war and return to Egypt. So God led the people around by the way of the wilderness of the Red Sea And the children of Israel went up in an orderly ranks out of the land of Egypt. God takes these people, his people People now through a route that really wouldn't make sense on a map. He goes around about rather than going through a particular area, the area of the Philistines. And it says in the passage why he does this. He does this ultimately because he knows how to shepherd his people. He has a shepherding relationship with his people. He's guiding them as a shepherd leads a flock of sheep, and he guides them around the enemy. Not because God wasn't strong enough for the enemy, not because God couldn't have empowered the people to fight the enemy at this point But because they weren't ready. They weren't ready. I mean it's really that simple. God said if they uh he did not want them to uh to fight the Philistines at this point, because if they did, he he he was concerned that they would want to return to Egypt. Now you might read this and say, well, isn't he just delaying the inevitable? Like later on and if you read Exodus, you know that later on they keep saying they want to return to Egypt. Egypt. That's true. In Ex in Exodus 17, 8 through 16, it actually says that war is going to come there and they're going to have to do war eventually. Why is it that God would withhold that now? Well, it's very likely that this is the case. It's very likely that God wanted them to experience experience some of his leadership before he ac he he would learn so that they would learn to trust his leadership before he would bring them more of a bring them into a situation would require more faith and dependency. In other words, number one, God's guidance considers what his children Now, perhaps you have been somebody said to you, you know, when someone loses a loved one or something, don't go to them and say, Well, God knows what we can handle. And I would not encourage you to say that if somebody loses somebody or goes through a very difficult time, you don't necessarily the first thing out of your mouth want to say, well, God knows what you can handle It's just not very kind. So don't say that necessarily. However, I will say this. It is true. Now it does God knows what we can handle with his strength and help. And the truth is the truth is that we can't do anything apart from him, according to But God is such a loving God. He is such a shepherding a sh such a shepherding relationship with us that he actually does consider what his children can handle as he leads them. Understand that. That if you find yourself in a place that you say, I don't I just don't know if I can handle it, well understand without God's strength you can't, but understand that God guides us and considers us. What his children can handle. Even though it doesn't always feel that way. Number two, God's guidance very often differs from our expectations. God's guidance very, very often differs from what we expect. This is actually so important to remember. I am sure that as these These people, millions now of people, leave Egypt. I am quite sure that they had a very direct route in their mind of where they were going to go And instead, God brings them around to a totally different route. And in fact, what you're going to find is as you go through the passages, He doesn't do that once, He does it several times. He goes the opposite direction actually. Like it would have been a lot easier just to cross over if you look at a map, you you know a lot easier to cross over one place and then And then to go to another I mean it it doesn't make any sense when you look on a map how they went from a human perspective, but God knew what he was doing Understand that God's guidance often differs sometimes greatly from what we expect. And you know that throws people, doesn't it? Has it ever thrown you before? You ever sort of go, Lord, what in the world are you doing? I totally did not expect this of you. That's God's guidance. We ought to expect the unexpected when it comes to God's leading In our lives. We just simply need to expect that. We ought to expect that God's going to yank us out of comfortable situations sometime. We ought to expect the unexpected, and we need to understand that that is the way that God leads. Number three, God's guidance puts us in a place where we must rely on Him. Now let me ask you a question at this point. We know that there was this great cry to God on the part of the people that were that the Israelites when they were in Egypt toward God. They were crying out to God. Let me ask you this question. Do you think that that was an expression of dependency on God? When they cried out to God in the midst of bondage, do you think that that was an expression of faith? And dependency? And I would argue that it was not. It was a crying out of deliverance They were in a foxhole. They were in a mess. They were in a serious situation. They didn't want to be where they were. They were oppressed and afflicted, and they wanted deliverance from God. But that's not that's not necessarily uh expression of dependence and faith. Uh Pastor told of a situation where He uh he got a call from a man in the hospital who said he wanted to talk to a pastor. And he got to the hospital, a pastor, the pet this pastor got to the hospital and um And he went to see this particular man and the man said, Oh I'm sorry, I just really don't need to talk to you now. I thought I did because I thought that I had a terminal illness, but they got the papers mixed up And and now now that I realize uh you know this guy guy was a godless man, he didn't really want to deal with the Lord, but when he had terminal illness, he figured you'd better talk to a pastor, and so so Um when he got when he realized the papers he just said, I I'm really sorry to bother you. I don't really need to talk to you now because I got the papers are mixed up. Now we all look at that if we know Christ our Savior, so that's that's Crazy, he still needed to talk to somebody in relation to the Lord. But but this man that man did not have this okay, I suddenly have this great faith in God, this great depression Dependency on God. That's not what was going on at all there. He was in a hard spot. Do you remember Jonah in the Old Testament? You remember what Jonah did in the in the belly of the whale? In the belly of the whale, Jonah has this prayer to God. It says, He cried out, Jonah 2, out to the Lord because of my affliction, he says, and he He answered me. Out of the belly of the Sheol I cried, and you heard my voice. For you cast me into the deep, into the heart heart of the seas. And you've got this whole thing about God then remembered him and delivered him and all of that. Was that when when when Jonah was in the belly of the whale, was that an expression of faith? Well, let me answer that question by pointing something out later You remember what happened to Jonah? So Jonah rather reluctantly, even after that, goes and preaches to the Ninevites at God's command. He goes to the Ninevites, and I think in the back of his mind, he's saying to himself, Man, I really That's not what happens at all. The entire place repents, the entire group of People repent. And what happens with Jonah? Jonah is down in the dumps. Jonah's upset that these people are repenting. Was was this an act was his prayer, the belly of the whale, an act of faith? No. See, see You want to know whether or not you're in a hard time and a difficult time and you ask God for deliverance, that's fine. But if you want to know whether or not you're really dependent on the Lord, you can't determine that while you're in the midst of struggle and trial and difficulty. You can only determine that after it's over. How do you live when the trial is over and your God's pulled you out of deliverance? If you go back to your old ways, if you go back to the way you want to do what you want to do because now you're out of that trial, then know that that's not dependence That's not faith. That's not trust. That's I'm in a tough situation and finally I've got to deal with God. God wants us to pray prayers of dependency, not just deliverance. We need to get to the place where we are we are not just wanting deliverance, but we want dependency. We are not trying to escape our circumstances, but we look to God in the midst of our circumstances. And that really brings us to the next point in verse 21. In verse 21, it says, And the Lord went before them by day in a pillar of cloud to lead the way. and by the by night in the pillar of fire to give them light so as to go by day and night. He did not take away the pillar of cloud by day, or the pillar of fire by night, from before the people. So we have this text that now says that that as he leads them, his presence is with them. And it says that there it was through the pillar of fire And through the cloud that God leads his people. Now, we have seen the presence of God already in Exodus. Do you remember back in the burning bush? When God uh reveals himself to Moses back in Exodus chapter three verse two it says the angel of the Lord appeared to him in the A flame of fire from the midst of a bush. So he looked, and behold, the bush was burning with fire, but the bush was not consumed. And that was clearly the presence of God. We see now again the presence of God It's in a it's in a more um a more acute way now, where now it's a pillar of fire, it's kind of like the lect next level of intensity Eventually, the intensity of the presence of God in Exodus 20 is going to be so significant that the people, so intense, that the people can't stand it. And the people cry out to Moses and say, Moses, would you intercede for us? Can you go and deal with we can't we can't handle the presence of God? At this point, Israel can And we're going to learn a lot about the presence of God in the coming weeks, but at this point, Israel can, and God leads the whole nation. He leads them. Now, just think about this for a minute Could God have just told Moses, Moses, lead my people, and the people should have just could have just trusted Moses to as God's messenger to lead them And the answer is yes, but God desires to reveal himself to his people, to be the one Who is the guide? Who is the leader? He wants his people to realize and to recognize that he is the one who is with them, who is leading them I think of Psalm 23. I mentioned this a couple of weeks ago, but Psalm 23 is a passage that that probably elderly, godly people turn to this passage And ask me to read this passage when I visit them more than any other passage. There's other passages as well, certainly. Or sometimes they'll just say, read whatever passage you'd like, and that's fine too. But probably out of the most common, it's Psalm 23 Even on on uh people's when they're when they aren't you know they're uh the road is clear to heaven pretty soon. Uh they'll all they'll often ask me to read Psalm 23. You know what's interesting when you read through Psalm 23? The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want, he makes me lie down in green pastures, he restores my Soul, he leads me in the path of righteousness for his name's sake. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I'll fear no evil. You are with me. Your rod and your staff they comfort me. You prepare a table before me. Where? Where does he prepare a table? In the Presence of my enemies. My cup runs over. Surely goodness and mercy will follow me all the days of my life, and I will I I'd like to imagine that these dear older saints, when they come to the end and they look back at their life They realize not that God delivered them from every trial or that they had a life that was full of prosperity And no problems, but they realize the end of life, they look back at their life and they realize that God was with them all of the way And wouldn't it be wonderful if we stopped trying to pray that God would get rid of all of our enemies and that God would never take us into a valley of the shadow of death, that we'd stop praying that And just pray that God would make us aware of His presence in the midst of it all. Because what God desires of us is depicted Dependency, daily dependency on him. Jesus was coming to the end of his life, and he looked ahead to the cross, and some of the things that he talked about with his disciples were the glory of God. In our lives. We begin to understand. We don't understand everything about what our circumstances. We don't. And we probably never will. But we begin to see The glory of God because we realize how dependent we are. The more dependent you see yourself The more glory God, the more you share in the glory of God, the more you realize God is glorified when his people are dependent upon him. And when they realize, as John fifteen five says, without me you can do nothing. Stop trying. And realize that God is with us. That really brings us to the next point. God guides us to share in his glory. He guides us to share his glory with us. In Exodus chapter 14, verses 1 through 3, it says, Now the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Speak to the children of Israel that they turn the camp before Piharon, beh between Migdal at the s and at the sea, opposite Baal Cephon, you shall camp before in it by the sea. For Pharaoh will say to the children of Israel, They will they are bewildered by the land The wilderness has closed them in. Now, here's what's going on here. God leads them to one place, okay, right on the edge of the wilderness And and there's at that point the there's it's a river above the Red Sea. Very s not a really large river It would be much easier to cross there. But that's not what God does. God leads them back a similar direction, but south, so He's led them east And then you leave now you're leaving the southwest, and it's kind of like why are you was able to observe through scouts perhaps or spies or whatever what was what the route that Israel was taking And as they were taking this route, it looked like they were in total confusion. I mean, if you think about it, they're going east, then to go west, then to go east. again and they're like that it doesn't look like they have any plan and it looks like they're just totally confused and disorganized. Realize that the Bible actually already tells us that they were very orderly as they go. God points that out Because they were not confused at all. But to the Egyptians, they looked as if okay, we actually have an opportunity to get these folks back And so there's this clever luring going on that ultimately leads to a place where God says, verse 4, then I will harden Pharaoh's heart so they will pursue Pursue them, and I will gain honor over Pharaoh and over all his army, that the Egyptians may know that I am the Lord. And they did so This very final time, God says, I want them to know to gain honor over Pharaoh. This honor means it means glory, it's the idea of weightiness, it's the idea of value. He wanted them to understand How powerful he was, the Egyptians would know that I am the Lord But we actually find that what else is going on here is actually we actually pick up in Isaiah 51, 9. We won't take the time to return there, but this becomes a such a monumental event in the nation's history. That they constantly scripture is actually going to refer to this quite often in Scripture throughout the rest of Scripture as the time that God leads them and passes and And lets them walk through the waters. God constantly God is actually setting this up as a reminder. See this later, but is actually setting this up as a reminder to them that God will lead them. God, with God, there's nothing impossible. That's what they want to see. Folks, you and I, with all of this looking at all of this, have need to come to three important truths. Three gospel applications. Number one, ahead and we go, okay, well what's Christmas gonna look like? I know you guys aren't thinking about Christmas, but I gotta look ahead to see what Christmas is gonna look like in order to plan things, okay? And I Think about what we're Christians about. I don't know. I have no idea what we're going to be allowed to do, what we're not going to be allowed to do, and all that kind of thing. There's got to be a point where we just simply say, okay, Lord, whatever you want I'm just going to be dependent on you. Use me the way you want me to use me. Lead me the way you want me to lead me. It may not make any sense, but Lord, would you just lead me and I'll follow. Where he leads, I'll follow me. follow. Number three, we need to grow to know God's glory. That will happen when we do the other two. When we depend on the Lord, and when we are dependent upon the presence of God We will begin to see what that we we may we may not know everything, but we begin to see how God is ultimately going to use this own family. Candidly, I've had more family time in March and April, May than I had pri previous to that and now again. That was good for for my family, candidly. Th there I'm not I'm not at all you know, there are people that have suffered and gone through a great deal, and I'm not trying to make light of that at all. But if you know Christ is your Savior, no matter what the situation you find yourself in, when you look back, you need to see God's working God's guidance, God's presence. And you will if you depend upon Him through it. And some of you are in the middle of situations, more than one, there's many of you. Middle situation, you go, I just can't see ahead to what's going to happen. I don't know what's going to go on. I don't understand what's happening. But it's daily walking with the Lord. And there's going to be a day where you can look back and say, The Lord taught me to be more dependent on him through all of this. And the thing that we know most most need in order to depend upon the Lord It's the Lord Himself. I mean, there's some people, maybe you're hearing this today, and you've actually never depended upon Christ for your own salvation. That's where the whole thing starts. You've actually never been delivered from your Sin. You're still in Egypt. Deliver, you're still in bondage to sin, and what you need to do is call on Christ. To make you one of his own. And if you've never done that before, you don't know whether or not you are genuinely a Christian. I'm going to tell you this: it's not by your own works, it's not by your own self-effort If you think that if you've always trusted on your being a good person to bring you to a place where you are in the right relationship with God, you can't. The Bible says you you you commit it if you Number one sixty God me, O thou great Jehovah. Stand with me and we'll sing. I am the Lord might eat all the carbon hand of head of heaven beyond Baki and all, eat me the elder Oh and now the people found it for And I will see me on my journey. And I sent the her. I will ever give me I will give me Number four eighty seven, where he leads me, I will follow. I did my favorite body. I didn't myself. Ah, it will go all the way to the I know away. I won't go away. I walk away. I go away. Oh no, where did it be? When we live we are fall, when we live we are fall, where we live we are I'll go away. I'll go away. I'll go away. With all where we leave me I'm where we leave me I will When he leave me on the ball, I'm a window. And go with me with me. Where the leaving me I will follow, where the leaving I will follow, where the leaving we are. I'll go with him, with him all the way. That's a really if you think about the word that's a tough song to sing. You know. Um we're gonna continue singing number four eighty seven But I want to talk on that for a quick second if I could. Um just thinking about the fact that it's day by day, one step at a time, right? Being obedi Understanding that even though we don't understand it all, we don't see it all, he's with us. Brings great comfort. He's with us all the way. So as we then move on, we're gonna sing number I said 47 there. We're gonna go to six eighty five, his way is perfect. When they wait seems started to ride all My skill team is on the other. When I come rest with sorrow and a damn fills my soul is Overscore thing I don't overscore I think control No rival is primary. Put it in the point. Oh yeah, I think that's a good thing. Can we uh second one other I need to follow my spell. It is power and both meeting. come to and we um admit that your way is best. Your way is perfect. We don't have to understand Everything that you allow us to go through, or everything that comes at us, but we can rest that you're in control. We do thank you Thank you so much for your goodness. And we ask that you'd work in our hearts and remove doubts and fears and distrust. The Lord help us to fully rely on you. And we thank you for this time, and we thank you for your goodness, and we you may be glorified today in our lives. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. I have a few happens. No, no, no, no, no, no. No, that's a good thing. The video is definitely well. Yeah, I'm going to make a little bit of um Oh no, I'm not the screen or I think that's where it's a bad idea. Uh if you want to take time to go to the