And then turn to the book of Ecclesiastes, and we are in Ecclesiastes chapter three tonight. New chapter in Ecclesiastes. Um Um good to have the teams with us, a couple of the teams with us tonight anyway. I guess most of them are out of town or otherwise occupied. Um but we will we're working conclusion currently with the teams through this past through this book so we'll be able to stay on track here tonight. Um one extreme is sort of this idea that if you um If you just reduce your what God desires down to just what scriptural statement says If you just pay attention to g clear scriptural statement, and that's all that God cares about, then you'll please him. Everything else is up for grabs, you can do whatever you want, but it just boils down to scriptural statement. statement. If you do that, then the rest is you kind of just do what you want. So you have that kind of extreme that is in among Christian service. You have, on the other hand, an extreme that would go would say, no, no, that's not quite right. So we're going to go to the other end of the spectrum and we're going to say that we're going to put all kinds of rules in place. And there's five ways to do this and six steps to do that and twenty steps to do this. whole seminars and symposiums on how just to follow the Bible and and that really becomes a matter of adding to scripture. Legalism occurs uh in that extreme And what we're going to learn tonight is that there is really a biblical approach that would not go to either extreme. But would take a gr uh a biblical a biblical approach, and you'll see what what that is in a moment. Solomon, of course, is writing in the book of Ecclesiastes, and if you recall from last week, We had sort of the sun coming up from the horizon a little bit. It had been a very dark time as he pursued various things, pleasures and wisdom and labor and all those different kinds of things. things. And now he is uh and and last week we saw that he started now to factor in what it would be like for God to be in the picture. And of course things were much better. Realize things were from God's hand, then he was able to enjoy them, and there was going to be advantage and benefit. But we ended sort of on a negative note last week because he concluded the section with understanding God's sovereignty. Is determined by, and his benevolence is determined by what he chooses, which is hard to figure out. Just look at the passage here for a minute, you'll see that. Verse 26. For God gives wisdom and knowledge and joy to a man who is what's the next word, is good to the s to his sight, but to the sinner he gives the work of gathering and collecting that he may give to him the In other words, he says that it you'll begin to be able to appreciate life and you'll be able to see the advantage of life when you be But it is God who chooses whom he will give to whoever based upon whether or not he sees them as good. Now, that is absolutely crucial to understand in order to understand what he is what Solomon is going to be driving at now in this next passage. This is a passage that if you don't know anything else about any other passage in the Bible or in Ecclesiastes, you often will have heard of this passage. There are there are these there are songs put the to these words put to song and and you'll see them in greeting cards and you'll see them at various parts of them in different places. You y this is a very this is the most well known passage of of Ecclesiastes. in all of the book. And and of course there are there is a list of different of different things. And we're going to see what those things are in a few moments. Really to understand what Paul what uh Solomon is driving at though, we've we've got to understand that his what he is now concerned with is how do you know w what what God is going to choose as a good person. Or what is what is good. What is right? What is good? What is going to cause God to be favorable towards someone? And that is the question at hand. And his conclusion, after really thoroughly thinking about this, is in chapter 3, verse 1, he says, To everything there is a season. A time for every purpose under heaven. So he's what is his conclusion? His conclusion is that everything has a purpose. That there isn't anything this side of heaven under the heavens, there isn't anything that doesn't fit somewhere. Now, this might have caused real problems for them for the one who is who is a moralist, who says, I'm going to conduct my life by a certain set of moral standards. And I'm going to set it up that way. And if I follow these rules, then I'm going to be good. You might have a problem with that, because what does this verse say? Everything's good. On the other hand, if you are one who doesn't care about anything, you're gonna have a serious problem with these verses as well. And so that's important for us to understand in the beginning of this. Now to understand this also, I wanted to point out that Ko co Coaleth, who is Solomon, also uses fourteen sets of they're called mirrorisms. They're a figure using polar opposites to encompass everything in between So and that is in its totality. And you'll see what I mean as we go through these. So you have these opposite ideas. Better to uh it's a time to love and a time to hate, time to mourn and a time to dance. You've got opposites, and these are this is a what these are are it's Hebrew poetry that it's called a mirrorism and it includes all of everything in within these two boundaries. So it says it's time a time to be born and a time to die. And it really means everything in between as well. And so you have fourteen of these that are going to describe something that Saul that Saul Is getting at. Now to understand what he's really getting at in verses two through eight, we've got to pay careful attention to verse one. He says to everything There is a is a season, a time to every per person under heaven. Ecclesiastes one is uh is arranged in And it's it's what's called an A B B A chiasm. Now, that's you don't have to use the word worry about the word chiasm, but how many of you all remember perhaps in high school or in college learning different poetry, just English poet poetry, just different poetry patterns. How many of you all are a little familiar with that? Enough familiar to understand what we're talking about here. Well, in English they have that. I mean if you read a poem you're gonna have maybe maybe um line line one and line three Line A will you'll have the third line down that will match the first line, or the fourth line down that will match the first so you have that in English poetry. You also have that in Hebrew poetry. What you don't have in English poetry usually that you do have in e in Hebrew poetry is something called parallelism. And so you also and parallelism is basically the idea where you have not only not only do you have A matches Uh uh well, let me show you in the passage, it'll be easier that way. You'll notice four things here basically in verse one. There are four operative words I want you to see. Number one, you see the word everything there. I'm actually using the New King James. tonight. Uh we just allowed you all allowed me to do this now. And so occasionally I like to I'll I like to employ that privilege and so I actually find it much easier um Frankly. And so to everything there is a season. Everything there is um is one word you want to keep in mind. The other word you want to keep in mind is the word season or time. Then you have the word time there, and then you have the word purpose there, or maybe it's matter, depending on your your the version you're using. So you have four ideas. The first idea, okay, is going to be parallel with the last idea. And the two middle ideas that go together. So the two middle ideas have to do with time. The two outside ideas have to do with their everything and some sort of matter or purpose. So what it's saying here is that the everything is it's talking about everything and every matter. So what happens is When you have this, you have they correspond with each other. In other words, everything in the first idea is also in the in the last idea. Everything in the last idea is also in the first idea. Same thing with the middle ideas. And so so um you have and the extent that what he's talking about is everything. Does it and includes everything he's saying And the nature is he's dealing with every time he's dealing with times. And then you see this term purpose. The word purpose is the idea of desire or purpose. um or matter. Now, here's the point. What Solomon is saying in verse 1 Is that God has a time a God has everything, a purpose for everything He has a purpose for everything. Now, how do you determine the right purpose for everything? What is the key? Anybody know? Mentioned twice in that verse. It's the timing. In other words. You've heard it said this way, the right thing at the wrong time is what? The wrong thing. But the right thing at the right time is the right thing. But here is what he's also going to say. Now this is what's going to throw some people off. He says the wrong thing at the right time is the right thing. Okay? Now that is, you go, what in the world? Now understand this. This is not talking about morality here. Right is always right in morality. Wrong is always wrong in morality. But have we already not already learned that God will use all things for his glory? Does does God ultimately use sin for his glory? His glory. Ultimately, he does. Christ went to the cross. He will use all things for his glory. And so Solomon's thought process has that in mind. This does include everything. The other thing we need to learn about this is that as you go through this list of things, you're going to find something about them. Let's ask this question. When we go through this list, we're just going to read through the list. Is are these things things that God does and that man receives Or are these things things that man does and that God is the beneficiary of? Or some sort of combination between those two. Let's read it and see what it says. A time to be born and a time to die. is not that much involved. Okay. Uh starts the process, but other than that he's done. Okay. Alright. Except comfort and I know. We're we're we're somewhat useful, but not that much. Okay. I that's what I feel like anyway. I feel Rather useful useless. Um but who's who is the one that creates life? Well God does, and who's takes away life? God does that too. Do we have any involvement at all? Well, let me ask you this question. All right. If we decide to eat at McDonald's every day, And we eat a lot at McDonald's every day. And we decide that we are going to take up um you know, bungee jumping as a hobby. And we decide that we're going to buy um, you know, a motorcycle. And we're going to I mean if if you start accumulating all those things, do you suppose but realistically your risk of departure from this earth might go up Okay. Alright. So so yes, on one hand, God is sovereign. He already knows your time. is established. But on the other hand, you have something to do with it. If you go walk out, I guarantee you, you walk out on anywhere in Glenburnie. across the street and you're not paying attention, okay? Um, and you just run right in front of the car, I guarantee you, you're gonna get hit. Okay, if you I mean You know, I guess you I can't guarantee that, but it's very it' you know, it's very possible. And and it is and so so there is some human element in that. Even in that one. But if you go down you're gonna see human element all in all the Time to kill, a time to heal. A time to build up, a time to a time to break down, a time to build up, a time to weep, a time to laugh, a time to mourn, a time to dance, a time So if you're reading through these, all of these Have something to do with God's God's superintendence. And they also have something to do with our responsibility and our action. And so that's important to understand as we go through this too. But ultimately, ultimately we're looking at things in terms of what is what is God's purpose for his thing. And thing, I you know, we're told in uh you know like in homiletics class in college, you never use the word thing. You're not supposed to use the word thing and um when you're when you're uh in pulpit speech and things like that you're not supposed to use the word the word thing. Here I'm allowed. You know why? Because thing is the only thing that will cover everything in this passage. Okay, and you'll see that in a minute. So let's go ahead then and let's work through these one at a time. We won't go super eas super quick, but um that would have helped for me to put that up there earlier. Okay. Anyway, um let's go ahead and work through through these one at a time. Number one, the dire the duration of life, verse two. A time to be born and a time to die. We've already mentioned this one already, but you have sort of these extreme. And so what we're talking about here is a time to be born, a time to die. It's talking about the duration of life. Who's Who's in control of this? Well, God is, but we have something to do with it. Right? Can we agree on that? Okay. So let's go ahead and move on for the sake of time, we'll move on to the next one. Opportunities of life Look at verse two. A time to plant, and a time to pluck up that which is uh what is planted. Um The reason so they were living it primarily in an agrarian society at that point in life, and so there are mu many, many farmers, and so So this is hard for this is not you know we're not we don't plant and pluck up things every day or harvest things every day, but they certainly did back then and and the key key what he's saying here, a time to plant and a time to harvest. Are there certain times where you shouldn't plant certain things? Sure. Are there certain times where you should plant certain things? Sure there is. Are there certain times where you better harvest? Are there certain times where you cannot harvest? Who decided that when something can happen? When something can happen? Well God decided it. God decided by just the way that He created the earth when something can be planted and when something can be harvested. God decided that. But we have some involvement there, don't we? Okay? That's a really good example. A time to break down and a time to build up is the next one. A time to break down and a time to build up. This is there is a couple of different uh um examples of this in um In scripture, uh I I I I'm looking at my watch and going, I don't have time to to go through this real deeply. But basically, you have the idea of breaking down and building up when someone would go into a uh to go and to conquer a new uh a new p um place. They would often break things down in order to conquer it, but they would also build things up Bottom line is what we're talking about here is the opportunities of life. Number three, and this leads us really into the conquests of life. It says you have a time to kill and a time to heal. Is there? So how does that strike you when it says there is a time to kill? The Bible says in Duda in uh in Exodus 20, thou shalt not says thou shalt not kill. However, if there is actually different Hebrew words for kill. Okay, so that factors in. But is there a time to kill? Well sure. Just give me some examples of the time to kill. This isn't hard. Okay, self-defense. And actually that was allowed in the r in in in Jewish law. You come into my house, I can I can kill you. Not I'm saying in Jewish law. In Maryland don't shoot 'em in the back. Let's put that actually don't have a gun. Yeah. Jump out the window and let 'em take your stuff. It's true. But in Jewish law you were allowed you you could, you could do you could self defense was was permissible and and even to the point How about uh killing for food, killing animals? Are there some people in our world that don't want to do that? Okay. Well, that's not biblical. So killing for an for food How about killing in time of war? Did God command at times Israel to kill people? He did. So we have lots of scriptural evidence that there is a time to kill, even as something as as we would say distasteful as taking a human life. Can you think of anything more distasteful than taking a human life? I can't think of anything. And yet, even something that distasteful is sometimes Something that's good. There is a time for that, in other words, and there is also a time, a time to heal Okay. Um same thing, a time to break down and a time to build up, which we kind of already mentioned. So let's go on to the next one, the emotions of life. And I'm going to work through through these a little faster. I have a lot of material on these, but I'll I'll work through them a little faster than I plan to. The emotions of life is in verse four. It says a time to weep, and a time to laugh, a time to mourn, and a time to dance. These are all emotions. A time to weep or laugh. Are these extremes? Okay. And a time to mourn or a time to dance. And this is where Hebrew parallelism is helpful, helpful for us. What is mourning? What's the difference between mourning and weeping? Can you tell just from the text what the difference is? Well, it's the same difference as laughing from dancing is. What's the difference between laughing and dancing? Yeah. So so dancing is dancing you have you've based that's the that's the extreme where you're now it's moved from your heart and your spirit. We're not talking about just Just I don't think what we're talking about here with dancing is is empty gyrations. I'm not I don't think we're talking about that here. I think what we're talking about is like David dancing in the street because he's so happy. So you have the you have these extreme extreme joy that would produce is dancing always wrong? No, not in this passage now. Okay. And you have is it okay when my kids get really excited because something happens and they jump up and down for joy, is that wrong? None of us we know that's not wrong. Okay? And mourning on the other hand, so that's dancing on one hand. You've got mourning on the other hand. That's extreme sorrow to where it affects your body. What do they do in the Old Testament when that happened They put on what? Sackcloth and ashes. There was a physical manifestation of this. So you have extremes. So you have these emotions. Is there a time to weep? Yes. Is there a time to laugh? Yes. Is there a time Is there a time to dance? Yes. Actions of life. There's a time to cast away stones, and there's a time to gather stones. And what they did in uh in scripture when uh occasionally uh when they went in the conquer land, usually a lot of times what they do when they conquered a people is they would they would besieged that they would lay siege to the people, they would surround them on all sides. And they would come in and they would they would uh they would pile up the the ruins with rubble, with stone. It was a total humiliation to the people to cover everything. everything over with stone. And that's what it's talking about, casting away stone or casting down stones. But then also So that's destroying. Are there times to destroy? There is a time to destroy. But there is also a time to what? To gather stones together, to build things. I'm just going to keep moving along here. Relationships of life. There's a time to embrace and a time to refrain from embracing. Is there sometimes a time to refrain from embracing? Let me ask you this. So when is there a time to embrace and when is there a time to refrain from embracing? I'm just curious. What would you say about that? Yeah. I think my little kids and sometimes they're crying because something's terrible after they need a hug. Sometimes they're crying because they're in big trouble and they should be bad and they need to be taught to and discipline. Then they're trying to have to do it. Then you hug 'em later. But yeah. You need comfort, you need discipline Need to feel remorse for a little while. Good. Good example. So there is there are times where it would just be I mean, really uh there'd be times where if you know, for me to come up and give you a A hug would be odd. And then there are other times where it would be completely, you know, completely appropriate. And so um so you have relationships in life, appropriateness in life. Now this is really a big And I think this really some of these really seem to hit a lot in what the what they're talking about, and you have in verses six and seven examples of this. So a time to search and a time to give up something that is lost. What's it talking about there? Well, I mean we all can can identify with with this kind of stuff. It's talking about everything that has to do with searching and everything that has to do with losing. That's the way these are written. So you can't be wrong in whatever you're coming up with. So it means when I lose my car keys. That there's a time to search for them. And there may be a time to give up searching for them. Okay. Yeah, borrow my wife, yeah. Okay. Happens probably about once a week. Not quite that much, but but uh it does happen occasionally. Uh a time to keep and a time to throw away. Boy, don't some people need to get this. I don't you know what, I don't even care if my grandparents hear this on I'm gonna I'm gonna send this to her. Okay. Down in her basement, man, I tell you it is full of oh yeah Okay? There's a time to throw away. Yeah, you might need it someday, right? As soon as you throw it out, you'll need it. Yeah. That is true. Yeah, so that is exactly my grandparents did go through the Great Depression and that's exactly why they're they they they are the way she keeps it. She she's gonna love this. Um uh I have to send it to her now 'cause it's not right to talk behind her back. Um she she keeps um like if she goes to Burger King and gets a She keeps the cups. She says they're really good cups. And so when my kids come over, they want something to drink, she that's what we W anyway, it's got the straw on the lid, then they don't spill it everywhere. It's it's great. Anyway, that's so uh so the I can't help but think of my nana when it comes to to throwing stuff away. Okay. There's times to keep things. They're valuable. There's times to throw away things as well. Right? Um we just we're always throwing stuff away. at our house. And I don't know how we get so much stuff. I don't like we don't spend money very often and I don't I don't know. It does. Yeah, probably yeah. Uh a time to tear apart and a time to sew. the word rent or the w to tear apart, is that the case? Um all these things I'm gonna just keep going. I time to keep silent. Boy, that's a big one, isn't it? A time to keep our mouth shut. Or a time that we should speak and don't. Both of those are true, right? You can't say I'm just gonna keep my mouth shut all the time and that And I'll go through my life with my mouth shut all the time. You know why? Because sometimes you need to say something. There are other times where we ought not be speaking, we ought to need to just we just need to be silent. There is a time to now all of these things, you look at all these things, is God involved in some way of these? What is God's involvement in all of these? Does God not yet not know the very best time for all of these and each of these circumstances? He knows whether or not you'll ever need that again. Wouldn't you wouldn't that would be great? You would know whether you So he knows what's appropriate in life. The attitude of life, there's a time to love and a time to hate. Well, how does that strike you? When is there a time to hate? Sin. That's a time to hate, right? Okay. Uh there is there in in uh parallel construction with this, there's a time for peace and a time for battle. And these are actu these actually go together in construction. And so it basically says this is these are so love is connected with peace. Peace and hate is connected with battle. In a time of battle, when you are going up against an enemy, it is not a time to give them a hug. That's when you refrain from embracing. And that is when you demonstrate and you don't show affection, instead you're going to show this word hatred has a very wide range of meaning. Okay, it can mean a lot of different things, but you're gonna have to you're gonna have to take them out, or you're gonna be taken out. So in time of battle, that's necessary. Peace, there should be there should be love. And by the way, it is also true, in a time of love, there will be peace. In a time of hate, there will be battle. Right? Okay, if you don't have hate, you probably don't have a lot of battle. So attitudes now. I want you to see then the per the final purpose, and we're going to be closing very soon here. Number verse 9 What profit has the worker from that in which he labors? That's just a rhetorical question. He is basically saying, you know what the answer is The answer is his conclusion all of all this is there is no profit. Now why here's why is why is he saying this? Okay. We have decided that God is the one who decides what the best time is for everything. to have his purposes so that we are doing something good. Right? What's the problem? What's the problem? The problem is we don't know what in the world that is. I mean, you really think about it. Do you know the best time to do everything? Experience will help us a little bit with this. We'll get a little better at timing as as as time goes on. But the reality is we don't know. This this is quite frustrating actually, isn't it? Have you ever just been off on your timing? Right thing, wrong time. And it's frustrating when the timing is not right and you do something that's wrong and you think, Man, I should have done that a week ago or I should have done that, you know, I I I should be I should have waited on that. The timing is it is a frustrating thing. He's really expressing frustration here. He's saying, there's no I can't control anything. Can we control anything? Can we control time? No, it's going whether we like it or not. And so he becomes frustrated with the idea that I his his conclusion here, now he's gonna have further things to say. But he leaves us at this point with this basic idea that I can't control what's going on And I have no ability to be able to be good so that God can benevolently provide for me. I have no ability to do that. That's his conclusion. D do you think that's a good conclusion? It's exactly where God wants us to be, that we don't have that ability. And he says with great sort of There's very practical specificity. We read through these and we know you know there's some things we know right timing and wrong timing, but you read through these and there's a lot of gray area in there, isn't there? We would call it gray area. To God's not gray. But we don't really know. So so it is frustrating, isn't it? And so we're going to have the answer to that in the next next section that we will get to. But for now, we essentially leave it there. Now here is the key. Remember this. Well, let me just put it this way. Since all things are appropriate in their time, a moralistic approach to gaining favor with God will fall short. God's approval of everything requires God's timing on everything If we could always know when and how to do what according to God's time, then we could guarantee God's favor. But the problem is, is we can't And that's where we have to leave it. That's where Solomon wants us to leave it. It is for us, as one commentator said, to bring us to a point of existential despair. Because when we are there, we're then able to see God working, and we'll see that in the coming weeks ahead. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you, Lord, just for the time that we could spend together in your word, and we admit before you that we are absolutely we are We are completely unable to be a to to know the right and best timing for everything in life, as only you do. And so we know that these things are in your hand And I pray, Lord, that you would teach us to know how to live this life, understanding that And how we can have a life that does have uh advantage and that does ultimately have lasting value. And as we learn this through the through the book of Ecclesiastes. Giastes, may you teach us what you want us to know and I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen