Let's go to the Lord in prayer this morning. Father, we are uh reminding Of the fact that your word tells us that you are indeed a holy God, a thrice holy God. We see in Isaiah 9 Or Isaiah 6 rather, that you uh you are on your throne, you are in control and sovereign over all things, and angels do not cease to cry out, hold Holy, holy, holy. We confess before you, Father, that although you tell us to be holy, because you are holy, Holy, we we are not. But we thank you for the fact that although we are practically not holy, you uh through your goodness and And graciousness have given us your son, so that we can have our little righteousnesses which aren't Even actually righteous, and have that replaced with the righteousness that comes from you. And that you view us not as we are practically, but you view us Us through your son and positionally declare us righteous. We thank you, Lord, that this is the type of God you are And as we see all that is going on in our midst, in our church, and in the world around us. Uh we think of how you're working in our lives and we thank you that that you are truly intricately involved in every aspect of our lives, whether we are children this morning or or adults, you are watching over us and caring for us. We thank you, Lord, that that baby Owen is now home from the hospital and that you have uh worked in such a way to to uh have him be healthy enough to do that And can be home with Kristen. We pray for a continued uh recovery from that. We we pray for Cheryl as found out this morning that that she's dealing with uh some balance issues and we ask that um you would help her in that and and that they could uh the doctors and so forth could um And Lord, we're we're in the midst of well, the end of 2020 and and Certainly Lord you know better than anyone who is how what we've been dealing with and the uh the the struggles and the the temptations and the trials that have come along with that and And we we admit to you, Father, that that we are tired of of this. There's no doubt about that. And a as cases are rising, um we do have concerns, Father, about the future and and what might be coming down the road. We we do thank you for what appears to be a fair and favorable outcome from uh the government here in Anoronal County. Um but we do pray Lord that uh you would you would help us as we attempt to do the right thing help us to be wise in all that that we do. We pray Lord for other churches though who are who are dealing even now with shutdowns that that they can't meet because of uh what the government has laid down and um we we ask that you give us all protection and all wisdom uh to navigate uh this and we thank you That we don't have to go through this blind, but we do find answers and principles in your word. And I pray that uh that we would be a people of the word. We would abide by it, seek it, study it, so that we can live this life as you would uh have us to. For your glory And for your honor, and for proclaiming your name to others, and giving an ap accurate representation of who you are to others. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen Amen. Our passage today that Pastor Jim is going to be preaching from is Exodus 19, verses 1 through 15, and I will begin reading now. In the third month, after the children of Israel had gone out of the land of Egypt, on the same day they came to the wilderness of Sinai. For they had departed from Rephidim, had come to the wilderness of Sinai, and camped in the wilderness. So Israel camped there before the mountain. And Moses went up to God, and the Lord called to him from the mountain, saying, Thus you shall say to the house of Jacob, and tell the children of Israel, You have seen what I did to the Egyptians, and how I bore you on eagle's wings and brought you to myself. Now therefore, if you will indeed obey my voice and keep my covenant, then you shall be a s special treasure to me. Above all people, for all the earth is mine. And you shall be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. These are the words which you shall speak to the children of Israel So Moses came and called for the elders of the people, and laid before them all these words which the Lord had commanded them. Then all the people answered together and said, All that the Lord has spoken, we will do. So Moses brought back the words of the people to the Lord. And the Lord said to Moses, Behold, I come to you in the thick cloud, that the people may hear when I speak with you and believe you forever. So Moses told the words of the people Then the Lord said to Moses, Go to the people and consecrate them today and tomorrow, and let them wash their clothes. And let them be ready for the third day, for on the third day the Lord will come down upon the Mount Sinai in the sight of all the people. You shall set bounds for the people all around, saying, Take heed to yourself that you do not go up to the mountain or touch its base. Whoever touches the mountain shall surely be put to death Not a hand shall touch him, but he shall surely be stoned or shot with an arrow, whether man or beast, he shall not live. When the trumpet sounds long, they shall come near the mountain So Moses went down from the mountain to the people and sanctified the people, and they washed their clothes, and the people, and he said to the people, Be ready for the third day. Do not come near your wives. So when a young person moves to a new school, maybe they've gone from junior high to high school or something of that nature, there is everything seems new. Everything, uh the building's new, the class are new, the people are new, the teachers are new, the everything is new. Everything around them is It's totally new. Of course, if you're homeschooling, nothing is new. But um but if you're if you're going to a new school, everything's is new. And that's why the very first day, um the very first day uh is often an ordin or an orientation day. You're being oriented to the things around you, the conditions of everything, and what your responsibilities are going to be, what the expectations are, who your teachers are. You know, in college you'll get this as well. You'll receive this assignment sheet perhaps for the semester or the quarter or whatever, and it'll show you what your assignments are, all that kind of thing. That tells you the conditions. of of what's going to happen there. And that really is what's happening in chapter 19 in a sense. There's God is preparing his people to have the right conditions in their lives and to explain to them what they're going to who they are and what they're going to be. He's orienting them to a relationship. In the similar sense as a marriage, you have premarital counseling that that at least attempts to orient them to what marriage is like to some degree and and what is going what the expectations are and to try to um you know sort of like Tell them to calm down about their own expectations and realize that it's not going to be the way they think and all that to try to and it's nearly impossible to do that is an interesting task. But anyway, the whole idea is that you're orienting them. And that's what God is doing here in this passage. And he's going to do it as they're now at the foot of Mount Sinai. They've been traveling for three months from Rephedim. And now for three months they've been in the wilderness of Sinai and now they're at the foot of Mount Sinai. And uh God is going to ha the Moses is going to make a trek up to God three times and then come back down and make the speech. to the people. Three times that happens to prepare them throughout this entire chapter. We're going to look at two of the times today. And um and this whole idea is to set up his covenant. A covenant, remember, is an agreement. It's an agreement between two parties. And in most cases, that contract or covenant that is an agreement between two parties has stipulations and lays out what the expectations are and uh lays out what the requirements are and you're going to see that kind of thing going on uh in this passage. And what God really ultimately wants to do is to establish his conditions to prepare the people to be in the presence of God. You see, the main the main thing to remember about this Is that God is going to dwell with his people. His presence is going to be with them. And Much of what you see actually all the way from this chapter all the way through chapter 40 4038, verse 38. It's a long, this is a major change in section. Uh this is the next major section here from 1901 to 4038 is is to is to show what what the what is going that needs to be like in order to be and to live in the presence of God. And the first condition that we are going to see in this passage is that God's people need to be a dependent, obedient people. A dependent obedience from God's people is a necessary condition. And we'll pick up here in chapter one, chapter 19, verse 1, it says, in the third month after the children of Israel had gone out of the land of Egypt, on the same day they came to the wilderness of Sinai, for they were departed from Raphedim and came to the wilderness of Sinai and camped in the wilderness, so Israel camped there before the fat the mountain. And Moses went up to God. The Lord called to him from the mountain, saying, Thus you shall say to the house of Jacob and tell the children of Israel, you have seen what I did to the Egyptians. And how I bore you on eagle's wings and brought you to myself, now therefore, if you will indeed obey my voice. and keep my covenant, then you shall be a special treasure to me above all people, for all the earth is mine. So he says in this passage, he first of all it just gives you the timing and the setting and all of that. And then he uses three phrases To demonstrate what he has done for the nation of Israel. Before he says what he's requiring of them, he's actually going to say, this is what I've done for you The first thing he says is, remember, he says, remember what I did to the Egyptians. Well, what did he do to the Egyptians? Well he He battled them and many of them went w were put to death. Remember the the crossing of the Red Sea and all of that happened there? That's what happened, and you have this relationship that has been that was established, and they were delivered by the hand of God. And then you have then the Lord's working for his people. The Lord's working for his people. And as they went through, you remember, as they went through the wilderness, you have this water that's gushing forth by the hand of God, and you have the manna that's been provided. He uses this phrase. He says, I bore you on eagle's wings. What does he mean by bore you on eagle's wings? Well, we have some help from Deuteronomy 32, verse 9 through through twelve on this because in that song of Moses which was which was uh given to us right after the the Egyptian or I'm sorry right after the um the Red Sea Deuteronomy thirty-two verse verse uh eleven says as an eagle stirs up its nest Hubers over its young, spreading out its wings, taking them up, carrying them on its wings So the Lord alone led him, and there was no foreign God with him. So that tells us in that passage what it means that he bore them on eagle's wings. You think of an eagle, we actually went up to um Conewingo Dam yesterday with our family uh just for a couple hours and uh and saw lots of bald eagles up there. They're migrating. They've begin they've begun the process of migrating And we saw them uh in that area s probably, you know, a dozen uh different times flying around and taking pictures of these majestic uh bald eagles. And uh by the way it was I'd actually never been up been up there before and I've lived in Maryland most of my life, but uh it was really a Pemony experience. I recommend it. Um but these these uh that's that's uh do that's north of here But um the the eagles the the idea here with these bore your own eagles' wings is is is you know you have young uh that are vulnerable to predators and And so protection is implied here, and also provision is implied here. So you've got protection and provision. He's saying, look, I've delivered you, I've protected you, I've provided for you. And then he says, I brought you to myself. Here you are at the base of the mountain of God. That's what it was called in chapter 3 of Exodus. You are on the mountain of God, and I've brought you to myself. I've gathered you to myself. Two million people, I've gathered you to myself. Then he says, in order to experience more of this, to experience this relationship, this deliverance, this protection, this this And all of that. There is something in this covenant that you need to do. He says two things. You need to obey my voice. And he says, you need to keep my covenant. So he implores them to obey my voice. And keep my covenant. Now, you may immediately say to yourself, well, that's Old Testament. That's not New Testament. I mean, you know, in the New Testament, we're free. God says we have liberty in Galatians, and we have freedom in all of that. And the truth is, we really have a misunderstanding of what freedom is. Oftentimes, when we think of freedom, we think of freedom from something. Is that not right? We think of freedom from uh oppression or freedom from um uh rules or regulations or freedom from somebody gets out of jail and they're free from jail. We think of freedom from something That's only half of freedom. And they were freed from something, weren't they? They were already delivered from the Egyptians. They were freed from the oppression of the Egyptians. But now God doesn't want to suddenly hamper their freedom He wants to free them to do something. See, freedom is not, biblical freedom is not just freedom from something. It's freedom to be and do something. It's freedom to be in the place where God wants us to be, to be in the right situation where God Where we can thrive and do what God wants us to do, and we can be what God created us to be. Let me illustrate it this way. So there's a young boy who loved animals. He loved all kinds of pets, any kind of thing that you could play with and you know if a if a dog went by, my daughter, my youngest daughter's like this, if the dog goes by, she wants to pet it, and this little boy is that way. Um uh whether it's a cat or a or a uh rabbit or a hamster, there this little boy was just always wanting to play uh with different th different uh animals and The parents said, you know, we really ought to get him a pet of some kind of his own that he can play with, but they said, you know, it's really um They're expensive and there's there's all this maintenance involved and the hassle we're really busy and so instead he they got him a goldfish They took the goldfish and they put it in the room and they said, here, here's a goldfish. And the boy was really, really excited about this goldfish and this goldfish and this bowl. And uh he was thrilled about it. He was so excited. He said, thank you so much And a day later, two days later maybe, he the the parents asked the little boy, how's it going with the goldfish? And the boy said, well, at first it went really, really well. And he he said the the goldfish was flopping all around. I was playing with it. It was really great. It was really and then suddenly now it's just always still Like I it I it I I take I put it in the bowl and it just drops to the bottom and it's still I pull it out and I play with it and it's just still. It doesn't do anything at all. Well what happened there? Well, of course, you know the goldfish died. Why? Why did the goldfish die? Well, it was freed from the bowl. It could just flop all around. It was free. No, it was actually in bondage when you freed it from its where it was supposed to be. And folks, that is the way it is in our lives. God has created us for his glory. He's created us for worship. He's created us to follow him. He's created us for these things. And when we try to want freedom outside of those things, we want to disobey for freedom. It's like we're leaving what God intended for us. See obedience to God puts us in a place where we stay in the fish bowl Where we stay where God wants us to be. Obedience keeps us in the environment, keeps us in the situation, keeps us in the context where we can live and thrive. Disobedience pulls us out of that. And what God really wanted for his people is to be able to be in this covenant relationship. where they would obey him and keep his covenant so they could thrive and live in the presence of God and be all that God wanted them to be. Obedience actually brings freedom to glorify God and to be what God wants us to be. And that is the best life we can live. And that's exactly what God wanted for his people. So at the very outset of the establishment of his covenant with his people, he said, If you will, he's not saying, Well, look, I'm going to kill you immediately if you don't. He says, therefore, if you will do this, it's like Joshua said in Joshua 24, choose you this day who you will serve. As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. And that is the decision that every individual needs to make. And it's the same kind of thing that we see in Ephesians 4, verse 1, where it says, I, therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that you walk worthy of the calling wherewith you are called. With all lowliness and gentleness with long suffering, bearing one another in love. And Second Thessalonians chapter one, verse nineteen, it says, Therefore We also pray always for you that our God would count you worthy of this calling and fulfill all the good pleasure of his goodness. and the work of faith with power, that the name of the Lord Jesus Christ may be glorified in you and you in him according to the grace of our God. And the Lord Jesus Christ. The kind of life that God wants us to live is full of grace and glory. In Christ. But it requires us to stay in the bowl. Requires us to stay in obedience to Him. Well, now that he's established the one single requirement of his people, he is now going to move and he's going to talk about his people. The conditions of this covenant, secondly, are a valued position for God's people God desires and establishes a valued position for his people. He says, picking up in chapter chapter 19, verse 5, the second part of the verse. Then you shall be a special treasure to me above all people, for all the earth is mine, and you shall be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. These words which you shall speak to the children of Israel. So Moses came and called for the elders of the people and laid before them all these words which the Lord Commanded them, then all the people answered together and said, All that the Lord has spoken we will do. So God says there are three uses three phrases again, and he uses these three phrases To explain who his people are and who he is making his people to be. First of all, he says, you're a treasured possession. You're a treasured possession. This is like royal property. In 1 Chronicles chapter 29, verse 3, this word is used. It says, moreover, because I have set my affection on the house of God, I have given to the house of my God over and above all that I have prepared for the holy house, my own special treasure of gold and silver. You can imagine a man who has great wealth and many possessions, he owns all kinds of uh property and houses and land and boats and you name it, he owns it, but there's this really special thing that he values. Maybe it's some antique gun or something like that he just really values. And so the people that he really he really respects, you know, he has all this land and all these things. He owns all kinds of stuff, but You know, when he comes when they come into his house and they he asks people over for dinner, he's like, let me show you this thing that's really valuable, that he really just really values himself. This special treasure. That's the picture here. That Israel is to be the special treasure of God. God owns it all. He owns everything, but there's this special treasure. And then he says. You are a kingdom of priests. This is the only time in the Old Testament, I think, that it says this about the entire nation of Israel. This is before the Levitical priesthood is established. And of course, we know that the Levitical priesthood, the primary reason that God sets up this priesthood in Leviticus, is to maintain the presence of God. When you think priest, In the Old Testament, you should think presence of God. And so what God is actually saying is that the m a major distinctive of Israel is that they are to be a people where God's presence will reside. You are a kingdom of priests Then finally he says, you're a holy nation. A holy nation, the word holy is distinct. It's separated. And God was calling out the nation of Israel to be holy and to be separated for a very important reason. It was actually so that they could be God's influence. When you think of the holy nation of God, you should think of the influence of the nation. God desired that there be they be a holy nation so that they could be an influence on the people. This started from the very beginning of Abraham, God's covenant with Abraham. All the way back in Genesis 12 where it says, Now the Lord has said to Abraham, get out of your country from your family and from your father's house. To a land that I will show you. I will make you a great nation. But then notice what it says: I will bless you and make your name great, and you shall be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and I will curse those who curse you, and in you all of the families of the earth shall be blessed. That God has made a nation to be distinct and separated so that they can influence and bless the world. Isaiah 42, 6 says it this way, the Lord, uh I, the Lord, have called you in righteousness, and I will hold your hand. I will keep you and give you a covenant to the people as a light to the Gentiles. In Isaiah 49, verse 6, it says, Indeed, he says, it is too small a thing that you should be my servant, to raise up the tribes of Jacob, and to restore the preserved ones of Israel, I will also give you as a light to the Gentiles. Now here's the important truth. God's going to give this to Moses to take down to the elders. Do you remember the elders that were established just in the previous chapter, and Jethro, the father-in-law of Moses, recommended that he set up elders and judges in the land? Now God is actually using that here so that Moses becomes the go-between, the intercessor between the people and God, and these elders come and they're representatives of the people. And these elders then, as representatives of the people, are then able to say, yes, we agree to this And you say, well, what does all this have to do with us? We're not Israel. Would you take your Bibles for a minute? I just want you to see these words. Take your Bibles and turn to 1 Peter 2. We're actually on Wednesday nights going through the book of 1 Peter. We haven't gotten anywhere close to chapter 2 yet. But I want you to pick up in verse 9. And I want you to see what God actually says about his church. There is really no question in my mind here he's speaking about his church. It was an epistle that was written to a group of churches in Asia Minor. They were a mixed group of Jews and Gentiles, but actually mostly Gentiles. And he says in verse 9 of this passage, and you are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation. His own special people that you may proclaim the praise of Him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light, who once were not a people, but now the people of God, and had not obtained mercy, but now you have obtained mercy. The very purpose that God established the nation of Israel, to be a light to the Gentiles, to be a light to the world, to influence the world, to be a holy people. to be a special treasure. The very purpose. Israel and the church aren't the same. They're distinct. But the purpose is the same, essentially. That we as a church should be distinct from the world, should be separate from the world should be a holy people. And if we are a holy people, then we will be able to influence the world. If we lose our distinctiveness, we will lose our influence. And folks, it really seems to me that to a large extent the Church of Jesus Christ is losing its influence because it's losing its distinctiveness. God says, be holy as I am holy. That's also in 1 Peter Because God desires us to the truth of the matter is, folks, Israel largely failed at this, didn't they? You go book after book through the Old Testament and you see some, you you see in Joshua that there's great victory, but it's not long before you see judges that are doing really, really bad things, and then you see Kings that are doing even worse things and I mean and and before long you have an entire breakdown and idolatry and all kinds of till you come to Daniel, which we're studying on Sunday nights and And the the Israel has largely not been what God has created created to be. But God then says, okay, I'm going to establish my church And I'm going to indwell you with the Spirit of God permanently, and I'm going to give you all kinds of things the Israel never has, so that you can do what Israel wasn't able to do. But folks, the one thing that's the same is that we still must obey. And God says in the New Testament, be holy as I am holy. Well, how does all of this come about? How can we be, well, how is the nation of Israel supposed to be this, and how can we be this? We pick up here in Exodus 19, you can turn back there, verse chapter uh chapter 19, and pick up in verse 8, second part of the verse, it says, So Moses brought back the words of the people to the Lord. And the Lord said to Moses, Behold, I come to you in the thick cloud, and the people may hear when I speak with you and believe you. Forever. So Moses told the words of the Lor of the people to the Lord. And what he's actually saying there is uh what what God is doing is he he really before he establishes his law, which is in the next chapter He wants to make sure that they understand that Moses is speaking for God. So he uses this pillar of cloud and he he's authenticating Moses' ministry so that there's absolutely no question that Moses is God's man in this. All of that. We see that here in the passage. Because what Moses is about to give to the people and what Moses is about to say to the people is absolutely needs to be trusted completely. And so he says, and so Moses told the words of the Lord to the people that they would believe them forever in a passage. But then God commands Moses to do something to the people in verse 10. It says, And the Lord said to Moses, Go to the people and consecrate them to today and tomorrow, and let them wash their clothes. He later on is going to say that he did that. The passage says that Moses did this. He sanctified the people. And it's the same Hebrew word. Consecrate and sanctify are the same words in the Hebrew. He's talking here about setting them apart. He says to Moses, you must set these people apart for my work. You must set them apart to worship me. Do you remember back in chapter 3 where he said to Moses, he says, One day as a sign to you, you will worship me on this mountain. In order to be God's people, to worship God, to be transformed into worshipers, he says, we got this, you must set these people apart. You must consecrate them Now, there's a lot actually a ton of debate in this passage, and some of this we're actually going to cover next week. But in the passage you have you have things like um that they've got to change their clothes and they've got to not have marital relations for three days while they're waiting for the coming of of God and there's all kinds of cleanliness ideas and that you can't touch the presence of God. There's all kinds of things going on here that we'll discuss next week. But I want us to note primarily this that There is a clear dedication of God's people in this passage. They are clearly consecrated. They're dedicated We'll go through the details of that next week, but they are dedicated for God's work and for God's purposes. So should we as well You and I need to be dedicated to God's work, to his purposes. As a holy nation, as a peculiar people, we need to be dedicated. In 1 Peter chapter 2, verse 11, so the consecration in Exodus is very un it's it's hard it it's confusing, and we'll We'll try to clear it up as much as possible next week, but it's a little bit confusing. But it's crystal clear how we're to dedicate ourselves. In first Peter chapter two, verse eleven, the same passage we were looking at before it says, Beloved, I beg you As sojourners and pilgrims, you're not of this world. You're just passing through. This world's not your home. You're a sojourner and pilgrim. Abstain from fleshly lust Which war against your soul. Having your conduct honorable among the Gentiles That when they speak against you as evildoers, they may by your good works which they observe glorify God in the day of visitation. God says two things. Number one, abstain from evil desires in your soul. Because that is the only way that you are going to be able to have godly conduct in this world. Is that not true? For you and I to think that somehow we're going to be able to behave right and to have heart that just desires what we want. We want what we want when we want what we want. But I'm going to make sure I've got certain things figured out. Make sure that I'm behaving right. I'm going to live well before everybody, but my heart's just going to want what it wants. This passage clearly in 1 Peter says that is not God's way for his people. That's called hypocrisy. What God wants us to do is to come to a place where our hearts are consecrated to Him. So that our lives will be consecrated to Him. That's why it says in Romans chapter 12, I beseech ye therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God. That you present, it's that idea, that you present your bodies, a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And don't be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. That is the only way for us to be able to influence this world for him So, in summarizing all of this, how do we do this? Number one, remember this. Experiencing God's presence requires obedience. If you're to experience God's presence and to be a distinct people, if we are going to be what God wants us to be, if we are going to be how God created us to be in the fishbowl. Then may we not want freedom from what God wants. Experiencing God's presence requires obedience. Number two God has called us as his people to influence the world. God has called us as his people to influence the world. And number three, our lives must be distinct from the world so that we can reach the world for Christ. Our lives must be distinct from the world so that we can reach the world for Christ. God wants us to be holy as He is holy. Let's pray together. Father, we readily confess before you that we so often are not holy as you are holy We are far more inclined to follow after the lust of our flesh than to deny the lust of our flesh. That's why our conduct is not always exemplary before the world. Such an approach, we will lose our distinctiveness and lose our influence. Lord, would you teach us? Convict us That we need to be separated for you. So that we can be distinct. And although people reject us In the end, many can glorify you in the day of visitation. We thank you for that clear instruction from your word. We pray that you'd help us to follow it as your people. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.