And Jim Sr. That's there's your word. And then Moses is actually going to be going to the people on behalf of God. It's not about pleasing people, it's about pleasing God. And some prophets, some evangelists, and some the pastor-teacher. And when the chief shepherd appears, you will receive the crown of glory that does not fade away. uh given through jet jethro here and it sets them up to now go into a covenant relationship that we'll learn about in verse in chapter nineteen. Call our faith to rise, cause our eyes to see, your merchant a glove and authority The proud have forged a lie against me, but I will keep your precepts with my whole heart. It is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I may learn your statutes. And our weakness. God and Father. uh be upon this family. Do do this because you want to be b you know represent God. And we'll see that this is actually one of the few times in the Bible where Israel does something right. Uh they're coming and they're inquiring of Moses and this is actually something where they're doing the right thing here and you'll see that in the passage. What do you want me to do in this situation? where it will all be clearly established. There is a unity about that. Now notice the emphasis. And let them judge the people at all times. Of the presence of God. And a witness of the suffering of Christ, and also a partaker of the glory that will be revealed. There is a kind of peace that passes all understanding. There won't be inner conflict inside. Blessed Jesus, blessed Jesus, thou hast brought us now we are. Blessed Jesus, blessed Jesus, early let us turn to thee. Blessed Jesus, blessed Jesus. For and sinful though we be, thou hast mercy to relieve us grace to quent and power to free Blessed Jesus, blessed Jesus, early let us turn to thee Love us, love us to bless Jesus, bless it Jesus, thou hast love us, love us to. Bless the shortened control that Christ has regarded my hellessing and has shed. We roll back as a straw, the drum shall resound, and the laws shall descend even so. You provided through your grace and your power and your strength. I believe your commandments before I was afflicted, I went astray. In uh spirit and in truth this morning. Comings. Goodness and your kindness there. Father, and I pray that uh Father you would uh show mercy to us, that you would grant wisdom and discernment to our uh president and uh his Through it because we know you are sovereign over all things. Jim the ability, Lord, even though he's uh got burdens on his heart. And now actually just to remember that's what's hap- what's happened now is he's come back to sim the similar a similar area. That's not really what the passage is about. You were reading through the passage, that's actually Jethro's focus. to particular circumstances. so that it is it can be applied on a very practical day-to-day level. And it has to do with searching out, setting, seeking out with care, requiring an answer, wanting an answer. I'll give you a couple of examples of this. Now set your heart and your soul to seek the Lord your God. and the holy articles of God into the house that is to be built by for the name of the Lord. He did what was good and right and true before the Lord his God, and in every work that he began in the service of the house of God, in the law of and the commandment, to seek his God Okay. Even he gave to Abraham laws, and now he's giving Moses laws. They're trying to figure things, they're trying to, a judgment has to be made. It says in the passage that you should stand before God for the people, so that you may bring But you do see Moses playing this role and picturing in this role. to their place in peace. That's why it says later on in the passage that pastors are to equip the saints for the work of the ministry. They're paid to do that. not by compulsion, but willingly, not for dishonest gain. Pastors, elders, that that office is for the s is for the spiritual nurturing and the spiritual oversight of God's people to deal to help with spiritual needs, to do the shepherding, to help even on a very practical level how to apply God's truth precisely. And yet we're going to ordain an elder next next Sunday, Lord willing. important. together. That the light of Christ might be seen today in our acts of love and our deeds of faith. Hero, hear us when we pray. Thou hast bought us thy we are. we can have through God if we obey, if we seek Him diligently, seek His word. When sorrows like steepillows roll, what ever my lot? Thou hast called me to say, It is well, it is well with my soul. uh than thousands of coins of gold and silver. To apply truth to your world. And I'm thankful that your word in your word, it doesn't require us to understand your wisdom, but we do need to accept it. Our wisdom is totally flawed. And I think of uh Zach and Kristen and their family, and especially their little newborn. That you would guide their hands and their thoughts. family, uh Elizabeth and the kids. speech and just enable him uh to bring your word to us and help us to have hearts and ears that are willing to hear. us more and more into your image that in all things, Lord, that you would be glorified and lifted up and we ask in Jesus' name. of God and his laws. and made them heads over the people, rulers of thousands, rulers of hundreds, rulers of fifties, and rulers of tens. People, why do you alone sit and all the people stand before you from morning and until evening? the kind of relationship that a father-in-law is supposed to have with a son-in-law, if that's what you're seeing, you're actually seeing the wrong thing. A product. trying to judge himself and teach himself and do all of this himself. is sort of this process by which God says, I'm going to distribute my truth to you your pe to my people So what is God's plan for us living out his truth? We must seek out God's revealed will wholeheartedly. When they have a difficulty, they come to me, and I judge between one and another, and I make known the statutes of God and his laws. searching out the tap that that's going on here. Know the God of your fathers and serve him with a loyal heart and with a willing mind, for the Lord searches all hearts and understands all intent of thoughts. Do you remember King Hezekiah? And to do it with all his heart, so he prospered. The different kings in chronicles are measured by, yes, he sought God with all of his heart, or no, he didn't seek God. But Moses says they're coming to know God's will. But he says, I'm giving them God's will and his laws. For the distribution of his truth so that we can apply it. They're not defending their own rights. Both you and these people who are with you will surely wear yourselves out. Moses is now going to change in his roles to a place of, or not, change, but adjust his role to a place of mediator. We pick up in verse 20, and it says, you need to teach the statutes and the laws to all the people and show them the way which they should must walk And the work they must do. Such as fear God, men of truth, hating covetousness, and place such over them to be rulers of thousands, rulers of hundreds, rulers of fifties, and rulers of tens. So it will be easier for you, for they will bear the burden with you. You need to choose leaders. And there's no question that these are really genuinely good qualities. Who really didn't were not occupied with their own gain. Now then we move on, and we see that their role is to judge among the people, but then if there were areas where they were just too difficult for them, they would bring them to Moses, but then Moses would then bring them to God. You know, that gathers 40,000 people in a stadium, and if you'll just believe enough and believe in yourself and believe in God enough and pray hard enough, you'll have millions, is a false gospel. Now, if you know anything about how often a word is used, that's a lot. It also includes the idea of completion, wholeness, harmony, fulfillment But let them not turn back to folly. Pastors, elders, and Holy Spirit, we have everything we need. Test or horse and orange of your curiosity Speak, O Lord, as we call to you to receive the fruit of your holy word. Take your truth, plant it deep in us, shape and passion us in your likeness. Speak, O Lord, and forwill in us all your purposes for your glory. Gory. Be the guardian of our way. But all is nailed to the cross, and thy very no more praise the Lord Let's pray. We are in bliss, whether we are in the middle of heartache and tragedy and suffering, we can have peace with you. To live daily in your word, applying the truth of your word to all of our instances in life. Throw that out there as well. created the earth that you chose to save this lady. uh your good hand working in the hearts of the family and in particular in uh Jim and uh even in Shane and uh Jim Sr. be able to make decisions and be able to be there, particularly for the children also. our hearts and draw us to you. Because the people come to me to inquire of God. Moreover, you shall select from all the people, able men, such as fear God, men of truth, hating covetousness. Then it will be that every great matter they shall bring to you, but every small matter they themselves shall judge. And uh while he was there, you know, about forty m forty years after that point, um that was the Burning Bush incident that was on the mountain of God. left Israel, you know, escaping Pharaoh. uh creating it, distributing it, selling it all that. And Moses then explains what he's doing, and we pick up in verse 15, and it says, And Moses said to his father-in-law, because the people come to me, inquire of God And Moses is saying, sort of in defense of what's going on here to Jethro, and Jethro is not being, I don't, I don't see Jethro as being high hypercritical, he's just concerned. The Ten Commandments haven't been given yet. Holy and acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service, and do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind that you may prove what is that what? Now this is actually going to become very important in the next chapter where now a covenant is going to be established, and Moses is going to be going to God on behalf of the of uh the people And teaching the people the truth of the Word of God. It's appropriate. And in his church, to be able to help us to apply the truth in given situations. It includes various, it's a really huge concept, but then I won't take the time to look at all of it, but just I'll just mention a couple of things. So, you know, you can't get a little bit more. Those who fear you will be glad when they see me, because I am I have hoped in your word. Let I pray your merciful kindness be for my comfort, according to your word, to your servant. That we can accept it because you are all wise and there's absolutely nothing that gets by you, there's no flaw in your wisdom, we can completely trust you. And Lord, that this peace that you give that passes all understanding, may it be upon them, to comfort them during this time as they are her husband and children that uh you would also comfort them at this time and I pray that you would strengthen uh Shane father and uh give him the ability to be And place such over them to be rulers of thousands, rulers of hundreds, rulers of fifties, and rulers of tens, and let them judge the people at all times And if you'll kind of remember just a couple of things that by way of background that will kind of acclimate us a little bit, remember that the first time Moses left without the nation, there were she was Israel wasn't with him The hard cases they brought to Moses, but they judged very sm every small case themselves. And the people are very concerned about applying the truth of God to their particular aspects in life, to Now, of course, Jethro asks Moses, we read the passage, Jethro asks Moses about what's going on here? Moses says, people are coming and inquiring of me. Do you know that's exactly the question that God desires for every Christian to ask? When there is conflict in your heart, when there is conflict in your world, when there is conflict among each other, the question that God wants us to ask is: what do you want? It says in Romans 12:1, you know the verse, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice to God. We have to constantly desire what God wants. And what begins to happen in your life when you want what you want instead of wanting what God wants is there begins to be conflict among others as well. They're wanting what God wants, but there's a problem. And he really wants to emphasize this. But then he says, verse 21, you need to delegate some of this as far as the practical application and the working out of different things. The idea that Moses is going to settle every dispute is absolutely makes no sense. They can't be bribed, and that brings us to the next one. Then what will happen is that the poor will not get fair treatment. And one who hates covetousness, who hates the idea of being bribed, is really what he's talking about there. Then you will be able to endure. That's why it says in Romans 5 that when Christ came to die, he has made peace for us. through song and through worship of him in this way. Words of power that can never fail, and their truth prevail over on me And by faith will walk as you walk with us. In thy blessing pastor sweet, for our use thy both prepared. Blessed Lord and only Savior, with thy love our bosoms fill. With my soul though Satan should buff it, though trial should come. My sin, oh the bliss of this glory of sort, my sin not in part have heard this morning. But you know how to take all of what you know and all of what you see and execute your your knowledge in a way that it's applied as best as possible. In the way that you want us to. And how you have transformed their lives and drawn them to yourself. And Lord, that we would just take this hour and concentrate fully upon your word. And he's on the foot of Mount Sinai, ready to receive God's will. with Israel. to to apply truth in a very practical way for his people. And so he says to them, the occasion here is they're coming with difficulties. Moses is writing. This is not about just Jeffrey's advice, as I mentioned before. And God was very concerned about this, that there would be equality. To settle them and then would make the decrees in the various situations. That God intended in the New Testament for there to be those who are laboring in the word and bringing the truth to his people. Is that not true? In what? So it's possible that no matter what you're going through, in the midst of the storm, you can have peace. And that brings in our hearts peace that does pass all understanding If we will, there's a promise to that. In the practical daily application of Scripture. I I I don't believe I have any kind of self-serving intention here. And now Moses and the nation of Israel are now set up properly to be able to enter into a covenant relationship with God, which we'll see in Exodus 19. Anybody listening and all of us in this building, and anybody listening, Lord, I help us to want what you want. Is on one for my soul. Regardless of circumstance, regardless of trial, regardless of where we find ourselves in, whether To seek out your will, to apply your truth at all times and in precise ways to daily living, so that we can have that peace that passes all understanding. Amen. Lord, I pray that you'd help us to lean on your wisdom. If you think of a business plan, so this is God's plan, but if you think of a business plan, you have in any big good business plan you have three basic elements. I want to know to seek after the will of God, to seek after what he wants. That's the response of a person who's truly received the gospel. A good leader needs to be capable. Now every other one of these is more of a character quality, but he does start out with this one. One who cannot be bribed. God never says he wants abundance, riches, and prosperity for his people. And as you do that, what Jethro says and what God is saying here is that God's people will have peace Teach us more for holidays, holy reverence humility Savior like a shepherd, much we need thy temple care. Early, let us seek thy favor. It is well with my soul It is well, it is well. It is well with my soul. With my soul and Lord, haste the day when my faith shall beside the clouds. Pray that you would watch over us as we go our way. So it is well, it is well my soul. Both you and these people who are with you will surely wear yourselves out. The implication is there's difficulties among each other, there's disputes going on, and they want to know God's will about this, and so they're coming and asking, what do you want from me? And the statutes actually, some of the modern translations just translate it, the will of God. From our thinking of a judicial system, and what you see here is that in a judicial system where two people are coming before a judge and And God says He's given the church this as a gift. Now, I want us to see something that is absolutely necessary in this passage and really I think will be helpful. That will ultimately bring you glory. And we confess before you that we often don't, and instead of leaning on your understanding and trusting that you are the all-wise God, we very frequently want to lean on our own wisdom. Good morning. So when Moses' father-in-law saw all that he had did for the people, he said, What is this thing that you are doing for the people? People, a product, that's the one. We need to seek after his will. It should be about what God wants. You don't when you want what you want, and you're butting up against what God wants, you have in your heart an inner conflict. But there is a way to live so that you say, I don't understand, Lord, but I do accept. And in verse 19 it says, listen now to my voice. Listen to my now my voice, I will give you counsel, and God be with you. A leader of this kind needs to be able to take situations and problem solve. God was concerned about this. And frankly, there are lots of other lists of qualifications of leaders in Scripture. In the New Testament, you have resources that God has given, and you have the pastor-teacher. To declare the Word of God, to teach through the Word of God, to handle the Word of God appropriately, because that is what God's people need. The office is the same between a pastor and elder. But the reality is what God has done in setting up his church is that he is given leadership. That he does want. That does guard our hearts and minds through Christ Jesus, Philippians 4. And we pray all these things in Christ's name. And that peace can rule in our hearts. Listen now to my voice. They haven't been written down and established or codified. In Psalm 78:4 it says, And we will not hide them from their children, telling the generation to come the praises of the Lord, and his strength, and his wonderful works that he has done. My how we need leaders like this. Capable, God-fearing, men of truth, and those who hate covetousness. It doesn't mean that everything is going to be great all the time and there's no not going to be any problems, but there is a kind of satisfied acceptance. It goes back to our wills. You know how perfectly to apply truth to every situation And I just want what you want, because you are all wise and I'm not God never says that this life is going to be easy. When we want what God wants, and only what God wants, and as much as God wants, when God wants it. But it starts with wanting what God wants. That must always be our first concern. Following God's plans and processes will bring peace internally and externally. There are three concluding applications that we need to remind ourselves of. And Lord, we thank you for the comfort that it brings, the encouragement that it brings. And not just on Sundays, but every day of the week. Speak, O Lord, and renew our minds. When teased my way. It is well with my soul. And Father, your grace abounds in our lives and your mercy. And we pray, Father, that you would comfort her and just give her peace beyond understanding. And so it was on the next day that Moses sat to judge the people, and the people stood before Moses from morning until evening. And there is a reason for that. administration and I pray Lord that through this all that uh your truth would uh come forth and uh Father help us to stay focused upon you and trust you Now, this to sort of give us a to acclimate us and help us understand what's going on here in this passage We pick up in verses 17 through 22, and now we see the problem is identified by Jethro. Help us to trust you and apply truth to every situation so that we can have peace with you, peace in our hearts, and peace with others. So let's stand together as we sing. And Father, this morning we come with glad tidings and we come with burdens on our hearts. So we ask that you would help us to be able to just keep our faith and our trust in you. If you don't have a product, you don't have a business. But the question is, what is the product? And so he says, I judge between one and another. Number three, it says, men of truth. They're more concerned about pleasing God than pleasing people. That's God's goal for us. The father-in-law, as far as I can tell, the father-in-law departs by himself, the poor and the boys are left behind. Number three, following God's plan and processes will bring peace internally and externally. How to apply truth to the daily situations that we find ourselves in. Having to go through some trials in life. We all have a lot of burdens and a lot of things on our minds, and Father, we are concerned for our nation, and uh we just lift up uh our nation to you, Father. You may bring the difficulties to God. They act on the truth. Psalm 85, verse 8 says, I will hear what God the Lord will speak, for he will speak peace to his people and to his saints. When we come to this passage, of course, just to remind you that this is Jethro that's that's that's giving advice to Moses, Jethro is the father-in-law of Moses. Not to the exclusion of the other gifts, but to work together with the other gifts is the Holy Spirit. And finally, we sing together, It is Well with My Soul. And the thing is, If you seek him, he will be found by you. In verse 21, it says, Moreover, you shall select from all the people able men. You can have somebody who's really well-meaning, but if they're not capable, they really aren't going to be able to lead God's people. And we pray for those in the family that may not know you at this time. Our scripture reading this morning is from Exodus chapter 18, verses 13 through 27. They know where to go and what and how to how to measure things by that. It's not their feelings that rule them. Satisfaction. And we would ask God for your continued comfort for them. I mean, God's authoring it, but Moses is writing it. I mean, I uh I you know this passage is clearly talking about delegating up application of truths. Okay. But he does do this for us. Father, we do come to you and praise you because you are in all wise God. And Father, we come before you this morning concerning uh Pastor Jim and his family Remember that because we're gonna this is gonna become important later on in the passage as we as we go through it So there he says, Moses, you need to be teaching all the people. You've got to have a leader. New Testament? And as we look at this passage later on today from Exodus, I pray, Lord, that you would teach us Heavenly Father, we do come before you this morning with grateful and thankful hearts, Lord. And so so Jethro gives Moses some advice here. The passage God uses Jethro, no question about that, but that's really not what what's going on here. And when it comes to families and when it comes to the church, it just shouldn't be about our rights. I cannot emphasize this enough. That would be a pastor. It's used a lot in Chronicles. And we see here that that is precisely what God wants us to do They're very, they're wanting to be very specific, and you'll see that here. That's not given until Exodus 20. Verses 19 and 21, verse 19, then we have just Jethro's answer. In peace. And Father, as we think about all that has been going on this week, we are reminded of our own frailties. And so you have uh to be a good leader, you need to be capable, God-fearing, a man of truth. So Moses' father-in-law said to him, The thing that you do is not good The wanting what God wants doesn't mean that everything will be great and wonderful and exactly the way we thought it would be. And there are four qualities of a good leader in this passage. There won't be, Lord, I want what I want. We don't understand a lot and misapply things all the time. What they're doing is they are looking to see what does God want. And we pray all these things in Christ's name. This was said of Hezekiah in in 2 Chronicles 3120. It is well, it is well with my soul. And there this does demonstrate a need for that. And we don't have to understand, we have to accept Father, we are grateful for the fact that it can be with us well with our souls. It says Teach me good judgment and knowledge. And Father, we ask that uh that testimony, Lord, might be evident to them that brings conviction to their hearts, that they would see your greatness We have to have we have to want what God wants. God says through Jethro, Jethro says, if you do this thing and God so commands you In fact, this concept, this shalom is what it is in the Old Testament, this concept is so prevalent in the Old Testament, it is mentioned 250 times in the Old Testament. And Father, may our focus and our minds stay focused upon you. Then it will be that every great matter that shall be that shall bring to you, but every small matter they sh themselves shall judge Product, people, and process. That's how we would usually term it. Father, we come to you and we thank you for your word. I will give you counsel, and God will be with you. Now, what Moses then, what God says, or sorry, what Jethrew says here is that you need to choose capable people. Okay. In other words, Moses, you know, you're a bit worn out. It's really where it all begins that we just come to the place in our lives where we just want to seek after you and want what you want. He keeps saying, if God approves, if uh uh God gives blessing when But you know what God does want for his people? You have a hobby. He keeps he he himself is placing the emphasis on uh God being the center of everything, and I think that's important to Well the product is actually God's will, his truth. And people. God needs to be aware. We need capable leaders, but we need God-fearing leaders. Okay, good. And Father, we pray that it's our desire, Lord, that she would be healed. This word inquire is a very important word. And we pick up in, he says in verse 17, So Moses' father-in-law said to him, The thing that you do is not good. It's just incredible. Folks, there's no way around it. Amen. We need to want his will. This is about God's direction, God's method, doing things God's way. It really goes back to whether we really want what God wants. This is trustworthy men. If a good leader is going to be one that is just that is just occupied with Lord like just like the people were, Lord, what do you want? This is Exodus 18. See what happens in our lives when we just resign ourselves to wanting what God wants, it takes away the inner conflict. They make judgment calls on the truth. Because in any society, really in any organization for that matter, when you when you don't have leaders that are this way and they can be bought, particularly in a country We are entirely equipped to apply truth God's way. Your hands have made me and fashioned me. The people of God at this point in their life, they are wanting, they're genuinely wanting to know what is, Lord, what is your will here? There is a life that God wants us to have and is there for us to have. Truly, we we need to walk your way for us. And Father, we are thankful for that. He went to Jethro's family, Mary Zipporah And sheep need shepherding. And Father, as we're into your word this morning, we ask that uh you would help us to set aside all these cares and all these troubles and You still have this sort of concern here, but eagerly, nor as being lords over God the those who entr are entrusted to you, but being examples to the flock You are a God who not only is all-knowing and all-seeing That won't happen until Exodus twenty Two people are coming and they're defending their own rights. Applying God's truth precisely. And aware of the presence of God. And we thank you for your wisdom. And that's what we actually see in this passage, and it's the same when it comes to us as New Testament believers. I'm talking about biblical equality here. He never says that this life is going to give you all the prosperity that you ever wanted. It's like I've got to help them. It's not like there hasn't been direction, hasn't been commands, hasn't been laws. Do you know what God wants for his people? This is what God wants to give us And thank you, Lord. You've got to have people. And you shall teach them the statues and the laws, and show them the way in which they must walk and the work they must do This is used all over the Bible, especially in the old, particularly in the Old Testament And Moses does become this, and this is really setting this up for Moses to be this mediator. There's no distinctive difference between a pastor and elder. So Moses heeded the voice of his father in law, and did all that he had said, and Moses chose able men out of all of Israel We know who the people are. I know you want something different. And I think that's all the announcements. And we're going to see first of all this, that we must seek out God's revealed will wholeheartedly. I will give your counsel, give you counsel, and God will be with you. And then I want you to see something when when what that what what Jethro says to do, which really becomes what God's plan is. He hates covetousness. And for that we are so grateful. But now I keep your word. You're going to pray on behalf of the people. For example, in 1 Chronicles chapter 22, verse 19, it says And then he says this. Now I want you to think of it this way. If you have a leader that is preoccupied with pleasing people, you have a very uh dangerous leader, a very ineffective leader. God wanted the very outset of the establishment of the nation of Israel to have leaders So it says pastors and teachers, but it really is the same office, pastor-teacher. When they have a difficulty, they come to me and I judge between one another and I make known the statutes. This is the way that God set it up in the Old Testament. But you also have elders in Scripture, and in 1 Peter 5, verse 11, the elders it says who are among you, I exhort whom whom a fellow elder Keep thy blood from since when we go astray And I pray that through that they may come to know you. It's the same word, but seek the Lord your God. No matter what circumstance we find ourselves in, no matter what situation we find ourselves in, it always, we must always have that as our first concern. Let's begin by singing Speak, O Lord. Amen. That will echo down through eternity, and by faith will warn in your promises. This word actually becomes a a measuring, a measurement word where The first thing, folks, that we need to understand is that we need to be like Israel in this case, and we need to seek after God. It's not circumstances that rule them. And Father, we lift up Jim's sister, Michelle. A product, a process, a process for distributing that product Hear, O hear us when we pray. The very next chapter is going to begin to establish God's covenant. Father, how you are continuing to heal that little child up and strengthen them. So we know who the people are, Moses and the nation of Israel. You take of 1 Timothy 3, for example, or 1 Peter 5, or Titus. Number two, God has graced us with pastors, elders, and the Holy Spirit to guide us The law of your mouth is better to me than thousands of This sort of begs a need for that. May you give him that strength by your spirit to bring forth your word. I will sing Savior like a shepherd lead us. Those are the three. And this is something that's actually applauded. The thing that you're going to see that's very different We praise your name. There needs to be to give be giving them the truth, you need to be proclaiming the truth, you need to be teaching the people A good leader needs to be able to manage things Shepherd the flock of God which is among you, see serving as overseers To the amazement of us. It may be a time that uh they may see And that's in verses 13 through 16. They've got difficulties in their lives. And Moses wants us to see something as he writes down what Jethro says, there's an emphasis here. If you do this thing and God so commands you, then you will be able to endure, and all the people will also go Help us grasp the heights of your plans for us. Early, let us do thy will. So the passage here really is laying out God's plan for daily living His truth. That that that that we need the the they obviously need the laws and the commands of God to be to be written down so that there's a Well now we have a chance to respond to the message we just heard. Now, when we're thinking about what God's process is, This is to ultimately help us to apply truth practically. Now, the ultimate shepherd is Christ. Uh frankly, anything that I do is entirely of God's grace if it's of any good. We ask that you would give them strength far above their own. We are thankful that she is yours. In in 1 Chronicles 28, 9 it says, For as for you, my son Solomon Lord, what do you want? There are four qualities of a good leader. And we are so thankful for that. But if you forsake him, he will cast you off forever But that it isn't as though God has withheld every law. This idea of God fearing is aware of the presence of God. They must be apt to teach, according to 1 Timothy chapter 3. I've actually heard messages preached on that, that that um this is how you relate to your father-in-law. If you look down in verse 23 for a minute, just notice this. Men of truth. Let's go ahead and sing about that piece now. Their heart is uh as fat as grease, but I delight in your law In fact, um it's used very frequently in the Old Testament We praise you for it. And Lord, that your spirit would permeate this room and permeate this room. Two million members of mo uh of of Israel at least, somewhere around there. That's why God's given elders. Thou hast promised to receive us. We are lying Give me understanding that I may learn your commandments Product, process, and people. Notice what he says. God, what do you want? And all this people will also go to their place. And then choosing to apply God's truth precisely in every single area of your life, every day of your life. Lord help us to apply the truths that we So let's go ahead and then turn to, if you'd like to turn, Psalm Psalm 119. Now I don't mean to be sort of derogatory about this, but the Bible calls Christians over and over again sheep. No, it's Lord, I accept whatever you want. By the way, I say that with no God's desire is for that to happen. I come and make known the will of God in his laws. We're not trying to always get more The third and and I would actually say most important gift to his church For this thing is too much for you. Bring these difficulties to God. You can't really skirt this. Truth is what rules them. And I mean, you know, you look at this list of You are good and do good. And we'll read the verses sixty-six through seventy-six. It's not about my rights, and it's not about your rights. We praise you for being such a great God. Now if what you see from this passage is And that should be our focus. They want to know. Number two, God-fearing. Someone who is ruled by truth is one who cannot be bought off. And the rich will. You do have scripturally, you do have elders that labor in the word And that is what's promised conditionally as we follow Him. For this thing is too much for you. The health and wealth movement out there He wants peace. Most of the time it's they're complaining, they're doing this wrong, or that wrong. Who's writing this? And he can't, and he's not, obviously. Well, we find that Moses executes all of God's plan Lord, that's what I would ask for all of us in this room. And Moses said to his father in law You have this in Ephesians 4, verse 11. In 213 separate verses, this is used. Stand before God for the people And by way of application, we just need to ask: well, how does God set this up in the New Testament? It always goes back there. It is well with my soul. And I pray that you would give And Hezekiah did throughout all Israel I know the Lord that your judgments are right and that it that in faithfulness you have afflicted me. We certainly need this, and we pray as we worship you this morning that you'd help us to do so. What are you doing? He says, I make known the statutes of God and his laws. Help us to apply truth We need people, we need leaders that are more concerned about what God thinks than what people think. I mean, it I you know I didn't pick this passage today, God did We're running out of time here, but I do want us to see this because I think it'll just be really helpful. Well let me tell you that what God never says he wants for his people. It is well with my soul Then Moses let his father-in-law depart, and he went his way to his own land. It's truth that rules. Number one, our first concern must always be to seek after God's will through his word. We praise you. So Father, we ask for your good hand to please Therefore arise and build the sanctuary of the Lord to bring an ark of the covenant of the Lord From the passage today, we talked about that peace that we And we pray for the doctors that you will give them wisdom far above their own, Lord That's this word. There's no question about that. And I pray for What does God want? And you find that in John 16, and we'll not take the time to turn there and look at that, but it's definitely important truth You have been so gracious and so kind to us. So they judged the people at all times This is a a good thing. Sorry. We don't even, it doesn't even make sense. Whatever that is Who's writing Exodus 18? Help us, Lord, to And I thank you, Lord, that And we know, Father, that you are with her even Okay? But what we want to see By the way, there's like two million people here that Moses is trying to Like every day you're coming and sitting down and doing all this kind of thing. Capable is necessary. People that live by the truth. That's not what's happening here. Help us to accept what you want We are so thankful that you love us in spite of ourselves and our shortcomings. And Father, we would like to thank you and praise you for how you have taken care of us And that's what he wants us to get across. He goes on his way. But because you are all wise and we are not, our role is to trust you. You know what those are? And Father, we think about here this morning as we are getting ready to go into And I pray Lord that you would bring forth fruit in our lives from what we hear today. This is really about God setting up his plan The rich will get better treatment. Now, similarly, God has also given elders. But in the New Testament, God has actually placed his Spirit inside believers. And I think that I can really just sum it all up by asking you, Lord, to help us to want what you want. They're seeking after the will of God It is true that they really haven't been codified, if you will. It includes the idea, the absence of strife We admit before you that we don't always understand it Till your church is built, and the earth is filled with your gold. Now let's pray together And a leader has to be able to do that. Teach me your statutes Amen. There's conflict among each other This is part of the passage. That should be and actually if you read the if you read if you Now you might be thinking to yourself, well It's absolute it's really, absolutely, absolutely heretical to say that. And every good business plan has those three things. I don't get your ways all the time, but Lord, I accept them. If you do this thing, and God so commands you. We do need our Savior to lead us, do we not? Father, we are thankful that in your sovereign will, before you even And uh Father, give him clarity of thought. You are not able to perform it by yourself There's lots of examples. In Jesus' name But our greater desire is that your will be done. Blessed Jesus, blessed Jesus, thou hast If you would bow your heads with me as we pray. and uh Jim's family Start with a P And we'll see that in this passage as we go on Of course, remember you've got two million people here. That means then that they can't be bought. It says, And he gave himself some apostles. It's just it's butting up. This God's watching what's going on. You're not able to perform it by yourself. Blessed Jesus, blessed Jesus. Blessed Jesus, blessed Jesus. Good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Follow along if you would. They must be able to So it will be easier for you It's about what God wants. What's the problem? We are thankful for that, Lord, and we are glad of your He is an imperfect mediator, of course. He's just doing the best he can, and he's being worn out. Why? We've got Moses, we've got uh Jethro who's the father-in-law who's giving advice here. Now, there's a role that he wants Moses that he says Moses needs to play here. He has been giving commands. They know how to identify the truth. But this is if you're going to get you know stick with four, this is a pretty good list, isn't it? It is well, it is well. He says, I'm going to give you some advice here. Because they can buy off their verdict. We shouldn't have that peace. There's this That is the same. This is how a father-in-law that Here are the four: number one: capable. I need to please you. And there's conflict in your heart. He's got to be capable What are you doing? He sets it up this way, number one. Let's pray. That's a word that means to be written down and established. And yet Look at 18 verse 23. Now catch this. He has been giving laws. Christ is the perfect mediator that we have now. We are flawed. He's aware. If you seek him. What is my responsibility? It says this. Verse 21. That we would change Let it This is so