To meet a lot of you and love to get to know you a little bit better later on. And uh our desire today is to uplift the Lord to thank him for all that he's done in our lives. And both physically and spiritually and that's our desire for the day. So glad to have some special guests here that we know and it's a great joy Joy to have some friends from Hopkins come and be with us, in addition to other friends that we'll be getting to know today. Apologize for the water, but I came down with a cold a few days ago and sometimes my voice gives out And sometimes I do like waking up in the morning and being able to sing real good bass. Um, but then at other times of the day I'll just become a soprano for a second. So hopefully that doesn't happen too much and if I go to the water to and it is water. Sometimes when people think, you know, liver transplant They think, what do you have in there? Uh what caused that liver transplant? It wasn't you know vodka or anything like that. It's water. You can come smell it if you like and uh just trying to refresh my my throat a little bit. And uh share God's word and what He's done in our hearts. Let's begin with prayer. Thank you, Father, for the opportunity to be here. Thank you, Lord, for everything you've done in my life Lord we can all give testimonies of how you've worked and some seem very strange um in ways that you've things in our lives and teach us things, Lord, but we know you always have good for us, especially those who know you. Even though there are tough times that happen. And Lord, we thank you for all of your blessings, most of all the spiritual ones. And I pray, Lord, today you would help me to communicate Your word from Romans chapter 5. It'd be an encouragement to your people, a challenge to those that may not know you. And Lord, that you would remind me too to practice what I'm preaching. and to practice what your word says. Thank you, Lord, for what you're going to do in Jesus' name. Amen. You've already been introduced to some special friends. They Stood up, Albert and Don, and many of you were here for the Sunday school hour and were able to hear the testimony of the amazing sacrifice. We'll talk a little bit more about that from my perspective later on. And uh they are actually now family. Um they attended our very special family Christmas gathering, which didn't happen at Christmas because I was in the hospital, but it happened in early January and um six days after my discharge from Johns Hopkins Hospital following a liver transplant and it was a special evening with twenty some probably in the house with our children and grandchildren and parents and And uh we had a good time and Albert and Dawn were there just as part of our family, and it was a great joy. I met Albert and Dawn, I think, in the summer of 2014, maybe before that time at Marinap. The Baptist Church in Millville, New Jersey. And I'm starting to like New Jersey more. I used to make fun of it, and now I have a son-in-law from New Jersey. And that was hard. But uh but he's of good character and loves the Lord and loves my daughter. And now Albert and Dawn saw I just gotta move New Jersey up the list of desired places to visit and be Um Marinath Baptist Church is pastored by a fairly new friend of mine, Pastor Gary Wimberley, and the congregation's been praying for us and supporting us as missionaries for about fifteen years now. uh ten or eleven years in Mexico City and then over the last four years as we've transitioned to ministry with editorial baldista independiente Which in English uh EBI stands for independent Baptist Publishing and we publish materials anywhere from Preschool, Sunday school, all the way up to 36 adult courses, and my responsibility is to develop theological curriculum for training pastors throughout Latin America and I get to go and teach there as well. A few years ago I was there speaking and Albert was leading the service and we chatted on the phone beforehand. He called wanted to know if any special instructions just to get to know me and I enjoyed getting to know him. And then in church the next day he did a great job of leading worship and Dawn was playing piano and said, what a fine young couple. um having no idea how well I would get to know them. And it was just a joy to be with them and he expressed a desire to uh trained uh that God would use them in ministry someday if God would so direct. And I tend to gravitate toward people like that. I I just want to encourage that. And that's that's part of my heartbeat to help train people in Latin America, but to encourage pastors along the way, future pastors, to give any insights that I can, and just to keep people encouraged, because it's really important. And pastors and people in ministry and heading toward ministry, uh, I think really, really need that. Um Albert um I had witnessed, I had mentioned at that time, or maybe it was a a visit just a A little bit later on as there was a stretch I was filling in for the pastor quite often as they had a lot of family difficulties gone and then he had uh cancer that uh he's dealing with going with an young guy, forty ish maybe. And um yeah, and and I was free to go and fill the pulpit and to help out. And Got to know Albert and Dawn a little bit better. And I mentioned to the church family about uh yeah, we're back. My wife had just had a kidney transplant and she recovered well from that and And I had some needs with my liver failing. I was diagnosed with liver problems when I was twenty eight years old and it continued to get worse. Um And it was getting to be time where it was officially cirrhosis and the transplant I was a good candidate, I was told. So we got on the transplant list. Albert asked me those questions. Um we asked people to pray. In November 2014, I was working in my home office on a Saturday preparing some studies. Albert called me. He was out raking leaves, let me know that he was praying fervently for me. And I thought this is an out-of-the-blue kind of conversation. And Uh he asked, you know, where the liver transplant was going to be. I mentioned Johns Hopkins were uh working through them. It's not like he asked me for a phone number or contact person, so I thought, well, that's great. You know This guy's really praying for me. And that is encouraging, you know, the people are really praying. That means a lot because you may think that we hear that a lot, but Yeah, for instance we have three hundred and fifty people in our mailing list and sometimes I'll hear two replies, you know, from sending that out praying for you. It's like, okay. Okay, well, I probably people are praying more than two. But you know, it's nice to know that. So, you know, if a guy calls me out of the blue, praying for me, wow. And I was invited back to speak at Marinatha Baptist around Christmas, maybe slightly after of 2014, to fill in for Pastor Gary. And I was there in the morning and evening and speaking and Albert invited us o uh invited me over. Terry wasn't with me on that trip for some reason. And sat us down and I I thought, hey, we're gonna talk about ministry and I'll be able to encourage him and he has some questions. And then he gets real serious and says, Hey, I've been in touch with Johns Hopkins and going through the first steps to give you half my liver. How do you respond to that? Um solemnly, quietly And I've actually had other people tell me that too. There were multiple people that wanted to give me half their liver. Multiple. One person in Lebanon, Pennsylvania, she came up to me, a lady came up to me before between Sunday school and church. She just finished teaching. I'm ready to go and preach. And she says, Hey, you know, I I want to give you my liver, but they rejected me at the you know last stages. It's like, really? And who are you? I didn't even know the person. I do now. Um and other people too. It's like really And I did with Albert and Dawn what I do with everybody that tried to talk to me. I said, I tried to talk them out of it. Watch these videos. Watch Dr. Dagger say, and these are the things that could happen to you, including death. That's good And Albert's like, hey, you know, if this is what God has, we're gonna keep going forward and do what we can do. And we'll just keep moving ahead. Okay, Dawn, let me try to talk some sense into you, you know, and it'd be like are you behind this too? Yeah, well this is what God wants, this is what we're willing to do, and that Okay. And um we just continue to pray. Um I am blessed by multiple people in my life. God's blessed us in incredible ways through many special people. Through Johns Hopkins. Those folks at Johns Hopkins are incredible. I'm from Lancaster County, and we have a pretty good hospital for the size of Lancaster, very good, well-rated. They don't do transplants Um, but they do all kinds of other surgeries. And Lancaster County is, you know, sort of a rural kind of place, although we have an inner city of 60,000 with a few shootings each Each week. And um that's not an exaggeration. Um and you know, so it's like yeah, I've been in that hospital at different times some emergency surgeries and you know those people care and they're kind. But Baltimore I mean I knew I was getting world-class health care with smart people that are the best surgeons in the world and But caring? I'm sorry, I didn't expect that. Incredible care. Nurses, techs, surgeons, cleaning people. I I I couldn't believe it. It was incredible. And then we have Albert and Dawn. This picture was taken the day before surgery in the lobby of Johns Hopkins Hospital. And they're willing to make the incredible sacrifice that you heard about in the Sunday school hour. Have you thought about that? And I'll try to get you to think about it a little bit more as we continue to go on. One of the truly difficult aspects of being a living organ donor is you have to be in perfect health. Albert mentioned the excruciating pain. Uh he had never had surgery in his life or really been very sick. So he was not real happy when I walked down to his room to visit him when he couldn't get out of bed yet. And it's like what's this old overweight guy doing walking the halls, you know? I got a new liquor. Yeah, I felt better. Yeah. I was sick. Yeah, he was healthy. Dr. Dagger one time told me, he said, you know, an organ transplant is the only thing we ever do in health care. To take a guy who's completely healthy to make him sick Hey, I felt good. You know, I could walk and I and I it's like and I remember trying to console Al saying, Al, um You're hurting. You've never been sick. God has in his timing put me through kidney stones. Um pancreatitis, which was worse than kid kidney stones. And I said I also remember I had my first surgery at age 28. I shattered my elbow playing basketball. I got undercut, gone for a dunk. You don't believe that. to you. Okay. Going for a layup. And that I was going for. Got undercut, came down, shattered my elbow on a concrete floor. They cleaned out the bone chips and I was home after a day and I thought I was gonna die. And that was at age twenty-eight. So it's like you're okay, Al, you've been healthy your whole life, man. Um you'll be good. But what an incredible sacrifice. To go from perfect health to voluntary Very major surgery. That's amazing. I have another special friend of more than 30 years who went through the whole process of donating hands. Half his liver. He made it to the end. Two guys approved. This is the same guy that made it to the end because he wanted to give his kidney to Terry and made it to the very end. And then they said, No. Well, you have a potential of having kidney stones. You can't give. So it's like, okay, here's my second chance to give to the Mets. family. He's been a friend since college. His wife's been a friend of ours since youth group. And he was ready and he passed. So it's a matter of there's two livers for Bob. Can you believe it? So which one do we do? Do we take the bigger one from my friend John or do we take the younger one from Al? And It was decided out. And God knows what he's doing. And my friend overcame his discouragement. He really did, of being rejected, that he couldn't give. That's a friend, isn't it? We don't think that we're going to need other body parts from him. At least we pray not, and we hope that that's done for. Um but it's it's amazing. God is amazing and Christian love and Christian sacrifice is amazing that people would do such things. The idea of receiving such a gift of life, that was difficult for me. I would rather give than take. I do not like to receive Um I don't see myself as worthy of such a sacrifice. I still don't If I would have refused the sacrifice, I wouldn't have lived that much longer, as it was revealed that my liver was a lot worse than the numbers, said Dr. Kurakar. said that it was really bad. Like we didn't know my idea was that bad. And like, huh? That made me feel better about feeling so bad before the surgery. Um dying would have been okay, and Terry and I talked about that before her transplant and before mine. If the Lord takes us, we win. I'll be announced. Not so easy on those left behind, though. But as Philippians 1:21 says, for me to live is Christ, to die is gain But that said, we know it's tough on those left behind, and I wasn't saying, you know, hey, I want to die now. I'm grateful beyond words for Albert and Dawn for a sacrifice that's still difficult. Me to comprehend. There are times we were just driving to Tennessee for a conference recently. Thankfully I was well enough to do that, to meet with the EBI team. And And there are times it just pops in my head. I have Al's liver in me. And there are times it pops in my head, I needed a liver transplant. What's with that? But the Lord knows. I knew from the fame of Johns Hopkins I'd be getting world-class surgeons in science, and then I got to world-class care From doctors, nurses, techs, people bringing the food, cleaning the room. If you ever need a liver transplant, I got the place for you. Um you're probably wishing not to be on that list, I would assume. There's multiple people who have been a source of strength for me. Many people. Mary just mentioned it earlier. Notice you got a great wife. It's like I sure did. Dr. Dagger called her a rock star and said, Man, your your wife is awesome. And um she's there the whole time, but mostly I thank my Lord Jesus Jesus Christ, who provided, and he's the one we're going to talk about a lot today, and he's the one I desire to lift up. I have uh some friends in ministry that have gone through some difficult times, multiple ones actually. And I try to encourage them. And one went through a deep, deep trial in a different kind of way as I was getting weaker and closer to transplant time. And uh he made this comment. He said, you know, don't waste the trial that God sends or allows. Don't waste it. God will Wants to use it, so don't waste it. And I knew that, but just the way he put it, at the timing he put it, it's like, Lord, use this. Use it however you want. That's got to be the main purpose here. You use it in my life, you use it in other people's lives. And while I was in the hospital, I had a lot of time to think. I did some writing. Families, members, and certain friends say, hey, let us know how you're doing every day. So I sent them a text every day and I started my writing around 4 a. m. And that's When I woke up to get, you know, blood pressure and all that kind of good stuff, you know, like 4 a. m. , okay. And then I knew as early as 5 a. m. they were coming to take my blood So I might as well stay up. Four a. m. So I'm starting to write. And usually I'd I'd be really kind to the people that were receiving my text and I'd wait till five to send it to And uh so I would send that out and and um I had a lot of time to think. To listen to the scriptures, to listen to songs like we sang, that God would be glorified. And as I was thinking and preparing, my mind multiple times went to Romans chapter 5, which is our text today. Romans chapter 5, verses 1 through 8. Please follow along as I read. The Bible says, therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. By whom also we have access by faith into this grace, wherein we stand, and rejoice in the hope of the glory of God, and not only so, but we glory in tribulations also, knowing that tribulation worketh patience. And patience experience, and experience hope, and hope maketh not ashamed, because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost, which is given unto us. For when we were yet without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly. For scarcely for a righteous man will one die, yet peradventure for a good man would some even dare to die But God commendeth or demonstrated his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. There's three observations that I like to share with you from this text today. And here's some people here that are very appreciative of your prayers. And very appreciative of Albert and Don. This is our family without Albert and Don, without parents, If I get you to look at that, you might say one doesn't fit as much. He must have married into the family. That's our adopted son Jorge. He's a missionary in Mexico City now. He came to our family at age 17 after we had an inner city youth ministry. And he trusted Jesus as his Savior during that time, during that summer, about 25 years ago now. And afterwards he came, God allowed us, moved us, to buy my grandfather's house in the middle of Lancaster City. And Jorge lived within like a half mile, so he comes to our house every day, right around supper. So we made him work uh in fixing up the house. And it's like, Jorge, you're here every day. Do you want to live with us or what? And he said, can I? And Jorge was in 11th grade in the city public schools. He could not read or write in English or Spanish And before you think, not even in Spanish? Well, think about if you lived your whole life and never had an English course or a reading course in English, you probably wouldn't be able to read or write either. He spoke Spanish just fine, not English though. I mean we had to ask him to repeat himself multiple times. But Jorge became part of our family. Um Jorge is still part of our family. The chance of this happening is one in one half million. Jorge, twenty-two years. After becoming part of our family, was a perfect match to give his kidney to Terry. And did so. After John was rejected by other friend. Carrie and I have new shirts that we wear. It says, you can't say no to me. I'm on anti-rejection. Meds. And so we both are transplant recipients. We've both been very, very blessed in life. So we thank the Lord, and each one here thanks the Lord. Got a text from my firstborn today praying for you today, Dad. And God is very, very good to us. This is our text that you've seen that we've read. I'm just going to fly through it, and the first part of the passage. Three observations I want to share with you from the text. First of all, a peaceful life comes through the Lord Jesus Christ A peaceful life comes through the Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, being justified by faith, or since we have been justified, By faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom also we have access by faith. into this grace wherein we stand and rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. Peace is a common theme. We would like world peace. We would like peace in our hearts, right? We would like peace and tranquility within the family. We would like peace with our neighbors, our workmates. And people look for peace in many different ways, through fun, through finances, through their family, and those things can bring temporary relief and Satisfaction. One commentator wrote that peace is a rich word with meaning. It speaks of a new relationship that exists between God and those who turn to Him in faith. To have peace with God means to be in a relationship with God in which all hostility caused by sin has been removed. Like, wow. That huge obstacle between us and God, sin, is removed. It's to exist no longer under the wrath of God. It's also the joyful experience of those who live in harmony with God, with others, and themselves. Now as we look at verses 1 and 2, I'm going to look at two explanations. First of all, we're justified or declared righteous. By faith. That word justified is sort of a theological word, sometimes a little bit difficult to understand. But we are justified, declared righteous in an act of decision by God Himself. By faith, not by works. The act of God justified is the act of God in bringing sinners into a new covenant relationship with himself through forgiveness of sins. It's a declarative act of God. By which he establishes persons as righteous. He declares me to be righteous, even though really, in practice, I'm not. But he looks at me and declares me to be right with him. Like, wow. And how does that come about? By faith. Not by works. By putting our complete confidence, reliance, trust into Him. It's not faith in the generic sense, like, oh, I have faith and. And whatever. And it's not just like belief, like I believe George Washington was the first president. It involves a commitment, a a a deliberate decision that God provokes in our hearts to bring us to that point. And even the word therefore at the beginning of verse 1, when you see that word therefore, you wonder what it's there for. It's there because of what's beforehand in the context which was speaking about Abraham and his faith. that he didn't disbelieve God in spite of very difficult times as we read about in Genesis. We can't take time to consider all the scriptures that talk about faith and make this point, but Galatians 2. 16 I'd like to read. Yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the law, but through faith in Jesus Christ. So we also believed in Christ Jesus in order to be justified by faith in Christ and not by works of law. Because by the works of law no one will be justified. We can't do enough to earn God's favor. But we need to trust Him. We have access also to grace by faith, not by works Many of us know Ephesians 2. 8 and 9, for by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. The word grace is defined as God's unmerited favor. Sometimes people use the acronym Grace G for God, R, Riches, A, at C Christ's E expense. God's riches at Christ's expense So we have access to all that God offers, that all God is. A relationship with Him. Our text, verse 2, says: through Him we have also obtained access by faith. Into this grace in which we stand. God gives us what we don't deserve. Grace. He withholds what we do deserve. That's called mercy. God's unmerited favor comes only through faith. But that faith is directed in Jesus Christ, our text said. Not through church attendance. Not by giving away our wealth, not by even giving our money, not even by giving a body part. And I will tell you that he didn't give his body part to earn favor with God. He did it because he already had God's favor. And God already expressed his love to Al and saving his soul. And Al desired to obey. How God was leading him. And that is incredible. But that's a response to God already giving us great, great favor in life. So a peaceful life comes to our Lord Jesus Christ. Justified by faith, not works. Access to grace by faith, not by works. But we see a second observation: a joyful life comes through the Lord Jesus Christ. So a peaceful life, but also a joyful life. Joyful life? What's that about? Verse 2, we'll start again, by whom also we have access by faith into this grace wherein we stand and rejoice in hope of the glory of God. And not only so, but we glory in tribulations also, knowing that tribulation worketh patience, and patience experience, and experience hope, and hope maketh not ashamed, because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost, which is given unto us. The human author of this letter to the Romans, to the believers assembled in Rome, was the Apostle Paul. Did the Apostle Paul have an easy life? Absolutely not. He wrote a theme, he wrote to the church at Philippi, the book of Philippians we call it. about the theme of rejoicing, including rejoice always from jail, from prison. He was beaten, left for dead, shipwrecked, whipped different times. I mean his suffering was incredible, and he writes about joy. Joy through intense trials. We see two directions of rejoicing here as we think about a joyful life Because again, people want a peaceful life. We want a joyful life. But something about this joyful life, we have confidence in the splendor of God. It says we rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. Hope in this sense, as it's used usually in the scripture, is not like, well, you know, I hope it doesn't rain today Yeah, that's like I wish. That's not what it's talking about. It's talking about a confident expectation. So we rejoice in the confident expectation where we have our full faith of the glory of God. Some translations translate the word as a boasting, like such confidence that we we know it and we can boast about it, not a self-directed boasting like, hey, you know, look at me But a boasting because we have such complete confidence in God, we can boast about how faithful He is. It's Of boasting because of the confidence of the glory of God. The glory of God, the awesomeness of God, the splendor of God, the greatness of God we see in creation, and our creation is marred. And we think, wow, you know, what must heaven be like? And we read about God and who He is in the scriptures, and we think, Wow. And you even hear about God's provision in our liver and matching things up and then a kidney and matching things up. And I just think about you know our body parts we received, and it's like only God. Only God does something like that. I mean You know the odds of two of us Receiving living donor organs? Wow From an adopted son who's Puerto Rican, who we never met before he was seventeen Who comes to youth rallies during a summer and trusts Jesus as his Savior? And then goes on and he has a horrible, horrible background. He has a brother in jail for life. uh for murder. And, you know, just a horrible we never knew his dad, you know. And then to to see God take his life, change his life, he can't read and now he has a master of divinity degree. A seminary graduate, and serving in Mexico City, and he's our son, and he and his wife Amy have our grandchildren in Mexico, and and like, wow, only God does these things. And then a guy from New Jersey wants to give me a liver, his half his liver, like from New Jersey. No Twenty-eight. I have a twenty-eight-year-old liver. Like, are you kidding me? Wow. Only God Well, this theme of joy through afflictions in life, we have confidence in the splendor of God. We have joy through the afflictions of life. Parallels what we would read, probably more famous in our mind, is James chapter 1, verse 2 to 4, that talks about count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations or various kinds of trials. You know, knowing this, and then it goes on to tell us other things. 1 Peter 1, verses 6 and 7 teach us a lot of the same thing. And it was a well-established. Pattern of Christian teaching in New Testament times, it ought to be for today, too. But those people were suffering. Christians were suffering persecution. Christians were suffering persecution, well, like some people in our world do today, too, dying for their faith. The chain sequence that follows in verses 3, or I'm sorry, verses 4 and 5, or 3, 4, and 5, shows that we can have joy and afflictions of life. Why? Because God has a purpose for it. A good purpose. Maybe multiple purposes. And maybe we see them, maybe we don't Today we're coming and we're giving evidence of God's good purposes in difficult times. But sometimes we go through things and we have no clue why. I remember getting news while I was in Hopkins, you know, it's like, you know what? Hate to tell you this, Bob, but you have a blockage and you got to go for surgery, another surgery. Great. Okay So you're going to be here extra time. All right. Lord, you got a purpose And I remember the one time I received disappointing news, I think it's when I was told your body is rejecting the liver a little bit. So we gotta hit you with major, major medicines, and you're going to be here longer. Okay. Lord, I know you got a reason And then right after that, there were like, and Terry and I were together, there were like seven things that happened. I think I wrote them down, like boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. And it's like, wow, there's positive things right there that God did. He's got reasons. Sometimes we see him, sometimes we don't. Some of the reasons are listed right here. And that doesn't mean that you always say, Yabbee, I get to spend an extra week in the hospital. Yippee, I need a liver transplant. Yippee, I lost my job. Yippee, you know, my family member is not gonna make it. We don't necessarily go yippee at those times, but we have a resolute confidence that God knows what he's doing. That he wants me to grow from it. So whatever trial hits you right now in your life, and if there are none right now, it's coming. I was encouraging, right? God knows. And He wants you to grow from it. We choose to look to God through these afflictions, choosing to rejoice, choosing to count it all joy. And we can see what suffering produces in these verses. A steadfast endurance. A tested character. Patience. Experience. That experience like a tested character. Hope, confidence, continued trust in God. But those trials aren't out to produce shame in us. They're not out to destroy us. God wants to make us stronger through that time. Like gold that will be refined, that gold will continue to grow, that God will continue to work in us because of God's love working through us and in us. So we've seen that as we think of products in this passage, we see the joyful life That God wants us to have, but we also see eternal life also comes through the Lord Jesus Christ. Verses 6 through 8. For when we were yet without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly. Two comparisons, which really aren't very fair comparisons, because As you see in the statement there, they're beyond compare. The depth of Jesus' suffering is beyond compare. He suffered at his coming, leaving the glories of heaven at what we call Christmas. To come and to take on flesh, to be born as a baby into a poverty-stricken home, and he didn't even have a place, you know, to be home when he was born, born in the manger. He suffered during his life. His own didn't receive him. His family rejected him. His brothers rejected him initially. His people from Galilee rejected him. He was mocked. He was despised, as Isaiah 53 prophesies. despised, rejected by men. At his trial and his death he suffered beyond compare. I had a little setback physically a little less than a month ago. Actually, it was the night the day before Good Friday. I had a regular appointment at at uh the hospital at Johns Hopkins and um it was time to remove the last tube that I had it coming out of my body and I guess that another your body forms a tube around the tube And so pulled it out and Dr. Dagger was so slick I didn't even know he pulled it out. It was like, wow, done. But periodically and semi frequently, there was just a little bit of imperfection there And bioleaks. And that bioleak hurt more than liver surgery, than liver transplant. And we were all the way back up 83 heading toward York. And it's like, you know what? I knew when I left here that I shouldn't have left because I was feeling pain. And it's getting worse and it's getting intense. And they warned me about it. It's like, dear, we need to turn our hell because Terry was driving because I was in no condition to drive. And I came back and I, you know, gone into the ER at Johns Hopkins and You know, went up to the counter, laid my head down, and said, um, they're waiting for me or I'm getting admitted. I have a bile leak after a liver transplant. And the guy at the desk was like, you know, and I said, Where's the bucket? And I didn't see any, and he wasn't moving very quickly. So I just hurled. And and and um And then I got attention. And and then and and that was, you know, from the pain and you know got some attention and You know, the people from the liver transplant team, they they th the the one guy, um the fellow and I don't remember his name, but I think he's from Ukraine or Russia. He calls me Father Metz. And I can't get him to stop calling me that. But uh not a father, I'm a pastor. Okay Father and and he came down as I was waiting. Father Metz, Father Matth, you know let's get you up to the you know, for a five day stay again to get the infection taken care of and the pain subsiding and stuff. And that was that was leading into Good Friday. And and I didn't have any pain meds for quite a while. Well, yeah, this is the worst pain in life. This is worse than kidney stone, pancreatitis, and it's worse than a liver transplant But it's not like the crucifixion that was preceded by a beatings where Jesus' body would have been like hamburger. And he's pulling himself up on the cross to breathe. On that cross that wouldn't have been nice and smooth. Excruciating pain. And he was innocent of everything. And he could have stopped it. And he didn't Jesus suffered in a way that's beyond compare. It was a blessing. By the time Sunday rolled around, my pain subsided substantially. And I also thought, yep, and Jesus rose and conquered death. No longer in the grave, no longer suffering. That was a great celebration in multiple ways. I was in the hospital again, Christmas and Easter, but that's okay. Jesus rose, and I was glad to be feeling better too Notice in our text it says who Jesus died for. He died for the ungodly. And maybe some would say, well, you know, yeah, they probably needed it. Well, that ungodly, that includes all of us. Because the Bible says all have sinned and come short of God's glory. And some may never realize how they stand before God. They think good works are sufficient. And you know there are people who do many, many good works. And we can always find someone worse than us, can't we? Always. You know, hey, I I never I never spend jail time. I never killed anybody, you know, not like I've done these things. I'm a pretty good person, but you know, frankly, none of us have ever kept the Ten Commandments. And if we think we have, then let's go to heart issues. And then let's think about things that we didn't do that God tells us to do. We're all sinners. Different degrees, of course, but we're all guilty. But the good news is, while we were still weak Verse 6, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly. He suffered. Beyond compare. But the depth of Jesus' sacrifice is beyond compare to. The depth of our worthiness is beyond compare. And think about this: for scarcely for a righteous man will one die, yet peradventure for a good man would some even dare to die. But God commendeth or displayed, showed, demonstrated, his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, there you got that theme again, Christ died for us. The depth of our unworthiness is beyond compare. What Albert did for me in voluntarily subjecting himself to intense pain when perfectly healthy and and the psychiatrist, you know, one of their questions to Albert and my friend John is, you know you get no benefit from this, right? You know, I couldn't you're not allowed to pay for a liver. You know, that's illegal. And you know expenses can be covered, and we thank God for the expenses covered for our missing work and And even covered our extra expenses and God took care of all that and it's part of the reason that that we just wanted to give to the stepping stones uh things because others don't have that ability. And uh um a loving Christian family and network to help in those ways. Um but you know it's like I'm not worthy of that sacrifice. And I've had people say, you know, you're a pretty good guy to have two people want to give you Uh half a liver and say, well, not really. And I hear kind words and I understand, but if there's anything good, it's because of what the Lord's done in my life. And I know that. When I committed my life to him when I was thirteen, he changed my life. Big time. Living donors, you know, I don't know why they do what they do, but I know why Al did what he did, and I know why Jorge did what he did for Terry. It's because of what God's done for them. It's because of love for God and love for others too, which comes from love for God and from God. I think I'd give my life. This passage is really interesting. It says, For scarcely for a righteous man will one die. I think I would die for my wife. Somebody comes in, they're gonna shoot somebody. Shoot me. Let Terry live. I'd do that for my kids. I'd do that for my grandkids. I'm pretty confident I would. Probably some friends too Um and uh it's probably pretty noble and you probably would say, Yeah, I I would do that. You know, let someone younger live and besides I look at it as you know, I die, I'm on my way to heaven. It's okay. That's good, I win. Um But this passage, peradventure would a good man, some even dare to die. So a righteous man, a really good man, and then just a good man, some might even dare to die. I'm glad Albert didn't die. That'd be hard to live with, wouldn't it? Thought about that, Lord. If I die, it's okay. Don't let Albert die, please. That was a prayer request of mine. What an incredible sacrifice. The depth of our unworthiness is beyond compare. The depth of God's love is also beyond compare. And as we see that, while we were yet sinners, Christ died We mentioned that before, how he suffered, what he did. That's how God showed his love for us. Why does God allow bad things to happen to good people? Well, you know what? He is a God of God Love, he sent his son to die for us. Wow. It reminds me of John 3. 16, which is probably the most famous verse in the book. Bible, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. We don't deserve such a sacrifice like Jesus made. There's no obligation on God's part to redeem us, to buy us back from sin, to adopt us as his children. But God shows his love for us that while we're yet sinners, Christ died for us. Isn't it amazing to think that God would even offer us A peaceful life, a joyful life, eternal life. People are dying all over the world from all kinds of diseases in the U. S. And people die while waiting on the transplant list for a liver or kidney. There's not enough to go around. Even to seestoners, there's not enough to go around. waiting. Some parts of the country even more than others. I'm overwhelmed by the sacrifice. I'm overwhelmed by God's provision of being able to be a Johns Hopkins. That's that's amazing to me That I was able to receive that. And I do think that God has caused me to realize more about the brevity of life, the uncertainty of life. And I've had different experiences that have reminded me of that. When I was eight years old, I had an aunt that pulled me out of the bottom of her pool. And I woke up going, Choking out water. I don't know how close I was to dying. Some people say that explains a lot about me, that event in my life. Went in Mexico City one time, my first year there, we had a mechanic that was supposedly trustworthy. He sent us to get a car part for my car. And had my son Jeremy with me, who would have been probably like 16, I get there, I make this turn-off of a road I know, I go back to where I'm supposed to go. And I pull in there, a car parks me in this like red hot Camaro or something, and all the shops are closing. And they want to find out, and my mechanic was with me, and it was a chop shop zone. And I wasn't leaving until I paid money to get my car released. And, you know, I had put my money in my socks. The guy told me that at the last minute. You know, tell me where we were going or we're going to a chop shop zone that police don't go to. And it's like, okay, I'm gonna die right here. First year in Mexico. Does that make me a martyr? Or just stupid. Um And then later on in Mexico, about seven years later, I can't recommend the movie, but there's a Denzel Washington movie that has some profanity. I watched it. Because it was filmed in Mexico City and it's realistic about the corruption of the police and the fraternidad, the brotherhood of the police, and how some are just connected and Wicked. And we got pulled over regularly for a while, it was weekly, looking for bribes. That was life. And we didn't give 'em. We talked our way out of it respectfully, learned how to do that, you know, to adjust to the culture. Um there was one time that this guy was not backing down. I called my lawyer and she was a Christian lady against bribery. She talked to the guy and she got me back on the phone and said, you give him whatever he wants. The guy is connected. And cops at times do kill people in Mexico City and not like for legitimate reasons. And God sent a miracle where another cop came by, I think, and told him to get out, apologize to me. All my students the next day in seminary said that never, ever, ever happens where a policeman apologizes for anything. anything. And God spared my life. The closest I've been to death was when I was 25 years old. I was working on my master's degree in seminary Um I my firstborn son, who's now thirty, was a few weeks old, just got home from the NICU. And I was working at Domino's Pizza, delivering pizza as a second job, to pay the bills, to get through seminary, and to live. And um We've been getting robbed lately. Different dominoes. And it was 10:30 at night, one night. A guy comes in. Oh, I hear commotion. I'm in the back. I hear commotion in the front. Loud noise. Look at terror in my manager's eyes. And it's like we're getting robbed. Took my wallet, tossed it behind the boxes, and like okay a few seconds later, I was on my belly Snub nose remote revolver in the back of my head. I look over and my manager has a sold-off shotgun at the temple of his head pinned against the wall. And the guy on top of me says, which one should we blow away first? My response was Yah and I no, no, it was not My response was, Lord, I'm coming home. Give Terry a good new husband. Give Jeremy a good new dad Thank you for saving me when I was 13. I'm coming home. Well, obviously he didn't shoot me Um and a few weeks later after their sixth robbery they were caught and um and I slept okay that night. I was a little bit mad But I slept okay. God gave me great peace. Facing death, Lord, I'm coming home. That's the main lesson I learned from it all. Peace is wonderful God gives that through Jesus Christ, our Lord. A peaceful life, a joyful life, eternal life. Nothing better than that. To sum it all up in one sentence, you can have a different and even better life Peaceful, joyful, eternal. By committing your life to Jesus Christ. If you haven't done that, I'd encourage that in your life. If you have done that, though, sometimes we get sidetracked. Don't wait And we worry. And we're not going to lose the eternal life, but sometimes we we lose our joy. Because of being distracted by other things. Because of not keeping our focus on Jesus Christ, we lose our peace because we take our focus off of Jesus Christ The Lord wants us to have the peaceful, joyful, eternal life. It's not a guarantee of riches. It's not a guarantee of no trials. It's not a guarantee of no health needs. But even through those difficult times, a peaceful, joyful, eternal life is what Jesus Christ offers. I'm thankful for that. I'm thankful for that through this most recent trial. God can be trusted. Pray that you'll do that. Let's pray. pray. Thank you, Father, for the opportunity to share your word. Lord, you're good. We shared that in testimony. Albert has. I pray that what I shared from the scriptures here would also speak to who you are and how good you are. And Lord help us to lift you up. We thank you again for those of you put in our lives to help us physically and spiritually. We thank you, Lord, for those who have cared for us during hospital time. We thank you for those who have prayed for us. And Lord, we just pray you'd bless and help us to learn some lessons that will be life-changing today. In Jesus' name. Amen.