Acts chapter one verse fifteen. And I'm going to have Josh lead two songs after the service, so get ready. After we after after I preach, you can lead the one that you forgot about and and uh and the the the one at the the the final one as well. How about that? Alright, Acts chapter one. And let's read together from Acts chapter one, beginning in verse fifteen. In those days, Peter stood up in the midst of the disciples. Altogether, the number of the names was about a hundred and twenty. and said, Men and brethren, this scripture had to be fulfilled, which the Holy Spirit spoke before by the mouth of David concerning Judah, Judas who became a guide to those who arrested Jesus, for he was numbered with us and obtained a part in this mist ministry. Now this man purchased a field with the wages of iniquity, and falling headlong he burst open in the middle in the midst And all his entrails gushed out. And it came, and it became known to all those dwelling in Jerusalem, so that So that field is called in their own language Akeldama, which is field of blood. For it is written in the book of Psalms. Let his dwelling place be desolate, and let no one live in it, and let any one let one let another take his office. Therefore, of those of these men who have accompanied us all, the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us. Beginning from the baptism of John to the day which was taken up from us, one of these must become a witness with us of the resurrection, of his resurrection. And they proposed two, Joseph called Barsabbas, who was surnamed Justice, and Matthias. And they prayed and said, You, O Lord, who know the hearts of all. Show which of these two you have chosen to take part in this ministry and apostleship from which Judas by transgression fell That he might go to his own place. And they cast their lots, and a lot fell on Matthias, and he was numbered with the eleven apostles. George Whitfield was one of the spearheads of the Great Awakening. He was perhaps one of the greatest uh evangelist preachers in that time period and he traveled both in England and in the colonies for uh several months in Georgia first and then went back over into London and came back into the colonies and preached in Phil uh uh uh in uh why am I missing Philadelphia and then moved uh from there down s down south And got he was used of God great greatly. Um it is estimated that he preached over 18,000 sermons in his lifetime. George Whitfield in 1743, after some time of trying, he uh a son, a child, was born to him and Elizabeth. George Whitfield was overwhelmed with emotion for the son that was born, and he was convinced by the the working of what he thought was the Lord in his life. He was convinced that John would end up becoming a preacher and be used of the same way that George was being used. And so he named him John after John the Baptist. And his intention was that this man that this his son would become a great preacher. In fact, he was so convinced that his son would become a great preacher that o he baptized his son, which was uh a theological problem for us, but anyway, uh n and actually was a problem, uh that's the side point But he also preached a sermon explaining how God was going to use his son for the sake of the gospel, and that he was going to dedicate his son for those purposes. Well, it wasn't too much later that or a few a couple years later that his son died George Whitfield, with great remorse, it was actually, I'm sorry, years later, it was four months old. He was four months old when he died suddenly of a seizure. George was couldn't believe it. He was taken back. And then he realized how presumptuous he had been. To think that his son would actually, that he knew what God's will was for his son. And it was said that He said this, he said, render this mistaken parent more cautious, more sober-minded, more experienced in Satan's devices. And consequently, more useful in his future labors to the Church of God. George admitted his mistake and he realized the problem. Have you ever thought God was going to work a certain way? That God was going to do something a certain way, and yet when Time went on, as time went on, you realized that God didn't w work the way that you thought he was going to work. I think anybody who knows Christ and has has lived for any length of time uh walking this road with Christ has come to places where you just can't really grasp what God is doing, and it seems as though God isn't doing things the way you thought He was going to In some cases, you may be very convinced that this is God's will for you, and yet it doesn't come about the way that you expect. And that kind of thinking is the kind of thinking, probably, that as these disciples, these 120 disciples met in this upper room. And we're waiting for the promise of the Holy Spirit. And we're waiting for the time when they would then go out and be used to be great witnesses. During this time, they very likely began to discuss many things. Perhaps they discussed uh the fact that Christ had ascended and what God had wanted them to do, and they perhaps discussed uh plans to start in Jerusalem as Christ had said for them to do and go into Samaria and Judea in the uttermost parts of the world, and they were discussing these different things, and of course we know for the text that they were praying immensely But there was one subject that very likely came up that was a bit of a quandary to these 120 disciples that met, and that was the question of Judas. What about Judas? What that part of the equation doesn't didn't make sense more than likely to them. How is it that someone like Judas could actually defect Completely. He was a disciple. He was a disciple of Christ. He walked with Christ and went with Christ. And how could this have happened? And that's how we find ourselves in this passage. And the Apostle Peter is now going to give some leadership and some direction. Based upon what God's Word has said and what they should do as a result of this, we need to understand that what is going on here. We need to understand it. If we read this text and we just sort of great you know cover over it, we're not really going to understand that Judas was really a vital part of this ministry of Christ. You'll notice what it says in verse 17. It says, For he was numbered with us and obtained a part in this ministry. This was important for us to understand. He was numbered with them. He was a part of the ministry. There, Peter was talking, he was saying, Judas was a part of us. He was a part of our ministry. He was a vital part. In Matthew chapter 10, as well as Mark 3 and Luke 6, all the synoptic gospels list the disciples, and Judas is in those lists. He was called of Christ himself to be a disciple of Christ. Of course, he was actually the last person in all of those lists. John chapter 12 and chapter 13 tell us that he was also the treasurer of the of the 12 disciples. He was the one that kept the money. Peter says in this passage that Judas had become a guide to those who arrested Jesus, verse 16b. And of course, you know the story well in Luke chapter 22 and other places where Judas came and he deceived the disciples and he led those who desired to arrest Jesus. With a kiss on the cheek. Judas had defected. He had left those whom he had served with. He had betrayed Jesus as was prophesied. This pattern of dishonesty in his life apparently started prior to the events of the Garden of Gethsemane. In John chapter 12, there's a story of a woman who comes to Jesus and breaks uh some ointment over his feet, and Judas comments on that in verse four saying, who would betray uh uh saying, why was this fragrant oil not sold for 300 denarii and give to the poor? John makes this comment though. This he said not because he cared for the poor, but because he was a thief and had the money box and he used it to take what was put in it. Over a lengthy pattern of time, Judas was doing wrong. Over a lengthy pattern of time, Judas was deceitful. He was a thief. He was stealing. And it was only a matter of time before he began to fulfill an infamous role, though an important role, in betraying Jesus. Jesus actually prophesies the defection of Judas in John chapter 13. Would you take your Bibles and turn there? I'd like us to look at this passage for a few moments. As we look at what happened to Judas and how he defected and God's sovereignty in all of this, you'll notice in John chapter 13, verse 7. Jesus says, What I am doing, you do not understand now. But you will know after this. And then in verse 18, skip down to verse 18, we see an extended discussion of what is going to happen Verse 18 says, I do not speak concerning all of you. I know whom I have chosen, but that the spirit, or the scripture may be fulfilled. That is a very important phrase. That the scripture may be fulfilled. Keep that in your mind. He who eats bread with me has lifted up his heel against me. Now I tell you before it comes, and when it does come to pass, you may believe that I am He. Most assuredly I say to you, He who receives whomever I send receives me And he who receives me receives him who sent me. When Jesus had said these things, he was troubled in spirit and testified and said, Most assuredly I say to you, one of you will betray me. Then the disciples looked at one another, perplexed about whom he spoke. Now there was leaning on Jesus' bosom one of his disciples whom Jesus loved Simon Peter therefore motioned to him to ask who it was of whom he spoke. Then leaning back on Jesus' breast he said to him, Lord, who is it? Jesus answered, It is he whom I shall give a piece of bread, then I have dipped it. And having dipped the bread, he gave it to Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon. Now after the piece of bread Satan entered in entered him. Then Jesus said to him, What you do, do quickly. So we need to understand from this passage that all of this was actually planned. This was in the sovereign will of God. This was, according to this passage, prophesied, and it was necessary to happen for the fulfillment of Scripture. Now I want to just hasten to say that it's not this passage is not saying that you just had no choice whatsoever. And we don't have the time to sort of interplay the sovereign will of God with the we free will of man they've been Debating that over a couple of different centuries and we're not going to solve it now. But the reality is there is no question that God is sovereign in what he does, and God was sovereign in the in in taking Judas and using it to fulfill using him to fulfill what Scripture said and his plan. It is very unlikely that even as the disciples heard these words of Jesus, that they really grasped what was happening In fact, in John's Gospel, it says that they really didn't understand what Jesus was saying about Judas and what Judas was going to do. Even when Jesus says to Judas, whatever you're going to do, do it quickly. But there is a problem that the disciples are wrestling with very likely in this upper room. The problem has to do with what Christ said was going to happen. There almost seems to be a contradiction with what Christ said was going to happen, with what actually took place. We could find this in Luke chapter 22, verse 29, which says, I bestow upon you a kingdom. Just as my Father bestowed one upon me, and you may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and sit on thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. So we find from this passage in Luke 22 that God had prophesied to the twelve disciples, or Christ had prophesied to the twelve disciples. that they would they would judge the throne judge the twelve tribes of Israel and they would sit on those thrones. Well how is that going to happen when you only have eleven now? Judas had defected. This was something that was very likely unexpected, at least the disciples, and probably difficult to understand, what God was doing in this situation. In Revelation chapter 21, it actually says this, verse 12, three gates on the east, three gates on the north, three gates on the south, and three gates on the west. This is talking about the New Jerusalem. And in verse 14 it says, the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and on them were the name of the twelve apostles of the Lamb. In the future, there are going to be, in the New Jerusalem, there are going to be on the sides of the walls of the New Jerusalem, there are going to be three uh uh uh these different apostles, and they're going to total twelve. Well now there's only eleven. What was happening here? What was what was supposed to take place I want us to notice also this that that in Acts chapter 2, we're going to find that the Holy Spirit is going to reveal himself to a large group, 3,000 Jewish people. He's going to inaugurate the church in that chapter. And the nation of Israel is going to need to understand that for this time period the church is going to be be the main vehicle with which God is going to use and move his people. This does not mean that he will it will always be the case. Christ will come back and will rule and reign with Israel for a thousand years. But for now, this was going to be the case in Acts chapter 2. But this was going to be a little bit confusing if they only had 11 apostles. This did present a problem. So how was this problem to be solved? Peter, who was now taking leadership says explains how this is going to be solved. And I want us to look at this. This is quite interesting. What Peter does in this passage You'll notice what he says in chapter 6, uh verse 16 of chapter 1. He says, Men and brethren, this scripture had to be fulfilled. Did you see that before, by the way? Who else said the scriptures needed to be fulfilled? Jesus Christ himself in John chapter 13, he said the scriptures have to be fulfilled, and that's why Judas is going to do what he he was going to do. And Peter, taking the leadership and understanding that he was there, understood this and realized that the scriptures needed to be fulfilled, he reminded the 120 disciples that this was something that was a fulfillment of Scripture. It says in the passage which the Holy Spirit spoke before by the mouth of David concerning Judas, who became a guide to those who arrested Jesus, for it was numbered with us. And obtained a part of his ministry. Peter cites the fact that this was a necessary part of Scripture, but he also cites the fact that That David was uh prophesied this in the Old Testament. Um it's interesting how he also says this about the fulfillment of Scripture. Notice what it says in um in in the passage there in verse six verse verse sixteen Who became uh it's talking, it says, um, scripture was fulfilled, which the Holy Spirit spoke before by the mouth of David concerning Judas. Notice what it says about Scripture there. This is helpful. It says that it was spoken by the Holy Spirit, it was uh and it was also written by David. He's talking about here basically about the method of which we have God's Word. That we have a human author, but it is by the Holy Spirit that the word comes about. That gives us some indication that they began to understand that this was truly God's word and it needed to be fulfilled You'll notice then also in the text, in verses 18 through 19, you have a pretty graphic description. This is Quite interesting. Notice the very graphic descriptor description of this passage. Now this man purchased a field with the wages of iniquity and and falling headlong he burst open in the middle And all his entrails gushed out. And it became known to all those dwelling in Jerusalem that this was a field of blood. Why would Peter choose to be so descriptive about the demise of Judas? Judas obviously hung himself. Why would Peter choose to be so descriptive? Well, the reality is he chose to be descriptive to demonstrate something. To demonstrate that the divine, that this was a divine judgment on Judas. So first Peter says that Scripture needs to be fulfilled. Then number two, Peter says that that what happened, the demise of Judas, was as result Of the consequences of his own actions, that this was God's divine judgment on Judas. By the way, I should mention this as well. There's another passage in Matthew 27, verses 3 through 10. This passage describes what happened with Judas and the fact that he was given 30 pieces of silver and that Judas actually threw that money back at the leaders. This passage in the book of Acts says that he acquired land with the money. There seems to be a discrepancy between those two chapters, but let me just assure you, there's really no discrepancy at all. What really happened was the word acquire there doesn't mean that Judas actually went and bought the land himself. Simply that it was very likely the land was put in Judas's name by uh these leaders that that bought the land themselves. So there really is no discrepancy at all in these two chapters Judas threw the money back. The leaders wanted to know what to do with it. They uh decided what to do with it. They bought this land. They put it in Judas' name more than likely. Judas went to the land and hung himself. That was essentially how it happened. You have this graphic illustration of how he hung himself, of which I don't necessarily want to go into with great detail. I thought about putting pictures up and all kinds of We won't do that today. Then Peter is going to cite Scripture. He's going to point out what Scripture says. Now keep in mind, Peter is almost giving a sermon here. Some commentators say he's actually preaching here. He's certainly standing up, expo noticing things about Scripture, realizing what needs to happen, and he's certainly leading by the Word of God and what God's Word says. He understands from a perspective of the fact that God is sovereign over all things, regardless of what things look like. But the third scriptural consideration that we need to understand is that there's a quotation from Psalm 69 as well as Psalm 109. Psalm 69 says, let their dwelling place be desolate, let no one live in their tents. And Psalm 109. 8 says, I will pick up in verse 6 actually. Set a wicked man over him, and let an accuser stand at his right hand, then he judged, Let him be found guilty, and let his prayer become sin, let his days be few, and let another take his place. Psalm 69, 25, interestingly enough, is a passage that is quoted more times in the New Testament than any other passage, second to only one other. And it's used in multiple different ways. I want just for us to notice that Peter is an apostle here, and the way that he uses this certainly makes it clear that this is a full that he wants to fulfill this. And so what Peter does is he takes these two passages and he comes up with this conclusion that this office, because Judas has been under divine judgment, clearly by the way that he died And because he had a true office, that this office then needed to be fulfilled. Needed to be filled by someone else. Now let me ask you this question. Why do you think Peter had the wisdom to be able to figure this out? Certainly we could just point to divine wisdom that he had. He didn't have the indwelling of the Holy Spirit yet. Certainly the Holy Spirit, as he did in the Old Testament many times, could have just influenced Peter, and probably that is the case here But why is it that Peter was able to understand from what Scripture said what needed to happen? Couldn't it have been that that there that somebody would have just said, well let's just leave eleven or come up with some other solution or something? How is it that Peter was able to understand this? I want to suggest to you that one of the reasons that Peter was able to understand this, uh what to do here and to make this decision was because he was seeing it in light of God's overall sovereignty. That's clear from the passage. He said, what is happening is according to God's plan. This was needed to happen as a fulfillment of Scripture. Peter wasn't looking at it as, oh no, what do we do here? Peter was looking at it as this is God's plan. He has set this in motion the way that he has chosen to set this in motion. And now our job is simply to respond in like manner and to do what we believe the Lord wants us to do. based upon what God already has done. And that brings us back to the question that I asked a few minutes ago. Has there ever been a time in your life where where you have thought God was going to do something a certain way? And yet God didn't do it that way. We sometimes uh get very confused by the ways of God. But if we're going to make right decisions about how God wants us to live and obey and follow, It must be with the understanding that what has already taken place is according to God's sovereign will. And we have that comfort as Christians. Romans 8. 28 is well known that all things, all things, work together for good to them that love God, to them who are called according to his purpose, that we would be conformed, verse 29, to the image of his Son. And knowing that we can approach all of life, understanding that God is moving, He is working, He will fulfill His word, He will do what He says He will do. And when we approach our role and how we should be involved and our decision-making and what we should do, it always ought to be in light with the fact that God is God makes no mistakes. He knows what's going on. He sovereignly works his hand many times in a way that we do not understand. The Old Testament is replete of examples where God said he was going to do something. It didn't happen the way it was expected. And yet God ultimately fulfilled what he wanted. You could just run your mind through many examples in the Old Testament. Take Sarah, for instance, Abraham and Sarah. There would be a son that would come. But it didn't come for a very long time. It took far longer than Abraham and Sarah ever expected, the point that they were barren physically. That Sarah was barren, and yet God had a plan. God will do what he says he will do, but let me just assure you, he will do it his way, not our way. And the problem comes in, we lose faith, if you will. When we begin to can't figure out what God is doing, and we begin to be confused and and and begin to not understand what's happening. And we look, we we tend to doubt that God is really in control. We don't understand, and so we're not resting in a sovereign control of God. And if we have that kind of approach, we will never be able to think clearly and make the decisions that God wants us to make. This passage is not about how to make decisions. This passage is about how to see God's hand in our lives, how to see what God is doing and how God will use even sin. Even things like Judas Iscariot's betrayal for his purposes and for his glory. A man by the name of William Cooper, along with John Newton, compiled a hymn, a hymnal many years ago called Only Hymns. And in 1773, found in that hymnal, there is a hymn entitled Light Shining Out of Darkness. Along with that title, John's Gospel, John chapter 13, verse 7, which we read earlier, titles that hymn. And these are the words of that hymn. God moves in mysterious ways, his wonders to perform. He plants his footsteps in the sea and rides upon the storm. Deep in unfathomable minds of never-failing skill. He treasures up his bright designs, and work works his father, his sovereign will Ye fearful saints, fresh courage take. The clouds ye so much dread are big with mercy and shall break in blessing on your head Judge not the Lord by feeble sense, but trust him for his grace. Behind a frowning providence, he hides a smiling face. His purposes will ripen fast, unfolding every hour. The bud may have a bitter taste, but sweet will be the flower. Blind unbelief is sure to err, and scan his work in vain. God is his own interpreter, and he will make it plain God advances his kingdom to fulfill his word, his way. In our lives as Christians, we must trust in that. We must believe that that is always the case. When life throws us curveballs, when we don't understand what's happening, when things don't make sense to us, we simply need to rest in the fact that God will do what he says he will do. He will fulfill his word. He will advance his kingdom. He will come back for his own. He will do these things. And what we need to do is simply Fall in line and submit to the will of God in our lives. God's ways are very mysterious oftentimes, but we need to trust His Word that He will fulfill His Word. Well, then we see obviously a decision needs to be made here. And we see from the text in verses 22 through 23. What happens next? And they proposed verse 22. Beginning from the baptism, they were looking for somebody. Actually, let's look at verse 21. Therefore, of these men who have accompanied us. all at the time of the Lord, Jesus went in and out among us, beginning from the baptism of John to the day when he was taken up from us. One of these must become a witness with us of the resurrection. And they proposed two, Joseph called Barsabbas, who was surnamed Justus, and Matthias. So there was a need to replace Judas. That was clearly established. Peter gave scriptural support for that. And so we see here that he is going to do this. This is going to happen. And there's criteria for this. First of all, it had to be a man. As we know from 1 Timothy chapter 3, all pastors and deacons need to be men according to Scripture. We also notice from the text that he had to participate in Jesus' earthly ministry, starting from the baptism of Christ and John the Baptist and his ministry. Up through the resurrection. And he had to witness also. Another criteria was he needed to witness the resurrection of Christ as well Obviously that was necessary because he just said, you are my witnesses. Well what are they witnesses of? They're witnesses of the resurrection. By the way, this is an apostle that was going to be chosen. Now, I just want you to think about this for a minute. This is an apostle that's going to be chosen. He had to have bodily been with Christ, and he had to have witnessed the resurrection. He had had to have witnessed the risen Christ himself bodily. Are there any apostles today? By that criteria, there are not. There are no apostles today. The apostles died off with the 13 apostles, Matthias included, as well as Paul, which we'll get into a little bit later. But don't worry, um that that there are no apostles today, I remember receiving a phone call a few years ago Uh asking if I would be interested in having Apostle so-and-so come to our church. He's going to be in the area, and he he uh and he wanted to anoint they wanted to see if he I wanted some anointing. Our church wanted some anointing. And um I paused for a minute and I said, How much fun should I have with this? And uh I just said to him, I said, uh he's not really an apostle. And they said, Oh, he certainly is. He's been anointed. I said, Well, the criteria for an apostle is that he had to bodily uh um you know, he had he had to have seen Christ. He had to he had to have seen Christ physically. And uh unless he's two thousand years of old yer years old that's not possible. And uh they they said, Oh well uh I guess we're not the right thing for you and I said yeah they probably not and they hung up the phone. There is the apostle, there are no apostles today. The office of the apostleship was to establish the church, was to make the transition from the nation of Israel over to the church. And once the can of Scripture is complete, apostleship is no longer necessary because we have the authority of the Word of God. And that is our guide rather than apostleship. And there, by the way, is no apost there's no apostolic succession. In fact, after when James the apostle died in Acts chapter 12, you don't find them even trying to replace him anywhere in the book of Acts. It indicates for us that it was not a necessity to replace a particular apostle. Now, of course, Paul became an apostle, but it was not a replacement. There is no indication that it was actually a replacement of another apostle. So the idea of apostolic succession is entirely also a human manufactured idea as well. Now, with all of that in mind, let's notice a few things as well from this passage. You have here, and I just want to reiterate this you have this sober reality Of Judas defecting and the need to replace him and this criteria that is set. By the way, we also should not be too um we shouldn't glaze over this too quickly. The fact that this these two men were even willing to take Judas's place is quite quite uh amazing and incredible. Just a few weeks prior, Jesus went uh uh he he died, and of course he rose from the grave, but he died. And it was very likely that the apostles, uh there was it was a sense there was a sense in which these apostles were willing to sign their death warrant They made the assumption, or not these apostles, the these two people that were candidates for apostleship, really were were were saying, I'm willing to die for Christ. And also, it was clear that they're gonna have to travel into Jud J Jerusalem and Judea and Samaria. There was going to be a missionary journey happening here. And there was going to be much persecution involved, which Christ had prophesied. So these two men Both of them very likely were very good men. They both met the qualifications necessary. And so it was going to be a matter of choosing one of them, which we'll get to in a moment. Before we do, I I want us to reflect on this this whole idea of somewhat of Judas defecting from the twelve. And what that must have been like for these eleven disciples, the heartache, the difficulty. It would have been the same kind of difficulty as Paul mentions in 2 Timothy chapter 4 when it came to the man named Demas. He says, Be diligent to come to me quickly, for Demas has forsaken me. Having left loved his present world, and had departed for Thessalonica, Cretans for Galatia, and Titus for Dalmatia That passage says, it's interesting in that passage, Paul says, Demas has forsaken me, having left this present world. You could hear the emotion in Paul's voice as he pens down that that verse. Can you imagine Losing someone or having someone defect from the faith, the heartache that it brings. The truth of the matter is, you and I probably know people like that. The heartache that it brings for a Christian to have someone betray them. It's not as though they just betrayed Christ. It feels as though they betrayed us as well. A parent who does his very best to raise someone in the nurture and admonition of their child is in the nurture and admonition of the Lord, only for them to make decisions to rebel against the Lord. The kind of pain. The kind of anguish that that that happens when that kind of thing occurs. I want us to realize that the decision to replace Judas was one that was probably a very emotionally difficult decision for these people to make. This was something that that was very important for them to understand. And also, if you add to this the potential for this to be a problem for the testimony of these apostles. A man by the name of David Gooding says it this way. You say Jesus is the Son of God, Israel's Messiah, Savior, Restorer, come to right our wrongs and to expose the priest's corrupt abuse of their sacred office for money. How then did he not know any better than to choose a man like Judas to be one of his chief companions? representatives of the of and executives, and if you please, treasurer of his group Would you realize then that this was had to have been very discouraging for for these people to certainly they were optimistic about what God was doing and the Holy Spirit is coming, but there was a sense in which there was probably something very discouraging about all this. Let me ask you this question. You have Peter here. Remember Peter? What did Peter do? He denied Christ three times. You have Peter here that is is standing up and he is leading. He is got his head screwed on straight, if you will. He is he is teaching the uh seeing what God's word says. He's seeing God's hand in all of this. He's giving clear direction as to what to do. Why is it that Peter did not follow in the footsteps of Judas? Here you have a man who betrayed, who denied Christ three times. Why is it that on one hand, Peter was was, he was, if you will, reformed or converted. He was he got back on track, and you have Judas on the other hand who meets his demise in judgment of God. If you look at scripture, it you ask that question, there's actually only one scriptural indication. And that is what Jesus says to Peter. Luke chapter 22, verse 31 says this: Simon, Simon, indeed, Satan has asked for you that he may sift you as wheat. Then Jesus says this, but I have prayed for you, that your faith should not fail. And when you have returned to me, strengthen your brethren. Isn't that amazing that Jesus actually says to Peter, Your dual deny me, but you will actually turn back to me, and then you will strengthen your brethren. And that's exactly what Peter is doing here. How do you explain that? You explain it simply this way, that Jesus interceded on the behalf of Peter. And Jesus knew that Peter's faith was going to stand based upon Jesus' own intercession of Peter. And folks, there is great comfort in this. Aren't you glad that your salvation is not dependent upon you even after you know Christ is your Savior? Aren't you thankful that your walk with, that your standing with God, that your position in Christ is not dependent upon you? That if you stray from the faith, if you fall Then you'll get up. Not because of you, but because we have an intercessor. We have a mediator between us and God. Philippians chapter 1 says, being confident of this very thing, that he who has begun a good work in you will complete it unto the day of Jesus Christ. That is, Psalm 37 says this the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, and he delights in his way. Though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down. For the Lord upholds him with his hand. And there is great comfort in knowing that we may fall, and we may stumble. But if we know Christ as our Lord and Savior, if we are truly His, He will bring us back to Himself. He will draw us to Him. And our salvation is not dependent upon us. Our salvation is dependent upon the work of God. We ought to take great comfort in that. Well, we pick up in verse 24, and a decision has to be made. A decision has to be made about these two men. Who is actually going to be an apostle? I want us to remember this before we get into this portion of the text. That they had already narrowed it down to two men. It wasn't as out of 120 there they had narrowed well, 120 minus the eleven disciples, 11 apostles, they narrowed it down to two. And you're going to see in this passage that they casted lots, but just remember, they didn't cast lots based upon 120 choices. They casted lots based upon narrowing it down to two people that clearly met the qualifications, that clearly demonstrated character. and tier clearly did the job w w would would have been able to, from external persp perception, do the job. They just understood that the the the weight of what the decision they were making and they needed to wanted to leave it at God's hands. Um I want to mention this as well. A lot of commentators get there are it's it they get caught up on this whole casting lots thing. Pages and pages have been written on this whole casting lots thing. And I actually think it misses the main point of this pat of this portion of the passage to get caught up on that. Did they cast lots? Yes. Do we know anything about how they did that? We don't. We know that it was common in the Old Testament and in Jewish culture to cast lots to make decisions. There was even a divine endorsement of this in the Old Testament when you have the Urim and the Thumum and those kinds of things. And there is some idea that perhaps they were allowed to do this because of the uh of the Holy Spirit had not yet come yet. The canon of scripture is not complete, and there's all these kinds of things. But we really don't even know how they did this. It may have been that they had boats in there or something. That isn't really the point at all. What they did certainly wasn't inappropriate, and the point of the passage is not to give us a prescription on how to make decisions. The point of the passage is to help us understand God's hand in advancing his kingdom through various means. We see that God advances through the failings of people, but we're going to see then in this passage that God advances his kingdom through the prayerful reverence of his people. Notice what it says in the text. Picking up in verse 24. And they prayed and said, You, O Lord, who know the hearts of all. Show which of these two you have chosen to take part in this ministry in the apostleship from which Judas By transgression fell that he might go to his own place. Now let's pause and just ask this question. What would you have done? What would you what would what would you have how would you have responded? Jesus himself chose Judas, and Judas defected. Would there have been uh a la a a response of, well, we gotta we gotta get it right this time? Maybe that would have been your way of handling it. We man, we gotta make sure we get this right this time because we didn't get it right last time. Or would you have said, I'm not sure I'm gonna I'm gonna exempt myself from this I'm not even you know I'm gonna I'm not even gonna deal with this at all. I I'm I'm leaving the room I or whatever. It's interesting that when we s when we perceive that something isn't good didn't go the right way the first time We we want to shirk our responsibility one way or the other. We wanna we wanna get around it or we wanna say, I'm gonna make this happen the right way And you know, neither response is the right response. The fight or flight mechanism is not right in either case. Notice what they did here in this passage. He said, we don't know. There was a humility about them. There was a recognition of the omniscience of God in this passage. They prayed to God. They said, You Lord, who know the hearts, we don't know the hearts of these people. There's no way for us to know the hearts of these men. We're not going to pretend to know something we don't know. You know the hearts. Lord, we want your will to be done. There was a humility. When it came to the Church of God, there was a humility about what would take place. And they wanted God to have His way. They didn't presume to know the right thing or to make the right decision or to take things in their own hands, and they didn't just exempt themselves from it either. They simply followed the best they could down this road. And they asked God to lead them and that the that the that the product would be what God wanted it to be. And we find this to be something that I would just suggest to us would be an example for us as well. Folks, it's hard to make decisions. And that this passage is not about making decisions. But can we just simply say that it's so important for us to realize how much we need God? How little we really know. God is the one that sees all. He knows all. He understands all. He knows the end from beginning. He knows the hearts of man. You and I cannot do that. And so we are quick to judgment when it comes to those things. That's not what happened in this passage. What we have here is we have these people that say, Lord, you know. And would your will come about? They revered the omniscience of God, they recognized it, and they prayed fervently that what would happen would be according to God's will. That, I think, is the point of this portion of the text, that God is going to advance his kingdom through the submissive, prayerful reverence of his people. And you and I ought to have the same kind, the same kind of approach in our lives as well. There ought to be a humility to understand, particularly with God's church, and really even in our lives as Christians, that we don't always know what we ought to do. And certainly we aren't going to try to do things just our way, but that we want God to do what He wants to do in His way in His time. And that God takes even the defections of people and the heartache that goes along with all of that and He does takes all of that and he will sovereignly work his will to do what he wants to do. And what we need to do is just simply fall in line the best we can with what God is doing. We need to have a humility when it comes to the things of God, and when it comes to how God wants to do things through us and His church. Clearly, they recognized the Lordship of Christ in all of this, and they wanted Christ to have his way and to do what he wanted to do. Now, I do want to mention something else about this passage. There are some people, some commentators that suggest that Matthias actually never actually became an apostle. Or that somehow Matthias wasn't a true apostle, that Paul was actually a true apostle. And let me, and they, and they cite, usually those who do this, cite this idea. They say, well, Mike Matthias is never mentioned in the book of Acts again. And that is a very short-sighted way of looking at it. You realize after Acts chapter 15, none of the apostles uh eight, I'm sorry, eight of the apostles are never mentioned again after Acts chapter 15. So to say that because Matthias isn't mentioned again, that he isn't actually an apostle, uh seems to have no biblical bearing in Scripture whatsoever. Matthias did become an apostle. Paul actually says that he's an apostle out of due time uh out of out of timing, basically. Now it doesn't mean that God doesn't have his sovereign will and all that as well. Paul was the thirteenth apostle. Now the question then becomes, well who is going to be uh in in Revelation uh you know with the new New Jerusalem, who's gonna be all the is it gonna be Paul or Matthias? Do we really need to know that? Is it really necessary for us to know? I think it's Matthias, honestly. If you really want to know my opinion, but that's just an opinion. I don't think it's going to be the Apostle Paul up there But either way, it doesn't matter. We need to understand that Matthias was clearly an apostle. There's no exegetical reason to believe Sorry, that was a complicated word. There was there's no reason to re believe biblically that that was that was anything else except for that, except for truly an apostle. So, folks, what can we learn from all of the from this passage? How can we summarize all of this? Number one, we must trust that when God advances his kingdom through his word, We must trust that he's going to do it in his way, even when it's a way we don't expect. When he advances his kingdom through his word in ways we don't expect, we must trust him. It's so important for us to understand. This is so foundational to growth in the Christian life and to discipleship in the Christian life. You'll never outthink God. You'll never be able to predict his ways. You'll never be able to understand everything that he's doing. You've got to trust him. God will, and he is good as he is here showing wisdom to Peter, God will along the way show you, ah, that's why you did that. That's why that happened. Okay, now I understand. But in times of darkness, in times where we just don't understand, we need to understand that God will fulfill his word. Do you ever feel this way when it comes to the church? Not our church specifically, but the church at large? You know, it uh it really seems as though the church, I mean the church, is a mess. You see churches all over this country that are just having so many problems one after another after another after another. Sometimes you feel as though we're losing, not winning. You ever feel that way, or is it just me? You ever feel that way? You know what we have to do? We need to go back to God's word and we need to say no, God is advancing his church his way. He will fulfill his word. And we may not understand why this is happening the way it's happening. We may not get it all and understand it all. But we need to trust that God will do what He will with His church. He will do it, by the way. And it will be a bribe for him that is presented blameless. Hard for us to grasp that, but we need to believe that that is true. And what God wants us to do is He wants us to be in line with that. He wants us to follow in line there. We must also rest in the knowledge that God uses the failings of others to advance his kingdom. That should encourage us to move forward from our failings. Isn't it wonderful to know, folks, that God uses the advan the failings of others for purposes of his kingdom? And it's discouraging when we see someone fail. It's particularly discouraging when we see someone in leadership fail. And it's certainly discouraging when we ourselves fail. But to understand that God will use all of this for his purposes is something that is greatly refreshing and very helpful. It also encourages us to learn from our failings and to move forward. The steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, though he fall, he will not be utterly cast down. For the Lord upholdeth him in his hand. And number three, when it comes to the Lord's church, we must constantly realize our own inadequacy and look to the Lord to carry out his will. Folks, there ought to be a reverence when it comes to his church. In making decisions and doing things and figuring things out, there ought to be a reverence to simply say, I really don't know. God does. And may we just look at the Word of God, understand the will of God by what the Word of God says, understand that God is sovereignly working the way that He wants to, even though we don't understand all of it. And simply follow in line with that and submit to the will of God in our church. These are all important things foundationally for us as we delve into the subject. of the advancement of the kingdom through the church as we see, we work through our way through the book of Acts, these are things foundationally important that God is sovereignly at work, His way, doing His will, and He will fulfill His word. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you and we thank you for your word. We thank you for the truth of it. We thank you for your Your sovereign work, your control over all things. And we admit before you that we don't pretend to understand how this works with regard to Man's choice, and there is a mystery there, but we are grateful for your sovereignty. That you will fulfill your word. That you will bring about the advancement of your kingdom your way. May we trust you and submit to your will and admit our own our own humility, our own uh shortcomings and Trust in the omniscience and your omniscience and that what you would do what only you can do in your church. And Father, I pray for our church specifically, Bethel Baptist. That it would be what you want it to be. That we would make decisions consistent with your will. We would understand this. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.