Parents, would you do me a favor and make sure you're opening a Bible and you're sharing with your little ones today because this message, and it's at least the first half of it, is going to be directly for them Because what we find in Ephesians chapter 6, of course we've been going through this entire book from chapter 1, verse 1 all the way through. And of course, we would all agree that this is an incredible book of the Bible, that Paul has laid out so many rich truths for us about God's work. uh in the church for his glory uh through Christ. And we have seen just an amazing amount of truth in this in this passage, in this uh book But this is one of the only places in the entire New Testament that it directly addresses children. I was studying this week and I thought to myself, there is no way I can't have children in this audience today When this is a, when it literally says, I mean look at the first word of chapter 6, verse 1. What does it say, parents? Children. And so there is a change in address from we were talking about husbands and wives. And now we're going to focus on children in chapter six, verse one. And it actually says children, it's almost as though, if you could imagine in the first century a church Everybody's getting these letter and it's being distributed from Paul to churches all over the place. And they're getting this letter and they're reading the letter to the church in the first century. And everybody's listening to the letter as it's being read and then it comes to and it's children. It's like all the children need to sort of perk up and listen to what's about to be said. And that's why I want to make sure that you were here today. This is a passage, kids, that is directly talking to you in verses 1 through 3. And let me just define the ages here for you We know that this would have to be a group of people that were still under the authority of their fathers particularly. It says in the passage in verse 4, it tells us that they are to bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. So we're talking about an age group of people. We're not talking about adult kids. Say adult kids. What does that mean that mean. We're not talking about, you know, we all have parent fathers and mothers um if they haven't been with the Lord or whatever. So that's that you can have adult and we ought to honor our parents. But this is really talking now about when you're still under the authority of your parents. par parents. So that would also include teenagers. You say teenagers are saying, I don't like being called a kid. That's all right. Teenagers good. So it could just put children and teens in this passage. That's fine. Um as long as we understand it's the whole group of people here. So we're talking now about but we all also know that this would have to be directed to people, kids that would be old enough to understand it. I mean that just makes sense, right? So I'm figuring, you know, age five, which is why you're in here. So if you're between the ages of five and You know, eighteen, I don't think you've necessarily become an adult just because you go from eighteen to nineteen. So I just want to say that up front. But in our culture, that's generally the thing. So if you're between the ages of five and eighteen I'd like you just to slip up your hand. Would you do that for me? Raise your hand if you're between the ages of five and eighteen. Alright, we got them all over the room. Okay. I did that. Alright. Now what I want you to do next is I want you to stand up. See I got you used to the idea of bit sticking out here. Alright, I want you to stand up. If you are between the ages of five, and I'm going to come down here and I'm going to I'm going to drive the camera guy n nuts back there probably. But uh I'm gonna come down here. Okay, all the kids stand I don't do this every week for you guests. Um I'm not I'm usually up there, but uh I want to directly talk to the kids. Okay, all the kids I can't see some faces back there. Okay, alright, alright, good, good, good. Let me ask you kids, have you ever and teens, have you ever thought about this before? Have you ever decided in your heart who you want to please? Because the Bible says that his desire is for us to all please God. And there is only two choices on the shelf, pleasing God and pleasing self. Have you ever really thought about it, kids? Who you are going to please for the rest of your life? If you choose to please self You're going to have a hard life. You say, I'm not sure I I what do you mean? Talk to the adults. Right? There are adults in here that maybe were stayed at later in life or didn't make a decision to please the Lord until later in life. And you talk to them and you're gonna find that it was a hard life before they chose to start pleasing. the Lord. And we're going to see that even in our passage. Now, kids, let me just ask you this question. You ready? What is you say, would you let me sit down? No. Stay standing. What is the number one way? You say, okay, I agree, I need to please the Lord. What is the number one way that you can know you are pleasing God. Does anybody know? Will anybody be brave enough, Christian, way in the back. Now you gotta you gotta practice what you preach here. What what is it? Okay, those are very good things, but you can pray and read the Bible and not please God. Did you know that? Now that's pleases God. But you can pray and read the Bible, but if you don't do something else along with that, you won't be pleasing the Lord. What is something else? Caitlin. Oh my kid. Sorry, my kids. Okay, well that's true too. I'm sorry that my kids my I don't have any introverts in my family. Except for my wife, maybe a little bit. But other than that, the rest of them. Okay, alright. Alright. Okay. Yes, Bailey? Stomping your feet. Not stomping your feet. Okay. That must be something your parents told me. Okay. Well, who told you not to stomp your feet? Maybe mom or dad told you not to stomp your feet. Right, right? Okay, all right, okay. Look, the Bible says parents show it to your kids. Kids sit down for a second. You're gonna s you're gonna be up back up in a minute. Parents, show show them what Ephesians six one says. Children, what? Obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. Bailey, yeah, you you did that. You said the same thing. Basically. Children obey your parents. If you want to know whether you're pleasing God or not, you find in the Bible it says, children obey your parents. Now, there's a song I'll I want us to sing. Okay? So stand back up. How many kids know how many of you know the obedient song? Raise your hand. How many of you know the obedience song? Okay. Alright, we're gonna sing this together. You ready? Adults, just listen. Be be just blessed by all of your kids singing about obedience. You ready? Okay, you guys ready? Alright, ready. Obedience is the very best You guys are not saying come on a little louder, ready? Okay? Come on. I can't do this with the adults, so I can do it with the kids. Ready? Alright. Nice and loud. Okay, I want to see your mouths open while we're singing even the teenagers. Okay, ready? Obedience is the very best way to show that you believe Doing exactly what the Lord commands, doing it happily. I thought I was singing a solo. Sing it louder, come on. Action is the key, do it immediately, and joy you will receive. Obedience is the very best way to show that you believe. And how do you spell you guys know how to spell? And you spell it O B E D I E N C E Obedience is the very best way to show that you believe. Alright, good job guys. You guys can have a seat. Very good. Alright. Children, obey your parents. Now let's pray and we're going to get into God's word here. Father, I pray, Lord, that today would be a day Where we would have children in our midst that would realize that the only way they are going to truly please you is when they obey their parents. I pray for fathers in this room as well that your word also directly addresses, that we would understand our responsibility as well in this text. Father, we just need you to have the kind of families that you desire for us to have. And we know that you want us to do to to To depend upon you for these things. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. I know that every parent here can remember a time That was an extremely special time in your life. Some of you can remember it once, others twice, others three times, up to in our church six times. And that is when you held for the very first time your newborn baby. There's mine. My third child. Yeah. It's gonna be a great day, guys. All right. And you know you you hold her and he's she's so cute. I mean, I remember every single one of my kids. It's like I it's very hard to describe the emotions of when I took and normally the father is usually the one well, I don't know I take that back. I guess my my wife did k did hold her first in most cases. But anyway, you you you hold her in your arms and you go, I mean, there is I don't know that there's anything more emotional And you're filled with all kinds of emotions, at least I was. Emotions of wow, she's really cute. So she must she looks like her mother. And And sh you know these kind and then the res weight of the responsibility of this little one that's on my shoulders as her father Never in a million years do I think of her as I don't usually take her in my arms and think to myself, I've got to teach this one to obey And yet you do, don't you? Rarely do we do that. Now I want us why I'm gonna ask the question. And parents, you can be turning, helping your kids turn to Proverbs chapter 22. I want to ask a very important question this morning. Why would the the command that is right out of the gate for for kids to obey their parents, why would God choose that? I mean, couldn't he have chosen other things? Like kids be nice. Or kids share, or kids behave with your brother and sister. Why would God say, obey your parents? Alright. Proverbs chapter 2, verse 15. Parents, I want you to show this to your kids. You ready? Show this to your kids. There is something, kids, that is in your heart. Every one of you kids have it in your heart. And parents know that by what the Bible says, but also by what they had when they're their kids All right, Proverbs 22, 15. What is the first word? Kids, what's the first word? Foolishness. I've got a extra word on my hand. That's good. Foolishness is the first word of that verse. Foolishness is bound up in where where? In the heart of a child. The Bible says that foolishness, kids, listen. This doesn't mean that you are a mean person. It doesn't mean that you never want to obey your parents. But the Bible says that there is foolishness that is bound up in your heart. And do you know why it says that, kids? Because you and I have sinned against God, right? And every person that is born is a sinner. And the Bible says that foolishness is bound in the heart of a child. And there is one thing the Bible says that will That will resolve that foolishness or will extract it from your heart. But the rod of correction shall drive it far from him. Why is it that our parents, that godly parents, choose to discipline their children? It is because kids, it is because foolishness is bound up in your heart. Now you say, what is foolishness? Foolishness in the Bible, if you think of the book in the book of Proverbs, how many of you all kids have read the book of Proverbs, or maybe your parents have read it to you in the past? Okay, many of you. Foolishness is bound up in the heart of a child, the Bible says, and foolishness, the the key of not knowing, if you want to know whether you have foolishness in your life or not. The Bible says that a fool doesn't listen. The Bible says there are three kinds of fools. There's the simple And the simple person listens to everything and doesn't have any and doesn't decide what's true and right and what's not. The simple person. Then you have the scorner who's always trying to convince the simple person to do what he wants them to do. But you have this fool who the Bible says a foolish person does not listen to wise counsel. If you ask yourself the question, am I foolish? The Bible says that at least sometimes, kids, your foolishness is bound up in your heart. And what you have to do, kids, is understand that the That you know how much foolishness is in your heart by how well you listen. Now, kids, let me just ask you a question. How many of you all would be honest enough to say, you ready kids? I'm talking to you. You know what I'm talking about. Kids and teens. I'm sorry. Teens. I really don't mean to just call you kids. I know your your cognitive ability is far beyond kids. Fine. Um, kids and teens, are you ever do you ever have a problem with listening? How many of you would raise your hands, kids, and say yes, yeah, I I do. I have a problem with listening listening sometimes. Let me help adults, let's help them out a little bit. How many of us would all say that we have a problem with listening sometimes? Okay? See see kids, you're not alone. Foolishness I think sometimes is found up in the heart of adult too. But it really is true, kids, that if you aren't able to listen, it means that there is foolishness in your heart. And when there is foolishness in your heart, God says that your parents, if they love you, are going to discipline you. Now, the question then becomes, when we're talking about this obedience issue, the question then becomes, what is obedience? Obedience to obey your parents is not just that you do what you what they want you to do It's not just that. It includes that. But it's not just that. And this word obey we find in the book of Proverbs a lot. And we find, number one, that obedience requires the right heart attitude. Obedience requires the right heart attitude. Kids, do you understand that? That you can do what you want to do, and you can choose to do what your parents want you to do because they're forcing you. Or because you do it because you want to please them and please God. And it and the obedience that God is talking about, is the kind of obedience where you are saying, I am going to obey, not because I'm forced, although your parents have the ability and really the responsibility to To discipline you if you don't. But you choose to say, I'm going to obey, not because I'm forced, but because I want to please God. Kids, why should you obey? You should obey because you want to please God That's why you should obey your parents. Kids, listen up. Why should you obey your parents? Because you what? Okay, kids, stand up Come on, stand back up. Kids, why should you obey obey your parents? Because you want to Good. Somebody's listening. This is wonderful. Okay? Let's do it one more time. Chill kids, why should you obey your parents? There's two words I want you to get. Why should you obey your parents? Because you want to Okay, well let's try one more time. You guys are getting better. This is good. Because you why do you want to obey your parents? You want to obey your parents why? Because you want to Good. If you do that, then you have the right heart attitude. You can have a seat. Obedience requires you to have a right heart attitude. Number two. Obedience requires you to respond actively. The Bible says in Proverbs 8:1, does not wisdom cry, and understanding put forth her voice. That means, put forth your voice is the idea of responding. And it's the same word basically used all the way over in Ephesians chapter 6, verse 1. Obedience means to please God by a right attitude, but to respond immediately, that you are going to respond. Immediately. Kids, how often when you are listening to your parents, when your parents are saying for you to do something, kids, how often are you responding in the right attitude immediately? Not oh yes. Alright, fine, my parents I gotta get them off my back. No no Yes, I want to please God. Oh, my dad said something. I'm going to obey. Obedience means that you are in tune to your dad and mom's voice Do you hear your mom's voice when they are speaking to you, when she is speaking to you? Do you hear your dad's voice when he is speaking to you? And do you show them you hear by responding immediately? You turn to them. Let's say you're facing, you're playing outside, and you're having a good time, and your dad comes out and says, time for dinner. Parents you have dinner with their kids, right? Okay, that's another subject. But every time for dinner. Kids, do you respond? Do you say, Oh, I gotta look and see what dad's talking about here. Or do you keep playing until they say it five times? Obedience is to listen. And to respond immediately to the voice of your parents. And I will tell you, I did learn to do that when I was your age. Some of us remember parents who were very clear on this, that when I speak, you listen up. We're losing that in our society. Everybody's bebopping around with their little phones or iPads or tablets or and my kids got them too. I I'm not sure if I'm Doing the right thing by that or not. But but when I say my voice when I when I when they hear my voice, they ought to listen. Not something they always do, but they ought to. Now Number third, obedience very simply requires number third, number three, obedience requires listening. Obedience requires listening. Proverbs 22, 21, that I might make thee know the certainty of the words of truth. And that thou mightest answer the words of truth to them that send unto thee. God desires for us to be good listeners. Kids, do you realize if you do not learn to obey your parents and you don't listen to learn to listen to your parents and you don't learn to respond to your parents, if you don't do this, Do you realize that you are going to have a very difficult life? And you are not going to please God. And you are not going to have things go very well. And actually this passage says that. Do you see this in the passage? Look at chapter 6, verse 1. Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is what? And this is the most important reason. You need to obey the parents in the Lord, that is, to please God. According to Colossians 3, it says to please the Lord. Obey your parents in the Lord, for this is what? It's right. Kids, listen. There is nothing like being right. Just knowing that what you are doing is right. That how you are behaving is right, that how you're thinking is right, that how you're listening is right. There is nothing like going to bed at night and realizing that my day was right. That is very, very important, and there isn't anything like it. We're living in a you know what you know the other option is? The other option is I I I lived my day to please myself. Instead of I'm living my for my I'm living my entire day to please the Lord because it's right. And then also this. Obedience it says uh because it's right. Let's also look at a couple of things here with regard to obedience. I need to back up here first. uh uh for a minute. What is what else is obedience? I'm gonna go go through these quickly. Obedience is compliance. Obedience is a heart issue. And obedience requires faith. Now, I'm going to mention that last one in just a minute. Would you look at the passage? It says, verse 20, verse 2: Honor thy father and mother. Which is the first commandment with promise, that it may be well with you, and that you may live long on the earth. Now, listen up, kids and adults. If you are going to be obedient, it is going to require you to do this. For you to trust your parents. That your parents know better for you than you know for you. Teenagers, your parents know better than you do. The responsibility in this passage is given primarily to the father. And you need to understand that you do not know better than your parents. In fact, kids, if you think of yourself as equal in ability to think through things as your parents you have a problem. If you think, well, I can think the same as as good as my parents can, or even my parents are just out of touch. They just don't know what they're talking about. If you have those kinds of thoughts, Then there's a problem. Because the Bible says that you are dependent on your parents. Obedience Requires dependency. Why would I obey God? Because I'm dependent on God If I'm going to obey myself, I'm not dependent on God. It's the same way of kids with your parents. You need to obey your parents because you depend on your parents. Can you imagine if your parents weren't around? Can you imagine if your parents didn't take care of you? There is no one in your life that spends more time and expense and energy in your life than your parents do. For you. There is no one that cares more for you than your parents do on this earth. God cares more, but other than him. You need to listen to your parents and you need to obey them. And it's going to be because if you will learn to do that now It'll be easier. You know, you know you will always be obeying somebody. Kids get used to it. Right adults? We're always obeying somebody. If you have an employer, you gotta obey 'em. If you have the government, you've got to obey them, even though you don't agree all the time. Sure. You have to obey. And if you have leadership in your life, you have to obey. Even if you don't agree, you have to obey. Get used to it. You don't ever think that one day you'll be free. That is a lie. Okay? One day, in the way that we're thinking of freedom. One day you might have more ability to do what you want to do, but you'll also have more responsibility. Now, all of that is very important for us to understand. But I want us to understand these things in light of verse 2, which says, Honor thy father and thy mother. The Bible not only says to obey your parents' kids, but it also says to honor your parents. And what that means is to give them a lot of to value them, to be grateful for them. That would be a way to understand adults it's talking about have a to put w a lot of weight into something is the word honor. To really consider it to be important. And I think kids, you can understand that, right? You can understand that there are certain things that are really important. And there are certain people that are really important. And when it says honor your parents, kids, it's saying you've got to regard you've got to realize that your parents are are really important. And frankly, outside of God, they're the most important people in your life. Right, kids? Do you kids, do you think of it that way? That the most important people in your lives are your parents outside of God. God's the most important. And then your parents are second. It says, honor your father and your mother. That thou shalt live. And it and it gives it, it says, it says here in the passage, that it may be well with you. Thou mayest live long on the earth. The word me may well with you, it really just means that you will do well. That you'll have a good life. That's not the most important pe reason to obey your parents. Kids, what's the most important reason to obey your parents? To what? Two words. Kids, come on, help me out. To please God, right? However, God wants us to honor our parents because it will be better for us. And we it we and it actually and look it says here that you'll live longer on the earth. Now when we think about that, sometimes people want to try to explain that away. And of course, this is not a guarantee that you'll have a very long life in terms of years, because we know many godly people that didn't have a long life. But it will give you the longest life that you could have. Parents probably understand a little bit better than kids. So the longest life that you will have will be Helped by obeying and honoring your parents. Now, with all of that, we now need to really think through some things because we're going to turn the tie here. And we're going to talk about fathers. Because now fathers are directly addressed If you can think of this entire passage, all the way starting back in chapter 5, verse 21, if not further back than that, this is entirely talking about the family. It's talking about the uh it's talking about the church too and all that and we talked about that, but um it's talking about th husbands and wives. And now it's talking, it talked to p to kids, and it said, obey your parents. And the very final words That God says about the family, go to who? To the father. It is ultimately the father's responsibility for the well-being of your family. It's not ultimately the mother's responsibility. It is certainly secondarily the mother's responsibility, but it is ultimately the father's responsibility. And so the Bible tells us actually, it gives us a negative command, a prohibition here in chapter 4, verse 1. It says, Fathers, of all the things it could have told you not to do, fathers. It chooses this. It says, provoke what? Provoke not your children to wrath. Why would it say that? Out of all the things it could say, why would it tell fathers to make sure that you don't provoke your children to wrath? Well, there's a lot of reasons for that, but in Colossians chapter 3, verse 21, which really is a sister epistle to Ephesians. It says, fathers, provoke not your children to anger lest they be discouraged. Fathers, can I ask you a question? Are your kids discouraged? Are they encouraged or are they discouraged? Do they feel as though they will never match up? Do they feel as though they will never make you happy? Do they feel as though you will never understand what they are going through? Now, kids, let me just say, you have your obedience. Has nothing, has is not based upon your father's responses or talk or relationship with you. You've got to obey regardless of what your father does. That's what the Bible says. But fathers, let me just ask you, are you making it easy for your kids? I wrote down seven seven different ways. Now let's just think about this for a minute. Can you think in the Old Testament of any people that may have caused, provoked their children to wrath, fathers that provoked their children to wrath in the Old Testament? Can you think of any? And cause them to be discouraged. What about Jacob? Do you remember Jacob? Jacob had how many sons? He had twelve. And Jacob loved one more than the others. He loved he loved Joseph more than the other sons. How did the sons feel about that? They were angry. Jacob provoked his sons to wrath. Because of favoritism. Fathers, if you want to provoke your children to wrath, Do it. Favoritism will do it. If you think of, so favoritism is one. Another one is injustice. Do you remember Saul and Jonathan's relationship? Saul, Jonathan was a good man. Saul was one whose heart was not turned toward the Lord. To the point where Saul wanted to kill David. And in fact, at one point, wanted to kill his own son. And this was extremely disconcerting as an understatement for Jonathan. Injustice. And then we find David doing the same kind of thing. Absalom, remember, was really, you know, we we pick on Absalom, Absalom a lot, and certainly we should, he was not a good man. But do you remember that David did nothing to deal with the problem of Amnon? And because they're kids in the room, I won't go into explain all that. But he just sat back and watched the problem with Amnon and did nothing. Perhaps because of his own personal guilt. Probably because he himself was so diminished in his ability to do so because of his own sin. And so what you find in that in those passages as we look through that is that Absalom is going to take matters into his own hands. And even after and Absalom is going to take take matters into his hands, and then Absalom is sent out. Of the kingdom. And he is estranged from his father for two years. And finally, David calls back Absalom to be finally come to come back home. But David can't forgive Absalom for what he's done. And so he says he will not see Absalom's face. Failure to forgive is another way that we can really incite our kids. If we keep bringing the same thing up over and over again, a past failure over and over again, they can't seem ever to get past their failure. Folks, that will cause your kids to be discouraged. Never able to match I put I put this that your kids may feel that they're never able to match up. You know what, I rearranged this. I gotta go by that. Um that's a good thing that I have that there. Um yeah, I just put 'em all. That's good. Uh A sense of embarrassment is another one. Kid parents, are you embarrassed by your kids? That is absolutely no reason. Embarrassment of your kids should be should not even factor in. to the decisions you make when it comes to this when when it comes to the discipline of your kids. It should not even factor in. The root of embarrassment In those kinds of things, if we dwell on embarrassment and we become overwhelmed and focus on this embarrassment that could possibly well up in our hearts is pride. Embarrassment is something that should not, a sense of embarrassment. If you and your kids will pick up on it, particularly your teens. Teens will pick up on this. If you teach parents, if your teens feel as though you are embarrassed by them, It's going to provoke them to discontentment. Just general expressions of anger can provoke your kids to discontentment. And just general inconsistency can do the same kinds of things. Fathers, provoke not your children to wrath to the place that they are discouraged. God desires for us as fathers to have loving leadership. We've got to understand that our kids do have foolishness, that it's bound up in their heart. And one time or two time or three times of discipline is not going to fix the problem. It is going to have to be consistency over a length of time. Sometimes we want immediate results. And so we think that if we will just nip it in the bud, you know, Barney Fry, nip it in the bud, we just nip it in the bud that it'll all be taken care of. Well, you don't understand scripture very well if you think that, because foolishness is bound up in the heart of your child. And there has to be consistency of discipline over time. Don't be discouraged if your kids are not absolutely obedient to you. all the time. Only be discouraged if you choose to respond the wrong way all the time. I was talking one time to a man young man who didn't have kids yet. That's always a Interesting discussion sometimes. Especially when they were criticizing another family that this is goes way back, it's not our church. Uh they're sort of criticizing other uh other families that they saw that they felt they had unruly kids. And that can be a problem And I talked to them and I said, let me let me just ask you a question. I said, are you concerned about the kids being unruly or are you concerned about the response of the parents? In other words, what I'm saying here, folks, is that a child is going to be unruly until the discipl the consistency of discipline has worked out over time. What you've got to do is be very consistent. I'm not concerned if I see f kids that are unruly. I'm only concerned if I see parents, including myself or my wife. I'm only concerned if I see parents who don't deal with it, who choose not to deal with the problem. Just as in by way of practical advice, I would really encourage you to do this. I've just found this to be very helpful. I I want to say this first of all that I have you know I would never write a book on parenting You say why is uh that? Most of you would know why. Because I'm not done yet. Um I might write write a book on the family in general, but not on the not on parenting specifically. But part, I think, fathers, of what we often do wrong, what we what we are not careful of is we don't have a clarity of our direction for our kids. We are vague in what we want them to do. And what happens is is that we and then we don't know what to do when they don't follow us. And then we question ourselves as to whether we were clear enough. And there and there becomes a uh uh uh um uh a foolishness that doesn't isn't taken care of, isn't dealt with One of the things that I think is very helpful is if we will reduce things down to whether it's obedience or disobedience. We help our kids that way If we say to our kids, if there's confusion about whether what they're doing is obedience or disobedience, then there's often confusion on our parts on how we handle it. But if we will reduce it down and we'll say, okay, look, you're going to do this, and if you don't do this, you're disobeying. And if you do it, you are obeying. And if we do reduce it down to that, then they know they're going to be disciplined if they disobey. And we know that they'll be dis not disciplined and rewarded if they obey. Sometimes there are situations where you run into that are just difficult to figure things out. If you can reduce it down to simple obedience for our kids, I think it really, really helps us in our communication to them. of what we expect of them. I personally find, personally, this is very personal, but I find that my kids obey me better than they do other people. I don't like that. I tell them you need to obey me the same the same way you obey others. You need to obey others the same, you know, like if they have a teacher or something, they need to, I'm delegating my authority to them. But I find personally that they obey me far better than they obey others, other adults. And I will tell you that given the two options, I would rather it be that way. Because folks, if they learn to obey enough in the home over time, they will then learn to obey other authorities around them. But it does take, it takes time. Now, with all of that in mind, God does give us two very positive commands as fathers. Number one, God has given us the responsibility to nurture and train our children. I've said before this reality that God doesn't command us to eat three meals a day because we will do it automatically. We'll do it naturally. God doesn't tell mothers that often in Scripture, it cites the fact that mothers will do this, but it doesn't tell mothers that often to nurture their kids because they do it kind of naturally. But the responsibility for the nurturing and the training of a child in the home does ultimately fall to the father. He said we see very clearly in this passage is talking very directly to fathers. And we know by the way, folks, that it's not talking to parents in general here in this passage, because it already said, children, obey your parents. If he was trying to talk about the same kind of relationship, he would say, parents, provoke not your children to wrath. He's talking specifically here to fathers. And so we find in the passage that fathers are responsible for the training of their children. Ephesians chapter 5, verse 26, it's the same word where it talks about nurturing the wife. But in other contexts throughout Scripture, what we find is this word nurture does mean to train. We must train them to see. I just wrote a few things down here about this. to train them to do? Well, we're to train them to see their own sin. If they could see their own sin at an early age, we are setting them up to understand the gospel. We ought to have gospel-centered parenting. Proverbs chapter 23, verse 13 14 says Thou shalt beat him with a rod. Now the word beat there, I just want to say, especially since I'm on tell on the you know going out of the airways here Beat does not necessarily doesn't mean beat in the way that we think of abuse. Talking here about discipline. So we could say it this way. Thou shalt discipline with a rod, and shall deliver his soul from hell. What is that talking about? How can spanking deliver his soul from hell? And I mean within the within the what within what is right here uh with regard to spanking, what is gentle and appropriate. How can that do that? Because folks, when you spank your kids, when you discipline your kids, it causes them to realize they're sinners. The most important thing for them to realize at an early age is that they are sinful. Number two, we must train them to do right, that doing right pleases God. And number three, we must train them to have a humble spirit. Parents, do your kids have a humble spirit? Can you sense a humility in your kids? That they understand that they have foolishness in their hearts, that they understand that they are sinners. I will tell you one of the things that one of my kids said to me, I won't say who since they're in the room, two of them are in the room. They said after after disciplining one time, they looked up at me and said, Dad, I can't seem to stop sinning. And I thought to myself, praise the Lord they understand that. If your kids don't understand that they can't seem to stop sinning. They are not set up to understand the gospel. They're not set up to understand that Christ will save them from their sin. And that's why, folks, it doesn't just say nurture, but it says this word admonition, which means discipline. You cannot get around this. There is no way if you look at the parenting passages in Scripture in the Old Testament and New Testament You have discipline all the way through it. And we are so soft in our society. I'm not saying here, folks, that you should express anger. We just Read, it says, don't provoke your kids to wrath. But a firm hand and discipline is vitally important for their salvation. A clarity about the law of God is important for their redemption. Do you remember what the Bible says the use of the Old Testament law is, the Mosaic law? The Bible says that the law is a schoolmaster, it's a standard to bring us to Christ. That is, we know sin because of the law. And one of the mistakes we are making as parents is that our kids do not have a clear law in their thinking. And they are not set up to be able to accept the grace and mercy of Christ because you cannot understand God's grace and mercy until you first understand the law of God. And the sin that is shown in our hearts as a result. So fathers, don't provoke your kids to wrath. But be firm in your discipline of them and be as consistent as possible. And I just want to say it with all this that I'll just be honest with you. I am preaching to myself as much as anybody else here. And as I've looked at this all this week and studied all this this week, it isn't as though I didn't run it through my own conscience and run it through my own heart and my own mind and realize how important and how weighty the responsibility that I have as a father of my own kids. This isn't something and and frankly it doesn't look at I am not preaching at all At all in a way that says, hey, look at me as the prime example. Or look at me at all I'm doing. Folks, the basis of which I am saying these things is not on what I'm doing Although I hope I am consistent. I hope I am giving setting a good example. But the primary basis is on God's word. This is what God says to do. This is what God's mandate and responsibility is for fathers. Children, if you are going to live a and let me just say this as well if you look at the passage. Twice in the passage it it says here In the Lord in verse 1 and of the Lord in verse 4. What God desires for us to have, He desires for us to have A home that is Christ-centered. What God is teaching us from this passage is how to have a Christ-centered home. Kids, thank you for listening. Let's work on listening to your parents and obeying your parents because you know that it will please the Lord. Fathers. Are you making it easy or hard for your kids to obey? Are you provoking them to a place of discontentment? Maybe there needs this afternoon to be some discussion between fathers and kids. Maybe there needs to be some discussion between fathers and teens. Maybe there needs to be an owning of the responsibility on both ends. A home will only work right if the children are obedient. And the fathers are what they are supposed to be. And you say mothers you you're all the mothers are going, Well where am I in all this? I think you know where you are in all this. And apparently God does too. Because we find here specifically being addressed to fathers, kids obey both of your parents. Fathers and mothers. Let's pray together. Lord, we do come to you, and our desire is that we would have a Christ-centered church. But on a practical level, if we were ever going to have a Christ-centered church, it's going to have to be made up of Christ-centered families. Which are made up of Christ-centered marriages, which are focused on instruction and discipline for our children, so that we have We pray for unique hearts for our kids. That they would you would instill in them a desire to please you. We pray, Lord, that you, we we know, every father and mother in this room understands that we are not equal to the responsibility of the task that you've laid before us. We know that we have failed and will continue to fail. And we know, Lord, that there are fathers probably in this room that have raised their kids. They're now grandparents. That maybe they look back with some regret. Maybe they look back and they say, um I wish I would have known this. I pray, Lord, that you would redeem them in their grandparenting, that they would be able to have a positive influence in the life of their grandkids. So that they can train their grandkids to be obedient to their parents and to please you. Lord, may all that we have said and done be pleasing and honoring to you today, and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.