Continue our series in the book of Philippians. I hope that you have enjoyed this series as much as I have. It's been wonderful to go through such a uh a doctrinally rich book but yet so clearly practical as well. And uh we are Looking, we will be looking today at an incredibly practical passage of Scripture here in Philippians chapter 2. And we'll be focusing in on verses 12 through 15 in this passage. A couple of common phrases. I think you could help me. We lot last week we had you you uh completed a couple of several different phrases. We won't do that this week, but this one we'll see if you can complete. God helps those who Okay. God helps those who help themselves. And here's another common phrase. You gotta meet God. You know it? You gotta meet God. Halfway. Have you heard that? You gotta meet God halfway. Both of those are totally false. Okay. Alright. So I want to I start off with heresy And uh both of those are um are really, really not not biblical. Some people actually think that God helps those who help themselves is in the Bible, and I assure you it is not there But what these what these phrases do do is it helps you to what they're doing is they're trying to attempt to understand and to explain God's role and our role and our responsibility. And this is a struggle in the Christian life to sort of what is my responsibility and what is God's role. And this is something that this passage is going to deal with head on. So some people tend to take the extreme view as sort of this let go and let God kind of view. Or I'm just going to let go and let God do it in my life. You ever heard that before? Let go and let God? We've all heard that before. I'm just going to let go and let God. And that's what I need to do. I'm not going to try real hard. I'm not going to serve. I'm not going to work. I'm not going to I'm just going to let go and let God. And then you have the other side of the coin. The other side is it all depends on me. It all depends on me. It just depends on me. Emphasis on self-effort, an emphasis on working hard and doing it, doing it all on it all depends on me. Folks, both of those extremes are at are wrong. Throughout church history, you have like Pietism, which would be on one side, the sort of I've got to really focus in on self-effort in order to become holy. And there are other people in church history that have focused more in on let God do it and I'm going to back up. The Keswick movement was kind of like kind of that way. But but what how does this work? I mean what what percentage is God's part and what percentage is my part? Is it a 60-40 proposition, 60 God and 40 me or 70-30? How does this work between God's part and my role and my responsibility? Well, as you probably already know, those those kinds of ratios are not, those kinds of are are totally, they miss the point entirely, but today we're going to see what God says about this. Because if you'll notice in the passage that we're looking at today, Philippians chapter 2, and if you pick up in verse 12, you'll see it says, Therefore my bel my brethren, my beloved As you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. You've got clear responsibility on the part of a person there. Then you have verse 13, for it is God who works in you, both to will and to do for his good pleasure. It almost looks like these two verses sort of are mutually exclusive. I mean, which is it? Are we the ones that do the work, or is it God that does the work? And of course, we're all going to answer yes to both of those. But how is it that these things work together in the Christian life on a daily basis? And that is something that we're going to understand this morning. But first, we are going to need God's help as we go into his word this morning. So let's ask him to help us with this in prayer. Father, we come to you this morning and we pray That uh as we look at the empowerment that you provide for your children, and we also look at the responsibility that is ours, I pray, Lord, that this would become clearer for us today as we look at your word. That we would understand by the end of this message what our responsibility is and and what your empowerment looks like and how this all works in our lives as Christians. We pray, Lord, that this would be a big help, really help us in our own growth and sanctification. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. So we're looking at this issue of personal responsibility, and we see here verse 12, it says, Therefore, my beloved. Anytime you see this in the passage, this concept, this idea of therefore, this is something that we need to be very, very obvious about, very clear about on what it's talking about when it says therefore. And you see a series of therefores. For example, we saw that in chapter 2, verse 1, therefore. We saw it again in verse 9, therefore. And again, in verse 12, therefore, you have this series of therefores that are really connecting all of this together. And so what does it mean when it says therefore? So it really refers all the way back, this is a flow of thought, that refers all the way back to chapter 1, verse 27. Where it says, only let your conduct be worthy of the gospel. So whether I come and see you or I'm absent, I may hear of your affairs that you stand fast in one spirit. With one mind, striving together for the faith of the gospel. And in verse 27, you have two major concepts there. You have the concept of individual responsibility. But you also have the concept of corporate responsibility. He wants them to stand fast worthy of the gospel, but he also wants them to stand fast in unity one with another. And these things go together. One works with the other. And so we find here in this passage this idea of a corporate responsibility as well as an individual responsibility. And that is going to work its way out in this passage today that we're looking at this morning. Also, remember from the last couple of weeks we have been looking at the humility and the exaltation of Christ. And we have seen that in Philippians chapter 2. And one of the key verses to understand and how we are to emulate what Christ has done is in verse 8. Would you notice what it says in verse 8? And being found in appearance as a man, this is Christ, he did what? He humbled himself and became obedient to the point of death, even the death of the cross. And then so we see the importance of humbling ourselves and become obedient unto death. There's two concepts there. There's this attitude of humility, and there's this behavior of obedience. And those are two concepts that we really need to keep in mind as we go through this. Humility and obedience. And that really leads us right into verse 12 where it actually tells us that Paul is going to explain that how do we work out our own salvation? Well he says, my beloved, as you have always what? Obeyed. We know that obedience is on the forefront of Paul's mind, as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence. And then we have this phrase. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. The word obeyed is a word that we see throughout Scripture. I'm thankful for the for the offertory was trust and obey. It goes perfectly with the message this morning. In 2 Corinthians chapter 2, verse 9, it says, For this end I also wrote that I might put you to the test whether you are obedient in all things. Romans chapter 16, verse 26 says, But now made manifest and by the prophetic scriptures, made known to all nations according to the commandment of the everlasting God for obedience to the faith. Romans 15 verse 18 says, For I will not dare speak of any of those things which Christ has done accomplish through me. Christ accomplishing it through me in the war in word and deed, and make Gentiles obedient. Second Thessalonians 3, verse 15. Yet do not count him as an enemy, but abolish him as a brother in obedience. 2 Corinthians 7 verse 15, and his affections are greater for you as he remembers the obedience of you all. And 2 Corinthians 10 verse 5 is a very important verse in understanding what disobedience includes. It says, casting down imaginations and every high thing that exalts exalteth itself against the knowledge of God, every thought and taking every thought into captivity to the obedience of Christ, that even our thoughts are to be obedient. Being ready to punish all disobedience when your obedience is fulfilled. Now that is, we're going to keep that in your mind. What is the obedience that is talking about in this passage? It is not just It is not just behavioral obedience, it is obedience of the inner thought life of the believer. You're going to see how this all works together as we work through this passage. And you see that this passage says that we're supposed to work out our salvation. What does it mean to work out? Well, as I'm sure you've heard before, it doesn't mean to work for your salvation. It's not talking here about trying to obtain uh uh uh uh a right standing with God by your own self-effort Folks, there is an important role for us to play this word ergazomai, this working out is something that we are supposed to do. There is a personal responsibility in our salvation. Now, how does that work? Well, let me remind you what salvation is of course. And we forget this a lot. When we think of salvation, we usually think in terms of just one aspect of salvation, which is justification. Certainly that is incredibly important and intricately involved in what salvation is. Justification means to be declared righteous, to be free. from from judgment, justification. Folks, on the other end is glorification. Glorification is also part of salvation. Glorification is to be free from the presence of sin. So justification is to be freed from the punishment of sin. Glorification is to be freed from the presence of sin. This is all under salvation. And then there is this role in between. And that is sanctification, which means to be freed from the power of sin. Now, when we think about this in light of what we already learned about the example of Christ, you remember what it said that Christ came to earth, he became a man, he humbled himself, he became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. And then what did God do? He got Christ in himself experienced, in a sense, glorification. He experienced even higher exaltation than anybody will ever experience. And that is for us to be an example. Now, we right now, if we know Christ is our Savior, we are justified. We are declared righteous. And one day we will be free from the presence of sin when we see Christ. But right now we are in between that time where we are in our process of sanctification. And it says in this passage, work out your own sanctification. Now, what does it mean by that? Well, two things. Clearly, folks, what we find in the passage when we look at this whole idea of sanctification and what we are supposed to do are two things. And this is very simple, aren't I? And you're going to be glad this is simple. Because all of us need just sometimes we just need to boil things down to what's simple: humility and obedience. I mean, really, it's that simple. It's verse 8. He humbled himself and became obedient. Folks, what is our role in the Christian life? What is our responsibility in our sanctification? It is humility and obedience. And frankly, both of those two things go together, and you're going to see in a few moments how they go together. You cannot truly be fully and completely obedient to God unless you are humble before Him. And we'll see how that works. And by the way, that is true in our justification. Just think about it for a minute. When you come to Christ, what is a necessary quality in order to come to Christ? Well, it's humility. You have to realize your own sin. You have to understand that your sin separates you from God. That is necessary. Your role is not self-effort, but it is humility. You must humble yourself before Holy God in order to come to Christ. And that is the first responsibility of every believer in sanctification. It is to humble ourselves before a holy God. Then it says in the passage, it gives us the manner in which we should do this, and this is so key. It says, with fear and trembling. What does it mean that we're supposed to work out our own salvation or we're supposed to be humble and obedient? How are we supposed to do this in fear and trembling? Well, you you the word fear and trembling could be awe and reverence. And this harkens back again to the previous passage. Look at verse 10 with me if you would. Look at verse 10. It says that at the name of Jesus, what happened? Every knee should what? should bow, of those in heaven, and of those on earth, and of those under the earth, and every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father. What this tells us that in the future there will be a day where every knee bows, every tongue confesses, there will be awe and reverence before Christ. And everyone will recognize him as Lord, as we learned last week. But what he's saying to the Christian. He's what he's saying to this church of Philippi is, what will happen in the future ought to be happening in your life now You ought to be humbly obeying in great awe and reverence before God. Do we live our lives that way? Do we live our lives every day of our lives in great awe and reverence before a holy God? Simply trusting and obeying. Simply humbly submitting to the will of God. Why is it let's just ask this question, why is it that we struggle with this? I'm sure that I don't even need to raise of hands. I'm sure that everybody would agree that they struggle with this. So why is it that we struggle With just simply daily walking in humility and obedience. Now, I want us to think really practically about this Tomorrow you'll wake up in the morning. And I don't know what your routine is, but probably, you know, for most of us it'll include coffee. For those of you who are brave not to, that's great. But you're waking up in the morning and you begin to think about your day, you begin to think about God. Are you starting off the day in awe and reverence? See, the only way that we're going to be humble before God is that we first view who God is. He is awesome. He is one to be revered. The other thing is just to consider this. Uh let me illustrate it this way. How many of y'all have been married for ten years at least? All right. Most of you have been kids, keep your hands down. Okay. So so you've been married for ten years. How many of you would agree that before you got married you had no idea what marriage was like? I'm just curious. Okay. Alright. Maybe that's overstating it. You know far better now what marriage is like than you did before you got married. Okay, I got a few more hands up. Okay, good. Alright, that's a little bit better. Okay. Let me ask you a question. What comes first? Living or commitment? When you think about being married, isn't it true, isn't it true, folks, that in order to understand marriage and to live out marriage, you've got to commit to the marriage You can't you can't like the world does, you can't say, well let's test the waters and see if this will work and kind of figure this out and see if it makes sense and see if we're compatible and then if it's if it all works out then we'll get married. You know what happens when that when you try to do that? Ain't nobody ever gets married. Why? Because we are we are w what what got the way God has set it up is that we've got to commit first And then we obey. Folks, it's the same way with the Lord. We have got to choose to commit first. And then we obey. You know what keeps us from, and the obedience that's mentioned here is a full obedience. It is the kind of obedience that we find in a song that says, Lord, send me anywhere. Only go with me. Lay any burden on me, only sustain me. Sever any tie Save the tie that binds me to thy heart. Lord Jesus, my King, I consecrate my life, Lord, to thee. It's that kind of obedience that's in view in the passage. What did Christ hold back, folks, when he came to earth? He held nothing back. What did obedience not include in the life of Christ? The Bible says that Christ was completely conformed to the will of his Father. He said he lived to do the will of his father. This was not partial obedience, folks. This was complete obedience. And obedience in the way that this passage is talking about, the kind of obedience where we're really going to grow in our sanctification, it begins by us saying Okay, I'm not going to look ahead and see what this f and try to figure this out and then decide if I'll obey. No, it starts with a commitment, I'm going to obey And I'm going to commit. And I'm going to consecrate my life. And Lord, do whatever you want to with me. And you know what that takes? It takes trust. You've got the trust that God is going to, God has his plan is far better than yours I've got to trust that what God says is best, and that God no good thing will he withhold to them that uh that walk uprightly. That if I will commit my my soul, my life, everything I have to him, that he will do what he wants to with it, and it will be for my good and for his glory. It requires trust But it also requires humility. I've got to stop saying, I'm in control, I want to be in control, I want to do what I want to do. No, it's it's God that we must relinquish our control to Completely. No exceptions. Everything. Our thought life, our behavior, everything Now you say, that sounds really hard. How many of you are saying right now, you know, that seems really, I'll raise my hand whether you're that is really Folks, that is exactly why we have the next verse. Look at the next verse. Verse 13. For it is God. Who works in you both to will and to do for his good pleasure. Paul writes this as an encouragement to the church of Philippi. He wants to encourage them that as they choose to follow God wholeheartedly that God is going to work in them both to will and to do for his good pleasure. Now this working in, this word work means to empower. And a verse was read in the Sunday school class. I think Hisham read it in the Sunday school class that I was in. And I want to read this verse to you because it it perfectly describes the empowerment of God. to the lo to the the individual that will choose to obey this way. 2 Peter 1 verse 3, as his divine power has given to us all things. That pertain to life and godliness through the knowledge of Him who called us by glory and virtue. Did you catch that? His divine power has given to us all things that pertain to life and godliness. Do you, Christian, do you even believe that today? That God, if you know Christ your Savior, that He has given you all power to do all things that pertain to life. godliness. Do you know how we are you know how we get that kind of power? The answer is obedience. It is energized by obedience. In other words, folks, our responsibility is simply to obey. And then as we obey, the Spirit of God works in our lives to empower us. And I want you to notice what it says here. This is so encouraging. It says both to do two things, both to will. And to do for his good pleasure. Paul is so specific about this. You know what the idea of will is? It has to do with our motivation. It has to do with our motivation. And the do has to do with our actual ability to do it. God says that if we will choose to obey, then He, as we choose to obey, He will motivate us Both to will, that is, he will keep us motivated to will and to do. For his and it says for his good pleasure. He is pleased to do this. He wants to do this in our lives He wants to empower us. He wants to motivate us. But folks, the way that he has set this up is that the only way we will receive divine motivation and divine empowerment is when we will choose by faith and humility to follow God whatever it is. That's the key. To not hold back. To not say that I'm just going to do what I want to do. No, to give it to just Give over to God your inhibitions, your thinking, your control. Lord, all I want to do is follow you, obey you in humility. The question is, are we willing to do that? It really it really boils down to that It really boils down to are we willing to simply and the issue is always faith. The issue is always our belief. If we're not willing to obey, if we're willing, we want to hold things back, if we want to do things our way, or I've got to have our my control, or I've got to do it the way I want to do it, and and then folks, we We are going to not be able to get the kind of empowerment that God wants us to have. And folks, this is not a one-time thing. This is a daily thing. Paul says, I die daily, as I mentioned before in the previous messages. This is not something that we can do. It's something that we can do once, it's something that we do daily. Augustine said it this way. He said, Our deeds are our own because the free will producing them, and they are God's because of his grace causing our free will to produce them. So you know what it really boils down to, folks? So it's not a 50-50 proposition between us and God in our sanctification. It's not a 60-40, it's not a 70-30, it's 100%, 100%. That if we will give all of ourselves in obedience to God in humility, that God gives 100% of his empowerment to us. You heard the verse, it's all empowerment, 2 Peter 1 3. Now, you might say to yourself, you know, I uh I understand what you're saying and I I I agree with you theoretically, but I I find this kind of hard to to practice out. You know, if I would lived on an island by myself I didn't have to deal with a bunch of problems and people, then I'm sure that I could do this. I could just be in communion with God and fellowship with God and obey God and have this great time with God. And and you know, uh you ever felt that way by the way? You ever felt like, you know, I I uh i I just need to get to some desert uh uh deserted place get by myself some deserted island or something and and and just if I would could just do that then I would the problem would be solved I think all of us have felt that way. You know what that is? There's an old word for that called asceticism or monasticism. In fact, there is an entire belief. that was in that's in church history that if I will just separate myself self from the world and from the problems of the world. Then I will then be able to be more in focus with God and know Him. And you know, that's exactly the opposite of what God says. Did you know that the only way you will really experience the power of God is as you interact with God's people? And as you interact with the world, and that's why this verse, this next verse, is so important. It goes together. Look at verse 15. It says that you may become blameless. Or I'm sorry, verse 14 rather. Do all things without complaining and disputing. You say, well, he really changes subjects fast. He goes from God working in us and our obedience to do all things without complaining and disputing. I mean what gives here? That seems like a total ab total abrupt change of subject, folks. It's not a it's not a change of subject. subject. We're still on the same subject. But living the Christian life in sanctification can't be done in isolation. James Montgomery Boyce tells of a story where he and his sisters during their college years would were they were vacationing on a lake on the side of a lake. And um there was a young man that went with them, I guess. I think it was a family member, like a cousin or something, and the young man uh wanted to learn how to waterski, or he wanted to waterski, rather. Well, uh the sisters and and James were both very experienced in waterskiing. And so they began to try to teach him how to waterski. And the young man said, Well I already know how to water ski. And they said to him, How do you know how to water ski? Have you ever water ski before? He said, I never waterski before. But I know how to waterski because I read a book. And they're all they're like, uh you don't know how to water ski. And he is convinced that he knows how to waterski because he wrote a read a book on waterskiing. And they kept trying to teach him how to waterski, and that was not a and it wasn't he wasn't listening, and they finally said, you know what, if you think you know how to waterski, go right ahead and try to waterski. And all of us know what knew what happened. As soon as he began to try to water ski, he fell flat on his face. Because folks, there are certain things that you can't learn from a book. Now I like books, don't get me wrong. You know me, you know I like books. But there are certain things you can't learn from a book. And folks, there are certain things about God you can't learn from a book. You've got to experience the word. And the only way that you experience the empowering word is when you interact with God's people. And that really brings us to this command. The command is to do all things without complaining and disputing. Now, this is a very clear command. It is a command that addresses the local church. There's no question that that what that's what Paul has in mind. He is referencing here the local church, and he's refer referencing the fact that there is a temptation within the local church, and apparently within this church of Philippi. to complain and to argue. Now what does this have to do with our sanctification? And the answer is, folks, everything, because our sanctification is not only an individual concept, it is a corporate concept. If we are going to grow in Christ and we are going to do the kinds of things that God wants us to do, and growing our sanctification, we must be inseparably linked to His body. Particularly the local body, the church, that's we find in this passage. Now, when he says, do all things, that is really, really comprehensive, isn't it? Do all things without complaining. Why would that, you know, of all the commands that he could have picked after this This map massive concept of the Christian's responsibility and God's role, why would he choose this command? Do all things without complaining? Well, this is actually a reference to the nation of Israel in the Old Testament. Remember back in the Old Testament as they complained? Did they do a lot of complaining? They sure did. They did a lot of murmuring and a lot of complaining. And a lot of arguing for that matter In fact, in Exodus 16, verse 12, it says, I have heard the complaints of the children of Israel. They complained. This word complain is found in the New Testament as well. In fact, when Christ came, he came, and it says that people complained. John chapter 7, verse 12, and there was much complaining among the people concerning him. Some said he is good, others said no. On the contrary, he deceives people. They complained, and they were convinced that Christ was a deceiver. In Acts 6, verse 1, the beginning of the early church, we have people that are complaining. It says that the widows, the Hellenistic widows, complained against the Hebrews. In 1 Corinthians chapter 10, in fact, I'd like you to turn there with me if you would. Turn to first 1 Corinthians chapter 10. I want you to see just how serious Paul Paul Deals with this complaining. In 1 Corinthians chapter 10, you've got a church, the Church of Corinth, which is a church that is very divided. It's a church that is carnal, church that is full of saved people, but they are carnal. And there are all kinds of things happening. Now I want you to notice what it says here in this passage. It says, picking up in verse 4, and all drinks drank the same spiritual drink, for they drank of the spiritual rock that followed them. The rock was Christ. It's a reference to the nation of Israel. The rock there was a type of Christ back in the Old Testament. Verse 5, but with most of them God was not well pleased. Talk about Israel. But their bodies were scat scattered in the wilderness. Now these things became our examples to the intent that we should not lust after evil things as they also lusted. And do not become idolaters as were come of them, as it as it is written. The people sat down to eat and drink, and rose up to play, let Nor let us commit sexual immorality as some of them did, and in one day twenty-three thousand fell. Verse nine, nor let us tempt Christ as some of them also tempted And were destroyed by serpents. Now catch this, verse 10. Nor what? Nor complain. Catch this, as some of them also complained and were what? Did you catch that language? And were destroyed by the destroyer. Now, I wouldn't usually put sexual immorality with complaining together. To me, in my own sensibility, those two things are significantly, one's significantly worse than the other But God says in his word in this passage that the people that complained, they did so to their own destruction. This is greatly serious. But in the corporate body of believers complaining is not supposed to be there at all. Let nothing be done in murmuring. There is this no tolerance for complaining in the body of Christ. It's incredible. 1 Peter 4, verse 9 says, be hospitable one to another without grumbling. The word translated there is grumbling, complaining. Some people seem to have the spiritual gift of complaining. You ever had met somebody that has a spiritual gift of complaining? It's somebody that actually believes that their complaining is contributing to the body of Christ. That their role is to identify every wrong thing possible and complain about it. And they think they're actually contributing. When I was at seminary and reading various articles and different conferences, one of the things they warn us about is somebody that says, you know, I've heard a lot of things people are complaining about. Keep they always say watch out for those kind of people. I've had a lot of people coming to me, but they won't say who. Be careful about those kind of people. Complaining, folks, complaining is something that we need to be very careful about. It is destructive. It can lead to our own destruction. Now there is a vast difference between complaining and constructive criticism. In the body of Christ, it's certainly appropriate for us, in the spirit of meekness, Scripture says, to come to a brother or sister in Christ and to explain a concern that we have for each other and that is something that really should probably happen more often. That rarely happens and complaining happens a lot. The Bible says in the spirit of meekness, and the the spirit, the fruit of the spirit is gentleness, is one of the fruits of the spirit. And when we come in gentleness and in meekness toward a brother or sister in Christ. Then then that is certainly appropriate. The difference between complaining and constructive criticism as we're We're seeing it here, is one has its motive of the flesh. It's irritated, it's frustrated. The other is genuine, comes from unadulterated love, a really genuine desire to help, and encouragement, edifying. The Bible says, do not complain. And then he says in this passage, or disputing, or arguing. The word means to argue. comes from a word that means to inwardly reason, to inwardly, and then and we see that we actually see it uh in Matthew 15, 19, it's translated, evil thoughts. In Luke 2, 35, it says the thoughts of many hearts. It's a heart thing or thinking in the mind, thinking in the heart, there's these evil thoughts that are spinning around and arguments that are were were conjuring up in our minds. It says in Luke 5. 22, and when Jesus perceived their thoughts The thoughts of their heart in Luke 9, 47. In Luke 24, 38, it says, You're troubled, there's this be troubling being troubled in our hearts, and doubts arise in your hearts. This kind of thing though does not stay inside. We see, for example, in Luke 9. 46, it says, Arose among them as to which of them would be greatest. This was something that started in the heart, arguments and thoughts that eventually were going to come out The Bible says out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaks, and disputes arise, arguments arise. And God says, don't do that in his church. Now notice then the reason we're not supposed to do it. There is a very clear purpose in this. It's not just Hey, it's bad for you, although it clearly is. It's destructive. It's self-destructive to do so. But he also says to this passage, verse 15, that you may become blameless and harmless children of God without false fault in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation. Keep that phrase in your mind, crooked and perverse generation, among whom you shine as lights in the world. The Bible says that if we're going to shine as a light, if we're going to be blameless and harmless, which God says in his word, he wants us to be blameless and harmless. Then we cannot operate from a place of complaining, and we can't operate from a place of arguing. And he says, if you will completely stop from complaining and completely stop from arguing, there is this result that happens, folks. It is a blamelessness, it is a harmlessness that occurs as a result of this. In 1 Thessalonians 3, verse 13, it says, so that ye may establish your hearts blameless in holiness before our God and Father at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ with all his saints. The word harmless there is also used in Matthew 10, 16. Behold, I send you as a sheep in the midst of wolves, therefore be wise as serpents and harmless as doves. Romans 16, 19 says this, for your obedience has become known to all, therefore I am glad on your behalf, for I want you to be wise what it in what is good. And simple concerning evil. The word harmless there is actually translated simple. It has the idea of innocent. Now keep that in mind. Simple. The word simple or innocent. Or harmless. All those go together. That's going to be important as we put all this together. What is harmlessness in this passage? It's simple, it's innocent, so keep that in mind. Now with all that in mind, what I'd like us to do is actually turn to the passage in the book of Numbers. Would you turn to Numbers chapter 14? And you're going to see in Numbers 14 That this is this is describing the rebellion in the nation of Israel, and we're going to see how complaining works in this passage. Numbers chapter fourteen, verse one. Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers It says, so all the congregation lifted up their voices and cried, and the people wept that night. All the children of Israel complained. Against Moses and Aaron, and the whole congregation said to them, If only we had died in the land of Egypt, or if only we had died in the wilderness. Why has the Lord brought us to this land to fall by the sword? That our wives and children should become victims. Would it not be better for us to return to Egypt? So they said to one another, Let us select a leader and return to Egypt. Then Moses and Aaron fell on their faces before all the assembly of the congregation of the children of Israel. And Joshua the son of Nun and Caleb the son of Jephaniah, who were among those who had spied out the land, tore their clothes. And they spoke all to all the congregations of the children of Israel, saying, The land was passed through to spy out the it is is an exceedingly good land. If the Lord delights in us Then he will bring us into the land and give it to us a land which flows with milk and honey. Only do not, look at the next word there, folks, do not what? Rebel. Folks, do you see the connection between complaining and rebellion? Only do not rebel against the Lord Nor fear the people of the land, for they are our bread. Their protection has departed from them, and the Lord is with us. Do not fear them. Fear is a contributing factor in rebellion and complaining. And the Lord is with us, do not fear them. And all the congregation said to the stone, said to stone them with stones. Now the glory of the God appeared at the tabernacle of meeting before all the children of Israel. And the Lord said to them, they're going to stone Moses because he's wanting to bring them into the promised land and they want to stone Caleb and Joshua here. How long will these people reject me? How long will they not believe with all the signs which I have performed among them? Now keep all of that in mind of what you're seeing there, and I would like you to take your Bibles and turn to Deuteronomy chapter 32. Deuteronomy 32. Why would Paul make this connection between complaining and arguing and blamelessness and harmlessness. What is this connection? Why is complaining and harmless uh and harmless uh and and uh um and arguing so destructive in the body of Christ We're going to find it in Deuteronomy 32. He says, Deuteronomy 32, 1, give Ero heavens, and I will speak. And hear, O earth, the words of my mouth, let my teaching drop as rain, my speech distill as the dew, as drops on the tender herb and as the showers on the grass. For I proclaim the name of the Lord, ascribe greatness to our God. He is a rock. His work is perfect. For all his ways are justice, a God of truth, and without injustice, righteous and upright is he. They have, what does the next word say? They have corrupted themselves. They're not as his children, because of their blemish, a perverse and crooked generation. Philippians 2 is actually quoting Deuteronomy 32. And this passage tells us that as they complained, they corrupted themselves. So, folks, complaining is extremely serious. Complaining causes a family to become corrupted and polluted. Complaining causes a church to do the same. It is a pollution, it is a corruption that occurs in the body of Christ as complaining occurs. And that's why God says, don't do it. You must obey. Say, well, you know, I'm just fearful. Trust God. That's really the issue. Humble yourself, trust God, obey Him. There are appropriate ways to deal with things and to bring concerns up, but complaining isn't one of them. And when we think and g and and consider what God says, we must understand that complaining is a polluting poison that corrupts the body of Christ from the inside. out. The real issue, and it keeps them from being blameless, keeps them from being harmless, keeps them from being innocent toward others and toward sin. In James chapter 4, verse 1, it says, Where do wars and fightings come among you? Do they not come from your desires for pleasure that war in your members? You lust and do not have. You murder and covet and cannot obtain. You fight and war, yet you do not have because you do not ask, you ask and do not receive because you ask amiss, that you may spend it on your pleasures. You may consume it upon your lusts So, how do we know in our own spirit before the Lord as we interact with God's people? How do we know whether or not we are in obedience? One of the major ways of indication is are we handling problems and dealing with things in a way that that is void of complaining? And when you think about when you think about what happens to uh a family or a church, a marriage. When you think about what happens when one person becomes discontent and talks to another person about their discontentment. Talks to another person about their discontentment. And they say, yeah, you know, I'm kind of discontent about that too. Yeah, I'm kind of discontent about that too. And they confirm the other person's discontentment. That is how the pollution starts and how it begins to infest in the lives of God's people. As we think about these things, we ought to really soberly realize that we must confess the sin of complaining. And realize how much it corrupts our own thinking. Number one, concluding, just in concluding these things, number one The letting go and letting God mentality fails to consider the believer's responsibility. It's not about letting go and letting God, folks. It's about obedience, humble obedience to God. And then God can empower and show himself strong. And you can experience God and His power in your life when you will simply relinquish your rights and your control and you'll simply we will all we will simply obey Number two, committed obedience results in God's motivation and empowerment. When we have committed, humble obedience, Lord, I'm just going to obey every day. I'm just going to obey. going to simply obey, we will begin to see God's motivation in our lives and see his empowerment in our lives. And number three, complaining and arguing hinders personal sanctification and corporate testimony. The more that we live lives that are holy and pure before the Lord personally, the more that our interactions are the same. The more that we can be blameless and harmless in our church, and it can have a light, the Bible says in Philippians, it can be a light to the world that God intends for it to be. Now as I read through this and studied this this week, I was convicted about some things. And I hope that when we when we are approached about this, when we see what God's Word says about it, that we won't We won't make excuses for our own actions, that we will really just understand what God's Word says about this, and we will submit in obedience to God. As we do so, we can see the blamelessness and the harmlessness and the light that God wants us to be will increase. Pray together. Father, we thank you for your word this morning. Certainly an intensely practical passage that we went through. Thank you for your word as we just go through it in an expository manner. It hits so many different areas. I pray, Lord, that you would help us As we live our lives to understand the importance of humble obedience before you. Really, just to trust and obey, for there is no other way to be happy in Jesus but to trust and obey. Lord, may we see, we want to see your empowering work of motivation in our lives. We want to see your doing things with us that we didn't think possible because the empowering work of your spirit. Lord, we admit before you that there are times where we are we like the person who came to you and when Christ was on this earth, Lord, I believe, help my help thou my unbelief. The issue is unbelief. May we trust you and put our lives in your hand. May we obey. Lord, keep us from a spirit of complaining and arguing that comes from the flesh It can poison our own lives, it can poison your body. We want to be blameless and harmless and light to the world. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.