One day last week I was doing devotions with my kids, and we had decided to go through the book of Genesis recently and uh So we um we were in chapter three, we read through chapter three, and as usual. Um I allow them I sort of a say do you all have any questions about this chapter? I might give a couple of summary points about the chapter and And then um and then I'll ask the kids if they have questions and they'll a usually have quite a few questions, uh five to ten minutes of questions and answers. This particular day, um, but I usually don't get much from my my youngest daughter. She usually doesn't ask too many questions. She sort of just sits and and listens or doesn't listen, I'm not sure which usually. But um this particular day she had her hand up for like the whole time just about and I thought to myself she's just doing this because um because she her her sisters are answering a lot asking a lot of questions, so she kinda wants to to ask a question too. And um so I I answered all of the other the older girls questions first and then I I said, Okay Julie, what is your question? And I I fully expected some kind of goofy weird thing and um I was wrong. Here's what she asked. So it's Genesis chapter three about Adam and Eve, and she said, Why did God not give them a second chance? Five year old. And I said, We have a budding theologian. So I began to talk about uh propitiation and um how God had to have his the just demands of God satisfied and that that wasn't going to be able to happen through and she that that point went blank and s and um I I actually didn't really use the word propitiation. But but um Then I I thought about a little more and said, how am I supposed to explain this to a five-year-old? Because it is actually pretty important. It's actually extremely important to understand why Adam and Eve did not get a second chance. And I thought about a way to explain it. And I'll explain it to you this way because I think it really goes well with our message this morning. What if God would have given Adam and Eve a second chance? I can definitively tell you what would happen. They would have blown it again. Would we all agree with that? Giving Adam and Eve a second chance would have done no good. Because the problem was that once they had sinned, they were sinners. And the r and and the f they would not have the ability to be able to follow in obedience Because they were sinners. There had to be uh obviously a provision made in all kinds of things in order for them to be able to be rightly related to God. But I think that she could at least er learn that, that if God would have given them a second chance, They would not have been that would not have helped. They would have continued to fail. Because ultimately, what did they need? They needed Christ. You know, in a sense, as we've been looking at the book of Galatians, in a sense, the Judaizers were suggesting and really preaching That the people that had come to Christ, that really what they had was through faith in Jesus Christ, a second chance To do the same thing that they couldn't do before. And Paul was teaching them that this is not the case, that God did not save us to give us a second chance. God gave us to give a totally different life to us, entirely different set of responsibilities, entirely different focus. That what God gave us when He gave His Son was not just a second chance to do what we couldn't do before It was an entirely different life and perspective and focus, altogether different from what was before. And what the Judaizers wanted was for people to get back to doing what they thought needed to be done Paul in this passage is talking to Peter, and we noted last week that he was confronting Peter on what may have seemed a trivial issue, but what was of great gospel importance because Peter's refusal after a while to eat with the Gentiles whom he previously did eat with was actually by his example requiring the Gentiles to to adjust to Jewish law Paul was very concerned about this, that there was essentially an implied requirement they would need to follow after the Jewish law in order to maintain their salvation. And Peter, by his example, whether by purposefully or probably not purposefully, that's exactly what he was doing. And Paul is dealing with Peter on this. Peter is going Paul is now going to explain just how damaging this is, just how dangerous this is for Peter to continue down this road. And he is now going to explain the great difference between Christ and the law. And we're going to s and and be and and we're going to see that in this passage. The main focus of the passage we can pick up just by seeing a repeated word in the passage. In verse 16, for example, it says, knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but by the faith in Jesus Christ. Even so we have believed in Christ Jesus, that we might be justified by faith in Christ, and not by the works of the law, for by the works of the law no flesh shall be justified But if while we seek to be justified by Christ, well what word stands out there besides the fact that my inflection standard made it stand out? Justified is a repeated word. It is mentioned four times. Did you know that when you get to the heart of the gospel, if you really want to understand the truth Of the heart of the gospel. It is in this term justification. You cannot understand the gospel if you do not understand justification. And the extent that you are able to understand justification is the extent to which you are able to understand the gospel. And what we're going to do today is we're going to learn how to not just align our thinking, which is important, but also align our behavior, our life, to this concept of justification. That our thinking and our life would both be in line with this such, so important word. justification. And we will learn how to do that after we pray together. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we do come to you. And we pray, Lord, that you would teach us today your truth about this immeasurable, important concept of justification. May we understand it more today than we ever have before. And Lord, equally importantly, would you help us to adjust our lives to it? That our lives would not be incongruent from this work of justification in our lives. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. We pick up in verses 15 and 16. Which tell us, verse 15, we who are Jews by nature and not sinners of the Gentiles. Then verse 16, knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but by the faith in Jesus Christ. Even we have believed in Jesus in Christ Jesus that we might be justified by faith in Christ and not by the works of the law. For by the works of the law no flesh shall be justified. In fact, verse 16 may be the most important verse in the entire book of Galatians. You might want to really highlight that verse. It is extremely important and will be the basis for which Paul is going to expand on this idea of works versus faith and justification versus the law. This is an extremely important verse as we look at this passage. In verse 15, Paul's primarily saying here that the Jews were born into the law, and yet the Jews could not follow the law Why then would we expect the Gentiles to follow what the Jews failed to follow is the argument that the Apostle Paul is making here. And in fact, Peter, Paul is saying to Peter, who they are both Jews, he is saying to Peter, we are Jews. And we've looked to God and Christ for our salvation. We do not look to the law and our works to be redeemed, to be justified, why would you expect the Gentiles to do that by how you are living and how you're withholding from eating with them? Paul is addressing the heart of the issue here in this term justification. There are two terms in this passage that we must really grasp if we're going to understand the passage at all. And that is the term justification and also the term law as it's used in the passage. The word justification is a very important word for us to understand, and I want to begin by expressing what it means. You may have heard that it means just as if I had never sinned. That is an inaccurate definition of the word justification. Perhaps someone has suggested that it means to be made righteous. That also is an inaccurate term as well. The best way to describe the term is really in two words. It means to be declared righteous. To be declared righteous. The other day I was listening to someone, uh an adult talk to a child, and they got into the subject of well it was my child actually, but They got into the subject of um of how you come to Christ. And um the adult said, Well, you need to ask Jesus to forgive you. And one of my children said, no, it's more than that. And I thought, yes. Sorry, I couldn't help it. I was really I thought, I'll let them talk. It's good. We need to understand that just understanding God can forgive someone If we don't understand why God can forgive someone, we do not have the gospel. God does not just arbitrarily forgive someone because he's the God of second chances. God forgives someone because he can declare them righteous because of what Christ did for them on the cross. You must always go back to the cross. You must always understand that Jesus Christ took upon the sins of the world on himself And then because of that, he is able to impute his righteousness on others so that when God sees them, he can declare them righteous and, by the way, forgive them. It's very important that we understand this. We ought not reduce the gospel message down to just merely asking Jesus to forgive us. We must understand that there was a price to be paid. We must understand that Christ died to pay the punishment for our sin. And that He is the only way that we can come to Him, and that we are declared righteous by God, which results in forgiveness. With that in mind, I'd like to suggest, not suggest, I'd like to assert, four four very important points about forgiveness, about justification of this term. We must get this right. Number one, Justification is a courtroom term and anticipates a future judgment. It is a courtroom term and anticipates a future judgment. In the book of Proverbs, chapter 17, verse 15, it says, He who justifies the wicked and he who condemns the just, both of them alike are an abomination to the Lord. Tells us in this passage, in that particular verse, that someone who declares righteous the one who is wicked, and the one who is who is uh condemned, uh the uh the one who is righteous God hates that. Folks, the only reason that one who is sinful could be declared righteous It's because of Christ, because of what Christ did on the cross in paying the punishment for our sin. And justification anticipates that there is one day going to be a judgment. Justification anticipates the fact that we will one day stand before the Lord. And for those who have placed our faith in Jesus Christ, we will stand before Him and He will declare us righteous judicially. The wonderful thing about justification is that we get the verdict now, and we can live in light of the verdict now. The verdict now, for those who know Christ as their Lord and Savior, is that they are declared righteous now in anticipation of the judgment later. And the glorious truth of justification is to know that we are now declared righteous, knowing that one day we will stand before the Lord. Number two, justification. Oh, which we which is why Romans 8. 33 says this. Who shall bring a charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies. Number two, justification is applied by faith alone. There is no question about this throughout the Apostle Paul's writings in Romans chapter 3 and 4, and in our passage in Galatians chapters 2 through 4 We find all over the place that it is very clear that justification is applied only by faith alone. And there are many verses to back this up. But we will move on. Number three, justification is the only foundation for true forgiveness. There is a link between justification and forgiveness. I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn that turn to a place that will explain this in Romans chapter 4. Why don't you take your Bibles and turn to Romans chapter 4 and we're going to look through this passage for a few moments? Chapter 4, verses 1 through 8 is what we'll look at. It says this. What then shall we say that Abraham our father is found according to the flesh? For if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not before God. For what does the scripture say? Abraham believed God and it was counted to him for righteousness. That's justification. Abraham believed God and it was accounted for him, it was declared for him righteousness. Verse 4. Now to him who works, the wages are not counted as grace, but as debt. But to him, verse 5 is so crucial, but to him who does not work but believed on him who justifies the ungodly. His faith is accounted for righteousness. Those who do not work, but trust, believe on him who justifies the ungodly. That's faith that is counted for righteousness, just as David also describes the blessedness of the man to whom God imputes righteousness apart from works. Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven. Now we've finally gotten to this term forgiveness, and whose sins are covered Blessed is the man to whom the Lord shall not impute sin. The Bible tells us clearly in this passage that the only foundation for forgiveness. Is justification. We must understand that God declares us righteous through His through Jesus Christ. The other term that we've got to really grasp in order to understand this passage is the term, as Paul uses it, the law. And the Bible is very clear about what this means. You might want to write on the side of your Bible, and if you have the freedom to do so, the Matthew chapter 5, verse 17. It is such a crucial verse for understanding. what we are talking about this morning. Matthew chapter 5, verse 17 says, Do not think that I have come to destroy the law and the what? The prophets. When Paul when Christ says this to his disciples in the Sermon on the Mount, he is pointing out to them that he has not come to destroy both the law and the prophets. He's talking there about the entirety of the Old Testament. He's not come to destroy them, but he says that he has come to fulfill them. He has come to fulfill the demands of the whole law and the prophets. The entire demand of the Old Testament. This is very important for us to understand. Christ is not never in what we find in the New Testament. There to be a distinction between the ceremonial law and the moral law and all these breaking up of the law There are some people that would believe that, that would say that when we're talking about the law in this passage, that what we're talking here about is the is the ceremonial law. We're not here talking about the civil law or the moral law. Folks, the truth of the matter is Christ forgave Christ fulfilled the demands of all of it. He didn't just fulfill the demands of the more of the ceremonial law. He didn't just fulfill the demands of the demon of the civil law. He he or the moral law. He fulfilled the demands of all the law. And there is no clear passage in my mind that this that explains this Then 2 Corinthians chapter 3. So would you take your Bibles and turn there for a moment? 2 Corinthians chapter 3. And we'll pick up here in verse 3. It says clearly chapter 3, verse 3, where it explains more about what the law is. Clearly you are an an epistle of Christ ministered by us, written not with ink, but by the Spirit of a living God Not on tablets of stone, but on tablets of flesh that is in, that is of the heart. Now, folks, what is he talking about when he's talking about tablets of stone? He's talking about the Ten Commandments. It's the only it's the only law that was written on stone. Look at verse four. And we have such trust through Christ toward God. Not that we are sufficient of ourselves to think of anything as being from ourselves, but our sufficiency is of God is from God. Who also made us sufficient as ministers of the new covenant, not of the letter of the Spirit, for the letter kills, but the Spirit gives life. But if the ministry of death written and engraved in stones, it said again, was glorious, and it was So the children of Israel should not look steadily on the face of Moses because the glory of his countenance, which glory was passing away. Now, folks, what we find in this passage then is that all of the glorious law, the law is not bad, the law is good. In fact, Romans is clear about this. But all of it has been fulfilled, and so all of it has passed away. We are now under a different focus. We are under, as it says in 2 Corinthians chapter 9, the law of Christ. Now I want to, I almost hesitate to say something here. This means that all of the Ten Commandments and all of the law have been fulfilled, and we are not under any of it. That's actually extremely important, and you'll understand why later. I will say that Jesus did reiterate all of the Ten Commandments except for one. It was to remember the Sabbath and to keep it holy. So all the other nine's are nine commandments are are things that we need to do in order to please God. But they are not in the form of a law for a very important reason, which we will see later on in the passage. There is essentially no codified law that we now need to follow. We are following something else entirely. Now before you think that I'm talking about lawlessness Hold on. I'm not talking about lawlessness here. Just wait. I'm not saying at all that Christians are to be lawless Well, I kinda am, but I'm kinda not. You'll see in a minute. Just make sure you're listening carefully. Say you'll listen listen carefully and you'll see exactly what the point is But we find here that the point I'm simply saying is that when Paul talks about the law here, he is talking about the entirety of the law And he says here, even we have believed in Christ Jesus Christ that we might be justified by faith, not by the works of the law. He's saying, even we as Jews understand this isn't, this works of the law thing isn't going to work. Why then would we oppose this on the Gentiles? And again, he says, for clarification, you get the idea that he really wants to clarify. For by the works of the law shall no flesh, none whatsoever, ever be what Be justified in his sight. There is no way under any circumstances that anyone ever is justified by the works of the law. It's as clear as it could possibly be. This is why when Martin Luther read these kinds of words in Galatians and Romans, he said there is something wrong with the Roman Catholic Church during the Reformation period. We must understand that there is no other way around this. And any church that teaches any other doctrine that is in any way Contrary to this or divergent from this or any way swaying the other direction of any kind we must reject as false Paul is crystal clear on this. You cannot be justified by the works of the law. You can only be justified through faith in Christ alone. And it couldn't be any clearer. The Bible actually, he's actually quoting something that it says in Psalm 143, verse 2, which says, Do not enter into judgment with your servant, for in your sight no living is righteous. There is no living person that is righteous at all. But we have in Galatians chapter 3, and a chapter later, verse 10, it says, For as many as are the works of the law are under the curse. For it is written, Cursed is everyone who does not continue in all the things that are written in the book of the law to do them. What God is telling us is that those who are under the law to try to do what he they cannot do for themselves are under a curse of that law. And his point is, why would you try to bring somebody who is freed to be back under that curse? Now let me ask you this question. This is going to be a little bit of a surprising question. Is all this boring to you? I mean, really. Is discussing the inner workings of justification boring to you? Thomas Schreiner said this. If we become bored with the gospel of justification by faith alone, we can be assured that we have become self-deceived about our own goodness. That we are deluded about how good we are. Martin Luther, the Great Reformer. in talking about this issue of justification and and people's taking people taking it tritely or not taking it seriously said this. Particularly when you hear an immature, unripe saint trumpet that he knows very well that we must be saved by the grace without our own works, and then pretend that this is a snap for him. Well, then have no doubt that he has no idea of what he is talking about and probably will never find out For this is not an art, he says, Luther goes on, this is not an art that can be completely learned, or of which anyone could boast that he is a master It is an art that will always have us as pupils while it remains the master. And all of those who do understand and practice it do not boast that they can do everything. On the contrary, they sense it like a wonderful taste or odor that they greatly desire and pursue. And they are amazed that they cannot grasp it or comprehend it as they would like. They hunger, thirst, and yearn for it more and more, and they never tire of hearing about or dealing with it. Just as St. Paul himself confessed that he had not yet obtained it. Now what he is saying here, folks, is not that you cannot obtain forgiveness through justification. That is done by faith alone and it happens. instantaneously on the when a person comes to Christ. But to think that we have wrapped our minds around this, or yeah, I got that figured out and I can just kind of move on. I yeah, yeah, yeah, I I I get it. Indicates, folks, that we are too focused, we are self-deceived about our own goodness. He is saying here that we need to be very careful, that we don't think we have a grasp on this. That is though as though we never have to learn anything new. Or that we've got that figured out and now we can just go on with our lives. In fact, this is a great danger, I think, for Christians that children that grow up in Christian homes. They understand and learn at a very early age that Christ died for them and that they have come to Christ, that they can only come to Christ through trusting Christ as their Lord and Savior. They understand these truths at such an early age they can think as though as they grow older that they just have them grasped and now I can just go on and live the life I want to live. And folks, you and I need to always be students of this concept of justification. It ought to be something that we constantly rehearse. And think through and consider the implications of it. Really, what does it mean that God has justified us, has declared us righteous? It ought to be It ought to be bombed to our souls. When we understand how sinful we are, when we understand how wicked our hearts are, when we understand that there is no goodness found in us at all. Then this justification and understanding it and thinking through it becomes a healing balm in our hearts. Is that the way it is for you? Or have you just forgotten about it? Have you set it aside as something that is not really all that? I've got that, and I go on and move on to other things. Folks, we must never move on from justification, the gospel of justification. So we're going to continue to understand what this means. Why is understanding the doctrine of justification so absolutely and vitally important? Why must we understand it? The truth is, it's because gospel alignment requires us to understand justification. I want you to notice what it says in verse 17. But if while we seek to be justified by Christ, we ourselves also are found sinners, is Christ therefore a minister of sin? Certainly not. The Apostle Paul now is going to go on and explain the implications of justification. He's going to explain what justification now means. Now that we understand it, now that we're clear on what it is, let's now delve into it and understand what it means and how we might end up violating it if we're not careful. And he says this. While we seek to be justified by Christ, we ourselves, he says, are found sinners. He's saying this. He's saying that you and I, Peter, he's still talking to Peter here, and he's saying that you and I, Peter, when we sought to find Christ, we realized more that we are sinners. Does that then mean that Christ was causing us to sin as we found him? Now you say that is really a little confusing. I I I'm gonna be honest with you, it was really confusing to me. I like I had to take a long time to really grasp what in the world that was saying. It really I wasn't grasping it, I had to really meditate on it. And I think I can illustrate it this way that will help. Suppose you are uh a work you're working for a company and you have a boss that has given you a list of things to do. That's not too hard to imagine, right? You have a boss that's given you a list of things to do, a very clear list of things that you need to do before week's end, before Friday. And you've given you've got that list of things that you need to get done, and you get to Friday and and uh you think you've fulfilled everything on that list. But as and you went home on Friday thinking you fulfilled everything on that list. But as you were going through the weekend, you began to think, I wonder if I really fulfilled everything on that list. And so you thought about it a little bit more and you contemplated it and then you decided to look at the list again and you realize that you missed like half of what was on that list And you break out in a cold sweat and you're concerned because you've literally blown it when it comes to your boss and could and and and and you have not completed what was on the list. Now, let's say you go in on Monday morning, and when you go in, you are going in with fear and trembling because you're now going to have to explain to your boss that you have not completed much of what or half of what is on that list. And you go in and your coworker comes to you immediately and says, look, you can settle down. It's okay. I have completed everything on that list. And not only that, I have gone to the boss, explained that I completed everything on the list, and made and ensured that he's not going to hold anything against you because you didn't do it, I did it instead. You even go to your boss and you say, Look, I am really sorry I did not complete everything on the list. I really am wrong. I I really just blew it and I'm sorry I didn't do that. My co worker is taking it from me and from what you what he says, it's okay that he completed everything on a list that I couldn't complete And the boss says to you, yes, you are it's no problem at all. Don't think about it anymore. The list is complete and I and and he's taken care of it and he's been an adequate substitute for the li uh for you. Well you go down you go uh back to your desk and you begin to work and there's another co-worker that comes by and he says, Hey, why did you not complete what was on that list? And he's and you explain to him, you say, well actually my coworker completed it for me, my boss approved that I could uh it could be completed, and so there's no problem And your second coworker says to you, but you did not complete what was on that list. And you say to him, look, I already got this. The boss said it was okay. It was already proved by the co-worker did it, and it seems to be fine. And he says to you, your co-worker is the problem here. Now is that not ridiculous? Would it be ridiculous for a second coworker after everything being approved by the by the boss This wouldn't it be ridiculous for that second coworker to get involved and to say that the first co-worker who was lovingly fulfilling everything on the l on the list would be somehow in the wrong because he caused the other person to be delinquent. That's what's being said here. Paul is saying it's ridiculous that you are trying to require someone to fulfill what God Christ has already completed. And when you are trying to require someone to complete what Christ has already completed, you are actually saying that Christ is the complice On your that person's failure to complete those tasks, failure to complete the law. Now that's the best illustration. There's probably all kinds of holes in illustrations, but it's the best I could come up with. At least help me to understand, and hopefully we'll help you to understand what's being said here. The point simply is this, that because of what Christ has done here, everything has been complete in the law. And we must understand then what verse 18 tells us when it comes to a right view of sin. He says this. This is so important. Verse 18 says, For if I build again those things which I destroyed. Pause for a minute. What's he talking about? He's talking about the law. He's saying, if I build again the law, that which has been destroyed. Now, is that a contradiction? When Christ said I dec I came not to destroy the law but to fulfill it, is that a contradiction? The answer, no Why? Because when Christ fulfilled the demands of the law, they were then rendered inoperative. They were no longer useful. They were useful actually for one thing, and that is to show us our sin, which Paul is going to explain later. That's really their only usefulness, and he's clear about that. He says, I make myself a transgressor when I do that. Now, what he is saying here is this. If po the Apostle Paul is saying to Peter that if you try to resurrect the law which has been put to death by Christ, What you are actually doing by doing that is going against God's will. And when you go against God's will, you are actually sinning. Do not sin by attempting to resurrect the law. He says, verse 19, for I through the law died to the law that I might live to God. And this is the most important point of all of it. He says, I might, he says, for I through the law died to the law, that I might live to God. He is saying here that he is dead to the law. It says in the Bible says in Galatians chapter 4, he's going to say later on, and when the fulfillment of the time had come, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law. to redeem those who were under the law that we might receive the adoption of sons. I think one of the most helpful illustrations is found in the book of Romans, chapter seven. To help us to understand what is being said here. In Romans chapter 7, in fact, go ahead and take your Bibles and turn there. I think this is this is really important. Romans chapter 7. It tells us in Romans chapter 7, it uses the illustration of a marriage. And it says in verse 1, Or do you not know, brethren, for I speak to those who know the law. For the law has dominion over a man as long as he lives. For the woman who has a husband is bound by the law to her husband as long as he lives. But if the husband dies, she is released from the law of her husband. So then, if while her husband lives, she marries another, she is called an adulteress. But if her husband dies, she is free from the law, so that she is no adulteress Though she has married another man. Therefore, my brethren, you also have become dead to the law from the from the body of Christ, that you may be married to another. to him who has raised you from the dead, that we should bear fruit of God. Now let me illustrate it this way Suppose you're married to a spouse who will never accept you for who you are, and you're married to a spouse who who is simply not happy with anything you do, not it you are he is he or she is never satisfied with anything you do, no matter how hard you try. And let's suppose that that spouse dies. I'm not trying to be overly vindictive, there's a point to this, but let's suppose that that spouse dies And let's suppose another spouse comes along, you marry somebody else, and this spouse accepts you for exactly who you are. And is completely satisfied with who you are, actually who he's made you to be. But anyway, he's completely satisfied with you. Why would you ever go back to that old spouse, who is dead actually? It doesn't make any sense. It doesn't make any sense at all for the Judaizers to be saying this. Why would you even want to go back to that old spouse? The very fact that he's dead is the what is the reason that you're allowed to be able to marry to the good spouse And the illustration is this: the very fact that you have died to the law is the very ability with which you are able to follow after Christ, who is so much better than the law. Let me put it this way. The law is impersonal. God is personal. And what God wants us to do, and this is why it's so important What Christ has freed us from is he's freed us from a demand of the law so that we are free fully to live for God. What a great truth. And those who are trying to go after the, who are trying to follow after the law, are no longer, they're not following they can't follow after God. Because as Christ has said in the Sermon on the Mount, you can't serve two masters. Now let me illustrate this because you're thinking to yourself, well, I don't I've not long time since I've tried to read Leviticus and follow it. Good thing That that's a tough thing to try to follow. But there is a very important illustration for uh I can give you an illustration to really and an application here that will really bring this home, I think When I was a young man, I'm still kind of a young man, but I'm actually old. I feel old anyway, but uh we'll we won't debate that. But anyway, so when I was a when I was a teenager, I went to a seminar. And in this seminar, it was the the speaker what compelled all of us to make to vow to God That we would give five minutes of our time a day for the rest of our lives to read the Bible. Now I had my head bowed and my eyes closed, and I'm contemplating this vow. And I thought to myself, what if I forget? I mean, what if I forget a day? I'm thinking through this. And so I decided to add something to this vow that we were all making. I decided to add an average of five minutes a day. And so I said, Well, I'm just gonna put the average in there and so that I can pretty much, you know, be assured that if I just keep reading the Bible I'll I'll average that it'll all average out to at least five minutes a day and I'm looking back, I'm quite sure I fulfilled that vow. Um And so that's what I prayed. The truth of the matter is, folks, most teenagers I don't know what's wrong with me, I was analytical and thought about that, but most teenagers don't. And they go to these conferences and they go to these seminars and they make these and they go to camps and they make these vows. And they decide that they're going to bow to do one thing or another. And as soon as they do that, they are setting themselves up for the law. They are making their own law. And they are setting themselves up for failure because your flesh can't follow it. And instead of following after God, Instead of obeying God, instead of wanting to please God every day of your life, you're trying to follow after the value made. It's very dangerous. I'm thankful for a pastor growing up that said, Don't make vows. I heard it very clearly. He said, Don't do it. Except the wet and vow someday. That's it. Other than that, no vows. I don't know why I made the vow I made back then, although I thought it was fairly well safe, but um I was a little immature back then. I shouldn't have probably done it at all. I didn't need to. But I wanted to do the right thing anyway. You know, you know how you are when you're a teenager. So so but you know what? That's not the only good example. Have you ever been have you ever been uh undergoing some sort of besetting sin in your life? And you decide in order to be able to fight that sin and to have it done once in a while, I'm just going to vow to God that I'll never do this again. And maybe that will help me. You are setting yourself up for failure. You are creating a law that will keep you from serving God. See, what it says in the passage is that God freed us, Christ freed us from the law so that we might live to God. It is so much better to live for God than to live for a law. And it's more po and it will work. That's why Christ said all of the law and the commandments can be summed up in two things. Love the Lord your God with all of your heart. And love your neighbor as yourself, and then you will fulfill Christ's law. And you and I need to remember That the danger that we have when we come when it comes to sin is when we impersonalize that which should be personal. When we choose to think that our sin is an offense against ourselves or some law we made, rather than an offense against God, and displeases a personal God. Now, if you're struggling with this, let's continue to see what Paul says. He says this: For I, though through the law, died to the law that I might live to God, verse 20. I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me And the life that I now live in the flesh, in my body, I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loves me and gave himself for me. Paul is now going to explain the kind of life. It's a totally different law. It's a totally different life. He is going to explain what it means to live the Christian life. It is, I am crucified with Christ. Well, what is he talking about here? He is talking here about the old man. The Bible says in Romans chapter 6 verse 6, knowing this their old man was crucified with him, that the body of sin might be done away, might be destroyed or done away with, that we should no longer be slave to sin. That passage tells us that our old man, that there is an old self, that has been crucified with Christ, so that our flesh, which is still existing, our nature, our sin nature, Which still resides in us, can be rendered inoperative. In other words, we're no longer enslaved to sin because our old self has been crucified with Christ when we came to him. It says something similar in Ephesians chapter 4. And not only that, it tells us in Ephesians 4. 24 that there is a new man that is placed within us, that we have a new inner man. That causes us and motivates us to be able to follow after God, to follow after and to please God. He says, it is no longer I or myself that lives. It's Christ that lives in me. And we're going to learn more about what that means, but simply put it here: Christ indwells the believers. He indwells us and he empowers us to be able to live for him when we are freed from the law and we are freed from our own selves. When we are able then to have a personal relationship with God, when we are able to live for God, the Spirit of God indwells us. And he fills us and he gives us the ability to be able to live for him. It is not I, but Christ. It's Christ that lives in me. And I want you to notice the whole key to the whole thing. He says that I live by the faith of the Son of God who loves me and gave himself for me. It's no longer, I'm no longer depending upon myself. I'm depending upon Christ. My faith is in him. But I want you to notice something that is particularly important here. He says, who loved me and gave himself for me There are times in this book of Galatians where Paul gets pretty impersonal. He sort of talks about the nation of Israel and talks about the gospel and talks about these things on on a more academic or impersonal level. But Paul's going to bring us back to this: that Jesus died and declared me righteous, not by my own works, but by faith on the work of Christ alone. Why? Because he loves me. He loved me and gave himself for me. Do you know the difference between saving faith and faith that is not, will not work for saving somebody? The Bible tells us in Romans chapter 10 that there is a difference. And the difference is whether or not I am personalizing it for me. It's not enough to say that Jesus Christ died for the sins of the world. Or that Jesus Christ died for everyone. We have to say that Jesus Christ died for me. He died for my sin. And when we realize that, that's the kind of faith that we need in order to come to Christ. Jesus died for my sin and for me. But Christians, that's not truth just for just for the unbeliever. It's true for all of us. Do you ever live as though your relationship with God is impersonal? Do you ever trust God from a distance, like you're keeping him at arm's length, like you're almost protecting yourself from him? Do you ever do you ever choose not to follow after God in a personal way? Do you ever think in terms of, yes, God is there, I know he's around, I know he's powerful? But he's not personal. Folks, the faith that causes us to be able to live for him is the faith that is personal. True dependency on God is fueled by personal love. Love fuels faith. And if you're struggling with your faith in God, it is because you are not realizing the love that God has for you. Greater love has no man than this. The man laid down his life for his friend. Christ died. He commended his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died. for us. And this is why the Apostle Paul in verse 21 says, I will not nullify the grace of God. I will not get rid of it. I will not ignore it. I will follow after it. I will not do that. The grace of God is so much better than the law. Christ is so much better than the law. Maybe you're listening today and you're saying to yourself, you know, I have tried to follow my own self or follow God in my own way. And you have never actually come to a place where you say where you you say and you agree with God that you're a sinner And that your sin is an offense against a holy God who is just and who can't just give you a second chance. But he did die to pay the punishment for your sin. And if you'll believe on what Christ did for you, He's already taken your sin, and He'll give you His righteousness so that you can truly be forgiven. But you could truly have a personal relationship with God. If you're listening this morning and you don't have a personal relationship with God, Let me encourage you to either talk to me before you leave or talk to somebody else you're comfortable with and make sure that you understand from God's word how you can have a personal relationship with God. And if you know Christ is your Savior, how personal is your relationship? Are you struggling with sin because you're keeping God at arm's length? Are you struggling with worry? or temptations of various kinds because you're not realizing the love that God has for you The love that will not let you go, the love that saves you. Why should we love him? Because he first loved us, and those who truly love him will live for him. And that is the joy of the Christian, to live for whom we love. May we be careful to do that. Number one, just in concluding applications, we must be clear in this with this matter of justification. Our standing with God has nothing to do with performance. We are declared righteous on the merits of Jesus Christ alone, applied by faith alone Number two, we must understand that our justification frees us from service to the law so that we can serve God. And number three, we must apply justification every day by living out faith fueled by love. May that be the cry of our hearts. Living for Christ, Christ living in me, and not being compelled or under the law that is dead because of Christ. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and we pray. That you would help us to live out this kind of life. A life lived for self is a futile life worth life lived. May we be able to say an agreement with the Apostle Paul That we're crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, not we live, but Christ lives in us. And the life that we now live in the flesh We live by the faith of the Son of God who loved us and gave himself for us. May we understand the importance of this truth. May we apply it every day of our lives. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.