And then We'll be looking at verses one through uh twenty-three, hopefully, this morning. Acts chapter ten. All right, we've got some kids still in the room and we've got uh teenagers in the room and we've got older kids in the room also called adults. How many of you all enjoy playing Legos or did when you were a child? Okay, quite a few of you. It's one of my one of my favorite things to do was to every Christmas or birthdays. Usually uh my gifts included uh my list um uh was included Legos and usually I was able to get one or m uh more sets of those. And y and um back in the old days they didn't they did they weren't combined with things like Batman and You know, all this other stuff that they're combined with b but they did have uh sets that you would sit together, uh that you would that you would uh s sets that you would put together And um how many of you ever put one of those sets together and you're going through the directions on those, and you're going through one after another after another, and and sometimes you get to a to a particular direction A particular thing to do and you're doing it and you go, I don't know why I'm doing this. Like I don't know why I am placing that piece there. It doesn't make any sense whatsoever Or um you don't understand you you I don't know why I'm I'm I'm I'm connecting these two pieces together And then you continue the directions and you follow them closely, and you get to the end and you realize, oh, that's how it all fits together. How many have ever experienced that before? If you've never experienced that before, then you have not lived. I mean that is that is that is the the the epitome of life as we know it. So So, you know, that really kind of does illustrate the way things work in our lives as Christians. There are things that we go through and we say, why why was that put together that way? Lord, why why do you want me to do this now? What why am I going taking this step? What's happening here? And we don't understand why things are happening the way they're happening. But have you ever gone through your Christian experience and you come to the end of whatever trial you're going through or whatever difficulty you're going through, and you look back and you say, oh Lord, that's what you were trying to do. That's what you were wanting to do. And there are some ongoing struggles in our lives and perplexing things that we don't understand, and to this day Perhaps we still don't know why God is doing things the way that He is doing them. And it may be that we continue to not understand certain things in our lives And perhaps we'll see we'll understand them when we see Christ, and they'll it'll become clearer to us. And um and so we live that life, but the thing that we can always understand as we know Christ is our Savior and Those of us who do, we can know that God has a sovereign plan where He is going to use the things in our lives and orchestrating things in a way that will ultimately be for his glory and for our good and for the furtherance of our of his kingdom. And what we find in Acts chapter 10 is exactly that scenario You have two men, you have Cornelius and you have Peter. We find Peter, we left Peter last week in Joppa. He is at Simon the Tanner's house. And in Acts chapter 10, we're going to find a man by the name of Cornelius. He is at Caesarea, which is about 36 miles from Joppa. And God is going to be working very personally and very directly in both of their lives, and then he's going to put the two of them together to accomplish his overarching will. And we're going to be able to see how God does all of this today. Let's look at Acts chapter 10, and we're going to read the first 23 verses of Acts chapter 10, beginning in verse 1. There was a certain man in Caesarea called Cornelius, a centurion of what was called the Italian Regiment. A devout man and one who feared God with all his household, who gave alms generously to the people and prayed to God always. About the ninth hour of the day, he saw clearly in a vision an angel of God coming in and saying to him, Cornelius And when he observed him, he was afraid and said, What is it, Lord? For he said to him, Your prayers and your alms have come up for a memorial before God. Now send men to Joppa and send for Simon, whose surname is Peter. He is lodging with Simon a tanner, whose house is by the sea. He will tell you what you must do And when the angel who spoke to him had departed, Cornelius called two of his household servants and a devout soldier from among those who waited on him continually. So when he had explained all these things to him, he sent them to Joppa. The next day, as they went on their journey and drew near the city, Peter went up on the housetop to pray about the night sixth hour. Then he became very hungry and wanted to eat, but whilst they made ready, he fell into a trance, and saw heaven opened, and an object like a great sheet of bound at the four corners, descended to him and let down to the earth. In it were all kinds of four-footed animals of the earth, wild beasts, creeping things, and birds of the air. The voice came to him, Rise, Peter, kill and eat. But Peter said, Not so, Lord, for I have never eaten anything common or unclean. And a voice spoke to him again and said the second time, What God has cleansed you must not call common. This was done three times, and the object was taken up into heaven again. Now while Peter wondered within himself What this vision which he had seen meant, behold, the men who had been sent from Cornelius had made inquiry for Simon's house and stood before the gate And they called and asked whether Simon, whose surname was Peter, was lodging there. While Peter thought about the vision, the Spirit said to him, Behold, three men are seeking you Arise, therefore, go down, and go with them, doubting nothing, for I have sent them. Then Peter went down to the men who had been sent to him from Cornelius, and said, Yes, I am he who you seek. For what reason have you come? And they said Cornelius the centurion, a man a just man, who fears God and has a good reputation among all the nations of the Jews, was divinely instructed by a holy angel to summon you to his house. and to hear words from you. Then he invited them in the lodge in and lodged them. On the next day Peter went away with them, and some brethren from Joppa accompanied him. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, as we look at your word this morning, I pray that you would help us as we as we see your working in the lives of these two men to bring about your purposes. We thank you that you are not a respecter of persons. We thank you that you are a creator, you are a creator of all of us. And we thank you, Lord, for Christ who fulfilled the law so that we as Gentiles could be grafted into your kingdom. I pray, dear Father, today, as we see this unfolding in a practical way, that you would help us to realize that you have a plan for us That that plan includes a correction of thinking from time to time. And I pray, dear Father, that you would Help us, Lord, as we go through this text to glean what you want us to glean, to see your working, to be encouraged by that. And to choose to obey in the midst of all that you ask us to do. And I pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen. Central to the gospel is a teaching that there is no distinction between Jew and Gentile, between bond and free. The book of Romans, chapter 3, when you find the very center of the gospel, you find it in Romans 3. 21. There's an extended discussion about sin and uh guilt and all of that and Romans three twenty one says by but now the righteousness of God apart from the law is revealed, being witnessed by the law and the prophets. But now righteousness is revealed, even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ, to all and on all who believe, for there is no difference. God intended the gospel to go to all people. Even in the Old Testament, God intended to use the nation of Israel to be a light to the Gentiles. So that all people would be able to have the opportunity to come to Christ. In Acts chapter 1, verse 8, we find the commission that we have mentioned several times before to the apostles that says to us That it's they said uh Christ said, You shall receive power when the Holy Ghost Spirit has come upon you, and you shall be witnesses to me in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria and to the end of the earth. And as you follow the progression, you find in Acts chapter 8, verse 1, that a great persecution came. It was spearheaded by Saul of Tarsus, and there was a scattering into the regions from Jerusalem, into the regions of Judea and Samaria. And in Acts 9, verse 31, we find that by that point, we're moving fast here, by that point, there are churches that are established in Judea, Galilee, in Samaria. And in verse 32 of Acts chapter 9, we then find Peter, who is throughout all parts of the country, and is then finds himself in Lida or Lida. And then heads over to Joppa where we left him last week. So we see the spread of the gospel from Jerusalem out to Judea and Samaria. And we're going to begin to see that it's going to extend to the othermost parts of the world. And we're really going to see that begin here in Acts chapter 10. Because in Acts chapter 10, we find a man by the name of Cornelius. And Cornelius is a man who is in Caesarea. That's the town that he lives in, or city that he lives in. And to understand this text, we need to begin to understand a few things about this location. Caesarea, as I mentioned before, is 36 miles from Joppa. And Caesarea is a is a s is the center of the Roman army. That's where the it's like a military outpost There's a sense in which it isn't all that different than than where we are. Um if you think of the term in terms of the s of of where we live and D C being close and we have major forts and and bases nearby, Andrews and And uh Fort Meade. This is a city that is well populated. It is a beautiful city It is a city that is largely Gentile, and it is the center of the Roman administration for the entire region. And that's why we find this man, Cornelius, here. Cornelius is a centurion. He is from the Italian regiment, or it's also known as a cohort And we find here in verses 1 and 2 this man. And we want to look at also to understand what's going on here in the passage. We need to understand who this man is. We find in the passage that he is a man who is a centurion. Roughly, he then is in charge of roughly a hundred soldiers. It may be less or it may be more, but around there. And uh he the he he ha his rank is sort of the rank of a junior officer. Uh some would be uh elevated eventually to a senior centurion As far as we know, this man is a junior officer, and he's in charge of about a hundred men. He's in a cohort of around six hundred soldiers, which is one-tenth of a legion of soldiers. So He is an officer, but he is not on the high end of being an officer. This is a man who, according to the text, has a great character. He is a man who, the Bible says here, is a devout man. He is a man who fears God, and a man who is who is worshiping God with his household. Now, this is a real significant term that's used here. In the first century, this idea of a God-fearer was a person who was a Gentile But they had a high re the enjoyed a high respect from the Jewish people. They were not proselytes, which meant that that this man was not circumcised, as we're going to find out later. that he didn't follow all of the demands of the Torah, but he did worship the same God as the Jewish people. The this term God fearer became a a term that the Jewish people would use for Gentile Christians. are not Gentiles, I'm sorry, Gentiles who who who would work who worship the same God, who um who would pray and would uh to the same God uh who would um give give of their of cher charitable activities, uh g give to give of their of their means. of alms. They were highly respected, but they were not part of the nation of Israel. They were not proselytes into the nation of Israel. This is this man, Cornelius. We find that there are two practices that are mentioned here. One is that he is generous with people, and the other one that he is a man of prayer. In fact, it says that he prayed always. So understand that the man that we're talking about here, Cornelius, is a man who is religiously devout. He is a man who is arguably seeking after God. He is a man who is praying and probably praying regularly according to the Jewish custom of various times in the day, midday at three o'clock, morning, midday at three o'clock And then probably in the evening as well. So he was regularly praying. It says he was praying to God always. This is a man whose household was also, it wasn't just he was doing this himself He was worshiping the one and only true God with his household. And that's the setting that we come to with when when this is the person with which God is going to work. to really bring the gospel to the Gentiles and for the Gentiles to really begin to be accepted among other Christians, particularly Jewish Christians. And we see that this man Cornelius, while he was praying around the ninth hour, this is about around 3 p. m. He is praying, and he has this vision we pick up here in verse 3. In verse 3 it says About the ninth hour of the day he saw clearly a vision, an angel of God coming to and saying to him, Cornelius And this man is obviously and understandably he's he is taken aback by this. This is something that is A bit disconcerting to him, he's somewhat fearful, verse 4. And when he observed him, he was afraid and said, What is it, Lord? Now, you notice it's lowercase uh in in many of many of the uh translations, and uh rightly so. He's not he's not clearly identifying Christ here He's just sort of generally wondering who this is. So he said to him, Your prayers and your alms have come up for a memorial before God. The word memorial is an interesting word. It's a Greek word that corresponds with the grain offering in the Old Testament The green offering was this particular part of the green offering was uh uh a flour mixed with oil that was burned at the altar, and it was consecrated in the name of Yahweh specifically. The point of this memorial, what God is saying, or what what the angel is saying here, is essentially that God is seeing these prayers He's seeing this almsgiving. He's seeing these things and and he is consecrating them for himself. In other words, he is identifying them as something that are as sincere, something that is That he is pleased with. Now that that is going to bring for us, bring up for us a question, isn't it? Is this man Cornelius a Christian at this point? Is he saved? And the answer to that is no, he has not been given a clear gospel message yet. We're going to find later in the text that he is. But at this point, he has not yet been given the gospel. So what do we do with this? Here's a man who is praying, he is worshiping Jehovah God, and yet he has not yet been given the gospel, so he doesn't know the Lord. And what I would just simply say to you folks is that it's hard for us to sort of grasp this, but I think it's very clear from this passage as an example, but there are other passages that would that would that would include this, Romans chapter seven being one of them. But God God works. Pre-conversion. That God draws people to himself. That God is able to identify those who are seeking after him. Now. The Bible actually says as well that none seeks after God. It says that clearly in Romans chapter 2. So the assumption is, folks, that God is initiating a working in this man's life. And as this man receives a certain amount of light, he is embracing the light that he is receiving. As God is progressively revealing himself to this man. This man is accepting and embracing the light that he has been given. And the Bible is clear from Scripture. We can find many cases, many, many times, that this is the case. And we see in this man's life that he is going to continue to do this. As the angel comes to him, and as the angel commands him to send people over to Peter in Joppa, he is going to obey. We pick up in verses 7 through 8. We'll see that And when the angel who spoke to him had departed, Cornelius called two of his household servants and a devout soldier from among those who waited on him continually, and when he explained all these things to them, he sent them to Joppa. This man continues to follow the light that he has given. He's going to need Peter to come. He's going to need Peter as the preacher of the word to explain the truth of God's word so that he can accept it by faith. But he is receiving, he is continuing to receive the light he is given, and he is obedient to what he has been given to do from the angel. And that really brings us, folks, to some application for us, doesn't it? Are you receiving the light that you have been given? 1 Chronicles 28, verse 9 says this, speaking to Solomon, as for you, my son Solomon, know the God of your father. And serve him with a loyal heart and with a willing mind. For the Lord searches all hearts and understands all the intents of the thoughts. If you seek him, he will be found by you. But if you forsake him, he will cast you off forever. Speaking to Asa in 2 Chronicles 15, verse 2. God says this, Hear me, Asa, and all Judah and Benjamin. The Lord is with you while you are with him. If you seek him, he will be found by you. But if you forsake him, He will forsake you. Proverbs chapter 8, verse 17 says, And those who seek me diligently will find me. Isaiah 55, 6 says, Seek the Lord while he may be found, call upon him while he is near. Romans chapter 3, verse 11 says, There is none That understands, and there is none that seeks after God. So folks, when you put all of this together, what do you come up with Well, you come up with this that the Lord, and then we have a passage that says, God is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. God desires for men to be saved. So when you put all this together, what do you come up with? Well you come up with this, God is the initiator of his gospel. He is the initiator of salvation. But then men have a responsibility to respond to it. And as men respond, men and women respond to the to the light they're given, then we can rest assured that God will give them more light. And we find in this passage a man, Cornelius, who is responding to the light he has been given. And God is giving him more light. There is, I think, frankly, an application for us as Christians. Sometimes it's like we want to know everything before we step out and do anything. Sometimes we we we we're not really willing to just simply emb obey and follow the wisdom, follow the light that we have been given. So that God can give us more light. And this is something that applicationally would have to be worked in through our us as individuals. It's not something that that we we as uh as as our own um w relationship with the Lord would have to do. But sometimes, folks, we tend to sort of reject a notion that God wants us to move forward on And doing so, uh we we are we should not think that God is going to continue to give us more light in those in various areas. We find this man Cornelius is obedient. He's following the light he has been given, and God is going to use him. And let me just make this application as well. In our evangelism of others and in our desire to see people come to Christ, have you ever considered that God is working Before you ever come in certain situations, God is working in people's lives. And perhaps others he is not yet working. I can tell you by personal experience, this is just a personal anecdote, but I can tell you by personal experience that that I have seen both as I have given the gospel to people. There are some times where I would give the gospel to somebody and it and it just it doesn't, they're not receiving it. There's no real reception of it at all And there are other times where it is it is like they receive it very quickly because uh God has already been working with them in one way or another. The book of Romans actually says the goodness of God can lead to repentance Sometimes the wrath of God, according to Jude, can can can lead to repentance. And so as we are we are reaching people for Christ and giving the gospel and developing relationships, what God desire what is wise for us to do is to really ask the question, is God working in the lives of these people? Now to really understand what that means, let me go further here a little bit. Suppose have you ever been talking to somebody about the gospel? You've been giving them the gospel, and And you say to them, hey, uh Jesus um God is holy and um and he is just and because he is holy and just he cannot just overlook our sin. Do you understand that? And they say, yes, I understand that. Do you realize that you have sinned and I have sinned? We've all sinned and we have fallen short of God's standard. And I do you understand that? And they say, yes, they understand that. You continue on and you say, Well, do you realize that the solution is that Jesus Christ died to pay the punishment for our sins so that we could have our sins forgiven? Do you understand that? And they say, yes, I understand that. Do you realize that Christ rose from the dead so that we could have eternal life? And they said, Yes, I understand that. Do you realize that the only thing that you can do, it's not by your own self-effort, but it's by trusting Jesus as your Savior, as your Lord and Savior, embracing Him as your Savior that That you can that you can be a child of God. Do you understand that? They say, Yes, I understand that. Would today be a day that you would like to trust Christ as your Lord and Savior? And they say, no, not really. Does that happen? Happens all the time. Why? It's the issue of the heart, folks Spirit of God has got to enliven the heart. He's got to help people to see the significance of the truth. It's not just something that they can mentally understand. It's something that they in their heart have to understand. And what we find in the case of Cornelius is everything he is receiving, he is responding the right way to it. Now what we're going to then see is it the scene, this is like a next uh another scene entirely. So now we find we're in verse 9, and now the next day we're over in Joffa with Peter. It says, the next day, as they went on their journey and drew near, that's the people that were sent to them, sent to Peter by Cornelius, Peter went up of the housetop to pray. Now notice Cornelius prayed and the vision came. And Peter is on the other end. There's this there's this parallel idea here that tells us that God is working with Cornelius. Now God is working with Peter. And he is praying, and he's up on the housetop praying. That is very very commonly where Jewish households would pray. They would go up on the housetop. They had a flat roof and they were able you were able to be up on top of that roof and then you would uh they would pray to the Lord. This was around the sixth hour, which is around noontime And apparently Peter had an appetite, so he got very hungry. Um and and perhaps induced by the Lord that he was hungry, or perhaps he just hadn't had anything. But anyway, as was common in that day When you and by the way, this is not just the case in in Israel, this is the case other places as well. When you agree to have somebody come to your house and lodge there, you're going to feed them, there's going to be hospitality Do you know that that happened in this country as well once upon a time? Do you realize that um that I was we were we had done a field trip down in um in uh Mount Vernon recently? And Mount Vernon was a place, it was like a hotel, basically, where George and Martha Washington constantly had people come There's this southern hospitality thing where anybody could come at any time and just come in and and if you were friends with them as long as they were that you knew them. They they had an open invitation to come and stay and stay as long as they want and eat as much food as they want and be there as long as they want and you were you were absolutely it was totally for uh uh rude to ever ask them how long they're staying. Or ever asked them to leave or anything like that. It would be was considered to be completely rude to do that. And so that was similar to the Jewish kind of hospitality as well. And so Peter was hungry, and what it says there is Simon the Tanner's household, they're going to prepare a meal for him. Verse 10. And while they're preparing the meal, this man Peter falls into a trance. And the word there is trance. I think the idea there is we don't this is not just a fictitious this is not just a dream This is a reality uh in this man's life, even though um uh there uh uh in in Peter's life this is actually happening. Look at verse 11. I saw heaven open and an object uh an object like a great sheet bound at the four corners, descended to him and let down uh let down to the earth. In it were all kinds of four-footed animals of the earth, wild beasts, creeping things, and birds of the air, and a voice came to him, Rise, Peter, kill and eat So Peter is having in this trance, he's seeing, he has this vision, there's all kinds of animals. Now it says all animals, all kind the idea is all kinds of animals, all different kinds of animals. Seeing all of them and there's this command to kill and to eat, Peter would have immediately been taken aback by this The Jewish custom of the day, which was actually truly something that was directly from the book of Leviticus, was that there are some animals that were forbidden, some animals that were considered unclean. and some animals that weren't unclean. In Leviticus chapter 11, verse 47, it says that the Jewish people were to distinguish between the unclean and the clean. and between the animal that may be eaten and the animal that may not be eaten. And so we have this clear mandate in Leviticus to to distinguish between these two. And there are lists in Leviticus chapter 11 and Deuteronomy chapter 14, you have these lists of animals that some are are considered to be clean and some are considered not to be clean. And he objects to this. He says, not so, Lord, I've never eaten anything these things as long as I have lived. And sort of like the implications, I'm not going to do it now. I haven't started this, and I'm not going to do it now. Leviticus chapter 20 is going to help us. This is an important passage, Leviticus 20, verses 24 through 26. is that is is going to help us understand the connection between what is going on in this passage and what is happening uh uh and and why this is being brought up in conjunction with cornelius. And the passage says verse 24, but I have said to you, you shall inherit their land, and I will give it to you to possess A land flowing with milk and honey, I am the Lord your God who has separated you from the peoples. You shall therefore distinguish between clean animals and unclean, between unclean birds and clean, and you shall not make yourselves abominable beasts of or or by birds, or by any kind of living thing that creeps on the ground, which I have separated from you as unclean And you shall be holy to me, for I the Lord am holy, and I have separated you from peoples that you should be mine. So there was holy and unholy, there was clean and unclean, or common and pure. There were these different kinds of things in Leviticus, but the point in Leviticus 20, verse 26, is that he wanted them separate from from the people. In other words, he wanted them protected from the influence of the Gentiles. And so there was a direct connection between the dietary laws and them being a separate, a set-apart people for God's purposes. Now, I want to hasten to say that if you look at the entire Old Testament, you're going to find that the idea here is that Israel would be a light to the Gentiles But because of the of the prejudice that was built up over time that I'm sure God never intended, They never were able to really fulfill as a whole. Now there were Gentiles that came in prosela and were proselytes and joined the Jewish faith, but But on a large scale, they were never able really to fulfill that desire of the Lord, to be a light to the Gentiles. And you then pick up in verse 15 the admonishment. The voice spoke to him. There's this authoritative voice that speaks again the second time: what God has cleansed, you must not call common. So the passage reiterates the fact that God has called these things cleansed. And the question then becomes, where has this happened? Would you take your Bibles, and we're going to look at this? Would you take your Bibles and turn to the book of Mark, chapter 7? When Jesus was on this earth, he is the Word. He is the fulfilled word, the incarnate word. And we're going to find here in Mark chapter 7 exactly where Christ is going to call these things clean But he's going to do so in conjunction with identifying what truly is an impurity. So would you pick up in Mark chapter 7, and you're going to see this in verse, picking up in verse 14. When he had called the multitude, he himself, called the multitude to himself, rather, he said to them, Hear me, everyone, and understand. There is nothing that enters a man from outside which can defile him. Did you catch that? There's nothing that enters a man from the outside that defiles him. What is food? Food enters the man from the outside, right? So there's nothing that enters the man from the outside which can defile him, but the thing which come out of him, those are the things that defile a man. What does he mean by this? Verse Mark seven sixteen. If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear. When he had entered a house away from the crowd, he his disciple asked him concerning the parable. What do you mean by this, Lord? Verse 18. So he said to them, Are you thus without understanding also? Do you not perceive that whatever enters a man from the outside cannot defile him? Because it does not enter his heart, but his stomach. What is he obviously talking about? He's obviously talking about food. And is eliminated, thus purifying all foods. Did you catch that? He says all foods are purified. Christ is establishing here that from this point forward You do not have the defilement mandates in the Old Testament. Now, let me hasten to say, according to Matthew chapter 5, it is not as though Jesus is destroying the law here. But what did he do? What did Jesus come to do? He did not come to destroy the law, but what did he come to do? He came to fulfill it. Christ came to fulfill all of the demands of the law. And Christ is saying here to his disciples that the demands of the law are soon in this area are soon going to be fulfilled. in Christ Himself. So that what you take into your body with food is not something that can s that can any longer ceremonially defile you. Verse Mark 720. And he said, What comes out of a man that defiles a man? So now he's gonna ask what is it that comes out of a man that defiles a man? From for from within, out of the what? Out of the heart of men proceed evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications, murders, thefts, covetousness, wickedness, deceit, lewdness An evil eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness. All these evil things come from within and defile a man. What is Jesus saying here? Jesus is pointing now to the thing that really matters. It's not the food that you take in that's going to defile you. It's actually what comes from you. All of these things in your heart that are what? They are sin. Our heart is deceitful and desperately wicked, the Bible says. We have we have sinful hearts And so the things that come out from our hearts, from our lips, or from our behavior that come from our hearts, those are the things that defile us. What is Jesus pointing out here? Obviously what's really important. You see, the Jewish people had had gotten to the place where they were far more concerned about where who they ate with and what they ate and what form they ate it in what all of those kinds of things and they entirely forgot plenty of passages in the Old Testament that identified the important part of of their of their existence in their heart. Their heart mattered to God. Obedience of the heart in the Old Testament. You have idols of the heart in the Old Testament. You have Deuteronomy talking about speaking things into the heart. There are all kinds of places in the Old Testament where it is clear that the heart is the issue, but they were distracted by this issue of food defilement. And Christ says, I'm fulfilling that And the thing that you need to focus on is what is truly in your heart. That's what will defile you. Now, Peter was under this teaching. He knew what Jesus had said. But Peter Peter was a bit hard-headed. As you go through pre pre-resurrection, you see Peter will do great things and say great things and then he he falls into pride or denies Christ and there's things to happen. But we're never hard hard headed like that are we? I mean we we never have to be told two or three times or God has to hit us over the head with a two by four. I mean that never happens to us. It just happens to Peter. Now actually we probably can learn a lesson from this. I mean, Peter should not, theoretically, Peter should not have been surprised by all of these animals and what ge if he if he really had understood what Jesus had said in Mark chapter 7 there. But what what the Lord is doing here is establishing once again, this is probably a few years now after And Jesus is establishing again that he should not be concerned. What Christ has declared clean, do not, you ought not consider to be unclean. And just to reiterate this, we have this said three times according to verse sixteen. This was done three times, and the object was taken up into heaven after that. There is this Finality about the third time, not just once, but three times. This was an established new order, new way of looking at things And what we then have is God correcting Peter's thinking. And God has to do that with us, doesn't he? There are often times, folks, where God has to correct our thinking. You can begin to see what God's doing here, can't you? Cornelius is a gentile. Cornelius is following after following the light that's been given. But if If this is not dealt with correctly, if Peter doesn't have the right kind of thinking, biblical thinking, right thinking, he is not going to be able to serve God the way that God wants him to be able to serve to serve him. There's going to be a mental barrier. He has wrong thinking right now based upon a presupposition that he can't eat certain things. And by the way, the rabbinical writings were very clear that they could not eat with other Gentiles. And this really plays into what's going to happen here because Peter is going to go and he is going to be rubbing shoulders with all kinds of Gentiles. And really to understand this point as well, we need to understand a couple of things about how separate the Jewish nation at this point need wanted to be from the Gentiles. For example, a gentile could not eat with a Jew nor a Jew with a Gentile. A Gentile could not even walk into the dwelling place of a Jew uh uh un unless he took off his sandals because they didn't want to have gentile dust in the home That's, by the way, where Jesus gets the phrase, wipe the dust off of your feet. That's where that comes from. They they uh if a gentile came from a gentile area that was predominantly gentile, they had gentile dust on their feet, and so they weren't allowed to even go into a home of gen uh of Jewish people without without dusting their feet off because the Jewish people did not want the dust from Gentiles to defile their house You can see, folks, then the kind of prejudice that has been built up over the years. And they certainly would not consider in any way eating with a Gentile. Well, it's going to be hard to ha show hospital hospitable hospitality to Gentiles, isn't it? It's going to be hard to rub shoulders with them. It's going to be hard to develop relationships with them. Do you remember in Acts chapter 2 and 3 and 4 where all the people are gathering together, the different chur the churches are gathering together and they're fellowship with one another, they're breaking bread to get one another, they're eating with one another. They're fellowshipping with one another. This wall had to be broken down in order for Peter to even be willing to go to Cornelius. But he is then commanded to do so and uh uh to go to Cornelius' house uh uh when uh the the the messenger here is going to tell the tell tell Peter this. Uh you need to go. When the men come, don't go. Don't doubt uh you go, don't doubt, don't don't worry about it. It's gonna it's you need to go. But I want you to notice something as we pick up in verse 16, or verse 17, rather. Now, while Peter wondered within himself What this vision which he had seen meant, behold, the men who had been sent from Cornelius had made inquiry for Simon's house and stood before the gate What is verse 17 saying? So here's what's happening. Peter is contemplating this trance that he's just had. He is thinking about what has happened here. It's like he's trying to figure this out. Why did God have me have this happen now? What is going on here? Why do I even need to know this? Why does this even matter to me? And as as this is happening, he hasn't figured it all out yet. As this is happening, these men approach. And Peter then has to go, he has to follow the command. He does. He obeys and follows the command in verse 21. And he goes with them. And there's a lesson to be learned for us here. This is the way God works. So God revealed to Peter part of what he needed to know. Enough to obey, to take the next step. And as Peter obeyed and took the next step, God would continue to teach Peter. We're going to see this in the following verses, the following passages. Peter is going to begin to learn. about about Cornelius and learn how God is going to reach the Gentiles and he's going to be teaching giving the gospel to them and then he's going to be able to To actually be a connection between other Jews and the house of Cornelius. There's all kinds of things going to happen here. But he learns as he obeys. You know what we often want to do? We want to have it all figured out before we obey. I mentioned this last week. It just happened to be in the text, the way it was laid out. And we get it again here. It's the same kind of thing where God says, obey. No, you're still trying to figure this out. You're still trying to just obey. And as you obey, it's like God teaches us using OJT, on-the-job training. That's how God teaches us. We're going to obey, and as we obey, God will teach us. And if we want to stop being taught by God, what do we need to do? Stop obeying. In other words, if if if we want to, and and we are so bad about this, we want it, we want our ducks lined up in a row. We want it all figured out. Lord, if you would show me exactly why you want me to obey, then I'll obey. If I understand exactly what's happening, then then I'll understand why I need to obey. And God just says, obey. Follow what you've been given. And God wants us to learn that. And you know why? Why is it that we want to figure everything out ahead of time before we obey? I mean, just practically, why is it that we want to do that? We want control. That's why. If I want to figure everything out before I obey, it demonstrates to me that I I just want control. And what does God want us to do? He wants us to give him control. He already has control. He wants us to accept the control that he has. And it boils down to this very simple principle in Scripture: Proverbs 3, 5, and 6. Trust the Lord with all your heart, and lean not on your own understanding. In all your ways, acknowledge Him. He will direct your paths. Very simple. It's one of the most most well-known verses in the Bible. But you know, we so often forget that. That God does not want us to lean on our own understanding. That the way that we learn dependency is by obedience. And when we know to do something, even though we don't understand how all of the Lego parts are going to fit together How everything is going to work out. We don't understand God just simply wants us one step at a time to obey him. And we see God Working out all of these details, and we're going to see the sovereign plan of God unfold And we can contemplate the the God's sovereignty and man's will in all this and how it all works together. And you know the truth in that is there is a real mystery to that But here's what we know. Our role is obedience. That's our role. Trust and obey. For there's no other way to be happy in Jesus but to trust and obey. And we find here then, as Paul, or as Peter rather, approaches Cornelius, that he is received by him, and we're going to begin to see more of that next week, how all of that works out. So, what can we learn from this? All of the things that well, and I want to mention this final thing, which is a very important point. What we find in this passage overall. Is an example of the truth that God is no respecter of persons. That God is going to reach the Gentiles because He loves the Gentiles. And that what Peter needs to do, and Peter's going to struggle with this, in fact, Peter will continue to struggle with this even after the account of Acts 10. Paul's going to have to correct Peter on this later on. This is going to be a continued a continual struggle for him to embrace the Gentiles, to eat with them, to work with them, to accept them as equal God wants us to realize that we need to not be a respecter of persons. When we are, when we when we Value some people over others. When we do that kind of thing, folks, then what we are doing is we're setting a higher standard than God does. We know that God, by the good pleasure of His own will, draws people to Himself. We know that to be true, according to Ephesians chapter 1. But the basis of that is never based upon race or giftedness or talent or socioeconomic status or anything like that We know the basis is not of those things. It's simply on the good pleasure of his will. And we need to have the right that kind of thinking as we establish relationships with others. For the sake of the gospel. So, what can we learn from this passage? Number one, we must respond in obedience to the light that God has given us. Is there an area in your life as a Christian? That the Lord has been giving uh He's enlightening you a certain way. He he there's something you know in your spirit by the Word of God or walking with Him. You there's something that you know that you ought to do. And you are resisting doing it for whatever reason. And you're thinking to yourself, well, well, maybe I mean I need to know the whole plan. If I can figure it all out, then but God wants you just to take that next step in His will. We need to respond the light that's been given. Maybe you you're listening today and you don't know the Lord as your Savior. Perhaps you have seen the goodness of God in your life. Perhaps you have seen even answered prayer in your life. Perhaps you look at your life and you know that God has somehow been working in some way. But there's never been a time where you have come to an assurance of knowing that you have a relationship with God, that you have eternal life. Well that doesn't that doesn't discount the fact that God has worked with you in some way. But the Bible is clear by 1 John 5, these things are written that ye may know that ye have eternal life. And if you're listening today and you don't know for sure that you have a relationship with God by the by the work of Christ and believing on what he did on the cross for you and rising from the grave. If you are not sure about that, it doesn't mean that you you've never seen God work It simply means that God has not you you have not accepted the gift of eternal life for yourself And God wants you to do that. John chapter 1, verse 12 says that as many as received him, to them gave you the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. You need to re- you have maybe you've received the light that God has given you so far, but there is more light for you to receive. Christian, maybe that's the case for you as well. Number two, we must allow God to correct our pre-conceptions, our assumptions, and our prejudices. We are full of them. We so easily assume we understand the mind of God and his mind is infinite. Or we understand God's ways or what He wants to do or how He's going to work. And we must allow God to correct our preconceptions, our assumptions, and certainly our prejudices as well. So that we can be used for his purposes. Number three, we must respond in obedience to God's direction. God will teach us as we obey Him. You must respond in obedience to his correction. Or his obedi- uh to his direction. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you for your word. We thank you for just the privilege of seeing how you are sovereignly working. And we're going to continue to see this story take place in the life of Cornelius and his household, his family, and others that are going to be involved in the in the redemption of souls through Peter's submission to you and his obedience and his learning. the things that you want him to know. I pray through all of this, dear Father, that we would be, we would see you revealed in this text. And how you work. But I pray, Lord, that it wouldn't we wouldn't just see you revealed, but we would respond to your character, to your sovereign working in our lives. We would respond in obedience. And I pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen.