All right, take your Bibles and turn to Philippians chapter one. Philippians chapter one. And we'll be looking at verses twenty-one through thirty this morning, Philippians chapter one. Let's go ahead and read that passage together, starting with one of the most well-known verses in all of the Bible, one of the most profound verses for the Christian. Philippians chapter one, verse twenty-one, it says, I I let me before we start this, it seems like something is not on. Is everything okay back there as far as audibly? Just doesn't seem like something's on back there. Testing, testing. Maybe it's my ears. Maybe I'm having a problem. Okay. It might be my ears or something. That's fine. Okay, I just wanted to make sure before I started, because I'd rather Okay. That's good. I can hear my good. Very good. Where you have that, that's great. Alright, Philippians chapter one And we'll pick up here in verse twenty-one. For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. But if I live on in the flesh This will mean fruit from my labor, yet what I should choose, I cannot tell. For I am hard-pressed between the two, having a desire to depart and be with Christ, which is far better Nevertheless, to remain in the flesh is more needful for you. And being confident of this, I know that I shall remain and continue with you all for your progress and joy of faith. that your rejoicing for me may be more abundant in Jesus Christ by my coming to you again. Only let your conduct be worthy of the gospel of Christ, so that whether I come and see you or am absent, I may hear of your affairs That you stand fast in one spirit with one mind, striving together for the faith of the gospel And not in any way terrified by your adversaries, which is to them a proof of perdition, but to you a south of salvation, and that from God. For to you it has been granted on behalf of Christ, not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for his sake. Having the same conflict which you saw in me and now here is in me. Let's go to the Lord in prayer Father, as we come to you this morning, we thank you for your word, and we thank you for the testimony of the Apostle Paul, who teaches us in this passage how to think biblically. Last week we learned about putting the gospel first and the absolute priority of the gospel. This week, Lord, would you teach us from From the words of the Apostle Paul, inscripturated by the Spirit of God, would you teach us what it looks like to think biblically? The perspective that someone who's thinking gospels has gospel-centered thinking has. Father, as we look at your word this morning, would you teach us the things that you want us to learn? Grow us in you. Help us to have this mind that is in this passage as we go throughout life. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. In October of nineteen sixty-seven, a Russian space probe went into space to Attempt to gain vital information from from the planet Venus, including temperature and other vital information that it needed to discover what what that planet was made from and what to expect. Uh, from that planet. It collected uh a transmission stopped at 3,774 miles, and the assumption was that the probe had hit ground. And they collected all kinds of data from that probe. And they thought from the data that they collected that it was very likely that there was life on Venus. The temperature was right, the atmosphere was right to be able to uh everything seemed to be right about that. And they were very excited about the discovery that they had made Well, a couple of years later, a few years later, more technologically advanced astronomers realized that the planet was actually uh three thousand seven hundred and fifty-nine Miles wide, miles in diameter, which meant that the probe stopped sending a signal fifteen miles above the surface of the planet. And based upon that, they realized that all of the vital information that they got, all of the things that they that they received, were totally inaccurate. if if con if uh if if they thought that it was going to be based upon the s where they were in the surface of the planet. And so no, there may not and probably isn't life on Venus and other kinds of of implications that may have been inferred from from what from what they had gathered. You know, we as Christians and we really even those who are unbelievers Often think that they are gaining vital information about Christianity and the Christian life, but really the information that they are gathering It's like it's 15 miles away from what really the Christian life is all about. And sometimes what happens when people are observing the Christian faith and Christianity, they begin to to make conclusions that really aren't based upon reality of what it looks like to truly be a Christian. And in some cases that's our fault. That's my fault and your fault for not authentically displaying what Christianity looks like. But in other cases, it's simply a misread about what Christianity is. And likewise, people that are within the church People that are nominal Christians, or even possibly those who do know the Lord, can get the wrong read on what we are doing as a church can get the wrong read on what Christianity really is all about, the motivations of Christianity, and all of those things that can happen. When we don't get true, if you will, surface information. I'll tell you: when you begin to observe a Christian that is going through suffering, When you watch a Christian go through hard times and you see God sustain them through the difficulties of life, You begin to see what the gospel is really made of, and you begin to see what Christianity is all about. And what we are going to find in this passage from the beginning of the of the reality that that Saul or I'm sorry, that Paul rather is in prison. He is trapped in prison. He feels the chains about him as he writes down the pens down these words or or uh or dictates them to an emanuensis But also, toward the end, we're going to see that the church of Philippi was also in trouble with other people that were causing them to suffer for the cause of Christ. But that is really when you begin to see what Christianity is really made of and what the gospel really is. What Paul does here in this passage, he last week we learned that he we have clear priority, gospel priority. This week, what we're going to see is that Paul is going to give his perspective that is going to help us to have real, true gospel thinking. And we pick up with the verse that we left off last week, and that's in verse 21, where it says, or Paul says, For me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. What does it mean? We looked last week at what it meant to die as gain, and if somebody is truly living for Christ, to die is just a continuation of what they were already doing in their relationship with God. Now they were simply going to be closer to him. What does it mean to live is Christ? It almost sounds grammatically incorrect for me to live is Christ? To live is Christ. How can live be a person? How can live be equated to a person? You ever read that and went how does it really mean that, or does it mean to live for Christ? Is that what it's saying? It's not saying that. It doesn't say for me to live for Christ. It's to live is Christ. And Paul is saying, in a very short phrase, a lot. He is saying, for instance, that Christ is our source of life. Our source of eternal life is Christ. Our goal is Christ, to glorify Christ, to see Christ, to be like Christ. The means to the goal is Christ. The source, the means, the objective, the goal, all of life in Christ is Christ. For me to live is Christ. He says similarly in 2 Corinthians 5, verse 17, therefore if any One is in Christ. He is a new creature. Old things have passed away. Behold, all things have become new. Galatians chapter 2 verse 20 says, I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. The father of the German Protestant missions, a man by the name of Zinzendorf, said this. I have but one enthusiasm. I mentioned this last week. It is he, only he. We need to begin to understand And establish that gospel thinking starts with gospel priority. Life is, for the Christian, Christ Christ is not pushed off of the side. He is not just an aspect of what we do. He's not just compartmentalized in a little piece of the pie. All of Christ. Christ is involved in, ought to be involved in every aspect of our lives, in our families, and our vocation. And our hobbies, in our church life, and our marriages. Christ is involved in all of it. He is it he encompasses everything. For me to live is Christ in every aspect of life. That, folks, is true Christianity. False Christianity is the idea that I can live my life the way I want to, and I can have a piece of the pie. Be Christ. And the rest of it, I'm gonna do the way I want to do. Or I'll give them two pieces of the pie. Maybe three. So I'll give them family, marriage, and church, and my hobbies are mine though. But they're mine. I I'm I that's my life. I and you don't you know like like like compartmental you know that hobbies are hobbies. That's that and then no no cr Paul said for me to live is Christ. And he says to die is gain. Now, with that kind of perspective, that kind of thinking, he then considers the prospect of dying. And he considers the prospect of living. And so we find in verse 22 it says, but if I live on in the flesh, Uh I'm sorry, verse yeah, verse twenty two, but if I live on the flesh, this will mean fruit from my labor, yet what I shall choose I cannot tell. He says, I know that if I live In the flesh, if I labor, then I'll gain more fruit for my labor. By the way, there's it's interesting that there is a connection between labor and fruit in that passage. We sometimes think that spiritual fruit comes from a stream of consciousness or something. Labor brings forth Christian spiritual labor brings forth fruit. And then it says For I'm hard pressed, verse 23, for I'm hard pressed between the two, having the desire to depart and to be what's the next two words there? Having the desire to part and to be what? Are you you guys have you read your Bibles? To be what? Good. To be with Christ. Which is far better. He realizes as he looks at the possibility of departing from this life that to be with Christ is far better. Would that be your perspective as you think about dying, as you think about eternity? Would you be able to say with Paul that depart from this world really, truly, in my heart would be far better? That really becomes a litmus test. as to whether or not you're really living in Christ. If you say, no, I can't in my heart of hearts believe that to be with Christ is far better, I really, I really don't really believe that. I don't I don't really believe that. It indicates that really you're not living with the kind of perspective that Paul is, where he says, for me to live is Christ. Paul that does then also bring a question to our s and I think some of this is going to be helpful for us in just thinking through this. When a person dies, when a Christian dies, what happens? Now we know with real clarity what happens after the resurrection of the saints, that you get a new body and it's a body like Christ's, and you we we understand that. But what happens between the time where all the saints are resurrected and and We die. What happens between those times? And Paul is going to answer this specific question in 2 Corinthians chapter 5. Would you take your Bibles and turn there for a few moments? I want to explore this for just a few moments. I want you to see why Paul now can say in Philippians, for me to live as Christ, and when I die, I'm going to be with Christ. Notice what he says, and and he answers this question. In fact, we find in the passage he's very honest with the reality of thinking of being without a body is It's unsettling to him. Notice what it says in verse 4 of 2 Corinthians 5. For we who are of this tent groan, being burdened He says of this tenth, he's talking about his bot the body. We groan being burdened and you all could we could all exp you know the older I get and I'm not old the older I get the more I feel burdened by by my body Not because we want to be unclothed. We don't want to be out of body, but further clothed. We want a better body. That mortality may be swallowed up by life. We look forward to the resurrection. We look forward to a day where we'll have a new body in Christ, where mortality will be swallowed up in life, where we won't have to think about any kind of dying or anything associated with dying, and there will be that day. But he says this, verse 5. Now he who has prepared us for this very thing is God, who also has given us the Spirit As a guarantee. The Holy Spirit's a guarantee of this. Verse 6. So we are always confident, knowing that while we are at home in the body, we are absent from the Lord. For we walk by faith and not by sight. We are confident, yes, well pleased rather to be absent from the body, he says, is to be what? is to be present with the Lord. Therefore, we make it our aim, whether present or absent, to be well pleasing to Him. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that each one may receive the things done in the body according to what he has done, whether good or bad. Paul says, I can glory in the fact that when I die, even though I'll be out of the body, to be out of the body, there's only one place I'll be, and that's with the Lord. There's this great comfort, and then he realizes that if to to be with Christ has got to be better, even though it's hard to really imagine like walking around or not like or like existing without a body He realizes whatever that's going to be like, it's going to be better. Why? Because it's with Christ. So with that kind of information, he writes Philippians chapter 1, and he says To be with Christ is far better. And certainly it is Paul is going to come to the end of his life. Philippians is really written toward more toward the end of his life, but he's going to come to the end of his life in 2 Timothy 4, verse 6. And he's going to say this, for I am re already being poured out as a drink offering. The time of my departure is at hand. I have fought the good fight. I have finished the course. I have kept the faith. Finally, there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness which the Lord, the righteous judge, will give me at that day And not to me only, but also to the all them who loved his appearing. Then he says, verse twenty-four. Nevertheless, to remain in the flesh is more needful for you. He said, I realize that to stay and to be alive And to one day have the prospect of escaping or leaving prison and coming to you, it's more needful for you. And then he says why? Notice what he says, verse 25. And being confident of this, I know that I shall remain and continue with you, with you all, for your progress and joy of faith. that your rejoicing for me may be more abundant in Christ Jesus by my coming to you again. Now, he says this. He says, it's more needful that I come to you, and I'm confident that of this, that when I come to you That you will you will I will help you continue to progress in the gospel. And when you progress in the gospel, it will bring you the joy of faith. And then he says, verse 26, you'll c You'll really rejoice in my presence with you because you're going to be progressing in the gospel and there will be great joy. Folks, Paul says that the source of joy is progressing in the gospel. We talked about this a little bit last week, but we didn't really personalize it this way. Folks, when you when you are not, you are stagnant in your life spiritually. When you're not growing spiritually, you are going to find that you lose joy. That you really don't have the joy of the Lord, the joy of your salvation, as David says. And you know what happens oftentimes as Christians? We get into the place where we where we lose our joy because we're stagnating in the Christian life. We're not fellowshipping with God the way that we think. In fact, 1 John says That we have fellowship with Him. These things are written that my joy may be full. That my I have fellowship with God. So fellowship and joy go hand in hand. Progressing in the gospel and joy go hand in hand. And you know that what happens is you and I as Christians, we lose our joy because we're not fellowshipping with God and we're not progressing in the gospel. And you know you know what we do? We make things worse by start we begin to to pursue joy the way the world does. If I do this, it'll give me joy. If I bring if I go here, it'll give me joy. If I have this, it'll bring me joy. We lose joy because we're not in fellowship with God, but instead of realizing I don't have joy because I'm not in fellowship with God and I'm not progressing the gospel, instead we we we pursue other things. It's like having a craving for chips when you really need water. Have you ever had that before? You're like you really you go in the kitchen and you really just want chips. Am I the only one like this I'm sure I'm not. And you really and you just want this and you realize you're like eating a chip, you're going, I think this is making it worse. I think I want more of something. And so you eat the whole bag. No, I I don't do that. Anyway. I don't recall yeah. When really what you needed to do is go over the sink, fill up your cup with water, and drink it And we do the same thing with our lives as Christians. We want joy, we lose it, and we go the world's way of trying to get it again. God says, what we see in this passage is he reminds them, I I Paul's like, I want to come to you because I know that if I do, you'll progress in the gospel, and then you'll have true joy. Well then that brings us to Paul's Paul's consideration of where these people are at Paul's not with them. They are in the they are in Philip Philippians. They're in Philippi. They are Philippians, and they're in Philippi. And he begins to think about where they're at and what's going on in their lives. And he is actually concerned about their circumstances and their situations that their situation that what might happen is that they actually regress in the faith. Did you know that's a possibility? It's actually a possibility to regress in the faith. And he's concerned about this. He's concerned that these people, because there is a there is a an opposition that we're going to see in a few moments They might be tempted to regress in the faith. And so he says verse first word of verse 27 is what? Only. Why is he saying only? He's saying get really focus on this. Only. There's this urgency with this. Don't regress. He says this. Let your conduct be worthy of the gospel of Christ, so that whether I come and see you or am absent I may hear of your affairs that you stand fast in one spirit with one mind, striving together for the faith of the gospel. So we need to have gospel thinking in living and dying, but we also need to have gospel thinking with regard to our citizenship. Now, it's not clear in the English, but it's very clear in the Greek that this idea of your conduct being worthy of the gospel has to do with your conduct being worthy of being a heavenly citizen. There's a Greek word that the first part of it is poly, and we get our word metropolis from this or politics And it has the idea of citizenship. And so it's really embedded in in the it's not it's not portrayed in the in the English in too many translations at all. Most of them don't have it, but it's very clear That's what it's talking about in the Greek. And so he is saying to them, you need to walk worthy of your heavenly citizenship. Now why is he saying that? Well remember where the Church of Philippi, where they are, they're in Philippi. It is a Roman area and anybody who was born in Philippi automatically gets Roman citizenship citizenship. And they're very proud of this fact because most of the time you had to be born in Rome or you had to earn your citizenship, but the church of Philippi or that everybody in Philippi automatically had citizenship So this was a very, can we say it this way, this was a very patriotic culture in Philippi. They were very proud of their Roman citizenship. We're going to learn more about that in a few moments, but suffice to say that Paul is reminding them that what is much, much greater Then your Roman citizenship is your heavenly citizenship. And he's going to say this later on in Philippians chapter 3, verse 17. Brethren Join in following my example, and note that those who so walk as you have have us for a pattern, for my walk of whom I have told you often, and now tell you even weeping That they are the enemies of the cross of Christ, those end whose end is destruction, whose God is their belly, whose glory is in their shame. Who set their mind on earthly things, for our citizenship is in heaven, from which we also eagerly wait for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. In Philippians chapter 4, verse 1, it hones in on this idea of worthiness for what we have been given. It says, I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that you walk worthy of the vocation wherewith you are called. Colossians 1, verse 10 says, that ye might walk worthy of the Lord. unto all pleasing, being fruitful in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God. There is in the New Testament, from Paul's teaching particularly, This idea that we in our position in Christ, in who we are in Christ, we are citizens of the kingdom. We are heavenly citizens And with that is given great privilege, but also with that is given great responsibility. Well, what is our responsibility? And what is he concerned about? He is, remember, he is concerned about about their compromising their heavenly citizenship for an earthly citizenship. There are temptations, which we're going to learn about a little bit later, and oppositions, which we're going to see, that are going to cause them some tension in this realm. And he wants them to stand firm. Stand fast. Hold fast. And notice what it says. That's exactly what it says. He says, I may hear of your affairs that you stand fast. In one spirit with one mind, striving together for the faith of the gospel. He says, you've got to stand firm. There is opposition. There are reasons to regress. There are possibilities that that might happen. But you must stand firm. And he says, remember, in one, he says, he says, in one spirit. And he's pointing actually at, that is a reference, I think, to this to the Holy Spirit. There's a possibility it could be talking about the person's attitude, but more than likely that's actually talking about a person's the the Holy Spirit rather And the reason I say that is that it seems as as though every time the the idea of one spirit, the Paul uses it in the New Testament, every other time it's clearly the Holy Spirit. He's saying, remember That you are one. And he's talking to the church of Philippi. You're one in the Spirit. The Spirit makes you one. Stand fast in unity in the Spirit. He says, with one mind. One mind. What is that mind? That mind is a gospel mind A gospel priority, a gospel perspective. Have singular thinking, a singular perspective with a singular goal of unifying together around the gospel. And he says this. Striving together for the faith of the gospel. Folks, you know what this implies It implies that if we are going to stand fast in the gospel, we are going to have to do it together. God did not create Christianity. He did not create the church where a bunch of individuals are just Lone Rangers. And it's up to me to handle it on my own, to just do what I gotta do, to make it work between me and God, and that's all I need. That is not the way God designed it. That's why it says in Hebrews, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another. We've got to exhort one another. Why? And it says, until insomuch the more as you see the day approaching. The evil of the day, the opposition to the gospel, all of those kinds of things, folks, ought to cause us to realize how important it is To unify together in the body of Christ, to strive together for the faith of the gospel. And I have experienced this on many occasions. Or observe this rather on many occasions. That when someone falls away from the Lord, they also no longer want to be involved in his church. The unsaved person has no desire to be with it with God's people. But the saved person, the saved person can lose his desire to be with God's people when he loses his desire and fellowship with God. These things are inseparably linked. Fellowship with God and fellowship with God's people go together. And when you lose your fellowship with God, you no longer want to fellowship with God's people. And the reverse is the same as well. When you are in fellowship with God, you want to fellowship with God's people. And also, this is the case that fellowshiping with God's people helps us to remain in fellowship with God. And it always of is of is always of concern. When God's people don't want to fellowship, when there's a person in a church or people that are straying away. There is, there ought to be this concern. And if you feel in your own heart a lack of desire to fellowship with God's people, you need to ask the question why that is. It could be pride. I don't need God's people. I got this myself. I I don't I don't need to be I don't you know I m me and God and the Bible is all I need. Do you know that's pride? Or maybe it's maybe it's you're not in fellowship of the Lord, you're just losing your desires, the spiritual desires that you have, that's a possibility as well. Folks, whatever the reason, understand how important it is to fellowship with God's people. Now it says that they are to struggle together. And that really brings up a question about the opposition that they were facing in this church. What was the opposition? Well we know that they weren't under under as much severe persecution, although it was impending, there was a possibility as other churches But there was this possibility, and there was there was pressure from the world. And the pressure looked like this. So the church, the Philippian people, the citizens of Philippi were automatically Roman citizens. And so this was a very, as I said before, this was a very patriotic culture. The patriotic culture that these folks found themselves in was so patriotic that they would worship the emperor. They actually would call him Lord, Capoel. They would get together on a very regular basis. The whole city would get together on a regular basis, and they would worship the divine emperor. And their patriotism was inseparably linked to the deity, or this, of course, the supposed deity of this emperor. And most of the emperors in the first century saw themselves as gods. Nero was clearly known for this. He saw himself as a deity. And they would get together and worship him as deity. And of course, the church was tempted to do this. There was pressure for the church to do this, but they resisted. And you know, they actually were they actually were called something that would surprise you. You know what the what the Church of Philippi were called and other people among the first century were called when they would not um when they would not worship the emperor? They were called atheists. Say atheists. What? What do you mean? They were ah theists. Theist means God. Ah means none. And so they said that essentially you don't believe in the God The Emperor, and that was how the first term was coined was coined. As atheists, you don't believe that the Emperor is God or is a God. And they were actually called atheists. Now, of course, that's not what the term means now at all. It means that you don't believe you don't believe in any God at all. But it actually is, that was what was happening. The first century, these Christians were called atheists because they did not believe that the emperor was God and they resisted him. So what is Paul telling him when he's saying, walk worthy of the of your heavenly citizenship? Folks, the reality is when you have to choose between your heavenly citizenship and your earthly citizenship, you've got to choose loyalty to your heavenly citizenship. And he is saying to them, understand that. And he wants them to understand in verse 28 that you cannot be fearing your adversaries. Look at what it says, verse 28. And not in any way terrified by your adversaries, which is to them a proof of perdition, but to you of salvation, and that from God. For to you it has been granted on behalf of Christ, not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for his sake Having the same conflict which you saw in me and now here is in you, and now here is in me So there's this opposition. He says, do not be afraid of the opposition of these people. D. A. Carson says this in his commentary. He says, your change in character. Your united stand in defense of the gospel, your ability to withstand with meekness and without fear the opposition that you must endure constitutes a sign. That sign speaks volumes, both to the outside world and the Christian community. It is a sign of judgment against the world that is mounting the opposition. It is a sign of assurance that these believers really are people of God and will be saved on that last day. So Paul, this is how Paul deals with it. He says, understand that that our opposition is actually a proof to them of their destruction. It says, uh not in any way not in any way terrified by your adversaries, which is a which is to them a proof of perdition. Well, how is how is it a proof of their destruction? When a Christian is under persecution and he chooses the suffering over Christ, there is something within the conscience of the unbeliever. that causes them to realize that they are that they are going the, or can cause them to realize that they are going the wrong direction. And he says to these people, stand fast, hold fast to the gospel. Why? Because when you do, it will be a signal to them that they're in the wrong. To be persecuted for righteousness' sake and to endure it, if you endure it with the right kind of attitude, is incredible testimony for the cause of Christ. A man who was a m who was a uh who was a follower of Islam in 1984, who was a man whose name was, his last name was Dibaj. Debaj was um in prison for ten years for converting to Christianity, and he was tried in 1994. This was what he wrote in his in his defense. He says, Jesus Christ is our Savior and he is the Son of God. Now imagine this. This is being tried in a in a in a Middle Eastern Is Israeli or uh uh um Islamic situ state, Jesus Christ is our savior and he is the Son of God. To know him means to know eternal life. I, a useless sinner, have believed in his beloved person, in his beloved person and all his words and miracles according to the gospel, and I have committed my life into his hands. Life for me is an opportunity to serve him, and death is a better opportunity to be with Christ. Therefore, I am not only satisfied to be in prison for the honor of his holy name, but am ready to give my life for the sake of Jesus my Lord. Upon these words, this man was set sentenced to his execution. The U. S. State Department actually intervened in the situation, and he was supposed to be released, but only to be found dead in a park nearby once he was released. He was martyred, clearly, for his faith. And yet he realized as he was going through this, he realized the kind of cause that he was living for and dying for. Surely he would have said as with Paul, for me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. And you'll notice then in verses 29 and verse 30 that he says, Paul says It has been granted on behalf of Christ not only to believe in him, but also to be suffered to suffer for his sake. Did you catch that? It says it's granted. It's a gift. Now catch this. Paul is clear about this. He says to believe in him is a gift. But that's not the only gift. Salvation is not the only gift. He says to suffer with him is a gift. Did you catch that? It's incredible. How many of you have ever thought of salvation as a gift? All of us have if we know Christ as our Savior. How many of us have ever thought of suffering as a gift from God? Very few of us. And yet Paul says it is a gift of God. This brings us suffering for Christ's sake on account when when that happens, it brings us from being a beneficiary to a sharer Of the gift of Christ. Most of us simply are beneficiaries, but when the time comes, and it will come. When you must choose to follow Christ rather than some other thing, and it can come in so many forms, it can be within your own family. It could be outside your family, it could be at the workplace, it could there there are there are times folks in our lives where we must choose Christ and we must choose choose to do right. And when we choose to do right to our own detriment, we are sharing in the fellowship of the sufferings of Christ. Colossians 1, verse 24 says, I now rejoice in my sufferings for you, and fill up in my flesh what is ta lacking in the afflictions of Christ for the sake of his body, which is the church. That means that when we ha go through sufferings for the sake of Christ It is not a sign of God's neglect, but a proof of the grace of God. Second Timothy 3, verse 12 says, All who will live godly will also suffer persecution. The attitude of Paul, Paul, is not when he was not alone in this. Do you remember over in Acts chapter 5, verse 41? The Christians there were being persecuted. And it says in that passage that they went walked away rejoicing that they had been counted worthy to suffer dishonor for Christ's sake. It's incredible. And throughout the New Testament, I have many, many passages here. Throughout the New Testament, we have we have this theme. Of the fellowship of the suffering of Christ being a gift to allow us to be active participants in the grace of God. Do you see suffering that way? Do I see suffering that way? One man said this about this kind of conviction. He says, Oh, if this conviction were fixed in our minds. That persecutions are to be reckoned among God's benefits, that progress would be made in the doctrine of godliness. And yet, what is more certain than that it is the highest honor of divine grace that we suffer for his name either reproach or imprisonment or miseries or tortures or even death? For in that case he decorates us with his insignia, but more will be found who will order God and his gifts to be gone, rather than embrace the cross readily when it is offered to them. Woe then to our stupidity. So, with all of this in mind, how must we think What is gospel thinking look like? Number one, we need to ask the question: Is Christ our first priority in life and death? Is Christ our first priority in life and death? By the way, folks, remember this from last week. If it is, then what is the result? It's joy. The greatest joy that you can have is when Christ is your first priority. That takes faith. You've got to believe it. But it is nonetheless true. Number two, do we identify as Christ as citizens of a heavenly kingdom And ambassadors to an earth earthly one. Do we realize that we are first and foremost citizens of a heavenly kingdom? We must We've been given privilege as citizens of the heavenly kingdom. We must walk worthy of that. We are only sojourners in this land, ambassadors to the earthly one. Finally, do we view the gospel opposition and suffering as a sign of divine abandonment or a mark of divine ownership? Think about that. Do you view suffering as a sign of divine abandonment? Oh, God's left me. I'm going through suffering. I'm sorry, I'm going through a hard time. God doesn't know what is what I'm going through. He must have left. Has he abandoned me? Does he love me? Those are the questions we ask. When what we ought to do is see it as a mark of divine ownership. Do we view the gospel opposition that way? Let's pray together. Father, as we come to you this morning, we are struck by the truths in this passage as important for gospel thinking And we admit before you that often our thinking gets skewed by our own flesh or by the world. We ask, dear Father, that you'd help us as we As we think through these such, so important truths that are so relevant for us in this day and age, there are pressures on every side to abandon Christ. There are pressures on every side to to twist the truth. There are so many pressures to make you in our image Rather than realizing that we are made in your image. And I pray, Lord, as we think through this passage, both now and tonight in our home groups, I pray, Lord That you would help us to have the mind of Christ in these matters, to think in a gospel way about these things. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.