Playing in various ways and the congregational singing. And now we will get into God's word here. Philippians chapter one. And we're going to look today at at verses five through eleven, but I think to get our bearings, we're going to read verses one through eleven. Philippians 1, and we're going to read verses 1 through 11. It says, Paul and Timothy, bondservants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are at Philippi with the bishops and deacons Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. I thank my God upon every remembrance of you, always in every prayer of mine, making requests for you all with joy. For your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now, being confident of this very thing that he who has begun a good work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ Just as it is right for me to think this of you all, because I have you in my heart, and as much as both in my chains and in my in defense and confirmation of the gospel You all are partakers with me of grace. For God is my witness. How greatly I long for you all with the affection of Jesus Christ. And this I pray that your love may abound still more and more in knowledge and all discernment, that you may prove the things which are excellent, that you may be sincere and without offense to the day of Christ. being filled with the fruits of righteousness which are by Jesus Christ to the glory and praise of God. Let's pray together. Father, as we look at your word this morning, I pray that you would teach us of the kind of affection That results when we find our hope and we center together on the gospel. We admit before you, dear Father, that the gospel is clear. It is complete in your word. And it is something that you want us not only to accept by faith, but to interact with every day. And yet we admit before you, dear Father, that often we we don't want the full the full responsibilities of the gospel or the full um changing power of the gospel in our lives, we want just enough. And yet the way that the gospel you intended it to work is to be transformative in our lives. Transform everything that we do. To transform our our vocation and our family life and our marriages and our church life and our so social life and our workplace. The gospel should transform everything. And as we look at your word this morning, I pray that you would help us to realize that and to glean from your word truths that will help us in this area. I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. D. A. Carson in his commentary on Philippians, he begins this way. He says, I would like to buy about $3 worth of the gospel, please. Not too much, just enough to make me vi to make me happy. But not so much that I would get addicted. I don't want to so much gospel that I hate that I learned to hate covet covetousness and lust I certainly don't want so much gospel as to love my enemies, to cherish self-denial, to contemplate missionary service. I want ecstasy, not repentance. I want transcendence, not transformation. I want some nice, forgiving, broad-minded people to accept me and love me and cherish me I don't want to love those from different races, especially if they smell. I would like enough gospel to make my family secure, my children well behaved. But not so much that I find my ambitions redirected or my giving too greatly enlarged. I would like about three dollars worth of the gospel, please. Now that's an illustration that D. A. Carson begins his commentary with, but it was so compelling to me that I wanted to read it to you because it really is, if we're not careful, exactly our sentiments when it comes to the gospel. We want just enough to do what we want it to do, but we are not interested in doing what God wants it to do in our lives because that would look very different. We would have to have far less of ourselves and far more of Christ. Why is it, what has caused us in our society, in our culture to to to to have the gospel formed in such a way that it is it is diminished in its power and its influence and it's and it's sort of just Not what it used to be, perhaps. The gospel is the same, by the way, it's how we're packaging it. D. A. Carson offers three different different um Different explanations in our culture or our Western world. He says, number one, the pressure of the process of being secularized. And it is true, our Western culture is extremely secularized to the point that our culture really pressures us to think in a secular fashion, to think in terms of pragmatism and practicality to the point that we really ex we really just put God off in a box to the side We don't really think about how the gospel should transform us so that everything we do, all of our lives, our families, our vocations, our recreation, our society, Our social interactions, all of that should actually affect us in such a way that it is consistent with the gospel. So often what we do is we at some point, at some time, and perhaps early in our lives as Christians, we accept the gospel and then we think that's done and we no longer interact with the gospel anymore. Or only on Sundays, perhaps, or only on occasion. Rather than living out the gospel. Folks, this book really is about living out the gospel. Do you remember what we decided our purpose statement was for the book of Philippians last week? It's very simple. It's God wants us to stand and progress. Together in the gospel. God wants us to stand and progress together in the gospel. Can you say that with me? Let's say it together. What's the purpose of Philippians? God wants us to stand and progress together in the gospel. That's the purpose of this book. And everything we look at in this book, the guiding purpose of this is going to inform how we understand this great personal intimate epistle from Paul to the church at Philippi. In Philippians chapter 1, verse 25, I'll just remind us what he says there. He says, Being confident of this, I know that I shall remain and continue with you all for your progress and joy of faith. That your rejoicing for me may be more abundant in Jesus Christ by my coming to you again. Only let your conduct be worthy of the gospel of Christ So that whether I come and see you or am absent, I may hear of your affairs, that you stand fast in one spirit, with one mind. Striving together for the faith of the gospel. That is the purpose statement of the book of Philippians. And what Paul does here as he begins this book, and we discussed this last week to some degree, is to express his own affectionate relationship with these believers. But God's intention as we see Paul doing this is not that we just say, okay, I'm glad Paul had a nice relationship with the believers here in Philippi, but it really is to help us to understand what Cooperating in the gospel really looks like in a church body. And frankly, there's application for what it really looks like in a home. And a and a and and and it would it will help us as we look through this. We b we pick up here in verse five And Paul has been thanking God for these people. And he says, particularly in verse 5, for your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now. The very basis of Christian affection is in the gospel. Why would we be affectionate toward each other? Why would we thank each other? Be thankful for each other. It is because we have fellowship in the gospel. This was initiated by Paul, uh this was initiated by the Philippians actually as they give a gave a gift for Paul. uh that that they delivered to Paul while he was in prison. We find this in Philippians chapter four verse fifteen where it says, Now you Philippians know also that in the beginning of the gospel When I departed from Macedonia, no church shared with me concerning giving and receiving, but you only. But even in Thessalonica you sent aid once and again for my necessities. Not that I seek the gift, but I seek the fruit that abounds to your account. Thanks, Ted And so we have here the uh the the the gift that is given And God understands, and uh Paul understands this to be a gift for the contribution of the gospel. And so he says, You are we are in fellowship with the gospel. No, we we really I'm not sure we really have a grasp on what fellowship is. Often what we think of fellowship is um we think of uh two peopin people have it having tea together or coffee together and and they're you know if they're an uncr unsaved they call it just having tea and if they're saved they call it fellowship And we really think of fellowship in those terms. Folks, that is a very, very and not that you can't have fellowship m while you're drinking tea But that is a very shallow understanding of what fellowship truly is. Fellowship goes much deeper than that. I was reading a particular commentary who kept referencing the Lord of the Rings and I I made the mistake of posting on Facebook uh the connection in Philippians and uh uh he was making this connection between the fellowship and the fellowship of the ring particularly. I guess that's a particular uh book or movie within the the the Lord of the Rings series And um I'm not understanding it because I I I've never read or or seen the Lord of the Rings, at least not all the way through. And uh so I posted on Facebook and uh there are a lot of there are quite a few people in our church who like the Lord of the Rings I found And um who had lots of things to say about the Lord of the Rings. Um well, th actually it's a pretty good illustration. Um when I actually understood what it was. I looked it up at Weekeep Wikipedia which gave me the whole plot and everything, so now I don't have to read the book or watch the movie. But anyway And basically, I mean that you have these in the in the that particular book you've got or or movie, um, you've got uh the Fellowship of the Ring, you've got nine different creatures, some of them people I think. But anyway, they're different creatures. And they're from totally different backgrounds and totally different environments. And really they probably it sounds like from what I read uh would be hospit hostile toward each other except they all have one goal and that is to destroy this really powerful ring And so they're trying to get it to some mountain that that um that will destroy the ring before this really this guy who wants to take the ring and rule the world gets it. You say, you have made this book so trite. Um but I mean that's the plot. I mean and they spent a lot of different things doing that, but that's pretty much what what what the what the plot is. And it is true that that that's that's it's it these eight these nine uh creatures that gathered together They had a goal in mind, and it brought them together. There was this partnership. They had this urgency about bringing the ring to the location that they needed in order to destroy it. And in that sense, folks, that is the case when it comes to our fellowship. Fellowship is not getting together for tea and trumpets. Fellowship is partnering together for the sake of the gospel. And if you want to drink tea while you're doing it, fine. But that the point is this partnership. That we are together working toward the goal of bringing forth and uh advancing the kingdom of God and the world through the gospel. And that is the basis of Christian relationships, or should be. Frankly, folks, it may be that you have absolutely nothing in common with your Christian brother or sister in Christ. And frankly, when I think of our church, there's a lot of diversity in in in likes and opinions about lots of things, including Lord of the Rings, and I mean there there there's a lot of different thoughts on the on different things. And some people are real artsy. And some people are real analytical. And some people are are are real in the sports. And other people couldn't handle can't really even can't stand to watch sports for more than a few minutes. We've got all kinds of different people from different backgrounds, and that's exactly but we all have this one goal. Of living the gospel, proclaiming the gospel for the advancement of the kingdom of God. And the basis of our affection, the basis of our love for one another, has to be that. And the more that we are focused in on the living the gospel and preaching the gospel and giving the gospel, the more that we are focused in on that, the more it brings us together. For the sake of the gospel. And Paul says, I am thankful because of your partnership, your fellowship in the gospel. He says, from the first day until now, indicating that this is something that has been an ongoing relationship that has grown over time. And then he says in verse 6 Being confident of this very thing that he who has begun a good work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ. The Apostle Paul is away from these people. He loves these people. He's thankful for them. He cares deeply about their souls. He wants He wants them to uh to really have uh he wants to be able to minister to them, but he can't right now because he's in prison. And there is a certain sense of comfort that's brought to him that comes from a confidence in God. He looks at the situation, he realized that he's been doing the discipling and ministering, and now he can't. But he then says, I'm confident in something. I'm comforted by the fact that I am confident. Of this very thing that he who has begun a good work in you will complete it under the day of Jesus Christ. I'm confident of this. And I really can identify with this. You know, many many times when you help someone grow spiritually, there is a kind of a bond. that is developed and a kind of affection that occurs as you watch people take steps of spiritual growth I think a pastor probably sees this. I can sort of see this perhaps from a different perspective, but but I would say it would be the same as as as you if you have discipled someone, you've seen them grow And for whatever reason, circumstances cause you to be apart. And you've got it you're going your way and they're going their way. And and that is when this confidence sets in that God's going to take care of them. God's going to complete the work that that even if it's not going to be me, it's going to be somebody else. God's going to do his work in their lives. And I I I I can identify with that. I there is this there is this um heart there there's this difficulty In my heart a little bit, any time somebody leaves our church, good for good reasons or not. It's worse than it when it's a b for for a bad reason. But there is there is this attachment that comes with ministering together in the gospel. I think of uh Kim and Nancy. And um I'm been so grateful for them over the years. They're gonna be headed down this is their last Sunday, I think, right? Is that right? And they're gonna be headed down to um headed down to uh uh Myrtle Beach. Um and I tell you what, I'm I um I'm gonna miss them. I have there's this there's there's uh uh frankly a uh an affection for them and they have been so supportive of of me and our our ministry here and um and but but there is this sort of comfort in the fact that God's in control. God's working. God's going to take care of them. God's going to take care of us. There's this confidence that we can have in God over these things. I apologize. I thought I was over my cold. So I have not been taking care of my throat. Um Using cough drops and things. And but I also hadn't preached since last week, so um anyway, I'm having more trouble than I thought I was going to have. Uh yes. Sorry, I apologize. Boy, this is very unusual for me. I am not getting entirely choked up over Kim Nancy, by the way. I'm actually getting choked. Although I am gonna miss them, but anyway. See if I can preach with a cough drop number now. This might be a sure sermon. You guys are gonna go home. You're gonna be you're gonna be you're gonna be thankful I have a cold. Alright. He says then to the day of Christ. God will complete it to the day of Christ. There seemed to have been a problem for the church Philippi. With losing track of the importance of the day of Christ in their thinking. So, what is Paul talking about here when he talks about the day of Christ? And the best answer is to see what his own description of it is in Philippians chapter 2. Would you take your Bibles and turn to Philippians chapter 2? And it says in verse 9 of Philippians chapter 2 Therefore, God also hath highly exalted him and given him the name which is above every name. That the name of Jesus every knee shall bow. Of those in heaven and those in earth, and of those under the earth. Then every tongue should confess that Jesus is Christ as Lord, to the glory of God the Father. So there is going to be this day where God, where Christ is exalted. This exaltation, this time where He is made Lord of all, and every knee will bow. And every tongue will confess the Lordship of Jesus Christ. And for the Christian, we ought to look forward to that day. But not just look forward to that day, we ought to look forward to partaking in that day The fellowship of the gospel includes and culminates in Christ's day, the day of Christ, when he is exalted, when he is lifted up. We find this is exactly Paul's sentiment in Philippians chapter 3, where it says, not that I have already attained, or am already perfected. But I press on that I may hold hold of that which Christ Jesus has also laid hold of me Verse 13 says, Brethren, I do not count myself to have apprehended, but one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind and reaching forward to those things which are ahead I pressed toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of Christ, of God in Christ Jesus. Paul was looking forward to the day. The goal, the prize. was when he would see, he would be with Christ and he would be intricately involved, partnering in the day of Christ with him. glorifying him and taking the things that he had done and laying them at Christ's feet and allow and being part of this. Folks, we need to remember that as we are living this life and advancing the kingdom through the gospel and living out the gospel and preaching the gospel, our goal is that one day we get to be a part of what Christ is doing in the kingdom. Even in exalting himself. This is absolutely important for us to understand. Now with this in mind, then we we see Paul turn to the affection that he has for these people. He wants them to have this. He wants them to continue and grow in applying the gospel in their lives so that they can all be a part of this day of Christ And so he says in verse 7, just as it is right for me to think this of you all, because I have you in my heart. And inasmuch as both in my chains and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel, you all are partakers with me of grace. So he says here that he has affection. He says, I have you in my heart. This is very, very personal what he is saying here. And Paul demonstrates from this passage that he has a tender heart toward the people to whom he is ministering in Philippians. And we noticed last week that that is not always the case in every every group that he writes to, every church that he writes to. But in this church, his heart is tender toward them. The word heart carries the idea of the deepest center of the human consciousness in the New Testament. Paul says, I have you in my heart. I think of years ago when I was under uh m th my pastor, Pastor Daniel Treyer, who I grew up with, he would often say this, he would say, Jim, to be in the ministry, you have to have thick skin and a soft heart. He would say that over and I I can s I can imagine half a dozen times at least him saying those words. You must have thick skin and a soft heart. You know that's hard. Is that not hard to do? I mean it's one thing to have thick skin and nobody nobody's gonna penetrate you and you're just gonna do what you need to do and you're not gonna let anybody bother you, that kind of thing. But it's another thing to have to have thick skin so that you are not you can you can receive what is there and you get you're not offended all the time and those kind of things, but at the same time to have a tender, soft heart toward people. Paul had it. There isn't any question that Paul had thick skin. I mean, just read 2 Corinthians chapter 12 and all the things that he went through, or the criticism that he had from the church at Corinth, and that's why he wrote the book of 2 Corinthians. There's no question that Paul had thick skin. But it didn't cause him to lose his soft heart. And we see that his heart was soft toward these people. And he says to these people that have been partakers with him in the gospel and fellowship in the gospel, notice what he says next. This is incredible what he says. He says You all are partakers with me of grace at the end of that verse. Did you catch that? What are they partakers of? They're partakers of grace, of the unmerited favor of God But what is he talking about in that verse? What is he describing as the grace? Well, let's look at it again. He says, in as much as both in my chains and defense and confirmation of the gospel. He talks about his chains and in his defense and confirmation of the gospel together, and he says, you have been partakers with me of this grace. You know what he's saying here? He is saying he equates suffering for the sake of the gospel. He says it is grace. It is a grace. It is an unmerited favor. It is a gift of God. And he was recognizing that the church of Philippi, as we'll later understand. was they were suffering and they were going through persecution as a result of their faith and he was doing the he was as well And he says, this is actually grace. Suffering for the gospel is grace. Philippians chapter 1, verse 29 makes this clear. He says For to you it has been granted on behalf of Christ not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for his sake. Did you catch that? It's been granted on behalf, the word granted is the same root as grace. It's been granted on behalf of Christ, not only to believe, which is grace. It's a gift that we believe, but also it is suffering is also a grace. Have you ever seen suffering in the gospel that way? That you have been given unmerited favor by God when He allows you to go through suffering for the sake of the gospel. I don't think we see it that way very often. And yet Paul had gotten to the place in his spiritual maturity, and he knew that the church of Philippi was getting there as well, where they were mature enough to understand that suffering for the sake of the gospel is actually a gift from God And this actually brings a great deal of fellowship. When you suffer with someone else through something, there is a kind of affection. A kind of fellowship that happens as a result of that. And this can happen, this can come in different forms. I recall when I was in Hong Kong a couple of years ago. Uh the Lord led me to to be there to minister uh to the people that are there were there, but I also think that he brought me there at a time where my friend, Matthew Conrad, was really in need of fellowship. And he would he was what what really had happened, he had some physical difficulties and struggles in his and and just he was feeling very, very weak. I think what had happened, frankly, was that he was he had burned himself out by all of what he was doing for the sake of the gospel Now he could have come off the field. He was going through that kind of difficult and he was really it was really severe when I was over there. And he could have come off the field, but he chose not to do that. He chose to to just stay the course. And I remember talking to him and he was saying all the we're talking about what was going on and he couldn't really quite figure out what was happening. There was just a fatigue and a weakness in his and he's not that kind of guy. He's kind of a type A guy And I w and asking what he was doing and those kinds of things, I said to him, I said, you know, m should you have done that much? He said he said, I wouldn't I'd do it all over again. And I can't really get into actually everything he was doing, but it's a lot of stuff. And uh and I there was a there was a there was just generally a understanding that sometimes You are going to have to go through a very uh some suffering for the sake of the gospel. It might be persecution. It might be a physical difficulty Whatever it is, it might be imprisonment, whatever it is, and you see a list of those things in 2 Corinthians chapter 12, and God wants us to be willing to go through those things for the cause of Christ and for the sake of the gospel. He says then this, Paul's desire is made clear. He says in verse 8, For God is my witness how greatly I long for you all with the affection of Jesus Christ. He says, He says, I long for you all. I greatly, God is my witness, I I long for you all. What was Paul saying here? Well, this is more than just I want to be with you. Uh certainly that was prob that was implied. But it really was more than that. He says in Philippians chapter one, verse twenty-four, nevertheless to remain in the flesh is more needful for you. And being confident of this of this I know that I shall remain and continue with you all for your progress and joy of faith. In Philippians chapter 2, verse 24 it says, But I trust in the Lord that I myself shall also come shortly. In Philippians chapter 4, verse 1, he says, Therefore, my beloved, and long for brethren, my joy and crown, so steadfast in the Lord beloved. He says in these three places, I long to be with you all. Why? Because I want to minister to you. I want to minister with you. There is a fellowship here that again is clearly expressed, an affection that comes from fellowship with the gospel. And he says it's with the affection, verse 8, of Jesus Christ. Did you catch that? All with the affection of Jesus Christ. What does that mean? A man by the name of Alec Mot Makyur, he is a very good commentator, he says this. It expresses a yearning that is as much physical as mental, a longing love which moves the whole inner being. But what a remarkable expression Paul uses. He loves them in the inner being of Christ Jesus. Certainly, this means that he patterns his love for them. On that of Christ. But the wording demands something more than the notion of imitation. Paul is saying that he has so advanced in union with Christ. that it is as if Christ were expressing his love through Paul. Two hearts are beating as one. Indeed, one heart, the greater, has taken over the emotional constitution. of Christ him himself has taken possession of his servant. Did you catch that? Paul was in such fellowship with Christ that Christ had taken over his emotional constitution. So that he was in so that he could love, that Christ could love through the Apostle Paul to these people. I think that's part of what Paul was talking about in 1 Corinthians chapter 2 when he talks about having the mind of Christ. Do you and I have that kind of mind toward others? The kind of affection That we see in this passage. And all of this then brings us to the place where we ought to be able to express Prayer, purposeful prayer for each other in Christ. And notice the prayer that Paul prays here in verse 9. It says. And this I pray that your love may abound still more and more in knowledge and all discernment. He says, I want your love. You guys, you can advance the slide back there. I want your love to abound more and more. Out of the gate, Paul's prayer is that their love would abound. What does Paul mean here when he talks about love? In 1 Thessalonians chapter 3, verse 12, it says, And may the Lord make you increase and abound in love to one another, and to all just as we do to you. So he says in that passage, to increase and abound of love to one another. In Romans chapter 5, verse 6, it says, When we were still without strength in due time, Christ died for the ungodly, for scarcely For a righteous man will one die, yet perhaps for a good man someone would even dare to die. But God demonstrates his love toward us, in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. The kind of love that he has, that he's talking about in this passage, is the Christ-like love that we see on the behalf of all of us as he went to the cross. But there is something different about this. Notice what is missing from this. What's missing from verse 9, it's not actually missing, but what we think it might be missing, is the object of the love. Do you see what it says there? It says That your love may abound more and more, but it doesn't say that your love for God would abound more and more, or that your love for each other would abound more and more. It just says that your love would abound more and more. Well, which is it? Is it love for God or is it love for one another? And the answer is yes. It's love for God and love for one another. And we know from other passages of Scripture that you can't say you love God if you do not love one another. And we certainly cannot love one another if we do not first love God. And so the answer is yes, both. One person said it this way. Paul prayed that the Philippians' love would overflow all dimensions in a lavish, ongoing, limitless love. An unremitting geyser of love up to God and a flow of love out to others. And our initial focus of love always ought to be to God. But as we are loving God, we will not be able to help but love others as well. He says, I pray that your love would abound more and more. But this is the kind of love that is not a sappy sentimentalism. Some people think, you know, I don't really need to know a lot about God, because I love him. You know, I love him, I don't really need to know about him. I don't really need to know God. It's just, you know, it's it's enough that I love him. I don't, I really, you know, that doctrinal stuff, that's over my head. Folks, notice what Paul prays. He says that your love would abound more and more in what? In knowledge, in all discernment. He says that your love would abound in knowledge, not apart from knowledge It's interesting that in every one of the prison epistles, he prays for these people to have knowledge. In Ephesians 1:17, Philippians 1-9, Colossians 1-9. And so on. Phil Philemon six. All he says that you would have knowledge, that you would know God, that you would understand more of who God is. This, of course, is not just a heady intellectual knowledge. This is an experiential knowledge that you really know God and that you really understand Him. A man by the name of Frank She said this. A virtuous man may be ignorant, but ignorance is not a virtue. We would we would be a strange it would be a strange God who could be loved better by being known less Love of God is not the same thing as knowledge of God. Love of God is immeasurably more important than knowledge of God. But if a man loves God knowing a little about him, he should love God more from knowing more about him. For every new thing known about God is a new reason for loving Him. Every new thing known about God is a new reason for loving Him. And so this loving journey that we ought to be on as we love God is to know God, and the more we know Him Gives us more reason to love him. There is this relationship where we can love God and know him more and more, and that's what Paul is praying for And then he prays as we have this informed kind of love that it also would be one that is that is full of discernment. Isn't it amazing how precise Paul is in his prayer here for these people? This purposeful prayer, he says, of discernment. And he says, more in knowledge and discernment. Sometimes when we think of love, we think that love is blind or undiscerning. That is not the case. Love is discerning. This word is talking about moral insight. It's used in Colossians chapter 1, verse 9. It says, for this reason also Since that day we heard it, do not cease to pray for you, to ask that you may be filled with a knowledge of his will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding. It's the word spiritual understanding there. And that's what he's talking about here. That we would have an insight into the and a personal knowledge of God that would help us to be able to distinguish right priorities, that would be able to help us to understand and to have the wisdom to make right decisions, which really brings us right into the very next verse. It says in verse 10, that ye may approve the things that are excellent, that ye may be sincere and without offense to the day of Christ. He says that you would approve those things that are excellent, that you would approve those things that differ. This is a word that was usually used to measure quality in livestock or in metals. If you tested a metal, you would see the quality of a metal. That's this word. It has to do with decision making. Making right decisions. And Paul says in his prayer that if you love right with informed love that grows in your knowledge of God and has the discernment that accompanies true biblical love then it will cause you to be able, and this is a purpose statement, it will cause you to be able to make right decisions about things Do you and I struggle with making right decisions? Do we struggle with, well, I don't know if I should do this or do that? This really goes beyond just morality of what is right and what is wrong. This moves to the realm of wisdom. Paul is praying that they would be wise in what they are doing, that they would choose the best above the better. This is a superlative word that desires that the best choice would be made in the various decisions that we have to make them in. And Paul praised this for these people. And then he prays the second purpose statement in this passage is this. You see the word that, that indicates a purpose statement. And then you see the second that in verse 10. It says, that you may be sincere and without offense to the day of Christ. The word says sincere has to do with inner purity. He says, as you love God the way you should, overflowing to love for others and knowledgeable about who God is, and you're growing in your knowledge of God, and you have the discernment and the spiritual understanding to make right decisions in your lives, then it will produce a kind of inward purity in your heart. Why should you do all of this? Why or why should Paul praying for this? He wants them to have inner purity. Second Corinthians chapter two verse seventeen says, For we are not as so many, peddling the word of God, but as of sincerity, but as from God we speak in the sight of God in Christ. It's talking about the motive of a person. And in First Corinthians chapter five, verse seven, it says Therefore purge out the old leaven, that ye may have be a new lump, since you true truly are unleavened, for indeed our Passover was sacrificed for us. It's the idea of having having unleavened bread. There is a inner purity that Paul is praying for. This only happens when the right kind of love is cultivated in the life of the believer. And then he says, external blamelessness. He says, without offense to the day of Christ. This is has to do with not causing by our actions and our lives someone else to stumble. He says there there is this way of living that can cause us to make sure that we don't cause others to stumble as well. There is this deportment in our lives that should keep us from causing others to stumble. So he says, I'm praying for inner purity and outer purity, if you will, or outer blamelessness. He says all of this until when? Notice what it says there. The day of Christ. He's looking to the day of Christ. He's constantly looking to the day of Christ. And the way that we can most be able to participate in Christ's day when He is exalted, when He is He is uh He is lifted high. is for us to have this kind of thing happen in our lives as well. And he says in verse 12, he says, or verse 11, being filled with the fruits of righteousness. The word righteous there, it's talking about righteous fruit. Righteousness describes the kind of fruit being filled with the fruit of righteousness, which are by Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God. It says, by Jesus Christ. The word by is the idea, it's the by means of. How does all this happen? It is Christ who does it through us. This is extremely indicative of John chapter 15, which you know well. That in chapter 5 or 15, that that nothing, I can do nothing in myself. It's only the Christ that can work through me as I abide in him to bring forth much fruit. Why is this all this? What is the purpose, the ultimate purpose of all this? For the glory and the praise of God. Now, if you look at this, this prayer, let's just look at it again. And it says, let's just read it all together, it says, and this I pray that your love may abound more and more in knowledge and in all discernment. that ye may approve the things which are excellent, that ye may sincere and without offense to the day of Christ, being filled with the fruit of righteousness, which are by Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God. How do you summarize that? That's what it means to live out the gospel, which is exactly the very purpose that this book is written This purpose, this book is written that we might stand and progress together in the gospel. How is that going to happen? It's in this prayer. So if we want that to happen, this is the kind of thing, frankly, that we ought to be praying for ourselves and and also we ought to be praying for each other. So as we look at all of this and wrap all of this up, let's let's let's begin first of all by asking let's let's ask three questions. Number one Do we really view ourselves as partners in the gospel? I just really want us to think about this for a moment. Do we actually view ourselves as partners in the gospel? I mean think about your relationships with other people in our church. You're thinking about a name or three or five or ten or more. And you're thinking about those people and you're thinking you think of them as partners in the gospel. You know, sometimes you know how we know how you know whether you're not or not you're thinking of them that way? Do you get annoyed over idiosyncrasies? I guarantee you if you're partnering in battle with somebody, you're not you don't care about their idiosyncrasies. You don't really care what you know what they're wearing, you really don't care whether they brush their teeth or not, none of that matters Because you've got you're focused you're focused on something. And if we can really think about that, it will cause us to really quest ask ourselves the question if there is not an affection one for another in the body of Christ, it is likely because we are really not viewing ourselves together as partners in the gospel Have you experienced Christian affection growing as you find common ground in God's grace? See, the thing that we are partakers in, it's like this this meal of the grace of God, the favor of God, that if we know Christ is our Lord and Savior, that we're partakers of it. There's this commonality that this common ground that we all have. And as we as we are appreciative and thankful for the grace of God in our lives, and as we express our thankfulness For the grace of God in our lives to each other, there is this common affection that grows in the body of Christ. And number three, do you purposely pray for your brothers and sisters in Christ? Paul was partnering with them in prayer. And Paul could only write letters. No, he could pray. That's all he could do. But Paul was going to do that for these people, and it is something that we ought to do for each other. And we ought to pray not just help them heal something. That's valid. But what we really ought to pray for each other is that we grow in Christ, that we love the Lord more, that we we we grow in our knowledge of who God is, that we Our love overflows to loving others. Those are the kinds of things that we would pray substantively one for another and purposefully in the body of Christ. Is that how we think of each other in the body of Christ? This is a very important question for us to a ask ourselves. And we can l certainly learn a lot from Paul's example in this passage. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and we pray, Lord, that you would help us as we see in your word the the clear center of the kind of fellowship and affection that we ought to have for one another, it is in the gospel Help us to understand as we go through the book of Philippians what it means to partner in the gospel. Help us to understand that fellowship in the gospel that is in this book. And may we live it. May we glory in it only. And may it cause us to draw closer to you. And closer to each other, that our love would abound more and more in knowledge and in all discernment. I pray, Lord, that for all for us as a people, because there is a day that's coming where we have the privilege of participating in the day of Christ, in Christ's great day of exaltation. And the measure of which we live this life. In the gospel is the measure of which we will participate in a day of Christ. Help us to understand these things and to meditate on these things and to live by them that you may be glorified. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Let's sing together from 185, I am his and he is mine. We'll sing just the first and third verses of this. Let's all stand together Love with everlasting love, led by grace that love to know. Spirit breathing from above, thou hast taught me it is so, all this full and perfect peace All this transport all divine, in a love which cannot see, I am his and he is mine In a love which cannot cease, I am his and he is mine. His forever only his, who the Lord and me shall part, are with war a rest of bliss I heal the loving heart and fade and flee. Firstborn light and gloom debugging. But while God and I shall be, I am his and he is mine. But while God and I shall be, I am his and he is mine. All right, come back tonight, hear Enrique uh preach, um, and also we'll be having a congregational meeting. And um, Brad, would you close us with a word of prayer? Dear Heavenly Father, we just come before you now and we're very humbled, Father, by uh the message of uh your word today in Philippians and um Just the the high calling that we are uh partners in the gospel, Father, and carrying carrying on your mission and you use uh such frail vessels, Lord, to bring the gospel to the world. And Father, you desire to um work out the gospel in our own lives. He who began a good work in you will be faithful to complete it in the the until the day of Christ Jesus. And Father, I I just pray that we would seek you, seek to learn more about you, more knowledge of you, that our love for you may abound, um, may grow, and our love for one another may grow, and that we would see that you've called us to um first to our local church here to work out the gospel father together to partner in the gospel and have fellowship um to carry out the mission of the gospel, Lord. And I pray that that would dominate our fellowship, Lord, and that others would see the great love and grace that we display towards each other, that it would be uh a great contrast to what they see in the world. and that um they would be drawn to Christ through that fellowship that they see, Father, and And that it would be only through the power of the Holy Spirit in our lives as we humbly submit to you and even put uh others before ourselves, Lord God. And we just pray now that you be with us as we go our separate ways in Jesus' name. Amen