Galatians chapter four Galatians four About a month ago now, December eleventh, uh, my family decided that we would head up to New York City on a bus trip. Uh one of those tour buses that take you right into the heart of Manhattan and uh then you could we could see all the the lights and all the sights and and then it would take us back home. It was actually a very convenient way of traveling. I had never done it that way before. Uh worked out pretty well and we had a great discount uh that we were able to get through Groupon. Um but on the way up there the one day that we would have decided to go up to New York was the day that somebody let off a bomb um on the the Port Authority area o of the bus sta of a bu the b a bus station port authority ri right at the entrance of a subway system. And of course we're just having our good old time on our way up and I started getting Facebook messages and text saying, Are you in New York right now? What's g uh from several of you all actually? And uh I said, Well no, not yet. What's going on? And And um and you were t basically like you know it would it would be our you know that's just the way life is for us. We you know, the one day that we decided to go up to New York they They bomb the place. And so I was trying to figure out how in the world uh to what should we do? Does the bus driver know? Is he gonna And I actually looked on the directions and where we were going. We were going to go right in that spot. And uh I decided well I'm not gonna f think I'm not gonna assume that this bus driver knows, I'm gonna go talk to him. And so I went up there and I said, Hey sir, are you have you been listening to the radio at all? And he said, No. He actually was listening to the radio, but he hadn't listened to the news. I said, have you been listening to the news? He said, No, um, what's going on? And I said, I told him about what was happening. And I said, I I I think maybe we shouldn't um go to that spot Actually the truth of the matter is we wouldn't have been able to. It was all blocked off by New York City police and other people that were up there. And he was it's funny, he was just very calm about okay we'll park we'll we'll go four blocks down, no problem, we'll just uh we'll find another place and I thought to myself, wow, you are not very alarmed about this. I'm thinking to myself, maybe we should turn around and go the other way. New York City has like been bombed again Um thankfully it was not as nearly as serious as the last couple of times uh that it has happened and actually everything went as normal. You wouldn't if you you know three or four blocks away you wouldn't have known that it actually even happened unless you were watching or listening to the news and you you would know. But obviously I wanted to tell the bus driver that he was He didn't want to go to that spot. He needed to go another way in order to avoid danger. And the Apostle Paul has been telling these this church of Galatia for quite a while now as we have gone through this epistle You're going the wrong way. You are headed toward legalism. You are headed toward slavery. You are headed, you are in bondage, you have been brought into grace and freedom, and you're going, you're being drawn by the Judaizers back. Into bondage, into slavery under the demands of the Old Testament law. And Paul now is going to really bring all of this to bear as we look at this passage. This is A passage that is probably actually the most difficult passage to interpret in the book of Galatians. It's the one passage where people go, oh, Galatians, that's a really hard book. This is really the passage that that we'll see here. And so there's a lot that we're going to go through here as we look at this passage, but I will tell you this. There is some great freeing, liberating truth in this passage as we go through it as well. And I believe it can be a real help to us as believers. Let's go to the Lord in prayer and ask his blessing, and then we will get into this passage. Father, we come to you and we thank you for your unmerited favor, your grace. And we thank you that it is your desire for us to stand in its freedom. Lord, we admit before you that we sometimes get confused about this: what true freedom is and what it's not, how we acquire that freedom and how we don't. Sometimes it seems as though the very things that we think will free us the most are the things that bring us into bondage. Lord, I pray that as we go through your word this morning, that you would help us to see the truth of your word That you, through Christ, has have made us free. We shall be free indeed. But we need to live in that freedom, stand firm in it. And I pray that you would help us to do that. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, as I mentioned, as I prayed, Paul's desire is that the Church of Galatia would learn to stand firm in freedom. You'll see that in chapter 5, verse 1 here. It says, stand fast therefore in the liberty by which Christ has made us free, and do not be entangled again with the yoke of bondage. The Apostle Paul has been very concerned and continue to be continues to be very concerned that the Galatian Christians are being yoked in the slavery of the demands of the law, and they're not standing in the liberty and in the freedom that is in Christ. And so Paul is giving this in order for us to and for them to understand how to do this appropriately. As I mentioned before, this is a very complex passage, and so what I need to do is go through several components of the passage. that are sort of complex. And as I go through these, it will help it help us as we move through the passage. He is using various devices, literary devices in this passage. That we need to understand what he's doing here, and then as we read through the passage, it'll become much clearer to us. You'll notice, for example, in Galatians chapter 4, verse 24. That he is going to cite Old Testament's narrative, and he said he it says in the passage he is going to do it through symbolism or allegory. Which things are symbolic. Some of the m modern translations use the word allegory. Actually, the Greek word behind it is the word allegorizomi, something like that. So it it is, he is using and he is interpreting the Old Testament in an allegorical sense in one sense What he doesn't mean here by allegory is that these are fictional Old Testament characters to display some sort of spiritual truth. That's not what he's talking about here. An allegory of that nature, like Pilgrim's Progress, is probably one of the most popular allegories where you have fictional characters that are to illustrate a truth, something that is spiritually true. The Old Testament is not fictional. These are all things that specifically and actually happen. And in that sense, Paul is not interpreting this allegorically. But he is going to draw some things from the Old Testament that we would not be able to draw. In fact, that is a point that I want to make here, just by way of figuring this passage out. We really can't draw allegorical interpretations the way the Apostle Paul did for one simple reason. He is working under the inspiration of the Spirit of God. And so he is qualified, he is authorized to make these interpretations, whereas we we very likely ought not be qu we're not qualified to do that. What we ought to do is take take the plain sense of a text of Scripture. to find its central meaning of the passage and then to interpret it based upon what God's intention of the passage is rather than rather than some other symbolic manner. And so what we are going to do here is follow what Paul says, knowing it's under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, and he's going to take some things from the Old Testament that we're going to understand. Because he explains them, but we're not going to take the same method of interpretation ourselves. It won't be the same kind of hermeneutic The other thing you'll notice in the passage, another thing, is that he has a series of contrasts. And I put them up here for you just to glance at them. There are six different contrasts in the passage. Uh six different contrasts in the passage at least. You've got the slave versus the free woman, the present Jerusalem versus uh Jerusalem above, the old covenant versus the new covenant, slavery and freedom, the flesh, the spirit. uh being cast out and receiving the inheritance. You have all of these contrasts as you go through these passages. And the reason he is contrasting all these things is he wants it for the nation of Israel And also and more importantly, the Galatian Church to see that it is crystal clear what side they need to be on. And when you contrast things, it clarifies. It's not this, it's this. And so and so we see that in this passage as well. Another thing that he uses is something called ellipsis in the passage. Sometimes in his contrasting, he doesn't tell you everything. He assumes certain things. I'll illustrate ellipsis this way. So some suppose I said to you that that some people like peanut butter and jelly. And then I also said to you, but some people prefer honey. Now you may interpret that as peanut butter, butter and jelly together and only honey, but it very well may be what I'm saying is peanut butter and jelly or peanut butter and honey, even though I didn't use the word peanut butter in the second part. Does that make sense? And that's called ellipsis. And so Paul is going to do that sometimes. He will mention, for example, he'll mention Hagar, but he won't mention Sarah, but Sarah is implied as a contrast. And so we'll see that in this passage. as well. And I I hate to I I don't mean to be overly academic about these things, but as we move through this, if I if we get this up front correctly, then we'll be able to move through it in a much more fluid fashion, and I think it will help us to understand this passage. The other thing that we should know about this passage before we get into it is that he cites Hagar and Ishmael as an illustration for a very specific reason. It is very likely that the Judaizers, whom we have seen before, crop up in Galatians often. It is very likely that the Judaizers Were used the illustration of Hagar and Ishmael and basically said, if you're not circumcised and you don't follow the Mosaic Law, if you don't do those things, you're like them. You're like Hagar. You're like Ishmael. You're not part of the chosen people. And what the Apostle Paul is going to do is he is going to turn that on its end. And you're going to see that in the passages we go through that he's going to reverse that whole claim and he's going to say something quite different than that. Now, with that all of that in mind, let's go ahead and move into the passage in verse twenty one of chapter four. Verse 21 says, Tell me you who desire to be under the law. Do you not hear the law? We see at the very outset the Apostle Paul is addressing those people who are desiring to be under the law. Paul addresses this, and this is of course a common theme in the old in in the book of Galatians, chapter 3, verse 23 says But before faith came, we were kept under guard by the law, kept for the for faith which would afterward be revealed. Chapter four, verse four. And when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law, to redeem those who were under the law, that we might receive the adoption of sons. So, this whole idea of being under the law, under the slavery and bondage of the law, is a concept that is that by this point the readers of Galatians are very familiar with. I want to flesh out something with regard to this whole issue of being under the law and rightly relating to the law. We have noted before that we are no longer as Christians under the demands of the Mosaic Law. However, we have also said that the Old Testament law can be used as a guide to help us to know how to please God. The motive is not fear anymore. The motive is love. We love God. We know his love for us. And we want to know how to please him. And so there's elements of the law that demonstrate the character of God and can help us Not that we have to meet the demands, but that they can help us to know how to please God because we love Him. And there are essentially four different kinds of people in relation to how they relate to the law. I would suggest actually there are only four types. Now I want to list them for us very quickly and we're going to go through each one and it's going to help us to understand How we are to be rightly related to the law as well. We have this has been on, for those of you who are visiting, this is something that we've been on kind of a continuing journey throughout Galatians, and I think that this will help us Number one is law-obeying and law-relying. Those who are obedient to the Mosaic Law, but they're also relying on it. And there's one word that will help you. It's the word Pharisee. That's exactly what the New Testament or what the Transitional Testament Pharisees did. They were obeying the law, and they were pretty good at it. In fact the very letter of the law and they'd find ways to get out of you know, they'd like fast during the day and say, I fasted for forty days and then at night they'd eat something. I mean they'd do that kind of thing. They're very good at figuring out how to follow the law. And they also relied on the law. The next group of people are law disobeying But law-relying. They're disobedient to the law, they can't seem to follow the law, but they are relying on the law. And that kind of person is a guilt-ridden person. A person that constantly struggles with his own guilt is one who cannot meet the demands of the law, but because he's relying on the law. He realizes how that he is off always falling short of the law. Law of disobeying. but law relying. The third is law disobeying and law and not law relying. There are some people that are not following the law and they're not trying to follow the law and they're not relying on the law. And they're not obeying the law. They're not doing anything with the law. Those are people that are really morally liberal. Those are the people that, because they have no law, not even the law into Christ, they're really not, they're lawless essentially. And those are the people that actually often become very defensive. They've removed the law from their minds even as a guide to please God And so as a result, they've had they created their own internal law based upon their opinion. And they are very convinced that they meet that law. They follow that law quite well. And they become very defensive. That's a characteristic of someone who is law disobeying and law not relying on the law. The final one is law-obeying and not law-relying. This is the way we ought to relate to the law. This a good key understanding is someone who knows God's love, who love God, and who love others. See, it's not as though we are attempting to be disobedient to the intrinsic moral law of God. Not talking here about the Mosaic law, we're talking about the law of Christ, actually. And the law of Christ is basically summed up in two things, love the Lord your God with all your heart and love your neighbor as yourself. And God wants us to be obedient to the law, not because we're in fear or because we're relying on the law, but because we want to please God. Because we love Him. Because He first loved us. And we want to love him and love others. But we are not constantly guilty. We're not constantly having a sense of guilt about us because we're not relying on the law. We're relying on God's grace. We want to please God so we follow the law. Not the Mosaic Law, but Christ's law. But we're relying not on the law, but relying on God's grace. See, folks, the real problem becomes in our lives and how to relate to the Word of God and how to relate to the law. The real problem with comp comes is when we were ever in any way, whether it's for salvation or for sanctification Trying to rely on the law because the law is unreliable. The primary purpose of the law is to demonstrate that we need Christ. The Christ is reliable. His grace is reliable. That is what we must learn to lot rely on. And that is the only way that we can truly have liberty. We can truly have Freedom. That's the only way we can stand firm in the freedom of Christ. Now, with all of that in mind, we can then look at this illustration that we see in verse 22. Verse 22, it says, For it is written that Abraham had two sons, the one by a bondwoman, the other by a free woman. But he who was of the bondwoman was born according to the flesh, and he who was of the free woman through promise. Which things are symbolic, for these things are the two covenants, the one from Mount Sinai, which give which gives birth to the bondage, which is Hagar. Now he refers to these two different sons and these two different women. The contrast is between Hagar and Sarah. The contrast is between Isaac and Ishmael. To really understand this, and the real key to all of this is in verse 23 where it says this. One is born according to the flesh, and the other is born according to According to promise or through promise, a free woman through promise. Now to understand what that's talking about, we have to go back to the Old Testament and we have to remember what God had said to Abraham. In Abraham chapter 15, verse 4, for example, it's also in chapter 12, but we'll look, we'll read verse 4. It says, And behold, the word of the Lord came to him, saying, This one shall not be your heir. But one who will come from your own body shall be your heir. Then he brought him outside and said, Look now toward heaven, and count the stars if you are able to number them. And he said, So shall your descendants be. God had promised in Genesis chapter 12, as well as this passage, Genesis 15, that he would make Abraham a great nation. In fact His name basically means man of a great nation. That's what Abraham means. And Abraham this was Trying. He was trying with his wife Sarah. In fact, they were trying for ten years. And they were probably wondering, is God going to come through for them? They're getting older. By the time Abraham had Isaac, he was 100 years old. And they were wondering how in the world could this ever happen and why would God choose to delay his promise this way? And finally, after 10 years of trying, ten years of wanting God's promise to come about, Sarah has this idea. He says, take my maid as your concubine. Just do this and when you do this, it'll be like it's like like it's me and you'll have a descendant that way, and then a nation can come about that way. You know the story. And what this represents, and actually we find this in Genesis 16. 1, it says, now Sarai, Abram's wife, had borne him to no children, and she had an Egyptian maidservant whose name was Hagar. So Sarai said to Abram, See now the Lord has restrained me from the bearing from bearing children. Please go to my my maid. Perhaps I shall obtain children by her. And Abram heeded the voice of Sarai Then Sarai, Abram's wife, took Hagar her maid, the Egyptian, and gave her to her husband Abram, to be his wife, after Abram had dwelt ten years in the land of Canaan. But that wasn't God's plan. That was man's efforts to try to do what God was going to fulfill in his own time, in his own way. And what we find in Genesis 15, which we already read, is that that was not God's way. Man devising his own plan to fulfill God's promise is the wrong way. Instead, what we find in Genesis 17, verses 15 through 16, as well as Genesis 21:1, is the fulfillment of all of that. 21. 1 says, And the Lord visited Sarah as he had said. And the Lord did for Sarah as he had spoken. For Sarah conceived and bore Abraham a son in his old age. At the set time of which God had spoken to him. By faith, Sarah herself received strength. And Hebrews 11 says this: By faith, Sarah herself received strength to conceive seed. She bore a child when she was past the age, because she judged him faithful, who had promised. We see that God's divine agency in fulfilling his own promise was through Sarah and through Isaac. So, folks, at the beginning of this, the contrast between Isaac and Ishmael, between Hagar and Sarah, is a contrast between man's human effort And divine agency. And what God is going to say, what God says here through the Apostle Paul is that God's way is that we must rely not on man's effort. We must rely on divine agency. And folks, this is true for salvation. No question about it. It is entirely apart from any human effort at all that we come to Christ. It is entirely by the merits of Christ alone that we come to grace. But it's also that way in our lives as Christians. We must live dependent upon divine agency, His care, His provision, His grace, His providence. We must depend upon those things Rather than our own way, our own devices, our own plan, our own human effort. This was something that the Lord, and I brought this to your attention on several occasions, I'll bring it to your attention once more, maybe not once more, but at least once more for now. Has to do with just what the Lord taught me with regard to going through the process of getting this building. There are many times where we come up against challenges and tr and difficulties. And what we want to do is we want to try to come up with our own device, our own way of getting it, of just plowing through it or going around it. But there are some times where God says, I'm going to put a roadblock you can't get through. Just like he did with Abraham and Sarah. It's called barrenness in their case, right? You can't get through that roadblock. If God says you're barren, if God says Sarah's woman, there's no way getting around it. Sarah's uh a woman who's barren, there's no way getting around it. And there are some times that God puts roadblocks in our path. And I remember on many occasions, whether it was financing or zoning or buying um or buyer falling through or delays in this in in various uh specialist uh exceptions. All those kinds of things where I would sit back and go, I don't know what to do I don't think there's anything we can do. I would email the deacon to say, guys, let's just pray because I I'm not seeing it going through. And this happened several times throughout the process. And I kept thinking, what in the world is going on? Well, I know what's going on. God wanted to demonstrate that we needed to be dependent upon him. Maybe it was just for me, that I needed to be dependent on him. That it wasn't just I needed to figure it out. I need to make it happen. No, no. Sometimes we just need when we get hit up against a wall, we just need to set step back and see what God is going to do. And we need to pray and turn our hearts to the Lord and just say, Lord, what are you going to do here? It doesn't mean that we're not involved. It doesn't mean that there aren't responsibilities that we we carry out. But sometimes what we first must do is step back and pray and say, Lord, would you do what only you can do and help me to follow your divine agency instead of trying to rely on my own human effort to get the job done? And oftentimes in our lives as Christians, God puts us in places and situations where that is what He wants us to learn. He wants us to continually learn to depend on Him. And you know what the truth is? We're not very good at learning that, are we? We want to figure it out ourselves. We want to rely on our own wits, on our own strength, on our own wills. We want to do it in our own way. And God says Get your hands off that thing and let me do what I want to do. That's not really what he says, that's my interpretation, sorry. Well, with all of that in mind, we can then move to chapter 4, verse 24. And we see here a contrast that is set up. And the contrast is one that is allegorical and symbolic based upon what we had said before. And the contrast is really between verse 24, present Jerusalem, and 25, future Jerusalem. Present Jerusalem and heavenly future Jerusalem. And we see in the passage that he is going to make a connection here in verse 24. He says, Which things are symbolic, for these are the two covenants, the one from Mount Sinai. So we need we see a contrast of two covenants. The one's Mount Sinai, who was on Mount Sinai and received the covenant? Moses, so we're talking about the Mosaic covenant there, which gives birth to bondage, and he compare makes this comparison. He says, which is what It's Hagar. Now get the comparison. These this concept, and I'm just going to tell you, we're going to have to wade in. We're wading in deep now. Okay. So just hang with me here. Put your put your put your your your thinking caps on here and weigh in here a little bit. The comparison between Hagar And the Mosaic covenant is the word slavery or bondage. That's the comparison he's making. Hagar was a slave, and she bore slaves. What do you have here with the Mosaic Covenant? He has already established prior to this, and we won't take the time to look at that, but he's already established that being under the law is also slavery. So that's an important comparison or contrast rather to make here. So he says that he also we also see here that the place corresponds. He's going to then say Jerusalem he's going to use this word Jerusalem. Look at verse 25. For this Hagar is Mount Sinai and Arabia corresponds to Jerusalem. Which now is. So he's talking about the present Jerusalem. When he's saying the present Jerusalem, it's re representing the nation of Israel. And he is essentially saying that the nation of Israel, as it stands there at that time, first century, after Christ died is in bondage. They're in slavery. They don't see Christ. That's the present Jerusalem. And then we switch the contrast in verse 26. But the Jerusalem above, he says, where's the Jerusalem he says there? Verse 26? Where is it? It's above. The Jerusalem above is free. Which is the mother of us all. The Jerusalem above is free. The Jerusalem below is slavery and bondage. Because of the law, which is which equates to Hagar. The Jerusalem above is freedom. Now, there's a lot that we could go into, but for sake of time, we won't. I'll just note this that in Isaiah, toward the end of the of the passages in Isaiah, toward the end of the book of Isaiah, you find that there are these promises That after the nation of Israel comes out of exile, they have been slaves. They have been in bondage under the Babylonian exile. That God is going to use them to bring forth a new covenant, and that new covenant is established by the blood of Christ. It is ratified by the blood of Christ. Now the The fulfillment of the new covenant will not come until later, until the second coming of Christ. We'll see most of the fulfillment of the new covenant come then. But the blood of Christ starts the thing, if you will. It ratifies that it's going to take place. And we find that in Hebrews chapter 12. But you have come to Mount Zion, and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, to an innumerable company of angels. to the General Assembly and Church of the firstborn who registered in heaven, to God jud uh to God the judge of all, to the spirits of just men made perfect To the j to Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant, the city of the living God, and the mediator of that covenant is the new covenant. He's saying here, folks, that there is a new heavenly Jerusalem right now. And it is in heaven. One day that Jerusalem, when Christ comes back, will be on earth and the new Jerusalem will be set up. We know that from if from uh from the book of Revelation. But for now, the new covenant is is in heaven. And here's his point. Which are you a part of? He's saying to them, Look, you are children of the new covenant. You are citizens of not that old covenant. You are citizens of the new covenant. Notice what it says in verse 26. And this will bring it all together for us. Verse 26. But the Jerusalem above is free, which is the mother of us all. For it is written, who's qualified for this new Jerusalem, for this new covenant? He says, for it is written, Rejoice, O baron. Now pause for a minute. Does that make any sense? Remember that in that day, a woman's entire identity, her value was summed up by the amount of male children she had. If someone was barren, if a woman was barren, and I'm not saying this is right or this is biblical, but this was the culture If someone was barren, they were absolutely, they were desolate. They felt as though they had no value at all. And if a couple was barren, the same kind of thing applied to the entire couple. Both coup both both people. There was this desolateness about someone who was barren. And do you know who God says he's going to bless? Do you know who God says he's going to use? Do you know who God says can be a part of this new Jerusalem covenant? Those who are desolate, those who are barren, those who in and of themselves see them as having no value at all. He says, look at what he says. Rejoice, O barren, you who do not dare. Break forth and shout, you who are not in labor. For the desolate has many more children than she who has a husband. What he is saying here is that the way that we become look at verse 28, now we brethren, as Isaac was, are the children of promise. See, th this is God's economy. God's economy is so different than our economy. Our economy is based upon our ability and our possessions and what we have. God's economy is based upon weakness and God taking the weak things of the world and making them strong in Him. And God wants us to understand that not only in salvation must we come empty-handed, realizing there is nothing of ourselves that can obtain the grace of God, but living out the Christian life in freedom has the same kind of attitude. There is nothing that I can bring to my king. I come empty-handed, needing to be filled by God's grace. I am barren. I am desolate. And when we come to that position, the Bible says, blessed are the poor in spirit, for they shall see God. And what God wants us to understand as Christians is that He will do this in our lives to bring us to a place where He can truly glorify Himself. 1 Corinthians chapter 1 verse 27 says, But God has chosen the foolish things of this world to put to shame the wise. And God has chosen the weak things of the world to put to shame the things that are mighty, and the base things of the world, and the things that are despised, God has chosen, and the things which are not to bring to nothing the things that are That no flesh should glory in his presence. God's economy, his way is to take the weak things of the world. and to show himself strong through those things. And you know what you and I need to understand? We need to be completely content with being the weak ones. We need to read that verse and we need to come to the conclusion and say, you know, I'm that barren person. I'm that desolate person. I am one of the weak ones. And when we do that, God can then show Himself strong in our lives in ways that we never could otherwise imagine. Now then we need to understand how, can, that is really key to living in freedom. Realizing we are desolate, realizing we are barren, realizing that we desperately need the grace of God and frankly have the grace of God if we know Christ is our Lord and Savior. But we need to learn how to stand in that freedom. How do we do that? Well, verse 29 is going to help us with that. In verse 29, we see it says, But as he who was born according to the flesh then persecuted him who was born according to the spirit, even so it is now. He says that those who are born according to the flesh were persecuting those born according to the spirit. You have this contrast between the flesh and the spirit, which we'll get into later in the book of Galatians For now he is simply saying that the Arab people that came from the Ishmaelites from time to time oppressed those who are descendants of Isaac. Of course, we know history tells us that to be true, both in biblical history as well as recent history. They have always been at odds with each other, the Arabs and the nation of Israel. And the Arabs have often oppressed the nation of Israel. But he says something that's really quite interesting here. Notice what he says He says, it's even so it is now happening. Do you know what he's saying? Who is he saying here is oppressing who? He is saying that the Judaizers, those people who have come in and drawn these people back into slavery, those Judaizers, those are the ones who are enslaving They are like Hagar and Ishmael. They would not have liked that. The Judaizers would never have wanted to be said they were trying to say everybody else was like that, except for them and who followed them. And he turns the tables here. Paul turns the tables on him and says, No, you're the one who is oppressing the true people of God, the people who are born of the promise. The people who are born unto eternal life, the people that are truly of the new covenant, who are citizens of the new kingdom. You're the ones oppressing them. And he tells them to do something here. He says, nevertheless, what does the scripture say? Cast out the bondwoman and her son. For the son of the bondwoman shall not be heir with the son of the free woman. Cast them out. You know what they're saying saying very plainly? You need to cast those Judaizers out. The Judaizers were her heretics. The Judaizers were preaching a false gospel. And he says, when there is someone that wants to enslave you, bring you back into slavery and bondage of the Old Testament law and the demands of the law. You need to cast them out. But there is an important application for us as well here. Why do we sometimes fail to stand in the freedom that Christ has for us? We fail sometimes because there are things in our lives that we're not casting out that are causing us to go into bondage. There is thinking, or maybe behavior, or maybe activities that we like to do that we think are actually freeing, but they're not. A few years ago, there was a particular film that achieved significant commercial success. In fact, it earned $1. 2 billion worldwide, uh, and it included $400 million in the United States and Canada. It was the highest-grossing animated film of all time. You know what that was? It was the animated film Frozen. Oh yeah, I remember the the days where everybody was singing Let It Go and all that. You know, if you remember the story between you you remember the story of Elsa, and she was bound by her her uh cryo uh Is it cryogenic? Is that the word anyway? Her her mag her magic that she had. And um and she and she couldn't and she was supposed to control it, but instead of controlling it, she sort of buried the whole you know, kind of like didn't do anything with it at all until one day she went out uh from the kingdom and she let it all go. And then you have that song Let It Go, Adult Start Singing. Um Wall start saying let it go. That's how no, it's not. What happened? This is a great story. It has a great truth because Disney did not write that story. It was from it was based upon uh Hans Christian Anderson's work, uh uh The Snow Queen. What happened to the to the town? The whole thing froze over. She caught big when she let it all go. She caused great, great problems for that town. And frankly, problems for herself and for her sister and everybody else involved. It's interesting, isn't it? The things that we think will free us the most. Sometimes actually cause us to be in bondage the most. Think about the the young teenager who decides that he wants to express his freedom by by smoking cigarettes I'm going to be free from my parental authority who's telling me not to. I'm going to be free from everybody who's telling me not to. So I'm going to I'm going to it's going to feel so good to smoke cigarette cigarettes, and the real reason they want to do it is they want to experience the freedom of doing that. And they die of emphysema decades later because they never could quit because they were in bondage to the very thing that they thought was going to free them. Or someone who or a child who is given sugar all of the time. Because that that's what they want. And what and and and you know if you're gonna experience real freedom then you've got to get what you want and so if you want your child to experience freedom and so you're gonna give them all kinds of sugar And they they develop an appetite for sugar and it plagues them the rest of their lives. It actually ends up being bondage to them Those are just illustrations, but there are many things in our lives that we think will free us. They're instant gratification kinds of things, but they really enslave us What are things in our lives that might be doing that? Let me just say this, that true freedom is rarely attained by instant gratification. If there is something that you're just trying not to do because you want to just feel free if you do it. Well, be careful with that. Wisdom looks ahead, foresees evil, and hides himself. Make sure that what you're wanting to do that makes you feel so free now is not going to bond put you in bondage later. That nice fancy sports car that with a with the with uh um with the big debt behind it may f make you feel free in the moment, but later on you're gonna you're gonna have a problem. Do we not need God's wisdom to really know what things we need to actually cast off? That in the moment they may make us free, but they're actually bringing us into bondage. Where we're not experiencing truly the freedom that Christ offers us The Bible wants, God says here that He wants us to stand fast in the freedom. Why? Because verse 31 tells us God is Christ has set us free for freedom. Actually, the first part of 5. 1 says that, and it's translated a little differently in various verses, but various translations. But the first part of 5. 1 is essentially telling us that Christ has freed us for freedom. The purpose of Christ's death on the cross and all that he did for us in freeing us was so that we could live in freedom. If the Son therefore has made you free, you shall be free indeed. Are you living in that kind of freedom? Are you standing firm in the freedom of Christ as Paul says to do here in this passage? How do you know if you are or not? How do you know if you are really living under the grace of God? Well, it's not like you might think. Let me give you a couple of ways that you might know. A couple of examples, and these are not by any means comprehensive, but When our entire lives, number one, do not revolve around either the approval or disapproval of others, because we know we are approved by God. Does criticism in your life throw you for a loop, put you into despondency and despair? Well, when you are in Christ and when you are experiencing the grace of Christ, when you know that you are accepted in the beloved, then you are not going to live by the approval of others. No, but everybody likes to be appreciated. There's nothing wrong with that. Everybody wants to know that they're being helpful and and and there's nothing wrong with that But when our whole character is determined upon whether we have the approval or disapproval of others, then we are not living under the grace of Christ. We're living in bondage. Number two. When we are stable and not resentful or angry when we're passed up for a job promotion. These, by the way, are examples that I got from somewhere else. I I didn't come up with these myself. And sometimes we we our our our whole identity is wrapped up in our job. Our whole identity is wrapped up in who we how our performance in our job. And we get passed up for a promotion and we are just not, I mean, it it is just everything ended. We're not living in the grace of Christ because our identity really is to be in Christ. I'll give you one more. When others have made mistakes that affect us When others have made a mistake that affects us, and we have bitterness or resentment in those situations. That's a hard one, by the way, isn't it? It's not easy when you know when you make your own bed and you lie in it, you sort of just go, Well, I made my bed, I'm lying now. When you when you know that your own behavior has caused you great Problems. That's one thing. But when the behavior of others negatively affects you, that it's like you get the brunt of the consequence If you're living under the grace of Christ, if you're living that way, then you're resting in God's promises. You're resting in His grace. And those things, though they certainly will all affect us, they don't destroy us. Those things may they cause us problems. We are living, those things do not affect our standing firm in our freedom. In Christ. My desire for every one of us is that we live in the kind of freedom in Christ that God wants us to live in. That's God's desire. It's Paul's desire. May we understand how to live in that freedom. And you know what's exciting? We're just scratching the surface. We're going to get into that really This is going to propel us into all kinds of practical things in the future in Galatians 5 and 6, where we're going to learn how to stand firm in the freedom that Christ has for us. For today, I have three things to point out here. Number one, we must rely on divine agency instead of human effort. That's the difference between Isaac and Ishmael, between Sarah and Haggai. We must rejoice When God's in God's miraculous power and our position in Christ, we are not of the former, we are of the latter. We are By God's grace alone of the children of Abraham in a spiritual sense, according to this passage. We are of the new covenant. We're citizens of a heavenly kingdom. And we must take great rest and comfort in that. And number three We've got to figure those things that are cat that are in our lives that we must cast off. Those things that cause us to be in bondage. And we must and cast them off so that we can continue to live freely in Christ. And by the way, that does not mean we appeal to the flesh here. It means quite the opposite. But we must learn to cast those things off. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you, and we are eternally grateful for the grace of Christ. And we admit before you that this is a journey for us in just knowing how to live out the grace of Christ, how to experience it in our lives. To know what it means to be led by your Spirit and by your word rather than being led some other way, either into licentiousness or into legalism. But to follow you closely in love for you, in freedom, in the grace of Christ Lord, may we learn of the truths today and know of the truths today, meditate on these things and apply them to our lives. So that we can take one step closer in standing firm in that freedom. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.