But it's not a good thing. Good morning, everyone. Good to have everybody out this morning. I trust you're able to log on without too many problems. Uh we have an exciting uh schedule planned for today, including a guest speaker, Enrique. Uh he's not a guest in the sense of uh nobody knows him but he uh Enrique is is uh here with us and he's going to be uh giving uh the live streaming message We do have a song service as well. I do want to make a couple of announcements this morning. Hope that you caught the virtual Bible study that we did at 9. 30. Please tune in for that uh nine thirty uh a m and uh this of course is our um our virtual service Now, I want to make a, I just want to keep reiterating this, that what we're doing here is not an actual worship service. This is not something that we're doing as an assembly. We can't assemble right now biblically. And so I just want to make the distinction. I like what one what uh one church called a it's a chapel service. And I think that's what we're going to continue. We're going to start calling this. This is a virtual chapel service. That will give us a distinction between a worship service that we do when we assemble and what we're doing doing here. Tonight we're going to have discipleship home groups. If you don't know what group you're in. If you don't receive some sort a link or a mess or a uh meeting ID in order to join a home group, please contact me, contact our church uh and uh or email or whatever and we will get you that information. uh so that you can be part of our home groups tonight, our discipleship home groups tonight. Uh I I think they're going pretty well and well attended And the Zoom platform is working very well, I think, as much as possible. So please join in together tonight for that. And don't forget our Wednesday Bible study time, which is uh at 6 starts at 645 on Wednesdays I want to note as well that on the 26th at 5. 30 there will be a congregational meeting. It will be our quarterly congregational meeting. Of course, we won't be able to assemble together, but we will be able to do it via Zoom. And so you can expect to receive an email with the with the a link in order to get onto that if you're a member of our church. And uh that will be in place of our discipleship home groups. Again, that will be on April 26th at 530. Also, we will be emailing to you financials uh for the past quarter so that you can can take a look at those in preparation for that meeting. Just a reminder that the live streams are accessible via the three different ways Facebook Live uh YouTube channel and also sermon audio. No, it's not. It's not not available through Sermon Audio at this point. And so we're working on that as a possibility, but we have have been having problems with Sermon audio and so uh it is just through Facebook and YouTube live uh for today at this time. Um Okay, a couple of resources as well to remind you to to to join in on, and that is uh I'm doing on Tuesdays through Fridays Uh in the mornings I'm doing a very short devotional. Usually it's 10 to 12 minutes and it's on the book of Pro a chapter of the Proverbs that corresponds with a date. Also, within those, we have questions coming from our Truth Trackers, Kids Questions, that I'm answering during those times as well. So let me encourage you, really encourage you to log on. You can access those with our via our Facebook page, our church Facebook page, also our BBC Family page, they'll be on there. And usually they're on YouTube as well. Um but uh I really encourage you to log on and and watch each of those. It only takes ten minutes. You can watch it with your family. It's going to go through various verses within a chapter of Proverbs. I think it really will be hope I'm wanting it to be very helpful for family devotions. for you all during this pandemic time. And also take a look at our church blog. We are updating that with summaries from previous sermons So make sure you're taking a look at that. Assignment number three has been emailed out as well for with truth trackers. And also activity pages for the service. The Overstreets have been doing those. Make sure you're printing those off and using those for the service during the kids for your kids. And it would be great if you gave the over streets some feedback on how that's going. Even a text just let them know you're using those It's a little hard to continue to u uh uh produce things and not to receive any feedback at all. So if you're a parent and you're uh receiving um You're using those for your kids. Would you just let uh Tim or Carol or both of them know that you're using them and that they're helpful or if you have suggestions suggestions along those lines uh that would be helpful as well. We did have one time where we were having a little trouble printing off one of them. You do have to download usually the the image files you got to download first. and then you're able to print them off. But I hope that you'll be able to use those. Alright, at this time what we're going to do is go to the Lord in prayer. and open our our chapel service together in prayer. And then we're going to go to a song service and then we will hear from God's word from Brother and Greek. Let's go to the Lord in prayer Father, we thank you for another day that is designated in your word as the Lord's Day, and we are saddened that we still cannot meet together. We can't assemble together. And in no way do we want to replace assembling together, but we do want to hear from your word this morning and listen and sing in to with the songs and hymns of the faith, Lord. pray together as much as we can and fellowship the way as as best as we can. And Lord, we pray that all that we're doing would be pleasing and honoring to you. We thank you for who you are and that you are the God that is the same yesterday, today, and forever. And that although we are limited in what we are able to do, what we are uh even allowed to do. Um you want us to fulfill and be good stewards of what you've given us to do um in our world. And I pray, Lord, that you'd help us to find ways to do that. That we would not um look at the situation we find ourselves in and just uh sort of become self-preservationist, but that we would continue to love others and show love to others and find ways to do that. Lord, today we pray that you would be honored, that we would be able to worship you in our homes, though we can't do it collectively. And we pray, Lord, that we would hear from your word, that your spirit would work through your word to encourage and to convict And to instruct. And we ask Lord for that this morning. We pray that you'd be glorified in everything. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. I will see all your mercy on you. Morning, everyone. It's great to uh be with you today and have this opportunity. Uh certainly um I'm just want to say uh as we've been able to say a few times now, but you know it's doing this this way today is just another reminder to me of how much uh how much I'm missing everybody, um, how much uh how much we are missing by by not being able to be together physically on a regular basis and um But uh I certainly am thankful for the opportunity to come to you today and uh present uh God's Word to you. Um Today's message is entitled Handling Life's Many Scenarios. Handling Life's Many Scenarios. The um The times we are living in, we are not used to experiencing, for sure. While I uh talk about this, if you take your Bibles and turn to the book of Nehemiah. Book of Nehemiah, and we'll be in chapter one. I um I was initially quite ambitious and uh was Thinking I'd be able to get past uh chapters one and two. In in one sense, this is uh this is only half a message probably that we're going to be able to go through today just sort of the way it is unless you want to be here a very long time. I think my current record for preaching is somewhere in the one hour, five minute mark. I could be wrong on that. Miranda might be able to help me with that. I think once I did that though, there was another preacher that preached the next Sunday who beat me and went even longer than that. I will not try to break my record today. I will uh try to keep it uh in in check. But Lord willing, uh even going through this first chapter, uh I'm uh my prayer is that we will uh be able to glean what we need. and um and be challenged and encouraged uh by what we see today from the life of Nehemiah. Before we go any further, let's go ahead and go to the word of uh go to the Lord in prayer Father, we we do thank you for your continual goodness to us. We thank you that You care for us and you watch over us. We praise you, Lord, for being a good God, an awesome God. a caring God, a loving God, and that we can rest in you even in times such as these. And I pray, Lord, that you would work in our time together here today. I ask for your help, because without your help, I cannot speak your truth effectively. So I pray that you would be with my words. I pray that um that your truth would go forth clearly and that your word would have um the desired effect that you would want it to have on your people. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. So we uh find ourselves in times that honestly we are not used to experiencing I don't know what day we are in as far as uh Maryland putting in different uh uh regulations and shutting non essential businesses down, but uh for some of us But life has changed significantly. I recognize that. Some of us uh we are not working, some of us we are not uh going to physically to school anymore. Um we're doing online things. Uh there's there's so much that's different. For others of us, things haven't changed as much. Perhaps we're still uh going into work, we're still doing uh the the necessary things, but even it doesn't take too much, right, to go out shopping or something and to get that that different feel. uh people wearing masks, people uh keeping their distance. I'm I'm constantly having to check myself uh when I meet somebody or when I you know, at work or or uh even here at at the church building, I mean the the most common thing in the world to do is just to go up and shake hands, give a bro hug, you know, there's there's all kinds of stuff that we just are typically used to. And um but All in all, with everything that's taking place, God in his providence, he's allowed this particular scenario to happen to all of us. As you think of your life, and you think of the different things that you've experienced, Certainly, there are many scenarios that you can think of. Some of them were exciting, some of them perhaps were were hard. But life is full of scenarios. Life is full of unexpected things that take place. Life is full of challenges And how we handle life scenarios is is very important In light of that, there are two themes that I hear people talking a lot about during these times. The people that I work with, the people I hear on the radio, there are two things that I hear more often than than I think I've heard probably ever Number one, people are bored. People keep talking about how bored they are with life, because they can't do the things that they are used to doing. Some of those things are prob and some of those things are probably fine. They're not necessarily not even talking about simple things But people are bored. They're finding themselves, you know, bored out of their minds, some of them are saying. The other thing that uh people seem to keep mentioning a lot is that and it kind of goes hand in hand with their boredom, is that they are binge watching TV shows and and streaming videos and uh and doing all these types of things to pass the time And there's nothing wrong with with streaming a show necessarily or anything like that, but it's the it's the uh amount that they're talking about. The hours upon hours upon hours spending their time doing these things. They're bored and they're trying to fill the time. With all the extra time that some people, many people have right now, they are gravitating to some forms of entertainment to deal with their problems. Now this isn't new, in all honesty. This is not a new thing. People often gravitate to forms of entertainment to deal with their problems. The difference is most of the time there's more options, right? The whole sports world has basically shut down. So watching sports is pretty much not an option unless you want to do some vintage old stuff. Playing sports. I I know I've seen people still doing that, but that's not even supposed to be going on either, right One time I was speaking with someone about a particular movie that I had enjoyed, something that I saw. And uh I I told him that I liked how it ended. It it left you with a real complete and good feeling inside, to which he replied the opposite. Which I was surprised. He said he said he felt bad after that movie. And you know what he said to me? He said it was because he wished his life could be as exciting and awesome as that movie And I thought, man, that's that's kind of a tragedy. To be so Enamored with a you know a made-up story that that looks more appealing than the real life, the reality that you live every day. Another place that I worked for a while, I forget what the infraction was, I don't remember, but the the boss said no music was to be played at the workplace for a while Which was unusual. Usually i in that place there were radios going in all different sectors of of the uh the the workplace. So he said, no music. And uh one of my coworkers was expressing to me a couple days later into this music band, he told me that he was struggling with some of the things that he just couldn't deal with it anymore. And he said to me this, he said he wished he could just listen to some music again so that he wouldn't keep thinking about his problems. Why do people struggle like this? Well, it's because reality becomes too much of a burden for them. People will at times gravitate to all type all forms of entertainment, and they do it for an escape. Escape from what? Escape from reality. Now, I'm not saying that all entertainment is bad and there's no place for it. This differs, okay, for clarification's sake, this differs from when you need to take a necessary break. When you need to have a time to rest. I, after this week, needed time to rest. and relax with with my children and we did different things together just to rest and get good sleep and and so forth, which I'm so thankful that I got very good sleep last night. And Rest is needed. Taking a break from work is needed. Entertainment has its place. It's not wrong to do that. You know, as long as we aren't shirking our responsibilities and that sort of thing, there's actually a lot right with taking a break. Enjoying something and and and resting in that way. God did not did not design our bodies and minds to go full throttle like a machine without periods of rest. If we try that If we try that, we will burn out eventually. I do want to remind you that if you have any comments or questions, I will try to endeavor. I am getting the comments this uh this Sunday, so So I want to make a distinction, a real clear there's a real clear difference between recreation as as fun rest, as a as a necessity, and a recreation for the purpose of escaping reality. And I have to ask these questions at this point. Do we do this Do I do this? Do you do this? You know what? In a time like this, I'm finding that it is a little more prominent than I can remember at any other point. That people are attempting to escape the reality that they find themselves in right now. So in this life scenario, and in any life scenario, really, but in this life scenario, we must handle these life scenarios biblically. How are we supposed to be handling the scenarios of life that we encounter? I believe that Nehemiah chapters 1 and chapter 2 for that matter really provide us two methods. that we must have if we are to handle life's scenarios biblically. You're there already in in uh chapter one of Nehemiah I'd like to go ahead and read just the first few verses here, and then we'll begin to unpack this a little bit. It says, the words of Nehemiah, the son of Hakaliah, It came to pass in the month of Chiselev, the twentieth year, that I was in Shusham, the citadel And Hanani, one of my brethren, came with me, with men, excuse me, from Judah, and I asked them concerning the Jews who had escaped, who had survived the captivity, and concerning Jerusalem. And they said to me, The survivors who are left from the captivity in the province are in great distress and reproach. The wall of Jerusalem is also broken down, and its gasts are burned with fire So what is going on here? Where do we find Nehemiah in the grand scheme of uh and the the overall historical picture of the Bible? Well, Nehemiah, Ezra, uh Malachi, these are all contemporaries. We find out from verse 11 in chapter 1 that Nehemiah has a particular job. His job is that he is the cup-bearer to the king. What king are we talking about? Well we find from chapter two verse one that the king is Artaxerxes from Persia. So what is going on here? Why, what what is Nehemiah inquiring about? What is the report? How does this all work together? Well, the people of Israel have been allowed to return to their homeland. Nehemiah has not gone back to his homeland. He stayed in Persia with this job. Now, let's talk about Nehemiah's job for a second. this this concept or title as cupbearer. This is much more than what some might say, some might say, well this is kind of like the king's butler And certainly there's some aspects to that. I don't know. Whenever I think of Butler, I think of uh Alfred from Batman you know, constantly opening the door for him and that sort of thing. And while there's uh definitely an element of service to the king, it it does go a little bit beyond that This position that Nehemiah has is honestly, there's a lot of responsibility and a lot of privilege Most likely at each meal he would test the king's wine and and food to make sure it wasn't poisoned. He was a man who stood close to the king and was often with the king in public. And it's it's interesting to note that because he would do that, he probably he shouldn't have been bad looking. He he he had to be actually t kind of handsome. He had to be cultured, refined. He had to be knowledgeable of court procedures. He had to be able even to converse with the king. And if asked, he would be in a position to advise the king And so because he had almost constant access to the king, the cupbearer was a man of great influence, and depending on the man, he could actually use that position for good or for evil. Because Nehemiah, who was a Jew, held such an important position in the palace, it really does speak well of his abilities and of his character. So for nearly a century now, given the historical context a little more here, for nearly a century, the Jewish remnant had been back in their own land. It's possible that Nehemiah could have joined them, but he he elected to remain at the palace, or maybe he got the job during that time. So it mentions here that it's the Hebrew month of Chislev. This month would run from our mid-November to mid-December on our calendar. And it's the 20th year of Arta Xerxes, so that is actually likely uh 444 B. C. Sushan, it's mentioned here, is the capital city of the Persian Empire, and it's the site of this particular king's winter palace. When and so I think that gives helps us out a little bit to get the picture of what's going on here. Nehemiah is an important guy. He's a successful guy. God has blessed him to give him this position, an important position of high standing. And the fact that he isn't with the rest of his brethren going back to Jerusalem. It could tell you one thing. It could tell you that, well, he was so so enamored with this his position that he had that you know he didn't want to leave that life, he didn't want to go away from any of that He didn't want to deal with those things, the hardship, so he just stayed in a life of comfort. And you may think that, but we see here very quickly that that is not Nehemiah's mindset at all. Just a couple of uh comments that I'm seeing here I want to highlight. Um it says uh Enrique has identified a real issue in our culture, escapism, preoccupation with distraction, yeah Uh from the Mullins we we we fill our life with noise so we don't have to respond to the convictions in front of us. From Josh. Yeah. Yeah definitely. Those th those both of those are are very real. uh very real things and and I guess you know my one of the one of the reasons I thought of preaching this message was the fact that we all have a a a tendency to we can all have a tendency to fall into this trap. And I think it's very uh it's very I I would use the word dangerous. I would use the word dangerous and I think we'll even see more as we go through this passage What the dangers are. Alright, so going through here The first point that I'd like to make here is that handling life's scenarios biblically must begin by having God's perspective. Handling life's scenarios biblically must begin by having God's perspective. And that's the first point that I want to make. You know what, difficult times breed different responses from people. Often what has been sleeping inside of us could very well come out during those bad times. Having God's perspectus will keep us from many pitfalls we might be tempted to fall into. Um some of those pitfalls really can be can be summed up in in a few things. And there I'm sure there's more than this, but I thought of the fact that one of the pitfalls Of going through difficult scenarios is that we become inward focused. We become inward focused. We go into a self-preservation mode And even as we've already been talking about, we go into escapism. We look for an escape. Those are some of the pitfalls that we can end up going towards, falling towards. I'm reminded of a of a time in my life when that I'm not proud of where I really fell into this. I was going through a particular scenario in my life that a lot of it was outside of my control. Um and I had the majority of it was out of my control. And um the reality that I was facing was difficult to bear. But instead of of having God's perspective, I fell into these pitfalls. I was very inward focused. I went into a self-pre preservation mode I even went for escape and one of the ways that I escaped was pretty much every weekend I went to the movie theater to watch some other story that wasn't my life. So that I could just have relief from that. For a believer, should we ever be trying to escape from reality No, if we are generally trying to avoid reality, that means that we are not dealing with the situation biblically. At this point, I I want to remark that when we are inwardly focused, when uh we only when we go into self-preservation mode, when we're trying to escape reality. We are likely going to miss a few things. We are likely going to miss what God is trying to teach us. That's a danger. That's a danger of these pitfalls. We we could miss what God is trying to teach us. We could also miss what God what what needs that are around us that God is trying to show us. If we're inwardly focused, we're not going to see that. When we're outwardly focused, we see what God is trying to show us. And thirdly, we also could miss how God might want to use us. If we're trying to escape reality, if we only are inwardly focused, if we go into self-preservation, but we could miss those things. It was certainly not the easiest times that Nehemiah finds himself in. He very well could have fallen into some or all of those pitfalls I mentioned. earlier. He could have fallen into self-preservation mode. He could have fallen into an inwardly focused mode. He could have fallen into escapism. But we will see that having God's perspective on his particular life scenario caused him to act and think very differently than those pitfalls. Firstly, having God's perspective caused Nehemiah to inquire. And we really see that from chapter 1, verses 1 through 3, which I read a little bit ago. Let's read it one more time. The words of Nehemiah the son of Hechaliah, it came to pass in the month of Shishleb in the twentieth year that I was in Sushan in the citadel. And Hanani, one of my brethren, came with men from Judah and asked them concerning the Jews, and I asked them concerning the Jews who had escaped, who had survived the captivity. And concerning Jerusalem, and he said to me, The survivors who are left from the captivity in the province are there in great distress and reproach. The wall of Jerusalem is broken down, and our gate and the gates are burned with fire. You know, if if Nehemiah had been falling into any of those pitfalls, I would submit to you that he would not have inquired. About the state of his city and the state of his people. Why would Nehemiah inquire about a struggling remnant of people who live hundreds of miles away from him? After all, I mean he was the king's cupbearer, right? He was successfully secure in his own life. Certainly it wasn't his fault that the ancest that his ancestors had sinned against the Lord and brought judgment to the city of Jerusalem. And the kingdom of Judah. Now Certainly it wasn't his fault, right? But I'd like to skip down a little bit uh in in chat in chapter one. And look at verse 6. Now, this is part of a prayer that we'll get more into in a second, in a little while. But this prayer is please let your ear be attentive to your and your eyes open. Verse 6. That you may hear the prayer of your servant, which I pray before you now, day and night, for the children of Israel, your servants. And look at this. And confess the sins of the children of Israel which we have sinned against you. Both my father's house and I have sinned. Verse 7, we have acted very corruptly against you. And have not kept the commandments, the statutes, nor the ordinances which you commanded your servant Moses. And we'll we'll stop there for now. I mean you might say that, well, Nehemiah is innocent of all of these things. And in a in a in a in one sense, yes, he is. But the fact that he mentions this in his prayer, I'd like to point out that he knows exactly why his people have been scattered He knows exactly why he is where he is. He's not in his homeland. He's very far away. He knows why his people are in the predicament that they find themselves now. He knows why Jerusalem is ransacked and i a mess with the walls in shambles and the gates on fire. A century and a half before, in Jeremiah 15, 5, the prophet Jeremiah said this He says, For who will have pity on you, O Jerusalem? Or who will bemoan you? Or who will turn or who will turn aside to ask how you are doing? You know, the the the message from the Lord through that prophet back then was, no one need take pity on you, Jerusalem. There's no pity for you. You have brought this on yourself because you've rejected the Lord your God. But you know what is interesting to me? Is that who will bemoan you? Who will mourn you? Who will turn aside to ask how you're doing? Interestingly enough, Nehemiah was the man God had chosen to do that very thing. We see here that part of having God's perspective is having an understanding of why the world around us is the way it is. Nehemiah understood why there was struggle in this life, and it was because the sinfulness of his people The sin of his people had brought them to this place. That's why the trials were there. That's why the difficulties were there. Nehemiah had a big picture mentality. He didn't he wasn't in in a woe is me, woe is woe are my people, we're we're just we're just struggling to get along and it's you know it's not fair, it's not our fault. No. He understood why was going on. And it brings up the question Bringing it back to our time right now, why are we dealing with the situations we find ourselves in today? Well, as a group of people, we perhaps haven't sinned specifically against God like the children of Israel had. God promised. Is that they if they rejected their God, that there would be curses, that there would be um uh nations that would overtake them And that they would be scattered, and they are reaping the results of of their sin in that. But how how are we supposed to view it today? Well, we know that we find the sit the situations we find in today ourselves in today is because we live in a fallen world that has been cursed because of sin And part of the fall does actually involve disease. It involves calamity. It involves plagues. Yes, it involves viruses. But this does not mean that all of the these things are outside of God's control. Some living now find the pandemic so frightening because it's just chaos out there. I keep hearing the words, this is crazy, this is crazy, this is crazy Um as if there is no control out there. But is is that really the case? Are things spinning out of control? Is it just spiraling and it's just uh it's out of control with no hope of being in control? Well the truth is it's not out of control. God is in control. Those people who are so frightened, they they turn inward. The natural reaction is to turn inward, go into self-preservation mode, and even attempt to escape reality to some degree. And I remind us again, if we as believers do that, if we look at our situation now. And we uh we see the the craziness that's going on at the moment and we just turn inward and go into self-preservation mode and maybe even go into escape mode. What could we be missing? Where are our heart's desires running towards with that mentality? What could God be wanting us to do, but we aren't alert to it because our heads end up escaping to somewhere else? These are important things to consider. So we see here then that Nehemiah inquired about the state of affairs with his people. We see that the the the um The news is not good. His people are in distress, great distress, and there is reproach. The people look around and they see rubble They see they see no protection. A city without walls is unprotected. And the gates are are are burned with fire. They're no good. They're useless There's nothing there that physically can protect them. And I just want to say, I want to point out, Nehemiah inquires about his people. And if he doesn't inquire about the state of affairs of his people and his city, if he doesn't have the heart to inquire. If if he is to if he's so busy with his own life and doing his own thing that he doesn't have the heart inquire, you can pretty much just erase all of the book of Nehemiah because none of it takes place. So having God's perspective, having God's perspective caused Nehemiah to inquire. And from Nehemiah chapter 1, 4a, we see that having God's perspective caused Nehemiah to weep. What does it say there? After he gets this news from Hanani, it says that so it was when I heard these words that I sat down and wept. And mourned for many days. Having God's perspective caused Nehemiah to weep God's perspective on this matter with his people and their city grieved God also. When God would look at his people in this state, Do you think God didn't care? Do you think God was oblivious to what his people were going through? Do you think God was uh just forgot all the promises that he had ever made to Israel and he was just going to abandon them completely? Absolutely not. And the reaction that we see from Nehemiah, I would submit to you that his reaction is mirroring the care that God has for his people. The situation as Nehemiah saw was was what what was wrong on so many levels. He saw that his city was in ruin, his people were unprotected. And the underlying question in all of this, what will happen to his people if these circumstances that they find themselves are left to endure? And these thoughts and these questions that are moving within him, it it it causes him to react at the core of his being. It moves him at his core. We see then, at this point, we see then that a burden in grows in Nehemiah's heart for the situation. And I'd just like to remind us that an inward focus and self-preservation thoughts and escapism wouldn't have allowed for the burden to grow in his heart for his people. My friends, when God puts a burden on our hearts, we ought not to try to escape it We will likely miss a blessing that God has planned for us. Now, at this point, I'll just a couple comments here that I'm seeing From Joey, Nehemiah knew God was sovereign. He knew the rightness of God's judgment. Yes, that's exactly right. He did. He he found no fault in God and the state of his people. He saw all the fault in the right place, which was in the people of God. There is purpose in what he allows, absolutely. God is in control. Nehemiah reflected God's heart toward his people, yes. Very good Now, at this point, I just want to remark about something that really stands out to me Two things really stand out to me about the the whole st honestly the whole story of Nehemiah, in fact. But I'd like to bring them out at this point, and that is I want to point out the normalness about Nehemiah's burden. There was not anything particularly spiritual about the burden that he had. Nor was there anything particularly spiritual about what plans he was beginning to formulate in his mind at this time. The problems he found out about weren't spiritual in nature, but he did know about the past spiritual problems and that those were the reasons for the people that found themselves in this difficulty. I'm sure just in case there's th just for clarity's sake, we know eventually that that Nehemiah does leave where he is and he goes on an endeavor, unlike many uh any other that I can think of. But I want to point out that this is not a directly God-initiated endeavor. Nehemiah wanted to rebuild the walls and the gates. God didn't speak to him directly. He didn't speak to Nehemiah like he did Abraham. He didn't speak to Nehemiah like he did Moses And I think it's important to take note of that that there is no grand uh you know um divine interruption in Nehemiah's life telling him exactly what he should do, telling him to go back to Jerusalem, muster the people together and build the wall and the gates. Although I will mention that he does give credit to God in chapter 2 for putting those desires in his heart to do this. But it's not a God-initiated endeavor. It is a Nehemiah-initiated endeavor. However, while these things are true, look what he does next. So these things are true. This is not a an ultra-spiritual thing that Nehemiah wants to do, but what he does next Shows that Nehemiah desperately wants God involved in every step of this process. Thus, Nehemiah's burden, Nehemiah's endeavor was a God's burden, God endeavor as well, because of this fact. While it was not per spiritual per se, he knew he needed his God and cried out to him. And that's the third thing. About having God's perspective. Having God's perspective caused Nehemiah to pray. Now let's go ahead and look at the content of that prayer. Second part of verse 4. I was fasting and praying before the God of heaven, and I said, I pray, Lord God of heaven, O great and awesome God. You who keep your covenant and mercy with those who love you and observe your commandments, please let your ear be attentive and your eyes open. That you may hear the prayer of your servant which I pray before you now, day and night, for the children of Israel, your servants, and confess the sins of the children of Israel which we have sinned against you, both my father's house and I have sinned We have acted very corruptly against you, and have not kept the commandments and the statutes nor the ordinances which you have commanded your servant Moses. Remember, I pray, the word that you commanded your servant Moses saying, If you are unfaithful, I will scatter you among the nations. But if you return to me and keep my commandments And do them, though some of you were cast out to the farthest part of the heavens, yet I will gather them from there and bring them to the place which I have chosen us a dwelling for my name Now these are your servants and your people whom you have redeemed by your great power and by your strong hand. What a tremendous prayer that is. It's interesting to note that the book of Nehemiah opens with prayer, this one here, and it closes with prayer. It is obvious that Nehemiah was a man of faith who depended wholly on the Lord to help him accomplish the work that he believed needed to be done. There's a quote that I came across, and it is stuck with me for years now, and I bring it up here because I think it's very appropriate. Now I will say I don't know who this Scottish novelist is. His name's George McDonald. I have I have no idea what he wrote. Nothing about it at all. Full full disclosure. But he he said this. And whatever man does without God, he must fail miserably, or succeed more miserably. I'll read it again. In whatever man does without God, he must fail miserably, or succeed more miserably. And when I think of that, that flies in the face of a lot of our thinking, especially in our American culture. What does it mean to succeed more miserably? Well, because if it's without God, if God is excluded from our plans, from our endeavors, from our day-to-day activities, Then we are most miserable because we have shut God out of a portion of our life. When we think of what Nehemiah is planning to do, and we place our American mindset on it, it would be very easy to think that this would have had to be done under his own steam. Right? His own willpower. And that that's just how we Americans get things done. But his first his first course of action is to cast prayers upon his God. What do we pray about? This is an important question. What do we pray about? Are our prayers limited to what we think God really cares about? You know, the spiritual stuff. Whatever we do, if it's you know if it's secular, God doesn't need to be included in all of that. Um God's concerned with my spiritual thing needs, not my physical wants and needs. If we have a tendency to exclude God from portions of our lives, what does it mean for us? It could mean all or some of the following. It means, it definitely means that we misunderstand what God thinks is important. Does God only care about the spiritual parts of your life? I would submit to you the answer is no. Matthew 6 talks about him caring for our physical needs and providing for us because we have he talks about how he takes care of the sparrows and the grass of the field. And he tells us that we have much more value than those things. And he takes care of those things. How much more than will he take care of us? So definitely, if we exclude God from portions of our life, we misunderstand what God thinks is important. Also, we think we can hide portions of our lives from God. Now this This always sounds ridiculous when we say it so clearly like that, right? We know God is omn omnipresent. We know he's everywhere. We can't hide from God, right? We look at Adam and Eve when they hid from God and we go, what are you even trying to do? That's pointless You can't hide from God. We would never think that way. But do our thoughts and actions not betray us sometimes? Let me put it this way. If there are quote-unquote unprayed parts of our lives, that may reveal that we hide or don't want to include God in those aspects. Thirdly, if we have a tendency to exclude God from portions of our lives We think that our temporal, secular goals have no eternal value. Now, we'll get back to that a little bit later So how does Nehemiah begin his prayer? I I I the this this section, this portion of his prayer is so amazing. He begins his His prayer by appealing to God's character, his attributes. He calls in verse 5, he calls God great. He calls God awesome. He calls him covenant-keeping. He calls him merciful. How much did Nehemiah need God to be all those things? He he needed that kind of God desperately did he need How much do we need God to be all those things right now? So desperately To what kind of God do we pray when we lift our prayers to the God of heaven? We pray to a great and awesome God according to this verse. Who is worthy of our praise and worship? I ask you this: when are any of these things not true about God? Is he always great? Always awesome? Covenant keeping? Is he always merciful? Are they still true during trying times? Are they still true when you face rejection from others? Are they still true when you when we uh are going through a pandemic? Yes. And for Nehemiah, these truths about God were still true when his people were scattered and unprotected. I don't know all the challenges you might be facing. I've heard of some from some of you. I don't know all the situations you might be in. I don't know all the decisions or actions. That those situations might be causing you to make. There may be endeavors, there may be things that you have to embark on, things you must do. How much? How much will you include God in them? Will you include God in them? Will you believe those attributes of God to remain true throughout? Nehemiah included God in his plans and his endeavors. And he appealed to his character to act, to act on his behalf. However, in this prayer we see the fact that he he he inqu he uh he asks God to be attentive. He asks God to open his eyes to hear the prayer that he has. Like we've already looked at, he places all the blame. for this current situation, on himself, on his household, and his people. And then in verse 8 he says, remember Remember, and he what he call what he calls God to remember, what he asks God to remember is what he said if his people would be unfaithful. But he also in verse nine asks God to remember what he would do if they returned to him. You know, building the walls, rebuilding the gates, very secular in nature, very physical in nature. But look at the spiritual mindset that he has in this prayer. He says, but if you return to me and keep my commandments. And do them, though some of you were cast out to the farthest part of heaven, yet I will gather them from there and bring them to the place which I have chosen as a dwelling by my name. He's he's talking about his own his God's own words. He's saying, if you if we come back to you, I know that you will take care of us. I know that you will protect us. I know that you will bring us back to a place that I have chosen as a dwelling for God's name. So he he knows, he knows God will act. Under those circumstances, Nehemiah is confident that God will do his part. But that doesn't mean Nehemiah is about to sit back and do nothing. Far from it, actually. Fourthly, letter D, having God's perspective caused Nehemiah to desire to act as God gave opportunity. So we've seen having God's perspective has caused Nehemiah to do different things, caused them to inquire, to weep. Um it caused him to pray as the prayer we just saw, but it also it also caused Nehemiah to have a desire to act as God would give the opportunity. Nehemiah was a man who was willing to do something about the problem if he was for afforded the opportunity. Now, the truth is at this point he's got a lot of obstacles. He was hundreds of miles away, and he was working a job that kind of had him stuck. You don't just take a multi-month vacation from being the king's cupbearer, if you will. He needed permission to go on this type of journey, to leave his position of cupbearer for a long time Now, this is incredible because as we thought about just earlier on, we thought, wow, the King's Cupbearer He's I mean he's living the life of luxury, right? He's hundreds of miles from the problems of his people. You'd think that he'd be cool with where he is. But he was ready to sacrifice the comfort and security of the palace for the rigors and dangers of travel. For the rigors and dangers of life in a ruined city. Luxury would be placed by ruins. Prestige, as we'll we'll will we would read about later in chapter two, prestige would be replaced by ridicule And slander. Instead of sharing the king's bounties, Nehemiah would have personally paid for the upkeep of scores of people who would eat at his table. He would leave behind the ease of the palace life and take up the toils of encouraging a beaten people and finishing an almost po impossible task. Now, spoiler alert, he d does finish it. He does finish the the the project. And in kind of what we would probably think of as record time. Now, our time is uh is running out and I I as I said there really is a second portion to this this message. And I can give you that point. It is handling life scenarios biblically must be done through trust and dependence, slash dependence in God. Certainly having God's perspective is a major part in this, but it it's definitely incomplete. And we see that that Nehemiah exercised both of these in his scenario that he found himself in. So as we then wrap things up here, this endeavor that he was able to start and eventually accomplish Nehemiah, it all started with this man who had God's perspective and why the situation was the way it was in the first place, caring like God would care for his people. including God in all portions of his life. And having the will to act if the opportunity arose. Now we'll see we see here at the end of his um of his uh prayer here, let's let's pick up again um Let's start at verse 10. Now these are your servants and your people whom you have redeemed by your great power and by your strong hand. O Lord, I pray, please let your ear be attentive to the prayer of your servant, to the prayer of your servants who desire to fear your name. And let your servant prosper this day, I pray, and grant him mercy in the sight of this man, for I was the king's cup-bearer. You know, if we didn't know, if we didn't know that he was the king's cupbearer, we might have said, Hey, yeah, I mean Nehemiah, just go for it, man. But then, off the twist in the story, we see he can't just leave. And so he asks God to act on his behalf. And he says, Lord, I need you to intervene somehow. I need you to work in a way that I really can't work. I need you to work in the heart of the king. I need you to work in the heart of the situation. So that I can do what must be done, what I think you want me to do, Lord. And so that's his prayer. He was willing to act, but he needed God's help to do it. And you know, it couples a little bit with our conversation this morning in the first hour of does God care about our physical endeavors? Is there really such a thing as a separation between secular and spiritual? And honestly, if if we're to bring this together When it comes to our lives, I don't think we ought to make that distinction. Here's why. As was mentioned before, the Bible says that we're to do all to the glory of God, whether we are eating, drinking, whatever we do. So that's all-encompassing, is it not? I mean, I remember as a younger man thinking, how can you do all things to the glory of God? That doesn't sound right, nor does it sound feasible. But when you look, I think when you look at it from a different point of view, when you realize that God cares for you and every portion of your life. Not just part of it. He wants all of your life. When you give him all of your life, when you include him in every portion of your life, Then there becomes nothing that is secular. It all becomes sacred, if you will. You know, when I talked about earlier, wrapping things up here, you can go ahead and put up those uh those final uh conclusions there. Um We we understand why this world is corrupt like it is, but we must know that that he is in control throughout. We must be caring for people the way God cares for others and for you yourself. We need to be including God in all areas of life because all of life is sacred. And we need to be taking the opportunities that God brings out. And if we can, if we have the opportunity, we act on it Going back to those pitfalls of being self-inwardly focused and go into self-preservation mode and escapism You know, if we are bored with this life that God has given us, with the tasks and responsibilities, with the things now that we can't do, especially during this time of pandemic. Then we have unfortunately, tragically, forgotten how God intends for us to live. We have forgotten the joys that come with living. We have forgotten why we are living. It is such a tragedy when I hear people that are unsatisfied with their lives. Their life is full of complaining. They don't find true purpose while on earth My friends, that that is just a waste of God's gift to them. But in contrast to that, when we are excited about our lives, Full of God's grace and mercy, full of thankfulness to God, when we are ready and willing to go on and experience the next scenario. Plan for the future. Act on the opportunities that God gives us. And we want to include God in all of it. Some of it may be spiritual in nature. But some of it not necessarily, but all of it becomes sacred because we've included God in all of it. We do it because we are enjoying the life that He has given has given us, and we recognize it. We recognize it as His gift to us. And those specific things that we have sometimes and we don't have other times. Things like health. Things like even even big things like vehicles and homes, our families, money, and our estimation, all those things were really gods anyway, right? So while we enjoy them, we we hold those things with a loose grip because those aren't the primary reasons for living. They are the bonuses of life. Those are the expansion packs of life. So when we do that, we are alert. We are aware of what God wants us to be doing. Truly and thankfully, we can have God's perspective in the midst of scenarios, in the midst of life scenarios. And I'm thankful that we can have that vantage point. I'll look at the uh the final comments here and we'll we'll wrap it up. Um Okay. God's purpose, Erica, God's purpose for us isn't accomplished by us hiding away from reality and avoiding all those ra around us. We are called to love others. You can't do that as a hermit on a desert island. Very true. It is more difficult now, there's no doubt about that. But that's very true. A sobering thought, the pitiable position of succeeding without God. This is ultimate failure. Yeah, from Pastor Jim, no doubt. Um to succeed to To not include God is misery, but it's even more miserable to succeed without God. Vanity, vanity, all is vanity from Ecclesiastes. If God is not in there, there is no value. Yeah, that's right. We should not see an outcome of success to automatically mean God has blessed. Seeking to keep God at our center is necessary for true success. That's an excellent way to put that. Yeah, we we we can confuse God's blessing for God's approval in our lives. Perhaps that defines the concept of stewardship. I think it does, yep. We see an important pattern here, burden, prayer, action. Yeah, I think that is uh the I think that we you probably could standardize that for sure. Uh Joey uh um internally asks a question, I ask myself what part of this pattern am I missing? Uh someone says, I miss you guys. It's great. We miss you too, Mason. Um And then yep, everybody's saying we miss him after that, so that's good. All right. Um well uh that concludes uh the message today. I pray that um we would uh take these truths with us and we'll be able to uh talk about them tonight. Why don't I close us in prayer? Father, we are grateful for um the pattern that you have given us here in the life of Nehemiah. And although we didn't cover everything we could have we we would have in a different setting perhaps, we're thankful that Uh we can adopt your perspective as Nehemiah did, and even the points that we didn't get to, that we can trust and rely and depend on you during life scenarios. Um both of those are so key. And I pray, Lord, that we wouldn't lose that, we wouldn't miss that, that um in all of this time We would seek your face, and that we would avoid the pitfalls. Help us, Lord, to be aware if any of if we have fallen already into any of those pitfalls of escapism. of self just mere self-preservation of turning inwardly and uh help us Lord to instead care like you do for others be moved when necessary. I pray that we would understand why we live in the world and the way it is right now. That pray Lord that we would include you in all of the areas of life. Not just the ones that we think you care about, not just the ones that we think are important, but everything. And Lord, as you bring up opportunities, During this time, which you already have in my life and I'm sure you're doing in others. We pray that you help us to be able to act on it if it is in our power to do so. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.