Chapter six this morning, Acts six. Occasionally I like to tell my kids about what it's like what it was like to grow up in the eighties. How many of you all like to talk to your kids about that sometimes? I told for instance yeah eighties, that means I'm young, yeah. So um so sometimes um I'll talk to them and uh I'll talk about uh how there were very few screens in the early 80s. Okay, uh we had one television set in the house And um there were no iPads, there were no iPods, there were no i anything. Um and uh we you know it was a it was it was it was uh very different. So so out sum uh in the summertime, you know what you did out in the summertime? You played outside. All day you would play outside. And um and I used to I used to love to go outside. I I play outside. We'd we play all around the the uh church parking lot. There's a church right down from us And um we would uh I would when I was a little older I'd I'd walk to the Tesco State Park and go fishing. I had a great childhood with that kind of a thing One of the things, you know, you you'd be outside all day long. It's in the hot summer heat. Yes, I know heat is hot. But anyway, um and and you would you would be you would you would be get thirsty and we didn't have water bottles back in those days. So so so we would we found a I would find the best place to quench your thirst in the h in the heat uh is uh to to drink from a cool, clear cold water from a garden hose It was it was it's the best water, I'm telling you. It's if you haven't done that, I I was thinking about this, I ought to go out this week and grab my gar I hadn't drunk it out of a garden hose and A very long time. But uh um, you know, and it tastes better that it tastes better of a garden hose. It's it it probably it's all the m you know microbials and things like that give it some sort of flavor Uh maybe maybe other things. But I mean it's really it's really uh good to say. So so when we were when we were doing that, um occasionally we would uh uh play a trick on each other Come on, how many of you did this? How many of you all drank out of a water hose? I'm curious when you look at this. Look around. It's like unanimous. It's isn't it better? Anyway, okay. So so anyway, so we would uh we would tink the hose. You guys do that? You tink the hose and then you would let it go on the person. Okay, alright, alright. You all know exactly what I'm talking about with this So so in the in the cr Christian life, there are a lot of kinks. And you find that to be the case in the book of Acts as we've gone through it. The flow of the gospel has continued. But as we go through this, there have been kinks that have caused the gospel to not stop, but to slow down until those kinks are dealt with. The first kink that we saw was outside persecution in chapters 3 and 4. They were preaching the gospel faithfully. But the Sanhedrin did not like what they were preaching, and so they were persecuted. You have this kink that threatened the free flow of the gospel. The next kink in the in the hose was inside sin, internal sin. In Acts chapter 5, we learned of the sin of Ananias and Sapphira. That was on the inside. And it threatened to kink the flow of the gospel and the unity of the body. Well, it didn't really threaten the unity of the body of Christ as much as it did the purity of the body of Christ in chapter 5. And then what we're coming to today is the third kink. And that is the kink of administrative disruption. What they're dealing with in this passage, we're going to, and by the way, I'll just say it this way, there is no question. That by God's providence, he is having us deal with this passage right now in the life of our church as well So you have persecution as a possible kink. You have internal sin that needed to be dealt with that that ended up affecting the body. That was the second kink in the in the in the hose, if you will, of the gospel. The third one here is administrative disruption. Now out of the three, let me ask you, out of the three, which one would you prefer? If you had to have one of those, which one would it be? Persecution, sin, or administrative disruption? Yeah, I'll take administrative disruption any day over the other two. So I think it's helpful to really consider that that out of these three, administrative disruptions are the things that we least that we we want them we want uh if we're gonna have some disruption that's the one we want out of the three. What we need to do really to understand uh this passage and and and the point of this passage and and the purpose is let's first read the passage in Acts 6, 1 through 7, and then we'll pray, and then we'll we'll look at some background and understanding how the leadership was set up in Acts 1. And just to see God's progressive revelation in setting up more leadership, let's first read through the passage. It says in verse, uh chapter 6, verse 1. Now, in those days when the number of the disciples was multiplying, there arose a complaint against the Hebrews by the Hellenists, because their widows were neglected in the daily distribution. Then the twelve summoned the multitude of the disciples and said, It is not desirable that we should leave the Word of God and serve tables Therefore, brethren, seek out from among you seven men of good reputation, full of the Holy Spirit and wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business. But we will give ourselves continually to prayer and to the ministry of the Word. And the saying pleased the whole multitude. And they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and the Holy Spirit. And Philip, Procurus, and Nicanor, and Temon, and Parmenus, and Nicholas, a proselyte from Antioch, whom they set before the apostles, and when they had prayed, they laid hands on them Then the word of God spread, and the number of the disciples multiplied greatly in Jerusalem, and a great many of the priests were obedient to the faith. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Lord, as we look at your word this morning, we thank you that we see a church, the Church of Jerusalem, the very first church, that through various obstacles and kinks Worked through them in a way that the gospel could have free course. Lord, it is truly our desire for that to happen in our church as well. We want your word to have free course in our church, in our lives, and into the community. We want your gospel to go forth unhindered And Lord, that means that we've got to understand how this church dealt with these things in order for that to occur, for that to take place. And as the church grows and as we have been growing, there are administrative difficulties that occur and disruptions that happen. And we see from your word how it was dealt with here. And I pray, Lord, that it would help us learn how to how to deal with things in our midst as well. Lord, our desire is that the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ would continue. And to that end, I pray that you would teach us what we need to understand about this passage. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. To help us understand what's going on here, I think we need a little bit of background as to what the existing leadership before this point looked like. If you go back to Acts chapter one, you find that there were twelve men, there were eleven. uh and then twelve including the man Matthias that they elected to be one of them, there were twelve apostles. These apostles were commissioned to be witnesses for Christ. And one of the qualifications of an apostle was in Acts chapter 1, verses 1 through 21, or 21 through 23. One of the qualifications was that they had to witness the resurrection of Christ. They had to witness the bodily resurrection of Christ. And so that was the established apostleship. That was the established leadership in the early church in Jerusalem. chapter 1. And we find that they are performing all kinds of different leadership acts throughout chapters 1 through 5. And we're going to see more about what they did, but I want to make a couple of connections for you in the New Testament to help us to understand how this passage applies in our context as well. I'd like you to take your Bibles and you keep your finger in chapter six of Acts, but would you take your Bibles and turn to Ephesians chapter 4 for a moment I want you to see a very foundational passage. We are in in Acts 6, the foundational passage to understand the role of deacons. But I want to take you to a foundational passage first to help us to understand the role of another kind of leadership. They were called gifts in the early church in Ephesians chapter 4. And you'll see here, picking up in verse 11. I want you to notice a couple of things about them. The very first group of leadership, there are four here, but you'll see here, chapter four, verse eleven. And he himself gave some to be what? He gave some to be apostles. Now, what is the qualification to be an apostle according to Acts chapter 1? It is that you have to do what? You have to witness the resurrection. That means that there are no more apostles. That the original twelve, or you can add thirteen with Paul, because he witnessed Christ on the road to the Damascus. The original apostles were those 13, and then after that, you don't have any more apostles because you don't have anybody witnessing the resurrection of Christ anymore, the bodily resurrection of Christ. It says, also you have some prophets. Prophets were those who revealed truth. They gave forth revelation. You have uh prophets that were in the first century, but after the complete completion of Scripture, all of the prophecy you need is in this book. And so you have those that fall off the scene as well. Then you have some evangelists. And some pastors and teachers. Now, I want to make a distinction between an apostle and a pastor, and really you could put the word pastor-teacher together here. Uh there is a a grammatical rule that allows you to do that in the Greek. And I think very very likely that's how it should be taken. Some take it separate those pastor and teacher separately. I think it they really are supposed to go together, pastor, teacher. The main one that I want to mention here and make the connection between is these apostles and pastor teachers. And I want you to notice the distinction, but also the connection. The distinction is that the apostles had to witness the resurrection, and the pastor teacher doesn't have to do that. But what I want you to notice is that they have the same job description. And that's found in the next verses, 4. 12. For the equipping of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ. So pastors and apostles were there to equip the saints for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ. What's the goal, verse 13? To we all come to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God to a perfect man, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. In other words, we're supposed to, pastor teachers are supposed to help people And equip them in ministry, which is in turn intended to peep bring people to a place of spiritual maturity. Verse 14. That we should no longer be children tossed to and fro and carried about with every wind of doctrine by the trickery of men and cunning craftiness of deceitful plotting. The point I simply want to make here is that you have the same job description for the apostle, the prophet, the evangelist, and the pastor-teacher in this text. And it makes this connection then when we come to Acts chapter 6 that you'll see. I want to go a step further and I want to note a couple of things about this whole idea of pastors. In 1 Peter 5, verse 1, it says, The elders which are among you, I exhort. And Peter, who was an apostle, also says, who am a fellow elder and a witness of the sufferings of the Christ, and also a partaker of the glory that will be revealed. Now we know from first from tit from 1 Peter as well as Titus that the that the office of pastor And bishop, which is overseer, that is, he oversees all aspects of the ministry. We find that from 1 Timothy chapter 3. And elder are all the same office. But we have here Peter saying, who is the apostle, that he is also what? He is also a an he's an elder or he's a pastor. So the apostles then folks were were apostles, but they were also pastors. They were also elders from what Peter says here. Then you also find that the Apostle Paul tells Titus, who is a pastor/slash elder, same thing, pastor, elder, bishop Tells Titus to equip or to appoint elders. He says in Titus 1:5, For this reason I left you in Crete, that you should set in order the things that are lacking and appoint Elders in every city as I commanded you. The point that I'm making with all of this is to kind of give us a background to help us to understand That God's intention was that apostles, and we see this in the book of Acts clearly as it's laid out, are going to appoint elders and pastors and It's all the same office. So we'll just use the word pastors as we're used to that. Although it's only mentioned pastors only mentioned once in the New Testament. You have elders and bishops that are mentioned far more often. Anyway, we'll use the word pastor because we're familiar with that, but basically then you have apostles who appoint pastors in the book of Acts. And and um and of course they have apostolic authority in order to do that. Let me also mention this. You'll notice as we read those texts that we've already read or mentioned, That every time the word elder is mentioned, it's always plural. Every single time. There does seem to be the intention That there is a that as a church grows, there is a need for more than one pastor or more than one elder. And there is a great benefit to that. If the Lord provides men who are qualified to be in that position, then that is something that is a benefit. In fact, in the book of Acts, you rarely ever see a man unilaterally leading a church without the cooperation of other people. You do have the model of a senior pastor in the book of in the book of Acts as well as the New Testament. You have James, who is the pastor, who is leading the rest of the of the leadership in Acts chapter 15 when we get there. You have Timothy, who is leading the eldership in first in the book of Timothy as well. So you definitely have that. But the idea, that God's idea is that there are that as a church grows, that there is a group of people, of leaders in a church with a head among equals, if you will, that is able to lead the congregation. And that is essentially what you have in Acts 1 through 5. You have these apostles, they are doing everything together. They're preaching the word. They are ministering the word, but they are doing other tasks as well, as you'll see in a few moments. This is all necessary for us to understand what we are dealing with when we come to this chapter. In Acts chapter 6, verse 1, then we have an issue that arises. I want us to notice, first of all, this particular issue happens. It is an administrative disruption And you'll see here in the passage that it says that a number of the disciples were multiplying. That means that the church was growing. And there are that you could definitely trace that throughout the book of Acts. For example, in chapter 2, verse 41, you have 3,000 people. In 4. 4, you have 5,000 people. And it continues, the number continues to grow that likely in the book of Acts in Jerusalem at this point you have probably around 10,000 people that are in the church of Jerusalem. That is 10%, by the way, of Jerusalem, which was roughly about 100,000 people. So you have a large amount of people that the apostles are attempting to lead at this point. And basically essentially what it's saying here is that they are growing beyond their capacity to be able to meet and to minister to all the needs in the congregation. And as a result, there arose a complaint against the Hebrews by the Hellenists. Now, it's important then for us to understand a couple of other things about what's going on here. Not only was the church experiencing significant growth, but so far the church was also experiencing a great deal of unity. You find in verses in chapters one through five five times the word one accord is used For instance, in chapter 2, verse 46, it says, so continually continuing daily with one accord in a temple. And you see this throughout the book of Acts up to this point, that there is a constant unity that is maintained throughout this book so far. And folks, what you have here is a disruption that I think is possibly going to run the risk of causing disunity in the body. Because what you have are two different groups of people. One group is a group that has resided in Jerusalem for their entire lives, more than likely. They spoke Hebrew. They followed most of the Hebrew customs as much as they could and still retained their Christian faith. So you have this group of Hebrew people here. You have another group though that come from what we call the diaspora that I've mentioned in the past. The diaspora come from all kinds of uh of the Roman Empire. They when the Roman Empire Empire came in They dispersed the Jewish people into different areas, and then they would make pilgrimages back for different different um feasts. And the last feast that they made a pilgrim pilgrimage to was the Feast of Pentecost, as you know. But many of the diaspora this time at the Feast of Pentecost came to Christ. And when they came to Christ, there were no churches anywhere else except in Jerusalem. And so they had to stay in Jerusalem And that's why you find many of the the the needs, the physical needs are even being met among the people, because there was this need that obviously these folks didn't have vocations, they weren't farming land, those kinds of things in Jerusalem, but they wanted to stay unified and together to worship the Lord. And God's going to actually deal with that later on and disperse them again. But at this point, God's intention was them to be to remain unified. But if during this time you have this increased number and the bottom line is they're having a hard time understanding how this is all going to continue to have all the needs met. And the problem was is that the Greek-speaking Jewish people That were from the diaspora that were not originally in Jerusalem, those people were getting neglected, particularly the widows among those people were becoming neglected. That was the problem. And it was going to, it was running the risk of disrupting unity. Now I need to mention something about unity for a minute here. We've mentioned unity already. The fact that they were maintaining unity at this point there was a possibility of the unity being threatened. And I want to reiterate, though, this that unity does not come from, biblical unity does not come from having things organized correctly. Biblical unity comes from Ephesians chapter 4, verses 1 through 3. It's the very character of God. In that passage, it says, I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you to walk worthy of the calling with which you are called. With all lowliness and gentleness, with long-suffering, bearing one another in love, endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. It will go on to say that there is one God and one Father, one baptism, and one faith, and all those kinds of things. In other words, our oneness as a body of believers does not come from organizational coherence. It comes from the Spirit of God working in our lives to to give us a commonality in the gospel, a commonality in in having one faith and praying to one God and having a relationship one with another. Those that is the basis of unity. However, the basis of unity is that But disorganization can cause disruption and unity. It can threaten unity. Now it ought not, it ought not, if you if everybody's the basis of unity is really Ephesians 4. It ought not uh thwart unity, but it's going it can run the risk of causing a disruption. I think as I look at this passage, if the if the apostles, the leaders of this church chose to do nothing about what was happening I think very likely you would have had a church split, then that's my opinion. I think probably that's what you would have had in that case. You would have had the Greek-speaking Jews that was it, okay, we will take care of ourselves, we'll form our own leadership. And we are going to split off from the Church of Jerusalem. Or the leadership could have actually said, well, why don't you, why don't we, why don't we split you off? And they could have had the second church at Jerusalem at that point, the second apostolic church of Jerusalem at that point. But in this particular case, God's desire was for these folks to remain unified for likely this reason. The gospel is not intended to be focused in on one ethnic group. This is something we have to be careful of in America. The gospel is not inherently American. The gospel is not intended to be that way. The gospel is to service every tribe and nation. And that was God's intention from the very beginning. That's why you have all of these people from every kindred tribe and nation. That are gathering, uh, they were gathering in Pentecost, and you see this happening, and the Gentiles are going to the gospel's going to go to the Gentiles soon. That was God's intention with the gospel after the ascension of Christ. So it's very important that we understand that the reason that this was maintained was because you do not want disunity among ethnic groups. There's no problem with having different churches. But it should not be split. God's intention is not for it to be split among ethnic groups at all. The gospel, there's one gospel, and there ought to be one people as a result of that. So the leadership of the church, then, the apostles, had to deal with the problem. They could not pass it off They could not let it go. They couldn't say, well, I'm just going to sweep this under the rug. The leadership of the church had to deal with the problem. By the way, that is what you have throughout the book of Acts. You always have pro-active leadership. In the book in chapter 5, when we saw Anas and Sapphira, you see Peter, who is going to deal with the problem. He's not going to take a passive role to what is going on. He's going to take an active role in dealing with the problem. And the same thing you see here where the apostles are going to take an active role in dealing with the problem. One thing to note as well It says that there was a complaint or a murmuring that was happening among these people, the Hellenistic, the Greek-speaking Jewish widows. That's significant because of this. This word is used most of the time in the New Testament negatively. For example, in Philippians chapter 2 verse 14, it says, do all things without murmuring or complaining and disputing. You have the same, you have an intense word that's used in Hebrews. I'm sorry, in the book of uh the language of Hebrew in Numbers 1427. You remember when the congregation complained to Moses? It's the same word, it's the Hebrew equivalent of the same word here. So it is naive to think that when it says complaint here, that there wasn't some kind of negative and negative connotation with this. In other words, these people were complaining. And although their complaint was legitimate, it's very likely by the way that this word is used that it was also clearly a complaint. Perhaps the tone wasn't exactly the way it should be. Perhaps the problem, the murmuring that was happening was something that was that was difficult to deal with. I think very likely that was the case. The apostles still had to choose to deal with the problem. And you'll see in chapter in verse 2 that they're going to do this. And the way that they do it is they're going to gather people together. Then the twelve summon the multitude of the disciples and said And that's important because when you have a a problem that affects the entire congregation, then usually the way you deal with that problem is that you've got to get everybody together and get them on the same page. And that's what this leadership is willing to do, and that's exactly what they did. They dealt with the problem. By the way, I'll just say this. A leader cannot call himself a leader if he's not willing to deal with problems. If there is a lack of ability to confront, if there's a lack of ability to um if there's a shying away of doing those kinds of things, then then then that kind of person is not really ready for leadership. I have, this is the case whether you're in, if you're a father in a home, you have to provide leadership in your home. You have to be the one who says, I'm going to deal with this problem or that problem. Many Christian homes are not what they ought to be because there is a vacuum of leadership in the home. And the father is not willing to take the lead, not willing to deal with the problem in the home. And there are other reasons why things break down in the home as well. Certainly the same way in the church as well. Problems must be dealt with. Then what you see here in this passage is that they're going to to deal with the problem in a very specific way. The leadership here is going to make sure that when they deal with the problem, that they're not going to compromise biblical priorities in the process. Look at what it says in verse 2. Then the twelve summoned uh the multitude of the disciples and said It is not desirable or pleasing that you should leave the word or that we should leave the word of God and serve tables. So they say to the group of people that are there, the congregation, whatever solution we come up with, it shouldn't be a solution That we leave what we're doing in the preaching and the teaching of the word and the dedication to the word in order to deal with these practical issues. He said it's not pleasing for us to do that. Now, up to this point, that is, the apostles have been dealing with all of this. And in fact you find that, for example, Barnabas in in chapter four, the end of chapter four, Barnabas is coming to the apostles and laying money at their feet or uh to to to then distribute. So so far that's they've been doing this. They've been doing the physical kinds of things in the church. They have been meeting both the spiritual needs and the physical needs But they're essentially saying here now that they need help on the physical end, the practical end, so that they do not compromise focus on the Word of God Now, I want us to understand how easy it is for pastoral leadership to get focused on the practical things. How many of you have ever before, and I'm going to put in terms that you that that you'll understand? How many of you will all have ever before personally Didn't do your personal devotions in the morning because there was some practical, urgent thing that had to be done. How many of you all would say, okay, I appreciate some of you honest folks that raise their hand. All of us folks at one time or another have chosen not to do something that is that is Not to do your devotions in the morning because of some urgent practical need. The truth of the matter is those things that are practical are often more urgent than the things that are spiritual In fact, maybe always they're more urgent than the things that are spiritual. Maybe not always, not always, but often. But here's one thing: they're not more important. Did you catch that? There is, folks, a difference between urgent and important. And although the practical things tend to take urgency, The important things are the things that are spiritual. Now, that doesn't mean the practical is not important. They all have to be done. But it's very easy for leadership to be occupied with the practical And compromise the spiritual if it's not if they're not careful. It's easy for me to do this. And that's why the need, there is a need for the office of the deacon The role of the deacon is to relieve the pastor or pastors from the practical needs. So that they can do, they can, so that the pastor, pastors can continue to minister the word. So they become a very vital thing, a very vital office in a church. And the larger a church grows, The more that this is necessary. So you'll notice that this is what they propose to this congregation. Verse 3: Therefore, brethren, seek out from among you seven men of good reputation. Full of the Holy Spirit and wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business So they say to the congregation, and it seems that they particularly say to the Greek-speaking Jewish people, they're running into the problem. Search out from among you people that are going to be able to help you with this, to deal with this problem, so that we do not leave the ministry of the word. Now why do we say it's the Greek-speaking people? One of the reasons is you'll see all of these names of people, they're all Greek names, Stephen and Philip and all those. So that's one reason it's very likely that that's what happened here. And the whole idea is that the the the role of the deacon takes place in order for the pastor or pastors to be able to continue to do the spiritual work. Now this does not mean that no longer does a pastor do physical work or do administrative kinds of things. In fact, in one passage, actually Paul tells Timothy to be a deacon. Sort of interesting. To do the work of a deacon, to minister to diakonos. And you have the term overseer in Scripture that clearly indicates that a pastor or pastors is, they're supposed to be overseeing everything. But the deacons are there in order to help in this case. And let me give you an example of a very biblical question that one deacon asked me once. I'll tell you who it was. It was Enrique about three years ago. I didn't ask his permission to do this, but I think he'll be okay with it. He came to me, where are you, Amrique? Okay. He came to me about three years ago and he said it was just one time, a particular busy time in our ministry. Uh and he said um maybe it was I don't know three years, four years, something like that. He said to me, he said, um number one, how are you doing? And I said fine, because that's what I say when people ask how are you doing. And then he said um he said to me, are you getting enough time to study? My immediate response was, does it look like I'm not? Like am I preaching in a way that it That uh that seems like it's not the case. She he said he said, Oh no, no, no. It's that's not it at all. That's not a that's not a problem. He just said, I just want to make sure that you are having enough spending you know, he's a deacon, he wanna make sure that I'm spending enough time in my study, studying the word, that I'm not being preoccupied with with physical things to the point where I am neglecting the study of the word. Can I tell you that that kind of thing Is good for a deacon to ask his pastor. And to be willing, a deacon needs to be willing to take on physical responsibilities so that the pastor does not get into a place where he is shirking spiritual responsibilities. And I have seen this happen in churches before. I try personally not to allow this to happen. There is a reason that on Thursdays that I do not even come into this building. Because every time I walk into this building, I see 5,000 things that need to get done. And so I walk in the building and I need to be done with another you know, I I start going through it. So on s on Thursdays I don't come into the building On Thursdays I get up early in the morning and I go down to my study in my office and I study from there and I study all day long and I try. I usually put my phone on Do Not Disturb so if you don't hear a call, if you don't get If I don't get your call right away on Thursdays, that's why. Um and and and so I try to to just whatever else is happening, that day is set aside for that. Because I have seen pastors that this happens, they just become so preoccupied with physical things, with the building and all the all kinds of those things. And I'll just tell you by personal experience that that could happen here. That there is that possibility. That's why we need deacons. who who are able to help the pastor or pastors in the ministry here. And as we grow We're going to continue to need those kinds of folks, those kinds of men who follow these things. They are of good reputation. They can be witnessed being faithful to their families and being faithful to the to the work of the ministry and service of the Lord. And you have this other qualification here of being filled. With uh filled with the Spirit and filled with the wisdom. In other words, they're under the influence of the Spirit of God in their lives. There is a consistent spiritual walk. And there is a wise way of making decisions in their lives. Now I I want you to notice this as well. It says, I love the way this is this is phrased here. And as a pastor, it really stands out to me. It says here in verse 3. It says, whom we have appointed over business, but we will give ourselves continually to prayer and the ministry of the word. The word give ourselves there could be translated. We will persevere. In prayer and the ministry of the word. Means to continue steadfastly. In fact, it's often translated that way. To give constant attention to, to persevere. And I can think in my life as a pastor, it is very easy for me, just personally, to get occupied with physical things that need to be done around here. Or these outside the bod uh outside the physical plant, the needs of the body that that need to need to be taken care of just in in people's homes. Things like that. And there has to be this kind, for a for a pastor, there has to be this kind of resolve. that I'm going to persevere in prayer and study no matter what, even if I've got to let things go. Now it doesn't mean I can't let things I gotta deal with things too. My job's a little hard, honestly. So on one hand I gotta deal with things. The leadership is very clear we've got to deal with things. You can't be a leader and not deal with things On the other hand, I've got to persevere in the preparation of the word and the study of the word and the teaching of the word and ministering of the word. In fact, this word minister isn't interesting. The ministry of the word here is the word diakonos. I need to deacon the word, if you will, is what it says here. I need to serve the word. Now what does that mean? It means that I'm going to be faithful in preparation of the word. But not only that, I'm going to be faithful in biblical counseling, in teaching people, in preaching to people, in answering questions biblically. I've uh recently I've had quite a few people ask questions, biblical questions of me. uh emails or other things. I that is that's what I s that I love doing answering those questions. And that's what I some of that's the kind of thing that I ought to be doing in the ministry is is is Deaconing the Word, if you will, serving the Word. And also in prayer. It's important for me to Stay focused on praying for people. Sometimes, if I'm not careful, I can be so focused on the physical needs of the plant that I'm not praying for people that I ought to. And I have to be careful about that. So you have this passage that that tells us that they are going to choose to persevere in prayer and the ministry of the word. And so there's got to be, in this case, people that are going to come and help so that that can continue to happen. In 1 Timothy 5, verse 17, it says, Let the elders who rule well be counted worthy of double honor, especially those who labor in the word and in doctrine. Then we find in chapter, as we continue here, we'll see that there is the community, they hear this, the congregation hears this, and that's exactly what they do. They take the apostles leadership here and they do what the apostles say to do here. Verse 5, and the saying pleased the whole con multitude. And they chose And you have the list of these men that they chose. All of these men are Greek-speaking. Now there are two that that stand out. The first one is Stephen. Stephen, it says, is a man full of faith and the Holy Spirit. Now all of them were, because that's that was the qualifications for them to be able to take this role. But it seems as though Stephen particularly stood out. And Luke is going to put this in there because the man that's going to actually rise to the scene here, and he's going to be preaching to the Sanhedrin, and he's going to end up being the first martyr, is Stephen himself. You have Philip here as well, who's mentioned, and Philip is going to be used to lead to Christ the Ethiopian eunuch as well. The rest of the deacons here are good there's no mention of them in the rest of the New Testament. We don't know we don't know what they did exactly, but we also have no reason to believe that they did anything but what they were supposed to do. So very likely they were these un unsung heroes. that continued to allow the leadership of this church to continue to preach the gospel faithfully. Then we find here in verse 7 it says, because of well, first of all, they laid hands on them. And laying hands is used a lot of different ways throughout the Old Testament and the New Testament. I think the best way to understand this is simply that they approved, the apostles approved of the people that were elected. There was this approval of them and sort of a sign of acceptance of them. And then we find in verse 7, and this is another major and majorly important thing, that the these leaders proposed a solution. that resulted in the continued growth of the gospel. Notice what it says. Verse 7 says, that the word of God did what? The word of God was content- was it spread. And the number of the disciples multiplied greatly in Jerusalem. And a great many of the priests were obedient to faith. Do you see something there? That is God's church growth plan. Do you know what God's church growth plan is? That the word of God would be spread, and that growth would happen as the Word of God The word here is should should probably cause us to think of when Christ uh used the word in association with the seed that was planted. And some of it came up and some of it were were came on throwing grounds and sunny grounds. Well the seed goes in and it sp and it expands, it spreads out. And the result of that was that many more disciples came to Christ, many more followers of Christ came about, and the church continued to grow. In other words, The free flow of the gospel was able to continue unkinked. Why? Because the administrative disruptions were solved through the office of the deacon. That's important for us to understand. We see this then, it says in the passage, this last part of this, it says that priests started coming to Christ. Why is that first saw that I thought well why is why is Luke mentioned this here? Why why are these priests mentioned here in this passage Very likely it's because, and we find from Josephus, a church historian in the first century, not a church historian, but a historian in the first century. There was a great um there rose a great uh problem between the chief priests and the priests in that day. The chief priests were at odds with the priests, and the chief priests were lording over the more common priests that were in the rural areas. In fact, it got so bad that the chief priests would hire people to go to the threshing floors of these places in the rural areas. and to take the tithes from these threshing floors to to uh to withhold them from the priests and the priests were actually starving. as a result of what was happening with the chief priests and all this going on here. So the priests, these priests were probably going hungry. Very likely what was happening here is that the priest observed how the church was taking care of its people. that the leaders and the deacons were taking care of the flock and the physical needs even of the flock so well. I don't think the priests were doing it uh th there's no indication of the pastor the priests were doing it just so they could get fed But very likely what was happening was they were so impressed by what was taking place that they wanted to come to Christ. They saw how Christians treat each other. And it caused them to want to come to Christ as well. So what do we learn from all of this? Let's kind of put all of this together. Number one Unity is not built on administrative order. It's not built on that. But administrative disorder can disrupt unity So you have to deal with administrative things, and things have to be to be organized so that the gospel can go forward and so that unity does not run the risk of being disrupted Number two, the gospel growth results in administrative disruption. In other words, when there is growth You will find that administration cause administration has to be done and there are disruptions in administration. And I can think of I can think over the last six years that I've been at Bethel And we started with 15 people. And now, 15, 20 people maybe. And now we are a lot more than that. And even in the last few months we've we've grown, we've got we've taken five families, five uh families into membership recently, and there are more that are interested as well And I look at all of that and you and you look and I can see points in time in the last six years where there was growth and then there was administrative disruption where everything seemed to go kind of crazy for a little while And then we had to set things in order and fix things, and then things for a while went smoothly. And then and then more growth happened and things kind of went a little crazy. And then we were able to fix things and get things and then things went smoothly. Right now, can I tell you, we're in a little bit of a crazy time. We're right before fall. Uh we're setting up ministries, we're doing things that the uh we're trying to get the internet and we just got the internet installed downstairs There's all kinds of things. The air conditioner, you guys don't know this, but now you do. The air conditioner on this side didn't work this morning. Thankfully it's not too hot today. All kinds of things are going on behind the scenes that are a little bit kind of crazy right now What do we have to do? Well we have to, as leaders, we've got to set things right. We've got to deal with what needs to be dealt with. And by God's grace, we will. And when we do, when things get settled down, get get figured out and we we are able, then we will be able to continue to have the gospel. And it's not like we stop preaching the gospel. But we want to look ahead and see the kink there and we want to get the kink out. And so we're working on different things administratively. I'm looking I'm looking personally very much afford to uh to fall because things everybody will be back from vacation. Probably not, but but could p theoretically we'd be back from vacation and and and we'll have schedules in order. I like order. Are you guys like you some of you guys don't like I don't think some of you guys could care less. But most but some of us like order and we kinda go nuts when there's not. So so I'm looking forward to things getting back in order And uh I think things will be much much more run much smoothly. And and by the way, this is totally for free, but I am really thankful for the Lord, for how the Lord has provided certain people I won't go mentioning names right now, but certain people to help us get things in order. As we grow, you've got to have administrative people to be able to put things in order. So that the gospel can continue to grow, and I'm thankful for the people that are helping us do that. Number three, God ordained the office of deacon to help pastors. Give primary focus to prayer and ministry of the Word. Deacons, I'll just mention that to you, just as a reminder. What is your role? That's your role. Your primary role is that. And um I'll just I and so I appreciate um some of our deacons who who really do I can see that happening and they're they caught they think about this and and and are a aware of this So that is something just to all of us for all of us to be reminded of as well. Let's go to the Lord in prayer Father, we come to you and we thank you for your word. We thank you that it always exalts the gospel. Although we have not gone through the the details of the gospel this morning, I pray that as we have looked at your word and seen what it says, that it would it would help us to realize What we must keep as our main thing, what must be the purpose of everything, and that is that the gospel would be freely preached to all, that we would live the gospel. That we would speak the gospel, that that would just continue to be our focus. And Lord, I pray that you'd help us with administrative areas that we need to take care of so that we can continue. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen.