Three this morning, John chapter three, and I really can't think of a better chapter and a better passage to follow um the emphasis that we have been placing on the birth and the incarnation of Christ. And you'll see that as we go through this passage this morning, I hope. When I was around 16 years old, my mother gave me a book that was very influential to me. It was written November 26, 1996. And it was entitled Gifted Hands. It is a book written by Ben Carson about the life of Ben Carson. I probably should say that this is in no way a political endorsement. I'm it's actually illegal to do that from the pulpit and that's not what this is, and I'm not really sure who I'm voting for at this point. to be honest with you. But it is a very c was a very compelling story of a young man. who grew up in a broken home in a very poor area in Detroit, Michigan, and rose to become the leading neurosurgeon in our in the United States. And it is it was a very compelling story for me. It was a very influential story in my life because here was a man who, though don't know that he would actually be a a a born again believer or not, would have to talk to him personally to know to to have an idea about that. But but he certainly um gave the credit to the Lord for what for what uh God did through him. As being the leading neurosurgeon, his accomplishments are quite extensive. But even a more compelling story Far more. In fact, it's not even really a good comparison. Is the story of a Jewish young boy who grew up in a poor family. Probably a family that was under the suspicion of the people around him because of the quote-unquote shady conception with which he came to earth. And this young boy grew up in this home. And how on earth would he emerge? As the king of Israel and the king of the world, in fact. How would that occur? How would that increase of influence happen The location with which he grew up was Nazareth. And Nathaniel, if you recall, over in John chapter 1, when he heard about this man, verse 46, he said, Can there any good thing come out of Nazareth? And so this idea of this young boy who grew up in a poor home who who was uh grew up in Nazareth, which was considered To be just a low area, just a low, nothing really good comes out of there, emerges as the great influence that he is to this day. Of course, he is our Savior, and we know that. But if you just put yourself back in the first century when this occurred, how this came about, this increase of influence came about. is is quite compelling. And God used one particular man to see this include to to to uh to facilitate the increase of this influence, and that man's name was John the Baptist. The passage that we're going to be looking at looking at today has a couple of different significance is. I'm not sure I said that right, but anyway. One significance is to see how this passage is going to demonstrate exactly how Christ came into increase in his influence. But another significance is is how this came to be practically. This is all this passage was building up from chapter 2, verse 1, all the way through this passage. For instance, in chapter 2, verses 1 through 11, you'll recall that the water and the water turning water into wine, that narrative. And what occurred there? Well, Jesus used jars of purification. That's for the jars he used. And he essentially, by enacting that miracle, he essentially rendered them obsolete. But he didn't stop there. The next passage we find him in the temple. And he is in the temple, and what does he do? Well He runs the money changers and the doves and the sacrifices, the people selling the sacrifices out of the temple. And he says that there's a greater temple coming, which was Christ himself, is the temple. And so he really, in a sense, diminishes the importance of the temple, which would have been the pinnacle of worship for the nation of Israel. And then when a great leader of Israel comes to him, a rabbi, a teacher of the nation of Israel comes to him, he de-emphasizes any kind of physical uh ritual of any kind, and he says, you must be born again of the Spirit. He says that to Nicodemus. Christ is really, when he comes and he's rising in in influence He's doing so by challenging the status quo of the day in that first century. He's doing so by challenging some of the rituals and some of the purification uh techniques and those kinds of things that occurred in the nation of Israel that they began to really place their trust and faith in. He challenges those things And that is, to some degree, how he's going to increase in his influence. But it doesn't just end there. If you think of the ministry of John the Baptist, and John, the gospel writer of John, has really talked a lot about the influence of John the Baptist. He's mentioned it several times in various passages, as we've already discovered. The reason that he mentions John the Baptist so much is because John the Baptist was so integral in Christ gaining influence and increasing in his influence. Christ, if you'll recall, in fact, I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn there to Matthew chapter 11. I want you to see in Matthew chapter 11 what Christ is going to say about this man, John the Baptist. We have looked at this passage before, but I don't think I actually asked you to turn there in the past. I just want you to see this. Matthew chapter 11, verse 11, it says, Verily I say unto you, Among them that are born of women. Now let's just pause for a minute. He says, who is born of women? Everyone. All are born of women. Verily I say unto you, among them that are born of women, there hath not risen a greater than who? John the Baptist. I mean, you consider all the patriarchs of the Old Testament. You consider all of the of the people that were in Jesus' time that had great influence. And Christ says up to that point. Perhaps it wouldn't include Peter or the Apostle Paul or the twelve apostles that inaugurated the first century church. But up to that point Christ says, of those born of women, he's the greatest. John the Baptist is the greatest. Why? Why was John the Baptist the greatest? It was because he led the way for Christ. There can't be any question about that. So for us, there is this practical significance to this passage. Not only do we see how Christ emerged. as the great influence that he was and that he will continue to be and ultimately will even be in a greater way when he mediates his kingdom in the thousand-year millennial kingdom when he comes back But also what John's role in this is. But on a practical level, we're going to learn from his example what our role can be. And that is of great significance because John is going to say in the 30th verse of this chapter, he must increase, and I must decrease. And you know, folks, at the very outset of this passage, and as we go through this, I want us to just grasp this: that that ought to be the heart's cry of every believer. It ought to be the desire of every believer that Christ increases and that self decreases. There have been many, this very short verse have has had great influence over the lives of many Christians over the years. One of which was most notable was Jim Elliott, who of course died as a martyr reaching the Alca Indians. And John, and he writes in his journal, Jim Elliott does, about this verse, and just adopts this verse as his desire for his life, that Christ would increase, but that he would decrease. And there is a sense in which, in order for the influence of Christ to increase through us, Self must decrease, won't it? It's got to happen that way. And so when we look at this passage, what's it's going to really help us To look at the example of John as he responds to the emerging influence of Christ and to the fact that he is going to have to now decrease in his influence. Over the lives of people in the nation of Israel during that time. And we're going to learn how personally we can have this kind of thing happen in our lives. First, let's go to the Lord in prayer and ask his blessing on our time together. Father, as we look at your word this morning, I pray that you would really teach us. Teach us how to increase your influence through us in the lives of others. Teach us how to decrease ourselves. It is so easy for us in our own flesh to do the exact opposite. We are all guilty of it. And yet, if we're really going to fulfill the purpose that you created us and that you saved us to glorify you, To magnify you. It is going to be only as we increase Christ in our lives and in the lives of others. I pray, Lord, that you would work on our hearts, not just on our minds. Much of the information that is I'm going to be given out today will not particularly be new information, but it is information that we need to remember, that we need to be exhorted with, that we need to be convicted by I pray, Lord, that you would work in us through your word in a way that only you can do, as your truth is expressed. May we, may it affect our hearts. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. We pick up here in verse 22, and we'll read a couple of verses to begin to see the opening up of this narrative. In verse 22 of John chapter 3 it says, After these things came Jesus and his disciples into the land of Judea. And there he tarried with them and baptized. And John also was baptizing in Aeon. near to him Selim, because there was much water there, and they came and were baptized. For John was not yet cast into prison Then there arose a question between some of John's disciples and the Jews about purifying. And they came unto John and said unto him, Rabbi, He that was with thee beyond Jordan, to whom thou bearest witness, behold, the same baptizeth, and all men come to him. What we see here in this narrative is John, or is Christ and his disciples begin to go around and to baptize people. There was a point in the life of Christ where that was John's duty, and that was John the Baptist, that was what he was doing, and really Jesus wasn't doing any baptizing. John and his disciples that were doing the baptizing. But now Jesus is baptizing, and his disciples are baptizing. It says that they were baptizing in Judea. If you would, yeah, just put that up, Tony. You see where Judea is on that map, and Christ began to baptize rather, and his disciples apparently began to baptize rather prolifically. John was continuing to baptize. He was baptizing. It's sort of under debate where this location was. We don't find it anywhere else in the New Testament. But They're pretty sure that it was right next to the Jordan River in Samaria, which was between Galilee and Judea. And so what we find here in this passage is that they're in one location. Christ and his disciples are in one location. And John and his disciples are in another location. And there comes about a dispute. Now, one of the things that John recognizes, John the writer of John, it's always a little confused. I've got to make sure we understand. which John we're talking about here, but John the writer of John wants to point out in his narrative here was that this is before John was imprisoned. And he's not doing that just because, you know, to state the obvious. Of course, if he's baptizing people, he's not in prison. He's doing that to identify the fact that this really This accounting of things is unique to this epistle. The other epistles don't really describe in any kind of narrative fashion John the Baptist's ministry. In the other synoptic gospels. They'll mention John the Baptist, but they don't really talk about what he did and how he did it. And so this is new information that John is giving at this point in this passage, and he points that out here. And apparently there is this dispute among John's disciples and the Jews Some think that this should be translated a Jew. It's debatable as to whether this is actually singular or plural. But either way, there was this debate, and it says the debate was on the issue of purifying. And there's a lot of question as to what this purifying has to do with. What is this purifying talking about? Of course, if you know anything about the law in the Old Testament. It says a lot about purifying and making sure that things aren't defiled. They were very concerned about the presence of God around the tabernacle and later on the temple being defiled. And so there are all kinds of ceremonies and rules that were in place that were actually by God's design. And there are a lot of different views on what this purifying is in this passage. It's possible that what occurred was that Jesus and his disciples were not were not following some of the ceremonial laws of the Old Testament at this point. And so the Jews were coming to John's disciples to dispute what was going on. That's a possibility, but I actually think that there's something else going on in this passage. You may recall from a couple of weeks ago where we discussed uh John's baptism a little bit, you may recall that we said that John's baptism was is different Then New Testament baptism that we later on find the apostles uh performing in the first century to inaugurate people into the body of Christ and to identify them. in into the body of Christ. Not that baptism is is uh of any way s of salvation, but it identifies them into the body of Christ. And you might have r remembered that, but I want to recover that for us because I think it's going to become Important for us. You may want to turn there, but you might just want to write down these two references that talk about the kind of baptism that John had, Mark chapter 1, verse 4, and Luke chapter 3, verse 3. And in Mark chapter 1, it says that John did baptize in the wilderness and preached the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins. And then in Luke chapter 3, verse 3, we see the same description of baptism and preaching involved as well. And he came unto the country about Jordan, preaching the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins. So we see from these verses that there was a particular baptism that John was baptizing with. It was called the baptism of repentance. And it was to demonstrate on the lives of the Jewish people that they were repentant for their sins. It was to prepare the way for Christ as the Messiah. And so that's why John was baptizing. But we know there's a big difference between John's baptism and Christ's baptism and the church's baptism later on in the first century because of a narrative in Acts chapter 19. And I'd like to go ahead and take your Bibles and turn there at this point. We need to gain an understanding of this, at least in some degree, to understand what's going on here and how Christ is increasing his influence here In Acts chapter 19, verse 1 it says, And it came to pass that while Apollos was at Corinth, Paul, having passed through the upper coasts, came to Ephesus, and finding certain disciples, he said unto them, Have ye received the Holy Ghost since ye believed? And they said unto him, Ye have not as much as heard whether there be an Holy Ghost. So they hadn't even heard of that. Now Let me pause for a minute. What have we known already about Christ's teaching about the Holy Spirit? Has Christ, even in his early stages of his ministry, taught on the Holy Spirit? He certainly has. If you think of the being born again, the teaching to Nicodemus, he said, you must be born of what? Of water and of the Spirit. And so even Nicodemus understood, at least in an elementary sense, that the Holy Spirit was involved in this work of salvation, and these people hadn't even understood, didn't even know about the Holy Spirit. With that in mind, look at verse 3. And he said unto them, Unto what then were ye baptized? And they said, Unto John's baptism. Verse four, Then said Paul, John verily baptized with a baptism of repentance, saying unto the people that they should believe on me, which should come after him that is on Christ Jesus. When they heard this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. And so what you find here is that these people were re-baptized. It tells us then By implication, it tells us that the kind of baptism that John had was this transitional kind of baptism that was different than New Testament baptism that we know of today. And the reason that that is important in this context is that more than likely, the way I would take this is that when Christ and his apostles were baptizing, or his disciples were baptizing at this point They were baptizing after people had placed their true faith in Christ, their dependence upon Christ. Their baptism was as a response in the same very similar way we baptized. Their baptism was as a response to a faith in Christ, particularly. In other words, when John baptized people without a clear knowledge of Christ, He baptized them for the sake that they could have the remission of their sins for the sake of repentance. But Christ had not yet come. But this baptism was of a different kind. It was a kind where people had already placed their dependence in Christ. Not with the full knowledge that even we have today. We have a fuller knowledge than they did. But they placed their dependence on Christ for being the Savior of their sin. And they knew that that would occur in some way in the future, based upon the revelation that they had already given to them. And so as a result of all that, the disciples now come to John the Baptist, and they are confused because what's happening is People are now flocking to Christ and being baptized by these these Christ's disciples and by potentially by Christ. It's hard to say whether it's his disciples or Christ or both. in this passage. But they're but they're being baptized in this way, and the disciples of John are quite confused. Now, before we get into John's response, I want to just pause and point a couple of things out. What kind of influence has John the Baptist had up to this point on the people? There isn't any question that John the Baptist had great influence. Many people were flocking to him. He had greater influence probably at this point than any other man during that time. And in fact, when people approached John the Baptist in the previous narrative, we looked at that, when the religious leaders approached him, they didn't touch him. Because John the Baptist was one who was influential in the lives of the lives of people in the nation of Israel during that time. And so you have this great influence. of John the Baptist over people, which was by God's design. But John didn't let it go to his head. Some people do in ministry. But John did not. John, when people people came to him, he kept firmly fixed on his mind what his role was. His role was to prepare the way for Christ the Messiah. But you can imagine the disciples of John who were accustomed to people coming to them for baptism and and accustomed to them coming to them for spiritual leadership. When he saw them going to somewhere else and to someone else, you could see the response that there could have been a wrong motive, but there could have been an understandable motive. A wrong motive would have been jealousy. And frankly, we are so prone to jealousy. People are. They are. We all are prone to jealousy. We see Something that we want or that we had, we see a loss in our lives and somebody else's gain. We see those kinds of things, and it causes us to be jealous. And it's possible that John's disciples were jealous. But it's also possible. that they came because they were they were concerned that the kind of teaching that was going on and the kind of baptism that was going on that was different than their baptism was actually leading people astray, and they were concerned about that. Either way, John the Baptist's response is something that is of great note for us. Would you see in this passage how John is now going to respond? Verse 27. John answered and said, A man can receive nothing. Except it be given him from heaven. It's an interesting response, isn't it? He doesn't respond by saying, well, it's okay because people can go to Jesus, and that's alright. John goes as deep as you possibly can go. More than likely, what is going on here, what is under scrutiny, is Christ's authority. Does Christ have the authority to overstep John the Baptist? Now, for you and I, we just automatically know the answer to that. That's not even a question in our minds. To us, that doesn't even, but for for that day and that time and that day, that was really the question that was on the table. Now, follow the progression. So far, we have seen Christ challenge the ceremonial laws by taking these pots of water and turning them into wine. And challenge even the emphasis placed in the temple by desecrating it and by driving out the money changers And challenge the religious leaders of the day like Nicodemus. We've seen him challenge those things, but now he is, in a sense, challenging The person that was preparing the way for him. It really, in a sense, was a different kind of a challenge But let me ask you this. When Christ came to the temple and began to desecrate the temple, or not desecrate the temple, that's not really a right word, when he came to clean out the temple. When he came to do that, when Christ came, what was the response of the religious leaders? They were offended by that. What was always the response of the religious leaders toward Christ? There was a great offense toward Christ, but you see this contrast with John the Baptist. When the disciples of John come to John the Baptist, John's not offended at all. He says this. He says, everything comes from heaven. He points this out. He has keenly in his mind the source of all that is good and right, the source of all supply. He says, a man can receive nothing. Except it be given him from heaven. What kind of attitude was John the Baptist portraying when he did this? Well, first of all, he was demonstrating Christ's supreme authority. There is a connection between authority and supply. If you are supplying everything for someone It would just be natural, it would just be arguably logical that you would have authority over them. You think of a little newborn baby who receives everything from his or her mother. There is nothing that they get without the direct supply of the parents on every level imaginable. And the parents are also in full authority over the child until they become like three years old and suddenly the parents realize they're not in authority anymore. Not really. They still realize that. They still are an authority. But suddenly you have you have conflicts. In that authority. Because a child begins to think that they can do certain things on their own. And of course, we as parents want them to do things on their own. Perhaps you've heard this before. You ever heard said before we we you know young parents they want their they can't wait for their kids to walk and to talk so they can tell them to sit down and shut up. But the reality is the more you supply for someone, the more authority you have over them. And what God, what what John says here is that Christ is the only source of supply. And folks, the implication here is that when John looked at his earthly ministry, and he looked at what God had done through him, And he then looked at the influence that he had in the lives of people, he recognized that it all came from God. That the only thing he was was a conduit, a channel of God's of God's working in the lives of people. That nothing really came from him. Would to God that when we serve him we would realize how little comes from us. In fact, nothing does. You can take someone who plays for instance, I don't know why I always use the piano, but for some reason it's like there in concrete and that's why I use it all the time. So it's no like piano players this evol this is just don't be too s sing feels too singled out here. But you could take somebody that plays the piano and performs beautifully and gives no no glory to God at all. Or you can some take the same person that performs beautifully, and it does has great great significance and influence in helping all of us. worship the Lord in a great way. And what's the difference? It's God When I stand up in this pulpit, you know, this is just by way of personal illustration, you know, there are times where I look at this outline and I go, what in the world? Like I look at it and I go, is this really going to have any effect on anybody? But what am I relying in? My outline? No, no. It's God who has the if there is true eternal influence and effect on the lives of people From this pulpit or this piano or any of your service in any ministry in this church or ministry outside this church. you're rubbing shoulders with neighbors or rubbing shoulders with friends, if there is any kind of eternal value in your service at all, it is because of God. And not of us. And what John is doing here His attitude is one where he sees Christ as the only source of supply, so that Christ has all authority to do whatever he wants to with us. And if God uses us, great. And if we are our if if if our influence is not particularly um Noticeable, that's okay too. That we're gods, and we're going to be used by God the way God wants us to. And really all we are is we're like a pipe. And the water supply comes from God. And the effect on the hearers comes from God. We're just the conduit. We're just the pipe. Or just the thing in between where the supply comes and it goes out. And what we need to just do is be a good pipe. And we're good pipes when we realize that the supply does not come from us. That all that we have, whether it's monetary, whether it's spiritual, whether it's physical, all that we have comes from God's hands. And all must be used for God's purposes in God's way. And that's the lesson that Hudson Taylor learned when he said, God's work done God's way will never lack God's supply. There were two men, men, uh, who died in nineteen twelve. Both were millionaires. You'll recognize one name, J. P. Morgan. The other name you may or may not recognize it was William Borden Just I just I'm just curious, how many of you recognize the name JP Morgan? Would you raise your hand? Okay. Nearly, nearly everyone. Okay. If you watch commercials at all, he I think he's he's got like an investment company or something, right? How many of you all recognize the name William Borden? Okay, much, much less. Well what was the difference? Both were very, very wealthy men. Both were really born into wealth. His their parents were uh actually I'm not sure about J. B. Morgan I don't know his story as well. But I know that that William Borden was born into wealth. His parents had supplied, were just very wealthy. And for uh William Borden uh as a graduation present from high school, got uh the his parents supplied a world trip for him to travel all over the world But God used that trip in William Borden's life because when he traveled all these places, he saw the immense amount of need in the world. This so affected JP Morgan that he began to realize that the wealth that he was supplied with was a wealth that was not his own. And he began, he decided that he wanted to go into missions. And he was going to self, he was going to financially sub But in the mid in the meantime he went to uh he went to Princeton Seminary. At the time was a good seminary. And during that time, even while he was in seminary, it was estimated after he died that he gave nearly seventy-five thousand dollars uh away while he was in seminary. That that doesn't seem like a huge amount of m well, it still does seem like human amount But back then by you know that time standards it was a a significant amount of money Borden had a love of cars. He liked nice automobiles And one time he saw a fine automobile flash by and he said, Wouldn't I love a car like that? So somebody replied to him, Why do you not get one, William? And William Borden replied, I cannot afford it. You see, he realized that his money was not his own That what God had what he had was a supply from God. Now let me just say, I am not against buying nice cars. That's not the point of the story. The point of this, folks, is this that we need to understand that all that we have is a supply from God. And it is to be used for God's purposes. And if we want our lives to increase the influence of Christ in the world, and for ourselves to be decreased We are going to have to begin by understanding that all of what we have comes from Christ. A Princeton classmate said this about William Borden. No one would have known from Borden's life and talk that he was a millionaire. But no one could have helped knowing that he was a Christian and alive for missions. Well, not only do we see the response of this nature as far as understanding the source of supply, but we see John's further response is just one that we need to understand in our own lives as well. And we pick up in verse 28 where it says this ye yourselves bear me witness, and I said that I said, I am not the Christ, but that I am sent before him. He that hath the bride is the bridegroom, but the friend of the bridegroom, which standeth and heareth him, rejoiceth greatly because of the bridegroom's voice This my joy, therefore, is fulfilled. What was he saying there? Well, John reminded his disciples. that he was he he was cognizant and aware of the of of of his role as being preparatory for Christ's coming as Savior. And he said, don't you realize, I don't, don't you know, don't you remember? I've told you this before And then he illustrates it this way. He says: just as a best man or a maid of honor is in a wedding. And sees the groom or the bride get married, and is thrilled and overjoyed for that That was his attitude toward Christ gaining influence. And you know, all of us can sort of experience, can sort of imagine that. All of us have been to weddings before. You have been to weddings, perhaps, where you were a very close friend, and you're just thrilled for them. Is there jealousy that happens at weddings? On ca uh occasionally there probably is a jealousy that happens at weddings. But you know, it's really not even acceptable in our society for there to be jealousy uh in weddings. I mean nobody Nobody would even admit if they're looking up at the at the groom and saying, boy, I wish I had that bride. Nobody would even admit that kind of a thing. No, the right and only appropriate response for when two are joining together in holy matrimony is just overjoy for them. That's why weddings are happy occasions. Well, John's realized that as well. But John says something particularly interesting in this passage that I want to really hone in on. He says this. He says, this joy, the last phrase in verse 29, this, my joy, therefore, is what? Is fulfilled. There is a sense of which what John is talking about is that there is this greater joy than could ever be imagined at all. This is like the greatest kind of joy. It is the fulfillment of joy. There is no greater joy. And John is going to, John, the writer of John, is go is going to go later on and say in 3 John, there's no greater joy than to see that my children are walking in Christ. Do you and I have that kind of joy? Where we see Christ and the increase of his influence in the world as the greatest joy that we could ever have. That our joy is fulfilled when Christ's influence is increased. It is a question that we ought to ask ourselves. There is a tendency in our evangelism To see how many people we can, how many notches we can have on a belt, how many people we can tell about Christ, how many people we can, how many raised hands we can have, how many prayers can be prayed. How many people can be reached? There is that possibility, folks. And that, of course, is wrong Its motive is self-serving. Its approach is to make ourselves feel better about who we are and what we are doing. But there is another approach. There is an approach, folks, that just earnestly desires To see Christ's influence spread throughout the world. Not for any kind of self-gain at all. But just because we want people to see Christ John Piper, perhaps you know the name, was speaking to a group of young people, and he asked this question. Do you feel more loved by God because He makes much of you, or because He enables you to make much of Him? Let me read the question again. Do you feel more loved by God because He makes much of you? Or because he enables you to make much of him. John the Piper John the Piper. John What a distraction to the whole point of this. John Piper said this. He illustrated it this way. He said, you know, when you're in school and you get an A, you are thrilled that you got an A. I don't know anybody that's ever gotten an A before and it's like upset that they got an A. Oh man, that's just an A. Everybody's happy that they got an A. But perhaps, like if you're in high school and you're wanting to get an A and you get an A, why are you happy? Ask the question why? Or let's say you're in college even and you're at and this is the illustration he gave. You're in college and you get an A Well, you may be getting you may just because you like getting A's, and you may be because you just like to have it sort of built on yourself that you got A's and you're, you know, it's sort of self-serving to have A's. Or it may be because you're trying to get into graduate school, because you want to become a clinical psychologist. Well, the next question would be, why do you want to become a clinical psychologist? And we would all wonder that, actually. But this is his illustration. Well, it's because I want to help people. Well, that's a good motive. Why do you want to help people? He said, and there, there is the bottom of the motive. Why do you want to help people? It could be because you want to feel better about yourself. Or it could be because you want to exalt Christ and please Him. It's a very potent illustration, isn't it? And so John Piper went on to say this: when you get down to the bottom of your life, there is a ranking. Either self is first or God is first. I'm not denying that God makes much of us. It's a glorious thing to be enabled by the atoning blood of Christ. and the Holy Spirit to be freed from self and make much of God as your supreme joy in life. And it's a glorious thing to delight in being much made much of by God. But everything hangs on their ordering, their ranking, their placement at the bottom or not. That's what I'm after in this question. Do you enjoy worshiping God, making much of God? Because at the bottom, this God That your worshiping is committed to making much of you? That's idolatry of the worst kind. Or do you Enjoy God's making much of you because it shows you that the kind of God that He is. His making much of us enables us and equips us and transforms us so that we can actually see him for who he is. And love him for who he is, and treasure him for who he is, and be satisfied in him for who he is. That's the bottom. Another missionary of note who was very concerned about the mentality and the approach. Of Christians in her day said this. The devil does not care how many schools and colleges we put up. If only he can pull our ideals down and sidetrack us onto anything of any sort except living holy, loving, humble lives. And the bringing of men, women, and children to know our Lord Jesus Christ, not only as Savior, but as sovereign Lord. Amy Carmichael The question for us folks is: what is our most fulfilling joy? What is our ultimate objective? And you and I have had a season of time where we have been able to really spend time with our families. I've been able to, the last few days, to spend a lot of time with my family. family and and I'll just tell you, I'm very overwhelmed by the family that God has given me. There are times where I just this past week I just sat back and I just was amazed Amazed at God's grace and blessing in my life as I look at my three kids, as I see things like when they came down to open presence, my oldest was more more concerned about giving than getting. I mean I just was blessed. I felt very, very blessed by a wonderful wife. I'm just very blessed with a great family. And I felt very overwhelmed by that. There was a sense in which I'd rather spend time lately with my family than anyone else. But if we're not careful, that could be our most fulfilling joy. And it ought not be. It ought not be. The most fulfilling joy that we ought to have in life is the influence of Christ in others. You say, well, you know, it's a hard one. How do I measure my my joy of my family versus the joy of the influence of Christ? Let me tell you a key. Have your family influence others for Christ, then you don't have to fight it. In other words, if you if you take your whole family and make it a conduit for God's working In the lives of people, as much as God, you know, they can't they would are willing to and things like that, then you can have your joy even more fulfilled than it is now. The influence of Christ, His increase, and our decrease At the bottom level of our hearts, at the bottom level of our motives, what is there, self or Christ? It is a question that every one of us needs to grapple with. We need to work through it. We need to struggle through it until we come to a complete assurance that at the bottom level of things it's Christ. Yes, I struggle with my flesh. Yes, there is self involved. Yes, I am defeated. There is great temptation. There is great problems. I was just reading this past week. on some of the struggles that J. Hudson Taylor had. Hudson Taylor, after he had established the China Inland Mission, after he had he had established uh great working in China, that God had done great things. He writes in his journal about the struggle in his own life of temptation in his soul where he feels so defeated, and he questions whether he's saved Why do I bring that up? Because folks, the reality is we struggled. Look, even John the Baptist lost faith at one point. Do you remember that when he's in prison and he's saying, Well, I don't really know if Christ I mean you see it here and you go and you go, whoa, man, I mean, he's like responding in the most ideal way possible. But later on, John the Baptist is gonna when he gets in prison, he sends people to to Christ to say, are you really the Messiah? I really need to know So what we need to do Is we've got to see this source as Christ alone. And the objective is Christ alone. And then we'll be the proper conduit that God wants us to be. And so John sort of concludes this with verse 30, and he says these words. He says. He must increase, but I must decrease Are you willing in your life for yourself to decrease so that Christ can increase? It is a question that every one of us need to grapple with. We need to ask ourselves this question. I actually want to give you just a few moments to respond. I'm going to end my message there. And I want to give you just a few moments to respond to the Lord. Um in prayer. I I just want to tell you that in my own heart this was a important message for me in my life to remember these things. And I want to give you just a few moments in the quietness of this moment just between you and the Lord in prayer before the Lord, to respond in the way that God wants you to, to perhaps in your own prayer, say, Lord, I thank you for For the sore, that you are my only source of anything eternal of any value. And the greatest fulfillment of my life is that you would use my life to influence others, that you would use my life to increase Christ in the lives of others. It is the greatest influence, the greatest fulfilling joy. And if you Would just take a few moments, and I will with you, in the in the quietness of your own heart, respond in prayer to the Lord, that we can look at this next year and have that in our minds. Father, we come to you and we pray, Lord, that you would You would help us. We know that in our flesh dwells no good thing. And we're so used to it. It becomes so prominent that we've got to reach down real deep to see our motive in Christ And if there is anyone here that would reach down to the bottom and they don't see anybody anything but self. I pray, Lord, that you would help them to establish a new relationship with Christ. Lord, we thank you for this life that you have given us in Christ, and we pray, Lord, that you would help us. in the days ahead, to be conduits of your grace and working in the world, that we would be able to receive the greatest joy this side of heaven of seeing you use us. to influence for Christ. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.