It's wow, there we go. It's really needed on a on a repeated basis. In fact, I try to preach once a year on this subject. And it is on the subject of judgmentalism. And we are living in a society that has reacted against judgmentalism so hard. that they have slid into t total tolerance on every level, even of things that are clearly been created by God. But on the other hand, if you look at conservative Christian circles I would suggest to you that that judgmentalism is one of the um greatest tendencies, the most One of the greatest temptations for a group of people that are clean living and desire to do what's right. It's good to desire to do what's right and live cleanly. But there is a side to that that can cause us to be, if we're not careful, can cause us to move into a very judgmental position And it's one that's very, very dangerous. And one that really can do harm to the body of Christ. significant harm to the unity of the body of Christ and significant harm to the world, the testimony of Christ. In fact, if you talk to the average unsaved person, probably in our day and age, they have a resistance toward organized religion at all, many of them. And if you dig into why, the first thing they'll usually say is that a church is full of what? Hypocrites. And if you get a little farther, they're probably going to say that the church is judged there's too many judgmental people in the church, and they don't want to be judged. That's something that's very, very common. So are they right or not? They have a point. Now, I want to say this, that they don't nobody wants to be judged, and ultimately who will judge us all? Okay, God will. And nobody wants even that. There is even a sense in which when you see someone who is even wanting to live a holy life before God, even in humility and in the right spirit and you see their lives for someone who doesn't know the Lord is their Savior, they can come under conviction as a result of that, even though the person is not trying to impose their own conviction on them. That can happen But it is true, folks, that if we're not careful, we can fall into this trap of judgment, this harmful problem of judgmentalism. You all know by now, hopefully, that the book of James is written so that we can grow in our spiritual maturity. The first chapter tells us that very, very clearly, the first chapter. that we need to grow in our spiritual maturity. It says that let patience or endurance have her perfect work that ye may be perfect or the word is mature, lacking nothing. But James' concern, for instance, in chapter two when he deals with favoritism, and in chapter four, when he's dealing here in this context with quarreling in the church. He is concerned about the corporate needs in the body and the corporate health of the body. He's concerned about the individual's growth. And maturity, and he is also concerned about the belief the corporate problems that he's finding in these very early churches, James being probably the earliest book written in the New Testament. It is interesting, and I just want to remind us of this, that our our spiritual growth as individuals Is linked to our involvement in the body. James understands this. He gets it. He realizes it. That's why he is going to speak very directly when it comes to this issue of judgmentalism, because what is happening here is that it is disrupting the body. If you remember in James chapter 4, verse 1, it says, From whence come wars and fightings among you, come they not hence, even of your lust, that war in your members. So what's going on in the church? There's wars and fightings. There's arguments and problems and disputes going on in the church, and he says it's because, let me put it in our vernacular, you're being selfish. Right? I mean he says that. He basically says you're following after your own lusts. And he said, your own selfishness, your own self servingness is causing problems in the church. And so he goes over all kinds of things that we've already already been over when it comes to um the importance of sub uh uh of of submission and and we talked about that a couple of weeks ago Well, now we come to a particular issue that he wants to get across that is causing problems in the first century church and will certainly cause problems in the unity of the body for us today. And so we come in chapter 4, verse 11, and he says this. Speak not evil one of another. Brethren, he that speaketh evil of his brother and judgeth his brother, speaketh evil of the law, and judgeth the law. But if thou judge the law, thou art not a doer of the law, but a judge. There is one lawgiver who is able to save and to destroy. Who art thou that judgest another? So James in just a couple of verses is going to dismantle the the um validity of being judgmental. He does it very quickly. I mean he his rhetorical question at the end, who are you to judge somebody else? That's really what he said, uh So when we're dealing with this judgmentalism, when we're dealing with this issue, I think we need to first understand that as a rule, we're going to talk, we're going to Deal with some of the intricacies of this and what it means and what it doesn't mean. But generally, what scripture says is don't judge. Now, we have to understand what that means, don't we? Do we have to make judgment calls? On a daily basis we do right. That's not right and that is right. That's wrong and that's right. That's you know you have to make judgment calls all day long. So there's no question we've got to make those kinds of calls all day long But when it comes to judgmentalism, what is he talking about? There's another word that is used in Romans chapter 14, verse 5, in the context of this judgmentalism. It is the word, I'll read you the verse, it says, one man esteemeth one day above another, another esteemeth every day alike. Let every man be fully persuaded in his own mind. This word esteem. gives us sort of helps us construct a definition. So it's it has judgmentalism has to do with esteeming someone a certain way. We also find one of the keys to understanding judgmentalism is to understand its result, which we find in this passage. Look at it again in chapter 4, verse 11. Speak not evil one of another. Because he says, if you do, what are you doing? You're judging. So if somebody is judgmental, what will they do? They'll speak evil of someone. They'll speak evil against someone, either to their face or more likely behind their back. So they'll choose to speak evil against someone. You know you're judgmental when you speak evil against someone. So you're esteeming someone to the point that you are going to pronounce a judgment on them that is condemning Does that make sense? I mean, so we kind of put some of these verses together and it come and we come up with a definition from these verses. John 3, verse 18 says, He that believeth not in on him is condemned is not condemned The he that believeth not, John three eighteen, but he that believeth not is condemned already. So the word condemnation is used there So when we're talking about judgmentalism in this context, what we're talking about is esteeming someone to the point where we are condemning them. It's like you're laying the gavel down, you are indicted, you're condemned. And you're willing to speak judgment on them. And he says if you do this, I mean we're going to actually see several of the problems that's going to occur as a result of doing this. In order to really understand what he's going to say here, do you notice what he says here? He says, He who speaks evil judges is a judge of the law. That's a little confusing, isn't it? So when James uses the term law, what is he talking about? Well, different people use the term law in different ways. Did you know that? Like if you look at the New Testament, sometimes the word law will mean one thing, and sometimes it'll mean something else. For example, when when when Paul uses it in Romans chapter 7 and he says that I did not know sin until I saw the law and it said thou shalt not covet You remember that passage? What was he talking about? Well, in that case, he was talking about the Mosaic Law and the moral law within the Mosaic Law, actually. If in 2 Corinthians chapter 3, you're going to find he says the law has been done away with, that's definitely the Mosaic Law. In 2 Corinthians chapter 8, it says that we are not lawless, though, we're a law unto Christ. So you have this different ways of using the law in the old in the New Testament. So how does James use it? Well, let's go back there and take a look. James chapter 2, verse 8. Would you notice with me what it says? So just go back a couple chapters here, and we're going to look at how James uses this term law. Picking up here chapter two verse eight. If ye fulfill the royal law according to the scripture, and what does he say it is? Okay, so in James' mind the law is to love thy neighbor as thyself, ye do well, but if you have it respective persons He says if you're that's a favoritism he's talking about there. Ye commit sin and are convinced of the law as a transgressor. Okay, so the law in James' mind has to do with loving God and loving your neighbor. Isn't that exactly what Christ said? He said the law is fulfilled in two major things. Love God and love your neighbors. So when James is talking about the law, he's talking about that. Now, if you just think about that for a minute, just generally speaking You think about that. When you condemn someone, you're going against the law of love. Correct? Right? Makes sense? Okay. So what he is saying here in this passage is when he says that thou judge the law, what he's saying here is that when you judge someone else, You are putting yourself above the law. You are making yourself a judge Rather than the doer of the law. And he's going to make this distinction. In other words, he's saying that you are instead of seeing yourself as subservient to the law You are putting yourself above the law and you're saying you're somebody else isn't doing something. It's a little bit hard to explain, but if you can just think of love particularly, just take the law for a minute and just think of love. If I'm let's say I'm loving someone, well what is love? It's love is benevolently giving of some of of myself to someone else for their for their genuine bet uh betterment, their genuine uh uh improvement and and increase. And it's usually self-sacrificial and unconditional, and there's things like that involved with love. So let's say I'm loving someone in a biblical sense. And I condemn and then I see something and I switch to judgmentalism and I switch to condemning them. I'm moving from loving them over to a side where now I am judging them. What he's saying is you've got to move off of love to get to judgment. Okay, you follow him okay, so so judgmentalism he's saying he's saying here's what he says In other words, you stop, if you start judging people in this way, you stop loving. You're not a doer of the law anymore. You're not a doer of love anymore. Okay? So he says this. There is one lawgiver, uh but if thou Judge the law, thou art not a doer of the law, but a judge. And then he says this: He says, There is one lawgiver who is able to save and to destroy. Who's that? It's Christ. There's no question about it. He is the lawgiver. It's interesting that Christ has it has the ability to both love and judge at the same time. We don't have that ability, is essentially what he's saying. We don't have the ability to love and condemn. Now we're going to get into what judgment doesn't mean. But understand that what he's essentially saying is, while Christ has the ability to both love and condemn, we don't have that ability. So we let we need to let Christ do his job. We need to let him be who he is. And we need to choose not to not to judge. There is one lawgiver who is able to save and to destroy So that's the bottom lines, whether you save or whether you put to death. Who art thou that judges another? Now, as soon as we go through all this, then it leaves a lot of questions, doesn't it? Especially when we're living in a society that is full of tolerance. So far the world would love what I just said, probably. Except that Christ, that God Christ is a judge and he will judge. They wouldn't like that But as far as what we're supposed to do, I mean the world's going to be fine with this until we begin to to unpack this a little bit and see what what he's talking about. Really, to understand all of this, we need to go to another passage in Scripture. Would you take your Bibles and turn to Matthew chapter 7? So what happens with these judgment calls? Let's put it in practice. Are there times, I'm sure you'll agree with me, are there times where there is clearly sin? Well, sure there is. And we have to make a determination, that's sin and that's not sin. That's righteousness, that's sin. We're doing that all the time. But what happens when Christian sinners sin? And it's obvious that they sin. You follow what I'm saying there? Okay, so if you look at James chapter 7, verse 3, it's going to help us with this. I'm not sorry, Matthew 7, 3. Uh it says, actually we'll pick up in verse one, it says, judge not that you be not judged. For what with for with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged. And with what measure ye meet, it shall be measured to you again. He said, Whatever measurement, whatever measurement of judgment you use That's the measurement that's going to be used on you. Verse 3, and why beholdest thou the mote in thy brother's eye, but considerest not the beam in thine own eye? Or how wilt thou say to thy brother, Let me pull out the moat out of thine eye, and behold, the beam is in thine own eye. So he's saying basically you've got a larger problem in your own eye than the person that you're you're looking at that you see a problem in their lives. Now, if you see a genuine problem in the life of another believer, Is that possible? Let's just ask the question, is that possible? Well, of course it is. So what are we not to do immediately? We are not to condemn. We're not going to be quick to judgment. But I want you to notice what else this passage says. Look at what he doesn't say to do. He doesn't say, don't take the speck out of the brother's eye. He says, if you see a brother, he says, first take the take the log out of your own eye. He does say that. But it's not like he just take the beam out of your own eye and then walk away and you don't do anything else. That's not what it says. Do you see what it says? Look at verse 5. Thou hypocrite, first cast out the beam out of thine own eye, and then thou shalt see clearly to cast out the mote out of thy brother's eye. He didn't say cast out the beam out of thine own eye and just forget about your brother. He said, make sure you cast out the beam out of your own eye, then you can see clearly to help your brother. Do you see the difference here? See, you know what we like to do? Some of us are too judgmental and we're just picking at everything Some of us we don't want to do we we want to isolate ourselves from dealing with anybody else's problems. I'm just gonna live in a you know I'm gonna isolate myself and live in my own little world and I'm just worried about me, and I'm not worried about anybody else, and you see this You see somebody going about to go over a cliff and you're not saying anything to them. So both extremes are wrong. That's not what this passage doesn't say don't take the moat out of your brother's eye. It says make sure you don't have a beam in your own eye when you're trying to Alright. So with all of this, I want to lay out this. Not suggest, I want to really point out in scripture Four areas we are not to judge. Okay? What we're going to wade into is how then do you pull out a moat out of somebody's eye? How do you use proper discernment, but keep from falling into judgment. That's the question we're asking. Is this hard? It is. It's a very difficult. It's a hard line. So, how do you do it? First of all, you've got to be clear on what you're not going to cast judgment on. Okay? We need to establish that. And the Bible's really clear about some of these things. So when I'm talking about a brother or sister in Christ, number one, we need to avoid judging religious practices, diets, and days. Romans are Colossians 2, verse 16, let no man therefore judge you in meat or drink, or in respect of the holy day, or in the new moon, or the Sabbath days. When it comes to these kinds of practices, we need to be careful that we do not judge. That's what the Bible says. In other words, we can have discernment and say, I'm not real comfortable with that. That's okay. But when I start judging, casting judgment on our brother in Christ based upon these things. then I am on shaky ground. Well I'll just give you the reference. Colossians 2. 16 It's also in Romans 15 and 2 Corinthians 8. Avoid number 2. This is Oh thought this is so important. Avoid judging too soon. The Bible says, Proverbs 18:3, he that answereth a matter before he hear it, it's folly unto him. An immature Christian is quick to judgment. He doesn't get all the facts. He doesn't know both sides of the story. He doesn't have everything he needs to make a proper even judgment call on something The Bible says, be very careful. He that answers a matter before he hears the whole matter, it's folly to him. This is extremely important in the church. We hear one part of the story, we see what we see, we don't check to see our facts, we don't check to see the other side or why did you do what you did or anything like that, and we we make judgment calls on it The Bible says it's folly to you if you do that. You've got to follow up. You've got to see the other side of the story. You've got to get all the facts before you make judgments. Okay. How many times have you ever done that before? You didn't know the whole story, and you only knew what you knew, and you didn't check it out, you didn't ask enough questions, and you You make a judgment call on something and then you find out the other side of the story and you go, Oh man, I really I lost I totally messed this up Every one of us can identify with that, can't we? So that ought to tell us something, right? That we need to be very quick, we need to be very slow to judgment. Very quick. To withhold judgment until we understand the matter. He that answereth the matter before he hears it, it's folly unto him. Proverbs 18. 3. That's number two. Number three Do not judge according to appearance. Now that's almost the same as don't be too quick to judge it, judgment Because sometimes what we do is we see what's on the surface, and we're quick to judgment based upon what's on the surface. The Bible says, John 7, verse 24, judge not according to the appearance But judge righteous judgment. So God says don't judge according to appearance. And number four, do not judge motives. Don't judge motives. 1 Corinthians 4, 5. Therefore, judge nothing before the time unto the coming, unto the Lord come. who both will bring to light the hidden things of darkness and will make manifest the counsels of the hearts, the motives of the hearts. He's going to do that. And then shall every man have praise of God. So this passage tells us that the only one equipped to be able to judge the motives of the heart is God. You and I can't judge those motives. Now we might have concerns or questions, but we can't judge a motive. We can't say, you know, why the reason that guy did that is because he had a bad motive. This is why he did it. Okay, now just think of those four areas. They're all, I studied scripture with all of them, they're all in context. You take those four areas, what do you have left? Motive? You don't have motive. You can't be too quick to judgment. You don't have appearance, and you can't do religious practices. Or eating and drinking of things. What do you have left? You've got clear biblical statements. That's it. There's nothing else. Right? If you can't judge the appearance and you can't judge the practices that are not clearly laid out in Scripture, and you can't judge the heart. Then what you have left is what clearly Scripture says, and what is clearly objective, verifiable truth. And that's why it says over in Matthew chapter 18, which by the way gives us the way to take the thing out of the guy's eye, what does it say? It says, if a person trespass against you, that word trespass chapter 18 verse 15 means an objective verifiable crossover the line. Well what's the line? It's clearly God's word. It's a clear crossing over of a line. Does that make sense? So let me ask you this question. Can I judge my own motives? Well, sure I can. Okay, I ought to be thinking about why I do what I do. But when it comes to some and so, and even my own appearance, am I giving the appearance of evil? Scripture says make no appearance of evil. So I should be thinking about that. I should be thinking about my own private. So none of these things that I mentioned are things that we don't consider in ourselves and whether we're doing but when it comes to other people, it's like these there's these clear lines that God says don't go here Don't make judgment, don't condemn based upon these kinds of things. He says, instead, judge righteous judgment. The only righteousness that we know of is God's word. Does that make sense? Very, very important to understand. And even when you see a violation of God's word, what is the goal in a believer when you see a violation of God's word in another believer? Yes, repentance and restoration. So if they if you say if they say to you, okay, you know, I am wrong before God and before you and I I'm I'm wrong and and there is repentance, you're done with it. You don't continue to condemn them. You don't continue to hold over their head. It's done because Christ already paid the price for it, didn't he? And so that's very, very important for us to understand as well. Matters of open, clear, verifiable sin, and matters of morality and truth. Those are the things that we that are are the become the basis of our judgment when we're dealing with others. Not tradition or emotion or intuition. It's those kinds of things. Now, can someone question things? And what we find in Scripture is the answer is yes. In fact, there are contexts and there are words. There are different prepositions. Anocrino. Crino is like the main word. You would know this, Tony, probably. Crino is like the main word. You've got anacrino that is is usually used for con condemning, but sometimes crino is. You have diakrina that often is not used. So anyway, you have these different words, and sometimes the word is just a question. Can you have a question mark about something? Sure you can In other words, let's put it this way. Maybe something that somebody does by appearance puts a question mark in your mind. What do you do with that question mark? I'm asking at this point. Okay, so one thing you can do is just ask a question from the question mark. So go out and find the question, you know, find find the answer. Okay? And you might find it's resolved just by asking the right questions. Or you might just want to pray about it and say, Lord, would you show me what I need to know? But what you what you want to do is you escalate the question mark. You you you don't put an you don't put a definitive statement on the thing until you see verifiable sin. Until then it stays a question mark. Does that make sense? I mean this is just really practical Once you see verifiable sin, then then even then what do you what are you supposed to do about it? Yeah, so we want to take the log out of their eyes so they don't go over the cliff. It's still following the law of what? Of love that James says. If you want to summarize it all, you'd summarize it all this way. Make sure you're loving everyone in the body. Make sure you are truly acting in love toward your brothers and sisters It may mean sometimes you've got to act in warning somebody about they're going to go over a cliff. That's loving. But you know what will not be involved in love? Con condemnation. That is what we must be very, very careful about doing in the body of Christ. Particularly that's what he's talking about in the book of James, but really just in life in general. We need to make sure we get the facts before we make a decision about something. We need to be discerning about things. But ultimately, we need to hold judgment until I can say definitively, okay, this is biblically wrong or this is biblically right. And it's gotta be based upon scriptural statement. Until then, I'm not making judgments on it. Does that make sense in a in a condemning way? Doesn't mean now let me just Say this one final thing. It doesn't mean that I don't have cautions where perhaps I use wisdom and I say, you know what, I don't want to go that direction Yes, I there's not a lot. There's not the the lines over here, but maybe I'm going to stay a little farther from a line for wisdom's sake Not for righteousness' sake, but for wisdom's sake. Let me come off the line a little bit and be and be wise about things. Let me be cautious about that. Does that make sense? So wisdom, that falls in the area of wisdom, but that's personal That's not condemning somebody else. Does that make sense? And I want to make sure I'm hopefully clear about that. If we will follow these things scripturally and we have a balanced approach, a biblical approach, a a loving approach to this then it will keep us from from falling into the problems that James is talking about. And um I'm thankful for a church that as far as I know there is unity in the body as w as a as a whole and uh not like perfect unity. We can s we still got work to do. But I'm I am thankful for that. And I'm thankful that as a whole, I think we're not particularly judgmental, but we never want to become that way, right? And it doesn't take too many people to get a judgmental spirit before you have a problem. And so we want to be careful about that. All right, let's go ahead and go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we thank you, Lord, for this time that we spent together and we pray that you would help us and give us um wisdom when it comes to this area. Help us to catch This judgmental spirit and its first movements. May we be doer of love. May our lives be um expressed in a way where we love others. And we think in terms of giving of ourselves to others and loving others before we'd ever even think of casting judgment on somebody. Help us and guard us from this, and I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.