I don't really think I'm exaggerating when I say today that the message that we're going to be and the text that we're going to be looking at could potentially be The most important message and the most important verse that we as a church look at since we have begun this series. Maybe I am exaggerating a little bit. depending on the individual and the situation. But I do feel personally that this that this message is one that is just Very timely for us as a body of believers here at Bethel Baptist Church. It's exactly what God wants us to hear. for this time in our church's existence. The only thing that's not as timely is that we have so many people that are sick, uh that that there's a few that won't that can't be with us. But um But that's um thankfully we can we can they can hear the recording and things like that. Um Let's go ahead and read the verse together, Ephesians chapter 4, verse 16. This is, we're going to be covering just one verse today. But it is a verse that is chalked full. And what I'm going to do is try to read this with enough expression and clarity, hopefully, that we can sort of sort of uh analyze it as we're reading it and then we'll be able to expound upon in a few moments here. Ephesians 4. 16 says, from whom the whole body body fitly joined together and compacted by that which every joint supplies According to the effectual working, in the measure of every part, maketh increase of the body, under the edifying of itself in love. You know, there is this text of Scripture has to do with a blueprint for the church. And really it answers the question, as we have discussed before, how does Christ build his church? This verse is a schematic, essentially, for how Christ develops the body. It is the conclusion of what he's talking about when it talks to when he's talking about the corporate development of the body of Christ And so today, as we look at this, I want us to see as much as we possibly can what we shouldn't be corporately and what we ought to be corporately. And one of the illustrations here, the first illustration, is one that is not biblical at all. It's of marbles in a box. Some churches are like a marble like marbles in a box. The only thing that really brings them together is that they come to the same place certain times of the week. And maybe they are a little similar in shape and size and nature a little bit, but but there really isn't a lot of what brings brings them together. They just sort of come and they do their thing a few times a week, once or twice or three times or five Four times a week, or whatever it is. And the thing that holds them together is location. They sort of all come to the same place. And that's really the only thing that does hold them together. Now I just want to say that if a church is only that. If it really, if that's the only thing that it does, is it just sort of assembles together and the only thing that brings them together is a central location. Then that is a very sad situation. But do you know that there are many churches that that would be the best illustration to describe them? They're really just marbles in a box. Folks, there ought to be a whole lot more to what a local church is, as it is a representation of God's universal church than just marbles in a box. The second illustration is a biblical one, and that is of a building. And of course, in Ephesians chapter 2, we see that even Paul uses the example of a building. And while marbles in a box is is what we don't want to be, where we're just assembling in a central location three times or four times a week or however however many times, that's all we are A building is back in back in those days particularly, and I tried to find a picture that would illustrate this the best I could, they didn't have mortar back then. A building back then was placed together of non-symmetrical stones that had to be fit together And a person who built a wall was very good at fitting the things together so that they wouldn't move after they were built, with no mortar whatsoever. It was quite incredible as I read a little bit about what they did and how how how how closely they had actually had to fit together in order for them uh to in order for this a wall to be built and to have stability. And so that's what we have here. We have uh, and that's a biblical illustration. And certainly it does, it is true that in a local church there not there must be structure. And God does place who He wants in the churches that He wants them to be in, both universally and really even locally. And we're going to look more at how he does that in verse 16, which does have to be primarily talking here, at least in application, about the local church. But then there's another and even greater illustration that God uses, and this illustration, I really can't this is just an important illustration for us to understand. This illustration is the illustration of a body. While a building is put together with a design and with a structure. Is everything okay? Okay. Well building is is uh put together with a design and with a structure. A body is really what God is ultimately wanting to produce in his children. And while structure is important, it is terri is not ideal at all if a church only reaches the point where they have things fitted together and there is structure. There's got to be one step further, and there's got to be an organic life that develops in the church. And this is something that can't be structured. It's something that God does in a body that is structured and fitted together properly. And then yet and then God does something in a great way. Uh and so we we n okay, this is a little distracting actually for me. Um Just keep it down a little lower if that's okay. So what we need to do here is is look today at what how is the body developed And this is going to show us in verse 16. Let's go to the Lord in prayer and ask his help on our time together. Father, we come to you today and we thank you for who you are. We thank you that Christ built this building and developed this body, Lord. And we thank you that he is in the process of doing that and that God desires to do this even in his local church, his local assembly. And I pray today as we look at this that we as Bethel Baptist Church would not just, it would not be said of us that we are just marbles in a box and we're just here, and the thing that keeps us together is a central location. I know, Lord, and I'm very confident that you have been putting together a building and placing the stones that you want to be in this assembly. But, Father, my prayer for this assembly, and one that is consistent with Scripture, is that we would move from a building to being an organic body And I pray, Lord, that you would teach us how we are to do that, even in today's message. Help us, Lord, and remove the distractions from our thinking that would cause us to not see the central I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Ephesians chapter 4, verse 16, it says, From whom the whole body. And it's important to realize, first of all, as we look at this passage. From whom it's talking about. And of course, it is talking about Jesus Christ. The previous verses here remind us that Christ is the head of the body. He is the head of the body, and just as a brain functions in a nervous system, so Christ is the head of our body. And he is the source of it. And that's important to remember because often, if we're not careful, we forget that Jesus Christ died to build the church. At least in part. He does he desi he died to redeem the souls of man. He died to glorify himself ultimately. That was primarily why he died. He said very clearly that he gives eternal life to those whom he chooses according to John chapter fift John chapter seventeen, and he says in that passage that he does it to glorify himself, to to I Christ came and he brought his father glory on earth when he became a man and died for the p to pay the punishment for for our sin. But it doesn't stop there, folks. We were saved for a purpose. And if you recall in Ephesians chapter 1, we were chosen before the foundation of the world. We were redeemed by Christ, and when we accept him by faith, Ephesians chapter 2, he places us into the body of Christ, Ephesians chapter 2, at the end there in chapter 3. And now we get into chapter 4, and really what we're dealing with is the development of all of what Christ has done for us, beginning at our redemption, which occurred because of the work of Christ on the cross. And it shed blood as our substitute. It's important for us to realize that the body of Christ and the church is something far greater and far more than we usually think of it. It is indeed a body. The Bible tells us here in this passage, the first word that we see here to describe how this all works is that it is fitly joined together. And that is the same word is used over in Ephesians chapter two, verse twenty-one, where it says, In whom the whole body fitly framed together groweth unto an holy temple in the Lord. And in Ephesians chapter 2, verse 21, it actually mixes the two illustrations, the illustration of the building and the body. And the primary point that Paul is making here is that God places the people where he places them. them. He chooses and he places people just as stones were fitted together in a building. And one of the things that we have to rely on as we see Christ build his assembly here at Bethel Baptist Church. is we have to rely on the fact that God has placed us where He wants us. And that is important for us to realize. So much of what we do, we think we are doing of our own choice. And we do it as of our uh in of our own choice. But then we look back and see God's planning the whole thing and we realize that God has placed us where He wants us and we see His providence and His sovereignty. And that is something that We've got to see. And this is a picture here of of building of of uh stones being placed together. But then we go on to the next word here. And by the way, let me just say by way of application, with this joined together here, it's important for us to rely on Christ to build his church. That is so important. We do not want man to build Christ's church, even on an assembly level. What we God calls us to do is to be faithful and doing fulfilling our responsibility and letting God do what He wants to do in place of the people that He wants in our assembly. And really, what we ought to be doing is focusing on, of course, preaching the gospel and giving the gospel to others And seeing people come to know Christ as their Savior and discipling them and helping them to grow. And really what we all also ought to be doing is to be helping each other to grow as well. And that really brings us to the next word, the next major concept here, fitly joined together and compacted. You see the word here compacted or knit together. And this is a much more complex term. The one is really has to do with placement. But this has to do with a with, there's great complexity to this term. In fact, in Colossians chapter 2, verse 19, it says and not holding to the head, from which the whole body by joints and bands have nourished, minister it ministered, and knit together, increaseth with the increase of God. And that verse describes for us what he's talking about here. If you think in the term in terms of a body, you have a skeletal structure, and you have joints that are placed together, that fit together, like a ball and a socket. Those of you who have studied an anatomy, physiology, and anatomy, you know how intricate this whole design is. It is really for me to to some degree unfathomable to think that all this happened by chance. The intricacy of the human body would demonstrate that there is a divine design in all of this. But when we think in terms of of the skeletal structure, it isn't just It isn't just the fact that there's a ball and a socket that fit together. There are also ligaments and muscles. that allow the thing to move and allow the thing to accomplish something. If you had no joint if your joints had no ligaments, you would be, you would be, would not be able to run You would really wouldn't be able to walk. You would have to be simply a statue. Now, if you think about that illustration when it comes to the body of Christ. And you react and you think about it, though God places within us, or God places people where he wants to to fit into the structure. Called a building that God illustrates as a body. There's got to be something more than that. If you're going to uh if a body of believers is going to actually accomplish something They've got to work together just as ligaments and muscles do, getting its signals from the head through the nervous system. in order for there to be able uh the for that for that um bone structure, the leg or the arm or the fingers or Whatever, to move properly. That's the illustration that God gives us. He gives us this illustration of a body because it is something that happens organically It's something that God wants for us to be in our body, or God wants us to have develop in our in our local assembly. 1 Corinthians 2 verse 16 says, For who who hath known the mind of the Lord that he may instruct him? But we have the mind of Christ. Colossians 2. 2 says, that their hearts may be comforted, being knit together in love, and uh unto all riches and Full assurance of understanding to the acknowledgement of the mystery of God and of the Father and of our Lord Jesus Christ. God says that the way that He knits us together is actually in love And we're going to see this concept later on. The very last phrase of this verse is that all of this has got to be in love. Christ is pointing us to something here in this passage. We are placed together and we are knit together like a tapestry. But the question is, folks, how is it that we are actually going to be the body? How is it that the body is developed properly? And that really brings us to the very next phrase. And folks, this really is the key. It says, by that which every joint supplieth. There is no question that this word supply means exactly what we would think it to mean. It means supply. Philippians chapter 1, verse 19 says, For I know that it that this shall turn to my salvation through your prayer. And the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ. So let's fill this out a little bit. You have a structure And you have stones placed where you want, or let's say a skeletal structure where you have uh bones that are placed together, and you have ligaments and muscles that are allowing these bones to move and to accomplish something. Well, what is it that's being accomplished? And how are we to accomplish these things? Folks, how is it that the body of Christ is To be not just a structure, but an organic body. The answer to that is that we are to supply each other. There's a supplying that takes place Now let's just think about that. What exactly does that mean? When God says that we are to supply, that there is a supplying going on, and of course, if you understand the way the body works, there's all kinds of supplying going on. The whole blood system with the with the red and white blood cells uh and the red blood cells supply oxygen to the places that they need to go and they come up and the the the heart supplies the the the blood cells without with with the oxygen needed and it takes it to the rest of the of the body. It's a very intricate design. The body is constantly supplying itself and its own needs And that's exactly the illustration that God wants to get wants us to get when it comes to our local assembly, when it comes to our body. our local body believers. There's got to be, if we're going to move from a building, and I don't mean a structure even I'm talking about a building where we're placed together to a body There's got to be a desire and an ability and a way to meet each other's needs. Can I ask you in the last month or in the last six months How many times have you met personal needs in the body? That is, you have identified a need You've realized that there is something that needs to be met, and you have met that need. Maybe it was a prayer request Maybe it was a physical need that God wanted you to meet, but whatever it was, you decided that you were going to meet that need. You know, we often do not think in terms of that when we come to when we think of our our 21st century or 21st century local church. Back in the first century, there was a great sense of of meeting each other's needs to happen. They were many times under persecution. And so all they were doing is trying they were they were trying to survive and continue to preach the gospel and meeting together to worship the Lord, but there was a camaraderie and a And a body of believers that would just organically meet each other's need. It wasn't as though suddenly, okay, well, we need to have a program to meet that need. Or we need to have a a uh a a fund to meet that need. No, people just met needs. I'm not saying wrong that funds or programs are wrong. But there was just an organic way of meeting each other's needs. And I would just simply ask, when is the last time you have met a need in the body? Now, I want to hasten to say that I have seen this a lot. in our church. I'm thankful for folks who identify needs and they say, you know what, there's a gap there and we're gonna fill the gap. And there is a need there and uh and we're gonna fill the need. Maybe it's a ministry need Maybe there's a junior church that's that that just needs to be filled and people come and say, hey, can I do that? Or maybe it's a nursery situation or but and and and all those things, it's really helpful when people see needs and meet the needs But do you know, folks, that if we're going to meet the needs in the way that God wants us to, it's got to go beyond these four walls? It's got to go into we've got to begin to to s to To see each other and know each other and pray for each other throughout the week I put down a couple of suggestions on how we are supposed how what will help us to supply needs to the body. Number one, we need to supply in order to supply needs to the body, it requires prayer. You and I need to pray for one another. How often do you really pray for one another? Do we pray for each other just on Wednesday nights when we come to prayer corporately on Wednesday nights? nights. If you're not able to make it Wednesday night, do we grab a prayer list to be able to pray on the way home? Do we read, sorry to say this, but do we read emails about prayer requests? I know some people don't like to get as many emails they do. There are all kinds of needs. Or do uh do we do we pray for one another? If we're going to meet the needs that every joint if there's going to be a supplying of the joints in the body, there's got to Be a prayer for each other. You and I are not alone. If we are part of this assembly, it is our responsibility to when we see and need Need, we need to we need to pray, number one, pray for that need. But do you know that if you're going to pray in a way that's appropriate And specific. Supplying the needs of the body requires that you know each other. You realize that? It requires that we know each other. I want to just say how much I appreciate those who have opened up their homes. I'm just using some illustrations here, just and And I and it doesn't limit you know, you um as soon as you illustr use illustrations and applications of this nature, people say well I'd do that or I haven't done that or whatever Um I that wouldn't be organic then. I mean there may be things that I don't just I don't mention at all that would be filling meeting needs or or those kinds of things. But there have been people that have chosen to open up their homes to show hospitality one to another and meet the needs of the body one to another. Folks, that is so helpful. If there is going to be a true body, if we're going to go from a building to a body, that kind of thing is necessary Is there a desire to get to know each other? I'm going to be honest with you. I think Facebook can be a really good thing. I think it really can be a can be a really bad thing. But sometimes you can get to know people a little bit through those those kinds of avenues, through social media and things like that, or texting, or those kinds of things. I mean if we use them in the right way, some of those things can be actually very helpful To get to know each other. We geographically, if you think of our body, our assembly, geographically, we are kind of a bit of a distance from each other in some cases. people that are miles away from each other. But thankfully through technology and just through our own uh initiative, we don't have to feel as though we're that way There can be a greater sense of supply and line needs and the thank and thankfully uh in Maryland the highway system pretty much allows you to get anywhere in about a half hour. You ever notice that before? I've grown up here And just like everything is a half hour away. It may not be less than a half hour away, but it's a half hour away. Give give or take five minutes. about a half hour or less. So uh so supplying our needs requires though that we know each other. Do you know people When you think of this local assembly, do you look around and see a bunch of people that you don't know? Or do you see anyone that you don't know? Well, if we're going to supply the needs of each other, we've got to know each other. Number three, we've got to meet supplying the needs of the body requires effort. It requires effort. Really, anything in life that's worth anything requires effort effort, doesn't it? And certainly that is the case when it comes to our supplying each other's needs It's going to require effort. We've got to pray for one another, we've got to know each other, and and meeting the needs of the body requires effort. Needs these ways. 1 John 3, 16 and 18 say, Hereby perceive we the love of God, because He laid down His life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren But whoso hath this world's good, and seeeth his brother have need, and shut up his bowels of compassion from him, how dwelleth the love of God in him My little children, let not love in word, neither in tongue, but in deed and in truth. The Bible also tells us in the book of James, what doth it profit, my brethren, that a man say he hath faith and have not works? Can faith save him? If a brother or sister be naked and destitute of daily food, and one of you say unto them, Depart in peace, be worn and filled, notwithstanding ye give them not those things which are Needful to the body, what doth it profit? Even so faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone. God tells us in these passages And it's then there is a particular focus on the brethren, on brothers and sisters in Christ, that when there is a need, there ought to be a desire to meet that need. And I just want to say a couple of things by way of application here as well. I think that there are times in the body of Christ that we've got to make our needs known I'm not saying that we complain. God doesn't like complaining, and frankly, nobody else does either. The Bible says, let all things be done without murmuring and complaining. and disputing. But it isn't appropri it is appropriate occasionally to at least in in terms of a prayer request or just whatever that we allow people to know our needs And in fact, we ought to allow people to meet our needs. If somebody sees a need that God has shown them very candidly You know, we we you know in our culture we go, oh no, no, no, no, no, you don't need to do that. Well, if I want to meet your need and you tell me I don't need to do that, what do you think I'm gonna say to you Of course I don't need to do it, right? I don't I want to do it. And of course that does require a want-to-to-do it, doesn't it? If we're going to supply the needs of others, we're going to have to want to do it. Really it's very true. Bruce Demeris said it well. Not Bruce Demeress. Um Bruce Ware said it well, you will do of the options available what you most want to do. And so you will never meet anybody's need if you don't want to It does require a genuine desire. Now, folks, the last point that I just really make here with regard to it requiring effort does bring us to the next major point in this text, which Which helps us with the reality that we need God's ability. Do you realize, folks, that for you and I as Christians To be the kind of body that God wants us to be and to supply the needs the way God wants us to supply them, you and I are going to need God's ability. It requires effort. Some of you are saying at this point, you know, I don't know how I'm going to have any more time to do what these things that I know I'm supposed to be doing. You sort of look at the situation your situation and you say, I don't have the time or or finances or resources. I I just don't have the time to be able to meet the kind the needs the way that you're saying we ought to be able to meet needs of the body. And do you know what that ought to that your next thought ought to be biblically? Dependency on the Lord Because it is not with your own energy. There are some people that say, well, you know, I'm just not gifted to meet people's needs. Well, that's baloney. We're all gifted to meet each other's needs. Some people say, well, you know, I just don't want to do that. Well, did you know that the Bible tells us that it is God that worketh in us both to will and to do for his good pleasure? And that's exactly the word that we find here in this text. It says, according to, how are we going to have the ability according to the effectual working? Do you know who is doing the effectual working? It's not you and me. The effectual working is being done to us and through us. It is the word energyo, it's the word energy that God gives to his people when they are meeting needs. Do you know, folks, that some of this is just a matter of faith? Some of this is a matter of saying, you know what, I am going to meet the need and trust that I've got the energy Did I need after I meet the need? Sort of an illustration is in the Old Testament of Elijah that came to the woman, you remember? that had the flask of oil and she was going to um and she was going she had a had just l uh a last little bit left for she and her son to have one more meal And Elijah says, Would you please give me of that oil? Now you and I might say, Well, that was really selfish of Elijah. And from our perspective, it certainly would have been, but Elijah knew full well that God would supply her needs. if she would choose to supply his need. And so he gave of his last little bit, or she gave of her last little bit, and God did supply in abundance, didn't he? Sometimes you and I are have a tendency to not meet our needs because we feel as though we don't we can't because we have no more effort left. Folks, do you realize that when you give, it gives you energy Some of you have experienced this. In fact, I know of people that that are in a perpetual, they just are giving people. You ever met people like that? They're good examples to us. They're just generally giving people. And what they have found, these kinds of giving people, what they have found is that it is more blessed to give than to receive. And the more that you give, the more that you receive. And so you just want to just keep giving so that you can receive from the Lord. And that is that is so important for us to understand if we are constantly looking at our situation and saying, well, I don't have the time or talents or resources or anything. Energy. No, you don't. But God does, doesn't he? He has the energy, and he gives it to us freely when when we will meet others' needs. We will supply them. And then let me just back up for a minute and just say this. We are talking about different kinds of needs, aren't we? I've mentioned sort of physical kinds of needs. We have, for example, people sick all over in our church. And there might be some needs there. We could take a meal to them. We have a meal program right now where where we um where we, you know, uh Mr. Burger Kilkop uh kind of heads that up and that's good. But right now they're sick. Okay. So why don't we just organically do it, for example? Now um if you're gonna all gonna do this at the same time, make sure you call them and schedule or something. But anyway, um so structure is important. But but I uh so so my point is simply sa uh is simply that sometimes we just need to meet the need and not expect the program to do it. But also there's a spiritual needs that need to be met here, aren't Aren't there? And frankly, they are more important than physical needs, although they're both important. And frankly, sometimes you can meet a spiritual need by meeting a physical need. If you just an encouragement to someone, if you're just an encouragement to them, that can be a meeting their needs. God will give us the energy to do this, but I want you to notice specifically how He does that. He does that through in the measure of every part. The ability is given for each one of us. We all have spiritual gifts. Now immediately when you hear that, you think to yourself, oh. I'm clear. I do not have the spiritual gift of helps. So I do not need to meet those kinds of needs. I mean I'm a teacher, so the only thing I need to do is teach. Or I'm a singer, so the only thing I need to do is that. Now folks, the spiritual we have talked about spiritual gifts before. But do you know that you can teach When you you can literally teach someone something when you play the piano. Or you can teach something something to someone when you bring a meal to someone. You can teach somebody something when you're when you're doing those things that are needed in the body So it isn't as though we just say, well, I only do certain things because I am gifted in it in this only this way. It doesn't pigeonhole us. It just causes us to realize that we can be motivated to do things for the Lord, and God has gifted us individually to meet the needs of the body. And we ought to be wanting to do that. Then what we see here, folks, is the result of all of this. We come to the result, and that is, it says it maketh increase. All of this, if we're doing in this the right way, the Bible says that it makes increase of the body. And what it's really talking about there is development. Colossians 2. 19 says and not holding the head, from which all the body by joints and bands have nourished nourishment min ministreth ministered and knit together increaseth with the increase, but it doesn't say in this passage what the increase is. In fact, would you take your Bibles and turn there? Would you turn over to Colossians chapter 2, verse 19? I want you to see this. What is going to be increasing? Well Colossians chapter two is going to help us. Did you realize that two-thirds of the approximately two-thirds of the content that are in that is in Colossians is also in Ephesians? They're really And we're going to find a explanation of Ephesians 4. 16, particularly with this increase in Colossians 2. 19. And Colossians 2. 19, we'll read it again here, it says, and not holding the head, which is Christ, of course, from which all the body by joints and bands having nourishment ministered And knit together increases with the increase of what? Alright, are you there yet? Are you are are you all all there at the passage? Right. Increases with the increase of Of God. Did you get that? What increases our increase of God? Do you want to know God Be vitally linked to the body. One of the ways that God, that we experience God And his moral attributes is when we are supplying the needs of the body, and when we are meeting the needs of the body, and when we are receiving the supply from the body to meet our needs. All of that causes us to go from this esoteric sort of intellectual view of God to experiencing God visibly, or at least tangibly, probably a better word than visibly. Tangibly. We are increased with the increase of God when we are vitally linked to the body in this way. This then implies, brothers and sisters in Christ, that there are things about God that you cannot know apart from being vitally linked to the body of Christ. There is experiences that you will not otherwise have unless you are vitally linked to the body of Christ. See people somebody that says to me something somebody says, Hey, you know what? I I uh I know God, I read the Bible all the time. I don't need that church thing. Church is not that important. I don't really need to be that involved in church. I really know God. I have my own personal relationship with God. God says you know God when you're involved in church And you know me well enough to know by now, I don't preach every message on church unless I'm going through the book of Ephesians. Uh then a lot of messages are on church. But I am not ex I am not saying any of this Because I happen to be a pastor and happen to want to see a church grow or anything like that. Folks, that is not my intent at all. But I do know this The more you begin to be vitally involved in the inner workings of a church, the more that you you supply needs And see needs and pray for needs and no needs. And the more that you have your needs supplied by the church When you have that happening and that organic life is going on, the more you do experience God in ways you otherwise didn't wouldn't experience Him There is an increase of God and of the body unto the edifying, the building up. That's what the word means. The building up of itself. And then finally we see the method here. It's in love. You know, it's really interesting that in the book of Ephesians here, the this section of scripture talking about how the corporate blueprint of the church, the very last word Is love. You and I will never be able to supply the needs of the body in the way that God wants us to if we don't love Love looks at the needs of others and will meet them even to its own sacrifice and detriment. Love is wanting God's best for another. I uh pick on the um movie Frozen a lot. Because my kids like it so much. My my little gr girl, my little youngest daughter is just in love with Olaf. This morning today at the dinner at the breakfast table. This has nothing to do with it my my message I just want to say it. Um this morning at the breakfast table uh she was uh sitting uh and she brought Olaf and sat her next to her at the breakfast table and uh had her in our own little seat. They love Olaf. But you know what there is something very redeeming about about that uh movie. It defines love correctly. At the end of the at the end of the of the the movie. You remember? And Olaf is the one who has it all figured out and realizes who the one who I don't remember the character m I should know these by heart, but I don't Um the the girl that's looking for love um and you know finds it in a day with the one guy and it's not really love. Um to him that's worth loving and he loves anyway. They get it right. That's the point New Year movie. Anyway. We can all watch Frozen together and sing Let It Go. Anyway. But you know We do have to love each other, don't we? Love puts up with others. Doesn't it? Do you ever have to do that in the body? You know it's it everything's you know when you meet somebody for the first time, everything's wonderful. Uh like the Lego movie I'm really on movies and I like a Lego movie, everything is awesome, right? Maybe that's going to be our I don't know. But you know, when it comes to our role in the body, we've got to we've we've got to we've got to love each other. What I'd like to do is just in conclusion here, I'd like you to turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 13. And I'd like for us to read. This description of love. Love really is best defined as the giving of oneself sacrificially to another for their good. But we see how love is described in this chapter in 1 Corinthians chapter 13. And folks, if we can begin to implement these. First Corinthians fifty thirteen says, Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels and I have not charity, I am become a clown sounding brass. And a tingling symbol. And though I have the gifts of prophecy, and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains and have not charity, I am nothing And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing. Charity suffereth long and is kind. Charity envieth not. Charity vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up. Doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil Rejoiceth not in iniquity, but it rejoiceth in the truth, beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things Charity never fails, but whether there is prophecies, they'll fail. Whether there be tongues, they shall cease. Whether there is knowledge, it shall vanish away. Folks, what we see here Is a description of love. If you want to ask yourself, am I a do I really love? Well, ask yourself how often you are giving of yourself sacrificially without thought of yourself. If everything you do is so that you're is is so that you can get something in return, then you don't really love. But when you love, when you give with no expecting nothing in return Then you are beginning to genuinely love. And then when you do it and have these kinds of characteristics in your life as you You're doing it, that is it really becomes a Christ-like kind of love. And that is what we need as a body of believers. To develop as a body so that we are fit for Christ's head. A couple of things we need to remember. Number one, do we realize that spiritual maturity is dependent on the body, and maturity for the god by for the body of the body is dependent on our spiritual maturity These things are vitally linked. You cannot mature spiritually unless you're vitally linked to the body. The maturity of the body is dependent on individuals' spiritual maturity, the spiritual maturity of individuals spiritual maturity is de is dependent on the body. That is what it's talking about, folks. We were talking about an organic body. If you have no parts developing properly, then you don't have a maturing body or developing body. But if you only have some of the parts developing properly, You have an incomplete, underdeveloped body. And so we are interdependent in order that we may know God. Are we using our spiritual gifts to supply the body's needs? And thirdly, are we increasing in our love for God and our love for others? By seeing the needs of others and desiring to give of ourselves to meet those needs. Let's pray. Father, we come to you today and we thank you, Lord We thank you for your sovereign providential work in placing these stones together in this local assembly And although there are lots of applications of the universal church in in this uh in this portion of Ephesians Clearly, for there to be a supplying of each other's needs, it is going to be primarily, though not exclusively, going to be in the body locally. Father, I pray, Lord, that we we understand that we have no guarantee that you will preserve your local assembly. You only guarantee that you will preserve You'll preserve your universal assembly. And that our preservation as a local church Is dependent upon our fulfilling our responsibility to the local church for your purposes. And I pray, Lord, that you would use our church To contribute to the maturity of the overall body as we make disciples for your glory, Lord, we understand that we were not we did not um we did not come up with this concept of love nor do nor can we have this kind of love in our own flesh The kind of love that you are talking about comes as we recognize how much you love us. We love you because we first love us. Because you first loved us. And then we recognize that we are to express our love to you by loving the brethren. Father, I pray. that you would really cause us to move from being a building to a to an organic body and develop us as only you can can do empowering you and I pray that you would be just your spirit would really be working in our lives to to direct us and to guide us into how we can we can Contribute to the body in the way that you want us to. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.