Take your Bibles and turn to Matthew chapter one this morning. Matthew chapter one, and we're going to be looking at various places in the genealogies. And then we'll be looking uh at verses uh seventeen through twenty-four as well. Last week we looked at the prophecy in the Old Testament in Isaiah 7 and Isaiah 9 of the coming light, the kingly light that was going to come. In anticipation of that, we are now moving to Matthew, and we're going to see some of the fulfillment of those prophecies take place as the king comes. But the question then is how should a king come? We don't have kings in this country. We have presidents instead of kings and Our founding fathers intentionally limited the rule the the the influence and the authority of the king by other branches of government Uh but we still, even for our presence, every four years we have four or eight years we have an inauguration, and there is at least a lot. A significant amount of pomp and circumstance of those things for our present and significantly more for an actual king when he comes to power. A song that you may be familiar with. It's a fairly popular song during this time. Questions that ask that question, how should a king come? It says, how should a king come? Even a child knows the answer, of course. In a coach of gold with a pure white horse in a beautiful city in the prime of the day And the trumpets should cry, and the crowds make way, the flags fly high in the morning sun, and the people all cheer for the sovereign one, and everyone knows that the way that's the way it's done. That's the way the king should come. How should a king come, even a commoner understands, he should come for his treasures and his houses and lands, he should dine upon summer strawberries and milk And sleep upon bedclothes of satin and silk, and high on a hill his castle should glow with lights of cities like jewels below And everyone knows that the that's the way that it's done. That's the way the king should come. Christ did not come in honor and pride and In fact, his coming was clearly marked by humility. That's really unarguable. Um you're hearing that I'm sure for most of you is not a surprise. He was born in a small town prophesied by in in Micah five two and Uh he was born in a manger. Uh he was born to poor parents Um everything about or much about his birth was seemingly insignificant. We know the story, we know the manger scene, we understand that, but Frankly, the coming of the King, Jesus, being marked by humility is it really goes far deeper than that. There's far more that we need to understand. And Matthew chapter 1 is really going to help us to understand that Christ's coming is clearly marked by humility. Let's go to the Lord in prayer, and then we will get into this text. Father, as we come to you this morning, I pray that Reviewing the things that we review from the Book of Matthew would help us to align our hearts and our minds with the manner in which you came, and in which Christ came. Because as he came, he set for us an example of how we ought to come to you. We ought to come to you on our knees. We ought to come to you in humility. Father, as we look at this passage today, may we be awed by the fact that Christ, who is very God, who never had a beginning, Who without him nothing was made that was made, humbled himself, condescended to us, became a baby In a manger. They did this for you and for me. And I pray, Lord, this morning as we look at this, you would remind us of these truths. Remind us of what you believe what you say in your word is truly important. And how how it is Diametrically opposed to what the world values. We pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. If you're like me, when I'm doing my Bible reading on a daily basis and I come to genealogy, I'm very tempted to sort of go, uh uh bunch of names. I probably should just try to get through this quickly and and not spend too much time on this so I can get to the content. But every genealogy in the Old Testament and in the New Testament has a reason that it's there. Now, I will tell you, I'll just give you a little hope. We're not going to go through each name of the genealogy. You can do that on your own time, and actually it is a beneficial study if you would choose to do that. But I want you to know this, that there is real significance in these genealogies, the first 17 verses of this chapter. A couple of things for us to understand about genealogies. Genealogies back then were like resumes are today. Your value as a person was often listed by often often gained by what your heritage was. And just like resume maze today, Genealogies could be could be crafted in a way uh that would make the person who whomever they were highlighting uh would make the person most look the best, usually. And so even in this genealogy in Matthew chapter 1, we do not have a complete genealogy. There are gaps basically of different kings that's It becomes very clear when you look at the Old Testament, there are gaps in this, but there are gaps for a reason. And and what is included in this genealogy and what is excluding this genealogy helps us to understand why Matthew puts this here and what it's here for. And I want to highlight first of all you'll see in the very first verse As we noted last week that it says this is the book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, it highlights the son of David, the son of Abraham. He wants to make us Make sure we understand that this is of the line of Abraham, which means that Jesus is from a Jewish nation and that it is from David because this is the fulfillment of the of the Davidic covenant. We see that here. You'll recall from last week as well that verse 11 highlights Jechaniah, the fact that he was cursed by God, and that his seed was not going to sit on the throne. And God fulfilled that curse by the Babylonian captivity coming in and dealing with uh them on that level, and so Jecah C, though it's listed here to show us the legal kingly line, they did not sit on the throne. And so we see that here as well. There's other fulfilled prophecies in this passage that we can look at, but I want us to highlight something in particular that really, if you are reading this in the first century, would really stand out to you. And that is that you have five women in this genealogy that are mentioned. That is exceedingly rare. Usually women were not mentioned at all in genealogies in ancient times. But the fact that there were five mentioned here, including Mary, is significant. So four prior to Mary and then Mary. uh is an additional one as well. And so that's significant. And the ones that we are na that are named here are also very significant and it's going to teach us Something about this person of Jesus and what and what truly God values and what Jesus values and it's diametrically opposed. to what the world values. So you'll notice the first person's name, the first woman mentioned in the genealogy is this woman Tamar in verse 3. Judah Perez and Zerabai and it and you know he could have stopped there, but he actually names who Who is the mother of Peraz and Zerah? It's Tamar. And if you know your Old Testament, we won't take the time to look at this in detail, but in Genesis chapter 38, verses 13 through 30, we have Tamar who has who deceives his father into an incestuous relationship to bring forth these two people. It's a very sordid story. It is not G-rated, frankly. It's not even PG rated. It's a very it's a it's a it's a it's a it's a very sort of story here. And yet God includes Tamar as the first woman in this genealogy. Well, let's let's see if it gets any better. Let's go to the next woman where we're going to find her in verse 5. Salmon begot Boaz by root by Rahab. Oh boy. So Rahab is the next one, and we find in Joshua chapter 2, verse 2, that Rahab is a harlot. It's not a lot better than Tamar. And it says in Joshua chapter 2, verse 2, now Joshua the son of Nun sent out two men from Acacia grove to spy secretly. Go view uh the land, especially Jericho's. So they went and came to the house of the harlot named Rahab, and lodged there. And of course you'll know you know the story that Rahab helped um helped despise and uh as a result she and her family were saved in Jericho. But again, we have a very sordid woman. This is a very this is not an upstanding citizen. and the history of our Lord's genealogy. Well, let's see if it gets any better. It's the same verse here. We have this group this woman, Ruth. Now, Ruth is in the Old Testament a woman who is exemplar in her character, but not in the first chapter of Ruth. Do you recall what she was before she converted? She was a idolatrous woman, a Moabites, not valuable, not highly esteemed. Moabites were not highly esteemed in Israel's in Israel's per uh perspective and their thinking. And then then look at verse six. And Jesse begat see now you're thinking see now you're with me now. Okay, these genealogies aren't that boring when you start going through them. Verse 6, and J Jesse begot David the king, and David the king begot Sam uh Solomon by her who had been the wife of who? Of Uriah, we've got Bathsheba in here. What are these women doing in here? These women who are, number one, they're women, and they're not supposed to be an old you know, ancient genealogies. And number two, these are not like this is not these are not like Proverbs thirty-one women. Four women here, and then you have Mary, and Mary is exemplar in her character, but she bears the stigma of a pregnancy without wedlock. Significant significant issue as well. How do you deal with all this? Folks It really highlights the reason why Christ came and what Christ really values. You see, people value where you come from, and people value who you are and what your heritage is and those kinds of things. And and God values who Christ makes you to be Matthew, who wrote this? What is Math who who is Matthew? He was what? Before he became a disciple, he was a tax collector. Were tax collectors well thought of in the first century? No, they were traitors. They were not at all thought well. And Matthew says this about uh this is recorded in Matthew, Matthew 9. 13. But go and learn what this means Jesus says, I desire mercy and not sacrifice, for I did not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance All of these women were had they they were not valuable based upon the war what the world says, but in most cases As far as we know, they were valuable based upon the redemption of Christ and what Christ did. We have a picture Of the redemption of Christ, even in the Old Testament. We have, we have, it's marked, the genealogies themselves are marked by humility. I want to make five observations about Matthew's genealogies of this passage. Number one, the birth of Christ is a historical event, not merely an inspiring story. It's a historical event, not merely an inspiring story. That's important. You know, you can l w w watch or read The Lore of the Rings or the Harry Potter story or Star Wars. And despite the fact that Anakin was conceived of a virgin and a high concentration of Metaclorians, you never find the beginning of that thing. Uh some of you don't remember that part. You're like, what really? What yeah, it's true. Um you never find in the beginning of of of Star Wars a list of genealogies. Because it's a story. Folks, this is and you know sometimes we we you know some people come to come to the story of Christmas and they look at it the same way they look at Lord of the Rings. Folks, this is not Lord of the Rings. This is truth. This is historical truth. Number two, God does not operate on our timetable. God does not operate on our timetable. He is faithful to fulfill his will, but he does not operate on our timetable. This is after 400 years of total silence of revelation. And prior to that time you have full prophecies like Genesis 3. 15 that prophesies that Christ will come and Uh in a veiled sense it says it's in that passage. And in Genesis chapter 12, verse 3, you have the Abrahamic covenant where it says that in thee all the families of the earth will be blessed through Christ. They've waited they're waiting years and years and years for this to happen. Folks, God does not operate on our timetable. Most of the time, God's timetable is way slower than ours Occasionally he speeds something up real fast and surprises us. But usually his timetable, at least in my life, I've discovered that most of the time it it moves slower than I want to. And usually it's because I have growing to do. Henry Wadsworth Longfellow said this, he got it right. He said that though the mills of God grind slowly, yet they grind exceeding small. Though with patience he stands waiting, with exactness grinds he all. And we definitely see that in the book of Matthew. All of the flo all of the the fulfilled prophecies in Matthew and Luke, they're they're great intricately w woven together at the perfect time so that everything in the Old Testament is fulfilled, both whether it whether it comes to the kingly line or the fact that Christ is born of a virgin. All those things are fulfilled in in uh or yet to be fulfilled in the Gospels. Number four, are we number four or number three? I didn't say number three. Number three, God's dealings with uh are with actual people, not with ideal people. Aren't you glad about that? God's dealings are with actual people, not ideal people. Number four. The family line of Jesus contains some uh moral outcasts and people that were ethically diverse. These were not all Jews. Some of these were Gentiles in this genealogy. And they were and they were moral outcasts. Tim Keller says this in relation to this passage. He says, all cultures encourage their members to look down on some people in order to congratulate themselves for their own superiority. We tend to do that even if the culture is not telling us to. The world values pedigree, money, race, and class. He turns it all upside down, Christ does. These things that matter so much outside Jesus' church must not be brought inside. He says, in a sense, in my family, those things that are so important out there in the world must not be so important in here. By number five, God used all this messy stuff. There's a good theological term for you. All this messy stuff to accomplish his purpose. You look at these genealogies, you go, wow, what a mess. Now, Jesus was not a mess, Jesus was perfect, but his background was a mess. And God uses a mess. I uh I don't know about you, but I I I am not good at wrapping presence. I know that surprises you, but I am this is not my thing to wrap presents. I think I've probably wrapped three presents in my entire life. About as many diapers as I've changed. And I'm kidding about that. I've changed a few more. I thought about it, but not a lot more actually. So so I figure in God's providence, he didn't want me to wrap a lot of presents because I've got three girls. And uh I've just assumed that that's not in the will of God for me to be able to wrap presents. So um so I only have to wrap one. My wife wraps everybody else's and then I wrap uh And then I can I can delegate the the the not one. If I get for more than one gift I gotta figure out how to do that. But then I I can gift wrapping is not that expensive actually. I can give you a good source if you w if you're interested And um and beyond that I think but I mean I'm telling you, if I try to wrap a present, uh it just it looks bad. Um but you know what? If I give if I gave my wife a really expensive, you know diamond or something, do you think it really matters what it's wrapped in? And somebody says, well yeah. No, it doesn't matter. Believe me, it doesn't matter. You I mean it'll matter until they open the package and then it really won't matter. Um God, you know, we're all wrapped. We're all wrapped a little messy. Sin does that. And yet God chooses to use the messy stuff. To bring forth His will and to accomplish His will. But that's not the only way that humility marks the coming of Christ. Humility marks the method of Christ's coming, in fact. You'll pick up here then in verse 18, and we'll now see the official story of the birth of Christ. Verse 18 says, Now the birth of Jesus Christ was as follows, after his mother Mary was betrothed to Joseph. Before they came together, he was found with child of the Holy Spirit. Now, you know, imagine reading this for the first time. So a couple of things that we need to understand. First of all, this betrothal is different than the engagement of our day. Betrothal, they are legally married. Understand that. The betrothal is a legal marriage. And so Joseph and Mary are legally married, but The custom of the day was not to consummate the marriage right away. It usually was a year before the marriage was actually consummated. So they were in an unconsummated marriage together. But they were legally married. That's important to understand. Understand this as well. What it says here is that Mary was found with child, and it says by by means of the Holy Spirit. Of course, then that means that Joseph is not involved in the birth, as far as being the Father, he's not involved, the physical father, he's not involved in the birth of Jesus. What this verse clearly teaches us, and then we see in verse 20, it's further explained. Look at verse 20, we'll come back to verse 19. But while he thought about these things, Joseph had a lot to think about. You can imagine, I mean just put yourself there. Behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take to you Mary your wife. For that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. And she will bring forth a son. And you'll notice this from last week. And she will bring forth a son, and you will shall call his name Jesus. For he will save his people from their sin, that's Isaiah seven fourteen. So all this was done that it meant might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the Lord through the prophets, saying, Behold I'm sorry, this is 714, verse 23. Behold, the virgin shall conceive, the virgin shall be with child and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which is translated God with us. Now, the question we need to, how does how did all this take place? And what does God want us to know about two major doctrines in Scripture, the virgin birth of Christ? And the incarnation of Christ. I mean, you have both of them clearly laid out here. First of all, the virgin birth of Christ, of course, Jesus is born of a virgin. And then you have the incarnation of Christ that God became, very God became very man. How did all of this take place? How can God become man? What was the process by which this occurred? And the answer to that is found in another passage of Scripture which I'd like you to turn to. It's in Philippians chapter 2. Would you take your Bibles and turn to Philippians chapter 2 if you would? And we're going to see this. Philippians chapter two. J. I. Packer believes that this is the main if we can get the incarnation right and we can understand the incarnation. Then understanding who Jesus is and the miracles and all that he came to do will easily fall in line. Take your Bibles and turn to Philippians chapter 2. Philippians chapter 2, we have a very well-known passage that gives us the process by which Jesus became a man. And we'll begin looking at this. We'll pick up in verse 5. It says, Let this mind be in you which was also in Christ Jesus. Well, what mind or what attitude is he talking about? Verse 6, who being in the form of God, did not consider it robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation, taking the form of a bondservant, and coming in the likeness of men. Being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself, became obedient to the point of death, even to the death of the cross. So verse 6 tells us that he was in the form of God, which it's the word being there means he's existing in the form of God. And he did not think that that was a thing to be grasped. In other words, God did not, Jesus did not have to grasp his deity. He was innately God. He is innately God. Jesus is completely God. He is the creator of the ends of the earth. He is God. And it's not something that he needed to grasp. But we then see as well that in fact, just a that's also, by the way, a fulfillment of scripture. Isaiah 9:6 said, you remember last week, he is the mighty God. And John chapter 10, verse 30, Jesus said, I am my Father one. He claimed to be God. Verse 7 gets deep into what the process by which Jesus came to earth. Verse 7 tells us that he he emptied himself. He made himself of no reputation, or he emptied himself taking the form of a bondservant and coming in the likeness of men. What does it mean that he emptied himself? What does that mean? What did he empty himself of And the answer to that is that he emptied himself of his glory. Now there is some debate over to what what what it what it's talking about here. What did he empty himself of? Let's take a few moments just to understand what it means when it talks about the glory of God. What is the glory of God? Do you remember in Exodus chapter thirty-three back of the Old Testament? Moses goes up to Count Mount Sinai, and Moses asks God in that chapter, asks God, can I see your glory? Please show me your glory, verse 18 of that passage. Show me your glory. Jesus, do you remember God's answer? God's answer was not exactly no. God's answer was you essentially you can't see all of my glory or you'll be consumed. I can show you my back. And and so that's exactly what he did, but you couldn't see he couldn't see all of his glory And then it's interesting in Exodus 34, the next chapter, Moses comes down from Mount Sinai. You recall what happens? Well, I'll read it for you. Verse 29. And it came to pass when Moses came down from Mount Sinai with the two tables of t the testimony of Moses' hand, when he came down from the mountain That Moses wished not that the skin of his face shone while he talked with him. And when Aaron and all the children of Israel saw Moses Behold, the skin of the face shone, and they were afraid to come nigh him. So Moses comes down from the mountain, and he has just been with God, and he has seen a Partial, now he hasn't seen all the glory of God, but he has seen some of the glory of God, at least a a residual of the glory of God. And he comes down from the mountain, and it's interesting what the Apostle Paul says about what happened in Exodus. And we find a commentary on what happened in Exodus in the book of 2 Corinthians 3. And it says in 2 Corinthians chapter 3, verse 7, you might want to write these down and look at them later or turn to them, either one. But in 2 Corinthians chapter 3, verse 7, it says, But if the ministry of death written and engraved on stones, was glorious, so that the children of Israel could not look steadily in the face of Moses, because of the glory of his countenance, which glory was passing away. How will the ministry of the Spirit not be more glorious? For if the ministry of the condemnation had glory, the ministry of righteousness exceeds much more in glory Unlike Moses, uh and then verse 13, unlike Moses, who put a veil over his face, so that the children of Israel could not look steadily at the end of what was passing away. So there's a lot that's said in that passage, but we know that the glory in the passage has to do, first of all, there's different levels of it, and Moses came down and there was a gloriousness to his face. There was a brightness. There was a, can we put it this way? There was a light. Now that's interesting. What was Christ, what did Christ come? He was the what? He was prophesied to be what? The light to the world. The Bible says here that he had to empty himself. He had to empty himself of that glory. Presumably, why would that be? Why would he have to empty himself of the glory? Well, because what happened with Moses? God said, I can't see all, you can't see all of the glory. So Christ emptied himself of this glory. And yet, you say, and I haven't totally confused you yet, we actually find in John 1. 14 it says that We beheld his glory. John 1. 14 says, And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. Folks, when did that happen? Well, that was on the Mount of Transfiguration. They saw at least some semblance, and very likely not all, of the glory of God. But they saw a high level of the glory of God. In Matthew 17, 1 it explains that. It also explains that in 2 Peter 16, verse 18, it says And we did not follow cunningly devised fables when we made known to you the power of the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ, but were eyewitnesses of his majesty. That's going to help us understand what the glory is. Eyewitnesses of his majesty For he received from God the Father honor and glory when such a voice came to him from the excellent glory. This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. And we heard the voice which came from heaven when we were with him on his holy mountain. One person said it this way when talking about the glory of God, it is the signature of his majesty. The glory is the signature of his majesty. Do you remember over in 2 Corinthians 11, verse 15, it says that the woman's hair is a glory to her. Do you know what it's talking about there? It's saying that the woman's hair identifies who she is as a woman. Woman's hair follicles are different than men's hair follicles And so if you could tell that that it's a woman by their hair. Now, if a woman doesn't have any hair at all, does she stop from being a woman? Of course, she continues to be a woman. Another illustration to help us to understand what happened here and why we can note that Christ retained his deity. while setting aside his glory. Have you ever how many of you have ever we we s we we get him a lot around here. You know, it's sort of interesting. The other day um we had a shed delivered here um over on the property. And the man that that um delivered the shed is they're from Lancaster, he's from Lancaster. And um he suddenly we're talking and he suddenly looks up in the sky and says, What is that? I'm like, it's a plane? Uh I mean it really was just a normal jet. It's all it was. He goes, Whoa, that's I I literally I honestly didn't even notice it. It didn't even I I would never have identified it. But he's like, he's looking at me going, What what is that what is the bo boy, you guys have a lot of those around here? I said, Yeah, like the airport's right there, right there. It's not far at all. He said, Oh, I'm not used to that. I'm that's really something. I'm going, What? But then I recalled living up in Pennsylvania for two years and you're right. I mean like I n he was right. I like never saw an airplane. And so so this will be easy for us. Have you ever seen airplanes? Usually in the middle of the summer, a nice blue sky, no clouds, and you'll see a a jet going across the sky and you'll see a streak from that jet. So so if a jet cuts his engines down to what to where he's no longer having that streak, uh uh he's he's moving but he no longer has that the the exhaust from the jet. Is he still is it still a jet So I'm using this as an illustration to help us to understand that the glory that what Jesus did when he came to the earth, he came and he set aside his glory But he didn't set aside his deity. And folks, what we find is in order to do that, he had to exemplify humility. And it says it clearly in Philippians chapter 2 that that's what he did. He took upon the form of a servant. Now, I want to just mention a couple of things. You say, well I'm not really sure he's talking about the glory. I want to give you a couple of reasons, a few reasons why. It's it's i it's very seems clear to me that this this is what he set aside. Number one We find in the text there's this verbal, there's there's this uh this word this word this verb taking off, or it's actually a participle, but uh this word this idea of taking something is a cause And it requires something else, and we find in that passage in verse 17. I'm in Philippians chapter 2, not verse 17, where was I? Uh verse seven. Verse seven. But made himself of no reputation, taking on the form of a servant. The idea is he had to put off something in order to take something on. It's clearly in the context in the in the context of humility. But do you remember in Isaiah 53, 2? It says, For he shall grow up before him as a tender plant. and as a root out of dry ground, he has no form or comeliness or majesty, that's sometimes translated. And when he we see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him. So so what do we and then and then actually Jesus praised To his father in John chapter 17, verse 5, he said, Lord, Father, return me to my glory that I have before Now, what's the point of all this? How did Christ come, folks? He came, setting aside his glory, he came in humility. And Jesus says, or God says, the Apostle Paul says, let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. And it is very easy for us folks to think that we must come to God with all of our accomplishments or all of what we are doing. Even those of us who know Christ as our Savior, it's very easy for us to think that we need to come to God full of our what we do. And that's not how we are to come to God at all. We are to come to God in humility. 1 Peter 5:6 says, humble yourself, therefore, into the mighty hand of God. That he may exalt you in due time. So the method with which Christ what with which Christ came was humility. And then we find, would you notice then Look back over it at Matthew chapter one and we're going to pick up here in verse 19. I want you to notice something next here. Matthew chapter 1 and we'll pick up in verse 19 It says, then Joseph, her husband, you remember Joseph is sort of left with this dilemma. Mary has been found with child This is of course unheard of. And he's left with this dilemma. He says this j uh then Joseph, her husband, being a just man and not wanting to to make a public example of her was minded to put her away secretly. The word put away means to divorce there. Now remember they have not consummated the marriage, and that's probably What is talking about in Deuteronomy 24, at least one example of what's talking about Deuteronomy 24 in case law of when a divorce will be acceptable. The marriage has not consummated yet here in verse 19. And Joseph is trying to do the most honorable thing he knows to do in this situation. And he wants to he wants to just very quietly put her away. Uh this was something he didn't have to do. You know he could have had her stoned. Frankly, according to Old Testament law. But that's not what Joseph did. That's not what Joseph chose to do. Of course An angel intervenes and tells her, look, this is of God, this is what God is doing. But I want us to notice some things that we can learn about, and then just pick up in verse 24, you'll see this. Then Joseph, being aroused from his sleep, did as the angel of the Lord commanded him and took him his wife And did not know her till she had brought forth her firstborn son, and he called his name Jesus. There is a real example of humility in the response that Joseph had to all that was going on. And I want us to understand this: that what we see in the life of Joseph here is both humility and courage. Do you know those two things go together? Have you ever thought of those two going together? Most of the time, I don't think we do. I think we think of courage as something that somebody who has a lot of self-confidence has. But no, actually you're going to find in this passage that there isn't any question that Joseph is very courageous in obeying and doing what he believes he needs to do, but there is a sense of humility about Joseph in this passage as well. Number one, Joseph was willing in his humble courage to take the world's disdain. If you guys could put that up there, I think I included that. Humble obedience from Joseph. The first one only, if you can't. Did I do that wrong, C Ah I see. Okay, just wait then. That's okay. Number one, the humble humble courage to take the world's uh disdain. Now, I just want you to imagine this. So Joseph's friends come to him. They find out that Mary's with child. I mean, just put yourself in that place. They find out Mary's with child. And they come to him and say, Hey, Joseph, what's going on here? Joseph they say to Joseph, Hey, Joseph, um, got two ac two two possibilities, Joseph. Either you're the father or She's been unfaithful to you. And Joseph says, I got it figured out. I got it figured out. The Holy Spirit conceived him. I mean, just think about that. That would be, that was, that would not be very believable. And the truth of the matter is he had to have courage to re very likely to receive the disdain from the world And the truth is, if we know Christ our Savior, there are going to be times in our lives where we're going to have to receive the world to stain for what we believe. Just think of think of what it might be for someone in the workplace to have to be chided because he believes. He literally believes in the virgin birth and the incarnation of Christ and all those things that the resurrection, all those things that Christ claims are clearly supernatural events. And he's chided for those things. He has to he he doesn't we as Christians must have the humble courage to take the world's disdain. Number two We must have the humble courage to give up our right to self-determination Now it's interesting that the angel tells Joseph that you're going to name the child this. You, this is his name. And that would have been culturally a the uh back of the culture, the husband had the entire right to name the child. That was sort of a right of a father. to name the child what he wanted to name name him. And he had to give up that right to name this child what what uh the angel said to name him. Luke 9, 23 says this: If anyone desires to come after me, let him deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me. Joseph had to deny himself. He had to deny himself of being really actually even being physically the father, and yet he had to re he had to play that role. He had to deny himself. Number three, he had to he had humble courage, and this is just a humble courage, this is not with Joseph specifically with all of us, to admit we're a sinner. To admit we're sinners. Matthew chapter one, verse twenty-one, it says, And she shall bring forth a son, and shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. And the reason that Jesus Christ came, as you know, is to die for our sin. We must admit that we are a s that we are sinners. So In looking at all of this and what Christ did and what we should receive from all of this, folks, we need to understand that there is a place in our lives that we need to be truly humble. Number one. The world finds value in what people are made of. God finds value in what Christ makes of people. I want you to set the let that settle in. You ever find yourself struggling because of something, you you just for whatever reason you don't feel valuable. We deal with that in different ways. Sometimes we ignore it. Sometimes, if we can compare ourselves with others and they're lower than us, then it will make us feel more valuable. Sometimes we we we want to actually help others, and in helping them, we don't have to think about our own problems and we feel more valuable. The sense of value for a Christian is not in who we are, but in who Christ is and what Christ has made us to be. We need to understand that. The world gets it wrong. They do not understand the kind of identity that people you you'll hear people all the time, well I'm this or I'm that or I describe myself this way or I uh we are so focused on s how we are valuing ourselves. I identify as this The real value in the mind of God is that if you know Christ is your Savior, you're in Christ. That's where you must find your value. Number two. To emulate the mind of Christ, we must be constantly humble. That's not easy. Humble humility is to not focus on on lowering ourselves. Humility is not thinking of ourselves at all. That's what you find in Christ. Christ sets aside his glory, takes on the form of a bondservant, the form of a slave, and comes to earth. And if we are truly going to be humble, we are going to not focus on ourselves. We're going to focus on the Lord and the needs of others. Self-focus is the opposite of humility. And number three, the story of Christmas requires us to come to Christ in the same way He came to us. Christ came in humility, and that's how we must come. That's why it says in Matthew chapter 11, verse 29: Take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am meek. And lowly in heart, and ye shall find rest for your souls. Christ came in humility, in meekness, and we ought to come to him in the same way. And we need to understand as we look we look during this time of year, you know, it it's wonderful to think about all of what Christ did. But we need to understand that the way that we respond to Christ is in humility. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you that you did come. And we were not able to see, we're not in a position to see your glory, and so you limited it. Christ limited it for us. He retained his deity, he retained his humanity. And yet he came born of a virgin. The God man came to earth. Lord, some of that is infathomable to us. And yet we can learn a great truth from it. I pray, Lord, that when we are tempted to glory in ourselves or compare ourselves, Or to find value in ourselves in a way that is unpleasing to you, I pray that you would help us to remember Christ. He set for us the example. And I pray that you'd help us to have the same, to have that mind, that attitude that Jesus had. That mind and an attitude of humility. And Lord, we look forward one day as we have that mind that you will exalt us We will one day be with Christ. We are joiners with Him, and we'll experience that. Until then, Lord, help us to humbly, obediently, courageously walk with Christ. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.