Matthew chapter one. It is amazing when we think about the Christmas story, the humble beginnings of The story. There's something endearing about humble beginnings. When you think of the Christmas Carol, you think of Scrooge and we don't like him very much. But what's the most what's the favorite care uh the favorite character in in that story? It's Tiny Tim, because he's a humble little boy. And and there is just something endearing about that. Do you all remember when you had humble beginnings? Some of you have to really go back a long time. But I I think all of I I I remember as a teenager um listening to stories about you know couples when they first started off and what they had to go through when they first started off. And I thought to myself, boy, that's that must be really hard. And I never actually thought that it would happen to me. until it did. So I got married and the house that we left we we were first in was um it was I it should not be called the house. It really should not have been called that. It was uh It was caving in in the middle. And before I I was in there a few months before we actually got married, and I I leveled all of the furniture with little blocks. to make sure everything was at least level, not I mean the the the floor wasn't. You could jump on the floor and the whole house would shake, which was not a big house. It was a small house. In the bathroom you could actually see through the floor to the outside and the walls were disintegrating in the kitchen. I think they were asbestos walls and they were dis Disintegrating before my wife came in there, I I took wooden paneling and covered all of the kitchen walls and put cabinets up there. There were no cabinets in the kitchen It was it was quite a place. My parents braved that w when I was when I was single there, my parents came down and stayed one night. Uh that's all they could handle probably. And I said, What do you think about the place? And my dad was like, I like camping out. It's about what it was. Humble beginnings. But the difference is that you know we don't usually choose these kind of humble beginnings. Christ chose it He chose to come humbly. He didn't have to do it. He could have come any way that he chose, and yet he chose to come humbly. And really the question is why? And the fact that Christ came in a humble way really goes beyond just a baby in a manger or to poor parents. We hear of those stories, and certainly they're true. But the humility with which Christ came to this earth really goes far deeper than that. Why did Christ come that way? And how you know when we think of a king coming, we heard of the kind of things that you would think of from the from the song that Kevin Loreland sang. Well, well, how that's not how Christ came at all. Why did Christ come the way he came? And that's what we want to look at today. How did Christ come? And we're going to see from Matthew chapter 1 some very important truths about really humility marks everything about how Christ came. From his j from his history, his lineage, the genealogies in Matthew, all the way through how he came and and the and the fact that he is God incarnate and clothes himself in humanity, all of those things just speak to this idea of humility. He came in humility. And let's go, Lord, in prayer, ask his help with this as we go through it. Father, we thank you for the privilege of gathering this morning. And we thank you that Christ did come the way that He did. And there are many times in life where we don't understand the mysteriousness of why you do what you do, and that's clearly in this text as well. And yet We're just grateful that you use weak things and humble things to do your will and to glorify yourself. And as we look this morning at your word, I pray that you would teach us and help us to understand the importance of this holiday of of of the incarnation of Christ. And also how we ought to follow in the footsteps of Christ in this way as well. And Lord, we thank you for what Christ did for us. May we appreciate it more because of this message. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, we're actually going to pick up in Matthew chapter 1 in the genealogies of Matthew. Those are the that's the section when you're reading the Christmas story you sort of skip over. Well I don't want to skip over it today. I'm not gonna we're not gonna look at every single name, but I want us to see some things about these genealogies that are really really quite impressive. But in order to do that, we need to understand why Matthew put what he put in in this genealogy. First a couple of things we need to understand. First of all, this genealogy is not a complete list. If there is at there are 14 names in this genealogy, and that's on purpose. We don't really know why there are 14. It must have been some there must have been some number uh significance and it's not clear why. But he he clearly chose certain names and didn't choose others. That's clear from other genealogies as well. And so that's important to understand. When we read genealogies, it should read like almost like a resume to us. The whoever's writing down the genealogy is actually noting it's giving qualifications for the person with which he's talking about. And that's the case with Christ. He is the king, and he's coming as a king. And why is he qualified to be able to be king? Of course, he's from the line of David. And God said that David would sit on the throne, that his heritage would sit on the throne forever. And so we see that in this passage. But we want and we need to understand that this is like it's like a historical resume We need to understand that Matthew has a very key intention in this. As you read through this, one of the things that would be very clearly apparent to a Jewish uh a reader as he reads through this is that there are women in this gene genealogy. And I will just let you know, ladies, that that hardly ever happened You did not usually have women in genealogies at all back in the first century and prior to that. And for a Jewish person, they would also note that there was a there's Gentiles in this passage. In Christ's Genealogy, you have Gentiles included. And that was also something that was n unheard of for uh Jewish uh uh Jewish genealogy. Since they were able to pick and choose what they would have in there, they would not have included the Gentiles and the ladies. Those were not the most important things, according to the Jewish people And I'm not saying that that's right. That's not biblical. That's just the Jewish custom, but that's that was what the how they would think. In fact, the the common Jewish male the common Jewish male will wake up every day and say, I thank my God, I am not a woman and I am not a Gentile Um and I'm not saying that that's the right way to think about things at all, uh, but that's that is how often how they think. It's that in fact one time I probably am sure I've mentioned this before, but I went to a Jewish school one time uh with a friend of mine when I was working uh doing excel tree work and and uh they invited me in a Friday night and uh we went or I went with him and they had they separate the men from the women and the first thing I opened up in the rabbinical writings was I thank my God I am not a woman. In the rabbinical writings. And I I leaned over him. I said, what are the women reading? And he said, Oh, they're reading I thank my God for I'm for his will in my life. Like, okay. And then the next thing I read is I thank my God I'm not Gentile. I said, Saul his name was Saul, my friend. I said I I shouldn't be here. Like I'm like a Gentile for sure. And it did you notice my last name? Anyway, so uh so it was an interesting experience. But but these understanding these kinds of things when it comes to um uh comes to our genealogies will help us understand the significance of what God is getting across in in what He considers to be important. for Christ in his birth and his coming to earth. And in this text there are actually four women. that are in the um that are in the genealogies of Christ genealogy of Christ in this passage. And in fact, all four of these women I believe are Gentiles. And so I want to just pick out these and I want to show you these because they're going to help us to understand how Christ came and what he came to do. And I'll just start this way. He came uh the uh one woman the first woman we see is in verse three is Tamar. Judah begot uh Perez And Zerah by Tamar. It literally identifies, it could have just said Perez and Zerah and not said who was the mother, but it specifically says who the mother is. Perez begot Hezron and so on. So why would they identify, why would that happen? Well, do you remember who Tamar was? In Genesis chapter 38, we find Tamar, she actually poses as a prostitute. And she comes to uh the and she comes to Judah, her father-in-law, and and they and they have a two children together. By and that's in you say that's in the Bible? It it is in the Bible. And that's this text. That's in the gen that that's the genealogy And it says in Genesis chapter 38, verses 13 through 30 is where the passage is. And at the end of it it says, Now it came to pass at the time for giving birth, and behold, twins were in her womb. And so it was when she was giving birth that the one put out his hand, and the midwife took a scarlet thread and bound it on his hand, saying, This one came out first. Then it happened as he drew back his hand that his brother came out unexpectedly, and she said, How did you break through? This breach be upon you Therefore his name was called Perez. Afterward his brother came out who was who had a scarlet thread on his hand, and his name uh was called Zerah. It's interesting in the story, we won't take the time to go into the details of the story, but Judah actually uh what she he should have through leverage marriage married Tamar to his third son. His first two sons died. And he should have done that. He was neglectful in doing so. And so Tamar took it took it into her own hands to try to to include herself again into the family by doing this. And uh she was actually successful in doing so. You think, man, what a scandalous uh filthy kind of thing. And yet, isn't it amazing that she is included in this genealogy at uh in this genealogy of Christ Now let's go to Rahab. Rahab's in here too. Verse 5. Look at what it says. Solomon begat Boaz by Rahab. Boaz was the child of Rahab, in fact. Well, who was Rahab? Rahab was another one of the unsavory ladies that we find in the Old Testament. Another one. And in Joshua chapter 2, verse 1, it says, Now Joshua the son of Nun sent him, sent out two men from Acacia Grove to spy secretly, saying, God, view go view the land, especially Jericho. So they went and came to the house of the harlot named Rahab and lodged there. We find in Hebrews 11, verse 30, it says, By faith the walls of Jericho fell down after they were encircled for seven days. By faith the harlot Rahab did not perish with those who did not believe, the assumption is she did believe, that when she had received the spies with peace. Rahab was redeemed because of her faith. And she was indelibly placed in the hall of faith, as they call it in Hebrews chapter 11, and she's also in this genealogy. We have another woman, her name's Ruth. Now, Ruth, in her conduct, as far as we know, was not like these other two women, but she was a Moabitus. She was a worshiper of idols, and it's interesting that in scripture it actually identifies uh Moabites were I I believe Moab uh people from Moab were not allowed into uh Israel uh Be connected with Israel Israelites for like seven generations because they were considered to be so unclean. And yet in in Ruth versus uh chapter one verses twenty one through twenty-two we find Ruth's testimony where it says, And I went out full, and the Lord had brought me home again empty. Why do you call me Naomi since the Lord has testified against me and all and and the Almighty has afflicted me So Naomi returned, and Ruth the Moabite is her daughter-in-law with her, who returned from the country of Moab. Now they came to Bethlehem at the at the beginning of barley harvest. And then finally we have Bathsheba in verse 6. Of course, you know who Bathsheba is. And it says in verse 6 that Jesse begat David, the king. And David the king begat Solomon by her who had been the wife of Uriah. I mean, it identifies specifically who this wife was prior to David, and yet she is included in this line. Now that I I just want us to understand how surprising this would have been. And yet God divinely placed this in here. Matthew, the human author, wrote this in here. As a resume for Christ being the rightful King. I want us to observe five things about this passage, about Matthew's genealogy that we see here Number one, the birth of Christ is a historical event, not merely an inspiring story You you see that. These are actual names of actual people that actually that actually were born and died and gave birth and all of that This is not a fictitious narrative kind of story. And by the way, just to really establish this and help you to understand this, this is so helpful. When when when when you doubt the truth of the word of God, when you doubt the truth, and I've it it's been interesting several different it's not just been one, but several different people have talked with me lately about about just just the the normal human doubts that occur in our lives as we look at the Word of God When you doubt these kinds of things in Scripture, start with Christ and see Christ God so wanted to make Christ's birth so clear and verifiable, and his life so verifiable, and his death and his resurrection so verifiable, he has four accounts. Not one, not two, but there are four witnesses, four gospels that describe the life of Christ and all of that. That's incredible Four different eyewitnesses from different walks of life and different people that all wrote of the events of Christ. And not only that During this time, you have people like Josephus and others that verify from a human perspective, they didn't write divinely, but they had a human perspective, they verified the truths that were in these uh in these texts as well. You have an incredible amount of of verification of truth when it comes to the person of Christ, who he is, what he did, where he walked, where he died, and all of that. And if you will start there, you read the Gospel of John or Matthew or Mark or Luke. You start there and read all of those And if you have doubts, you begin to see how it was clearly substantiated the life of Christ. And that makes sense, doesn't it? Because John chapter 1 says this, in the beginning was the what? The Word, and the Word, the revelation of God was with God, and the Word was God, and the Word, verse 14, became flesh. And so the revelation of God is based upon Christ coming to earth, and then he spoke, and then you have everything else verifying that. That should strengthen our faith. It's not the sum total of our faith. It's not the basis of our faith, but it should strengthen our faith when we see this. So that's important to understand. Number two, God does not operate on our timetable. He doesn't operate on our timetable. When you look at the genealogies of both Luke and Matthew, you find that God's not operating on our timetable. Because it would not have taken us nearly as long from our human perspective to bring forth the Messiah You have a prophecy of the Messiah in Genesis chapter 3, verse 15, the very first time where it says, and I will put enmity between you and the woman, between your seed and her seed. He shall bruise your head and you shall bruise his heel. You're the prophecy of Christ dealing with Satan all the way back in the very in the third chapter of Genesis. And it doesn't happen until thousands of years later. God's timetable is not our timetable. He does not operate on our timetable. We have to wait. And by the way, I would say it this way, that my personal opinion is most of the time, most of the time, we got to wait a lot longer. Usually he doesn't work faster than we do. Occasionally that'll happen. He'll surprise us and it'll work faster. But usually my experience has been I want it now and he makes me wait. He's just not in a hurry like we are. And and you have you ha why? Well when you think about this, you think about the Old Testament. and all of what occurred in the Old Testament, all the preparation to bring us to the place where we understand Christ, there's a lot there. And it's important for us to understand this. Henry Wadsworth Longfellow said this, though the mills of God grind slowly, yet they grind exceeding small. Though with patience he stands waiting, with exactness grinds he all. And you find, as the prophecies of the Old Testament unfold, the fulfillment with great exactness. also unfolds in the New Testament as we come to it. Number three, God's dealings are with actual people, not ideal people. Aren't you glad about that? I mean you clearly see that God's dealings are with actual people, not ideal people. Matthew, the tax collector, the publican, he also would have been considered in that time an unsavory character. They were put in the same category as unsavory women that we've been we have been mentioned already. He says this in his, and by the way, he wrote this gospel, so he understood the redemption of Christ. And what it meant for him to become a child of God and all of that. He says this, Matthew 9, 13, but go and learn what this means. This is a quote from Christ: I desire mercy and not sacrifice. For I did not come to call the righteous but sinners to repentance. The gospel calls sinners to repentance. God deals with actual people, not with ideal people. And number four. The family line of Jesus contains some who were moral outcasts and some who were ethnically diverse. This is on purpose. In God's wisdom, in his unfolding plan, the the the genealogy of Christ, the line of Jesus. has both moral outcasts in it and it's ethnically diverse. Because why? Because it pictures Christ. It pictures the gospel. The gospel is going to penetrate all ethnic groups. It is for all people of all times And it's going to reach to those who are morally outcast. And when you hear what when you look at the life of Christ, you find He is going to the downtrodden. He's going to the poor. He's going to the needy and he's going to the sinful. And he's clear. He says to the woman that was about to be stoned, go and sin no more. He's not going to He's not going to condone their sin, but what he is going to do is going to reach after them and love them and show them Christ and throw them himself. And so we see that in the genealogies. The final observation, number five, God used all of this messy stuff To accomplish his purpose, not clean, tidy, organized, neat, and perfect. God used all of this messy stuff to accomplish his purpose Do you ever feel like you are a mess? Well, if you don't, just kinda wait till tomorrow and you will. I mean, we're a mess. Life is messy. I remember reading an article that was such a relief to me. I get different articles from different people from about ministry and it says church is a messy place. So I gotta read that article. I read it and I was just like, oh okay, it's not just our church. Sorry, it it's messy around here. I don't mean the cleaning. Kevin Loreland, you're doing fine the cleaning. I'm just talking about it's it's a messy place because we have people and people are a mess. You're a mess, and I'm a mess, and we're all a mess. But God used this messy stuff to accomplish his purpose. Do you remember Do you remember uh uh as a uh as a parent, most of many of your parents in here, your your child brings you, they wrap presents for you and and you know like they're three years old and they wrap it themselves? It's not neatly wrapped, it's a mess. Does it matter? No, it doesn't matter at all. In fact it's kinda cute. They wrap it themselves and you open it up and you see what they gave you and it's like you know a popsicle stick or something. something. But you're s you still just appreciate you still appreciate it. My my girls now, the the the older ones, they can rap way better than I can and uh and they don't give me power sticks. anymore. But but um but that I mean you uh it doesn't matter for a father to receive a gift from his child i it's it's a mess, it's okay. Aren't you glad that God uses, he has this ability through his wisdom to use messy stuff to accomplish his will? And frankly, sometimes I think we need to stop trying stop trying so hard to have a neat tidy life and just live life and follow God. I'm not saying you should be disorganized on purpose. I'm not You know, there's diligence and there's those kind of things. But it it's true, there's just this comfort of knowing that God uses these kinds of people. God uses the messy stuff to accomplish his purpose. If you look at the Old Testament, it's a mess. And if you look at the the the family of Abraham, it's a mess as they as it and it seems like it gets worse and worse and worse. You look at the nation of Israel, it's a mess. And you look at the church and it's a mess and yet God uses them. Then we move, so humility marks the history of Christ and prior to his birth. Then we move to verse 18 of this passage, and it says this. Now the birth of Jesus Christ was as follows. After his mother Mary was betrothed to Joseph before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Spirit. Humility marks the method of Christ's coming in a lot of ways. One thing we notice about Mary is that she's betrothed. Betrothal was a legal marriage back in that day. It wasn't it's our best equivalent as a uh to the day is engagement, but it really isn't. It was much more legally binding then. It was a legal marriage where where if you broke up it would be called divorce. But betrothal was prior to the consummation of the marriage. So it wasn't consummated yet. And it and I don't think it's by any accident, by the way, this is sort of for free, but that that in God's providence he allowed this kind of setup during this time so that Mary could be Uh that Christ could be born of a virgin clearly, and yet there already would have been established a marriage uh there. It's kind of amazing when you think of God's sovereignty and working there. But there's this humility in uh uh in involved in this too. And she was found with child by means of the Holy Spirit, under the superintendence of the Holy Spirit. Joseph was not, of course, as you know, the physical father of Christ. What a humble way to start off. Can you would you think just think of the of what people were saying? Do you suppose that Mary had a good reputation among people? I mean, and can can can you imagine it being kind of understandable? Like what explanation would you give to a woman who is a virgin who has a child? And who is with child and you can and it's obvious she's with child, can you I mean what what explanation are you going to give going to Oh yeah, the Holy Spirit came upon her That was not your thinking at all. In fact, Joseph didn't think that at all either, right? And it's understandable. The way Joseph responded actually was very godly in the way he responded. And an angel had to come to him and say, hey, no, this is of the Lord. The Holy Spirit came on her. It actually is a very important point because the incarnation Is something that's a little hard to believe, isn't it? I mean, if we're really honest. And yet it's what the Bible says. And what you actually, if you can get the incarnation clear in your mind, then all of the other doctrines become much easier to understand. J. I. Packer said it this way. He said, the Almighty appeared on earth as a helpless human baby, unable to do more than lie and stare and wiggle and make noise. needing to be fed and changed and taught to and taught to talk like any other child. The babyhood of the Son of God was a reality. The more you think about it, the more staggering it gets. Nothing in fiction is so fantastic as this truth of the incarnation. He continues though, he says this. It is from misbelief, or at least inadequate belief About the incarnation, that difficulties at other points in the gospel story usually spring. But once the incarnation is grasped as a reality, These other difficulties dissolve. If there is a God and He and He has become human, why would you find it incredible that He would do miracles? Pay for the sins of the world, or rise from the dead. So the incarnation is actually the fact that Jesus, who is God, became man, Studying this and understanding it and believing it is going to lead to an understanding and really a belief of all other doctrines that are associated with Christ. So it is really something that is pivotal. And by the way, without Christ becoming man, without God becoming man, the person of Christ, which we call the incarnation, without that, you don't have the gospel. The death of Christ means nothing. The resurrection of Christ means nothing without the virgin birth of Christ and the incarnation of Christ. And so understanding this is extremely important. And what we find in how he came is there's this fulfillment From Isaiah 7. 14, which we looked at last week, it says, Therefore the Lord Himself will give you a sign, behold, a virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel. And Emmanuel means what? God with us. But when you think of God with us This almost seems problematic. I mean, think of it. God with us, he became a baby. Mary burped God on her shoulder. This does this doesn't make sense. Well, we need to understand this a little bit better. What we find is a good explanation of this is found in Philippians 2. So turn there for a moment. Look at Philippians chapter 2. Philippians two In Philippians 2, it says this picking up s in s verse 6 and it now begins to describe what what occurred What were was the decision of Christ and how he came to earth? It says this, who being in the form of God, did not consider it robbery. What that means is it he did not consider it something to be grasped. to be equal with God. In other words, he already is equal with God, and so he didn't need it, it wasn't something that he needed to grasp Not considered robbery be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation. Literally, he didn't have a good reputation when he came to Earth. He took upon taking on the form of a bondservant and coming in the likeness of men, and being found in appearance as a man, what did he do? He humbled himself. And became obedient to death, even the death of the cross. We have here Christ's humility and his obedience That he humbled himself first by becoming a man, and then he humbled himself again by taking on the cross. The death of Christ. The Bible says in this humbled himself, it's the word canosis in the Greek. It is to empty himself. He emptied himself. Well what did God what did God in the person of Christ empty himself from empty himself from? Now understand this. When he came to earth, he remained God. He is God. And when he came to earth, he did not lay aside his deity and take on humanity. He is God and he clothed himself with humanity. But he did empty himself of something. What did he empty himself of? Well, it's interesting that the text here doesn't actually say what he emptied himself of. But we have some indications in Scripture of other of other places. What we know is from this passage is He needed to empty himself of something in order to take on the form of a servant. So what did he empty himself of? Well, we have a hint of this in Isaiah, actually, chapter 53, verse 2, it says, For he shall grow up before him as a tender plant. And as the a root out of dry ground, he has no form or comeliness. And when we see him, speaking of Christ, there's no beauty that we should desire him He laid aside, in that passage it says he laid aside his beauty. He laid aside something so that when someone saw Christ, they would not recognize him as God readily. He still was God, but they wouldn't recognize him. And then we find in John 17, 5 Christ is praying to his Father, and this really gives us our best indication as to what he emptied himself of. It says, and now, O Father, glorify me together with yourself. with the glory which I had with you, past tense, before the world was. He says, I'm looking forward to now getting the glory that I had before. So, folks, what did Christ lay aside when he came to earth? He laid aside his glory. He didn't lay aside his deity, but he laid aside his glory. And I think an illustration that really helps me to get this is we see jet planes all over the place around here. Up in Pennsylvania, I never heard airplanes because There's an air airport around. Around here I grew up in around an airport. The airport's like a stone throw away from this building and on the other side is my I mean it's right here. So we see airplanes all the time. And what you'll see if you're if it's up high enough is you'll see a jet stream. You can just kind of imagine a you don't always see the jet even. You'll see a stream, but you don't see the jet. You ever notice that? Like a little dot. And you know it's a dot you know it's a jet because of the stream that it's that it's letting off of. Well, if you don't have that stream, it's like like you let's say the jet for some reason cuts his engines. It doesn't stop being a jet, but you can't see it anymore. And that's probably the best illustration, I'm sure it's not perfect, but One of the best illustrations I can think of to understand what Christ did. He laid aside his glory. He laid aside the things that would be identifiable. Well, why did he do this? Why did Christ do that? Do you remember over in Exodus chapter 33, do you remember Moses asks God, can I see your glory? What does he say? What does God say? God says this, he says, uh Exodus 33, 18, please show me your glory. But in Exodus 33, verse 19, it says, I will make all my goodness pass before you And I will proclaim the name of the Lord before you. I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and I will have compassion on on whom I will ha I have compassion. But he said, You cannot see my face. You can't see the fullness. Does God actually have a face? He's talking to the Bible. He said, You can't see my face, for no man shall see me and live. The Lord said, Here is my place by me, and you shall stand on the rock. So it shall be, while my glory passes by, that I will put you in the cleft of the rock, and will cover you with my hand while I pass by. Then I will take away my hand, and you shall see my back. But my face shall not be seen. Can you this just tells us a little bit about the immensity of the glory of God. That he had to veil Moses in the cleft of a rock and to pass, that was the closest he was going to be able to get to to the glory of God. As he passed by. That's the fullness of the glory of God. And he couldn't even, he had to see his back. He couldn't see the whole thing. Why did Christ empty himself? He fully emptied himself of his glory when he came to earth. You know why? We'd be consumed. We could not receive it. We would be consumed. But there's another reason. Another reason that he emptied himself of his glory and he came to be a servant. He came into humility actually goes back to the very reason that we were created in the very beginning. In Genesis chapter 1, do you remember Genesis chapter 1? It says this in verse 26. Then God said, Let us make man in our image. according to our likeness. Let them have dominion. Then there's something, in other words, we're supposed to there's we're supposed to be doing something As we are in the image of God, over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the air, and over the cattle, and over of the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth So God created man in his own image, in the image of God he created him, male and female he created them. Then God blessed them, and God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply Fill the earth and subdue it. Have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the air, and over everything that moves on the earth. Fill the earth and subdue it. He says in this passage, what God created us to do, he created us in his image. And he created us to rule. That's the word dominion. He created us as stewards to rule his creation as a full measure of glorifying God. But what happened? When Adam and Eve were tempted, what were they tempted with? Do you remember what they were tempted with? The serpent comes to Eve and says to her, You will not surely die, for God knows that the day of you eat of it You your eyes will be open and you will be what? You will be like what? You'll be like God, knowing good and evil. And from that point forward, Adam and Eve began to be to to try to to steward in a way where they were they were glorifying self. They wanted to glorify self instead of glorifying God. That is, what is that called? Sin. That's sin. Sin is when we want to we want to do our own way, do our own thing, go our own way. To ultimately live for self and glorify self instead of glorifying God. Now, catch this. When Christ came to earth, he had the full right to glorify himself. Why? He's God. He certainly could have come in all of his glory, except we'd be consumed by it. Other than that, he could have come in all of his glory. But he came, why? In humility, setting aside his glory to give us an example of how we are to live, what God originally intended. See, in other words, folks, the only way we can truly glorify God is by stewarding what God has given us to steward as what? A servant. Why did Christ come? Christ came for that reason. To steward, so that we to give us an example. Guys, that's actually distracting to me. You just leave it, that's fine, okay. Um uh to give us an example of of of of being a servant. And we are actually going to stop right here. And we're going to finish this up this evening, because we have this evening to do so. And so we'll finish it up before we have uh a uh a congregational meeting. I know you're all coming up back out tonight at 530, and you will hear the rest of this message. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and we thank you, Lord, for the privilege of gathering this morning. And we ask that you would help us as we follow Christ's example. of setting aside our own desires to follow after you and to be a servant. We thank you for this text that gives us so much understanding and illustration of what God, what you did when you sent your son to earth To be born as a baby, humbly. You set an example for us to glorify of how we ought to live to glorify you. And as we learn more about that even this evening, we pray, Lord, that you would help us to understand this truth. And to live it out. And as we think of this time of year during Christmas time and all of what it means, Lord, would you help us to understand And in a clearer way, what it means to really be a servant in such a way that we're glorifying you as stewards of what you have given to us and following the example of Christ. And we pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen. All right, let's