And we're going to continue our message from this morning. I thought it was a good possibility as I was writing the message that that would happen. Um and uh and so that of course did happen uh from this morning. And uh we ha we are two thirds of the way through the message, so it we'll we'll have less less of the message tonight than we did this morning. morning. And so we'll pick up basically with a third point, which is we're really talking about, as you'll recall from this morning, about Christ's coming to earth. and how he came. He came humbly. Uh he didn't come um hang on one second. Okay, now I'm off. He didn't come Um with all the pomp and circumstance that you might expect from a king, uh he came in a very different way. And what we noted this morning uh toward the end of the message was that he He emptied himself of his glory. And we know that from several different places in Scripture that seem to indicate that. And we know he had to empty himself of something in order to become a servant, according to Philippians chapter 2. And we noted that in John chapter 17, he says to his uh to his father in his pra in a prayer He says, I'm looking forward to having the glory that I once had from before the foundation of the world. So he emptied himself of his glory. And and and in doing so we have we then ask the question uh why? Why did he do that? What what what for what reason? And there are two Two reasons that we we gave. One was that we would be consumed. And we referred to Exodus chapter 33 and the fact that Moses asked this question, please show me your glory in verse 18. And God said, I can't show you my glory. I will get as close as I can without doing it. I will put you in the cleft of the rock. I'll put my hand on you to protect you, and you'll be able to see my back, but you won't be able to see my face. You will not be able to see the fullness of my glory if we were no man seen God and lived, Scripture says. And and so we know that, but we also noted the fact that The other reason is that Christ desired to set his set an example for us. If you recall from Genesis, we read from Genesis chapter 1. Just to kind of acclimate us a little bit. And in that passage, we were we were created in the image of God. We saw that there. To have dominion. But the problem, of course, is that instead of glorifying God We chose to to follow the temptation of Satan and to glorify ourselves. And so we're trying to have dominion. We're trying to rule the earth. We're trying to be good stewards of the earth while the end result is to glorify ourselves. And we noted that when Christ came, he should have, he could have, I mean he was God. He is God. He could have come in all of his glory and had full right to do that. But he withheld his glory to show us how we can live on this earth, glorifying God, being a good steward of what God has given us. And doing it as a servant. In other words, God's intention from the very beginning is for us to glorify Him By having dominion, by ruling with him, by being good stewards of what he's given us, but also doing it as a servant unto him, so that he receives the glory. Well, what does that look like? Adam did it wrong. Everybody else afterwards basically did it wrong because all have sinned. In fact, that's exactly what sin is. Sin is doing anything for yourself, for your glory, instead of God's glory. And so we have no perfect examples of the right way to do this. And when Christ came to earth, not only did he come to die, but he actually came to live. He came to live a perfect life, and he came to show us as an example how we are to live as a servant. And and then he died for our sins, so that our sins could be removed, so that we can then live like him, living as a a steward servant, as Christ was. And so First Peter five six says this, humble yourself therefore unmighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time. Paul says in Philippians 2, this is the same passage we were talking about with emptying ourselves, or emptying Christ emptying himself, he says, Let this mind be among you, be let this mind be in you which was also in Christ Jesus. That we are to have the mind of Christ, and the mind of Christ is one that's humble. It's a humble spirit And so obviously the application for us is that if we are going to live the way God intended us for intended for us to live, if we're going to glorify him the way that he intended for us to glorify him. We are going to be good stewards of what he has given us to do, whether it's a vocation of whatever vocation it is, whatever God's called you and I to do in life. We need to be good stewards of that. But we're going to have to do it in the manner of a servant, the way Christ did. And by the way, what is the primary thing that Christ did? What was his primary motive? And what did he teach? Well, it was to love God and what else? Love your neighbor as yourself. Those were the two commandments with promise. And so he said, and so we see What does that mean? It's it's what Christ did. And when he went, when he came to earth, and when he he lived among people, he went to the downcast, he went to the poor, he went to the people that were vulnerable He went to the sinners and tax collectors and all those kinds of people. That's whom he ministered to. In fact, he was accused of the Pharisees of going to them too much and spending too much time with them. And so we see the example of Christ in humility. And then if in Matthew chapter 1, humility marks the response to Christ's coming. And we'll pick up here in verse 19, it says, then Joseph, you'll remember the story, of course, Joseph hears that Mary is with child. It says in verse 19, then Joseph, her husband, being a just man and not wanting to make her a public example, was minded to put her away secretly. And then in verse 24 it says, Then Joseph, being aroused from sleep, did it as the angel of the Lord. Of course, the angel tells him, don't do that. Well, let's go ahead and look at what it says there. Pick up in verse Now, let's just look at verse 20. It says, But while he thought about these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take to you Mary, your wife. For that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit, is by means of the Holy Spirit. He's the one that allowed that caused this to happen. And she will bring forth a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. So all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the Lord through the prophets, saying, Behold, the virgin shall be with child. That's from from Isaiah 7. 14, and and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel, which is translated God with us. Then notice Joseph's response. Then Joseph, being aroused from sleep, did as the angel of the Lord commanded him. and took to him his wife, and did not know her till she had brought forth her firstborn son. And he called his name Jesus. And it notice just how specific it is about this, that he didn't know her until she had brought forth Jesus, so that there was no question as to whether or not Jesus was born of a virgin a virgin. We see really very a lot of specifics here about this. But what I wanted us to just reflect on is the response of Joseph. So Joseph hears that his bride, his, you really could say his wife, he was betrothed to her, so his wife was pregnant and he was not the father. This is what he hears. You can imagine hearing that. As a man. Do you realize that in the Old Testament he had every right to make a public example of her? And that was what was normal to do. To divorce her publicly, to to to make it something that was that was known and that he was exonerated and He you know, if he wanted to make sure that he didn't have anything tainted on his reputation, he could have put it all on her and all that. He he could have done that. But Joseph, the Bible says, was a just man. I think that's interesting. It starts off with that. In a description of Joseph, it says he's a just man. And Joseph's justice, him being a just man, did not l did not cause him to want to throw the book at Mary, if you if you will, to prosecute her to the nth degree, to give her the worst punishment she possibly could. No, he wanted to comply with what was just in the law. He knew he was going to have to write a letter of divorcement to her. He knew he was going to have to do that, but he was going to do it privately. He was going to do it quietly. He did not want to make a public example of her. And we see a great sense of humility. We see a humble courage in Joseph is, I think, the best way I would describe it. A humble courage. Joseph had humble courage He had the courage to do what was right, but he also had the humility to not try to do more than what he needed to do in a situation. And of course, when the angel came to him and when it was revealed to him that this was of the Holy Spirit, Joseph was content just to follow God's will. He wasn't going to be the father of Christ. He was going to be have to play that role, earthly speaking, but he wasn't the actual father of Christ. And he didn't name the the baby. That's interesting because in the first century the the the the father had the full right to name the child, and that was something that was sort of It was sort of a prerogative and a s uh a socially esteemed prerogative that he got I get to name this child. And he set aside that. And so what can we learn from Joseph's humble obedience, from his humble courage? Number one, the humble courage of Joseph. He had the humble courage to take the world's disdain. He had the humble courage to take the world's disdain. Joseph, even though he understood the truth, Joseph was still not can you imagine him trying to explain to his friends? His friends were going to say to him, either you got her pregnant before you were married, or she's been unfaithful to you. They were not going necessarily going to accept his explanation of what was going on. Joseph was going to have to have the humble courage to face the world's disdain if he was just going to have the courage to take his wife, which is what he said he what it says happens in the passage. And there isn't, I mean we don't we don't know exactly this, but we can just assume that this is the kind of thing that that went on uh as a result of what Joseph did. And we can learn a lesson from that as well as as believers. In 1 Peter 4, verse 12, it says this Beloved, do not think it strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you, as though some strange thing happened to you. But rejoice to the extent that you partake of Christ's sufferings. That when his glory is revealed, you may also be glad with exceeding joy. If you are reproached for the name of Christ Blessed are you, for the spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. That's 1 Peter 4. 12. Beer tells the people that he was speaking to or that he was writing to, don't uh don't be don't find it strange. Don't don't think it odd when you are going to have to suffer reproach for the cause of Christ. And we see that Joseph chose to do that. I think it's implied there in at least in the passage. He chose to do that. And we need to choose to do that as well. You know, it's interesting that the the out the the the the application for us is that often we as Christians we we kind of want to present a Christianity to people. uh to unsafe people that we know where it's like we get the benefit of it. Like if if I could present myself as a Christian in a positive light so that they accept me but also know I'm a Christian, that that's often what what we want to do. It's natural to do that. I'm not suggesting that you should present yourself in a negative light But tr but the truth is we have to be careful that we don't actually diminish what being a Christian really is, that we don't diminish the gospel. simply to make it palatable for people to receive as we are relating to them. That means that if somebody says to us, what does it mean to be a Christian, we're going to have to talk about sin. And if somebody says to us, what does it mean to be a Christian, we're going to have to talk about Christ and the sacrifice that he made, that he died for the sins of the world. We're going to have to talk about that he is the only way to truth and life. That as a Christian, I believe that he is the that's where we lose people, by the way, when we say that he's the only way, and that no one comes to God except through Christ. That's not palatable for most people. And yet God is that is very clearly an absolute necessary part of Christianity. And we need to be able to lovingly and speak the truth in love to people that we know that don't know the Lord. But we ought to be willing to be disdained for the cause of Christ. if that becomes a something necessary. And then number two, the humble courage that Joseph showed was he gave up his own right to self-determination. As I mentioned already, uh, you know, he wasn't he didn't it wasn't he wasn't the father. And uh and he didn't have he gave up his right, his absolute right, to name his child to name a child Um and he was willing to just be what God wanted him to be, even though it may not have been what Maybe he always dreamed of or whatever. Of course he had other kids and things, but but but he was just willing to go and do what God wanted to do. Mary was the same way. They both were just willing to be what God wanted them to be and do what God wanted them to do And that's the way we need to be. In Luke 9, 23, it says, if anyone desires to come after me, well then deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me. So in wrapping all this up, both this morning's message and this evening's message, there are three things that we can we can walk away from with this. Number one The world finds value in what people are made of. God finds value in what Christ makes of people. The world finds value in what people are made of. God finds value in what Christ makes people to be You remember the remember from this morning? All of the people that that that the world or that we would never not have found value in you think of Ruth and Tamar and all these all these characters in this in in the genealogies. These were not people that we would look at and say, boy, God's really going to use them. And the world tends to find value in what people are made of, but God finds value in what Christ makes people to be. That's why it says in in 1 Peter, or 1 Corinthians, rather, it says that he uses the weak things of the world to confound the wise. He uses the foolish things of the world to do his work. And so it's important for us to understand that. And um we we need to have the same kind of view. We need to see people as as as okay, not okay, well they have this or that or do this or no. We need to see them as God sees them and their value because of what Christ makes them to be. Number two, we need to emulate the mind of Christ. We need to live for God's glory and not our own. That is the mind of Christ. It's a servant What is it to be a servant ultimately? It is to live for the glory of Christ and not our own, the glory of God and not our own. And then number three, the story of Christmas requires us to come to Christ in the same way He came to us. In humility. You ever think about that for a minute? Christ came to us in humility. But did you know that humility is really the only quality necessary to come to Christ? You don't need any other quality. You can't be good enough. You can't be talented enough. You can't be smart enough. But you do have to have humility. You have to understand that you're sinful You have to understand that you can't save yourself through your own works. I mean, all of those things are marks of humility. And what is necessary in order to genuinely come to Christ, a proud person can't come to Christ. So it's the Spirit of God that works through the Word of God to convict of sin that allows them to be able to be in a position where they are then able to come to Christ. It's humility. And it's interesting that Christ, when he came to earth, he came in humility, and the only way that we accept him, that we come to him. is through humility as well. And really, all of our lives, as we go through our lives, as we as we serve every day and work every day and walk, we ought to really think to ourselves, okay, am I Living in humility? Am I living for the glory of God? Am I having to have my own way? Or am I having uh wanting God's way? Am I wanting to do what I want to do or am I wanting to do what God wants to do? Am I following following after that forbidden fruit or of doing what I want, of freedom to do whatever I want, or am I f am I following after Christ? And Christ gives us the perfect example of that. All right, let's go ahead then and close in prayer. We'll close this part out in prayer. uh message out in prayer and we'll also uh pray for um the congregational meeting as well as we uh open that up. Father, we come to you this evening and we thank you for the humility that we find in Christ. It's incredible. He he he chose to come in the way that he did. Uh to set aside he set aside his glory. He laid his glory by. Lord, we're thankful for that. And we pray, Lord, that we would look at the at the truth of the gospel that's found in Matthew 1 that we looked at today. Lord, would you help us in our lives to identify pride quickly? Would you help us to have a humble spirit before you and Would you cause us to choose a servant's way, which is Christ's way, to follow after Christ? There is no better way to apply this message than to realize that we need to come to Christ the same way he comes to us. And I pray, Lord, that you'd help us to do that. Not just in gaining favor with you for salvation, for justification, but every day of our lives. May we choose to live in humility, glorifying you. And it's really only then that we will be fulfilling the purpose. uh that you have made us for. And uh then we will be fulfilled in you. And we'll have the joy uh that you want us to have and peace and all those things that you can give us in And uh Lord, I pray that you'd help us as well as we go into your to uh this time of um uh uh congregational meeting. I do pray that it would be one that's unified and uh as we go through the business of the church, I just pray that you'd give wisdom and there'd be clarity of communication, understanding of where things are at Lord and um that you would uh we do look ahead to 2020 and what you'd have for us in that year and we we uh want to be good stewards of what you've given us and And use it the best we know how. And we pray, Lord, that you'd help us with this. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.