In Ephesians chapter 4, verses 1 through 16, we find that Paul tells the believers of the Church of Ephesus to walk in unity. And in Ephesians chapter 4, verses 17 through 32, he is now telling the believers to walk in holiness. And in chapter 5, verses 1 through 6, he is going to implore the believers to walk in love. Let me ask you a question this morning, evening, something. Whatever it is, this evening, technically. Do you ever struggle with a balance between holiness and love? Let me put it another way. Do you ever struggle with a balance between tolerance and patience? You ever struggle with parents, for instance? That to me is the most obvious place that you sort of struggle with this. You know right is right and wrong is wrong. And what you do wrong wrong was there's wrong and there's right and there's wrong and the kids do the difference between Right or wrong. But then there's also this love idea. somebody knowing the difference between struggling with this tension between light and love Um how about if you're how about if you're a um uh a spouse? You ever struggle with that as a spouse? The difference between what is right and what is loving? And you say, oh no, I'm always just loving. Well, sometimes I don't think that's always true of us spouses. Sometimes we are very quick to tell our wi our wives, in my case my my wife or if you're a wife, in your case your husband. Uh this is what's right and this is what's wrong and you should not think about what this is right. You know, we're not always good about that But some of you by now are probably saying to yourself, well, wait a minute, are is holiness and love really mutually exclusive? And the answer to that is no You can be holy and still be loving. And you can love and still be holy. Because it is not as though those two things are opposite things. They are actually something. that are that if if with the right definitions and the right understanding of these things, they are actually they work together and they complement each other. If you are holy to the exclusion of love, then you're going to become self-righteous and suspicious of others. And it's not going to be good. But if you're loving to the exclusion of being holy, you're going to become permissive and um and um have all kinds of problems with with with uh not knowing how to take a stand and do right and and um go through difficult times and do right in the in the in the face of those things This passage, I think, when we look at the passage, what we find here in verses 31 through 5-2, verses 31 and 32, I think are hinge verses. That describe both how to be holy and how to be loving at the same time. Look at verse 31. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice Now, let me just ask you a question when we read that verse. Which one of those which helps you uh what does this verse help you with? Holiness or love? It doesn't really help you with both. Can you be holy and be bitter? No. Can you have unrighteous anger and be bitter? And be holy? No. We would immediately think that these things would m would draw us toward love, and they do, but they are also going to help us with our holiness. greatest roots of problems that keep us from really living a holy life is very frequently bitterness How about the next verse, verse 32? And be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiveness. What he is talking about in verses thirty-one and thirty-two are sins of attitude. And our sins of attitude Well, we'll either purify our hearts or will corrupt our hearts. And and the issues of the heart spring out into the issues of life And so if our hearts are right and our attitudes are right, we will be both holy and loving. And then, of course, if we look at 5. 1, be therefore followers of God as dear children, and walk in love, as Christ also hath loved us. And has given himself for us an as uh an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet smelling savor. Let's go the Lord in prayer ask his blessing on our time together. Lord, as we look at your word this morning or this evening, we pray that you would guide us and help us to learn Your expectation of us and exactly why you expect these things of us. Help us to see how we fit into the overall plan of what you are doing in the world. And help us to realize these, particularly with these sins of attitude. These problems within our spirit and our heart that corrupt us from the inside out. Help us, Lord, to understand not only what they are and I'd be able to identify them in our own hearts, but learn how to um remove them from our hearts We would admit before you at the very outset of this that we would need your spirit to do that and help from him. And we pray for his help tonight. As um as we go through this passage. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Do you recall our the overall purpose of the book of Ephesians? It's been a long time since we reviewed that. What I'd like to do tonight is just ask you, can you probably you're you might be a little fuzzy on it. Uh I'm not, but uh let's hope I'm not, right? But for for the rest of of you, you might be a little fuzzy on it. We haven't reviewed it in a in a very long time. What I'd like to do is just ask you You may be struggling with knowing what the purpose of the book of Ephesians is, but could you go to a particular verse that would help you find what the purpose is? Do you remember what verse you could go to? Well, what I want to do is show you that verse, okay? And that's going to help us. Would you go to chapter three for just a moment? And if you're ever wondering what the purpose of the book of Ephesians is, this verse will help you. You might not be able to grasp the purpose. Well, maybe going to the verse will help you get the purpose. And we find it here, let's pick up in verse 20 of chapter 3. It says, Now to him that is able to do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that worketh in us, God's doing something far bigger than you or me. Or what we ask, or what we think. He is working, verse 21, unto him be what? Be glory in the what? Church by Christ Jesus throughout all ages, world without end. You have the purpose right there. Now, I don't know if Paul intended for that to be the purpose statement of Ephesians because the grammar doesn't, there are purpose statements and that grammar there is not a purpose statement. Statement. But it will, if you look at the overall outlay of the book of Ephesians, that verse is going to really help you to identify what The key here is this, that got what God is doing to glorify himself. So what God is doing in the church by Christ Jesus Christ For his glory. That really is what the book of Ephesians is about. And when we think about glorifying God, what does it mean to glorify God? Well, it means to reflect him, doesn't it? It means that we are to reflect his attributes. We are to reflect who he is. The world does not know God, but by and through us. That is how they know the world. They know God. And so we are to glorify God by emulating him. And that's exactly the point that we find in the book of Ephesians now as we come to this application section in this book We find here that what we're talking about is emulating him. I want you to notice four places where it says this. Would you look at Ephesians chapter 4 now, verse 20? God wants to glorify Himself through the church, and so we as individuals have to emulate God and Christ. We see here in Ephesians 4. 20 it says, But ye have not so learned what who? Through Christ. He says his point here is that in this passage we have to emulate and be Christ-like, and if we are following after the things of the world and following after the things of our flesh, We are not following after Christ, and he says, Hey, you have not learned these things from Christ. Look at Ephesians 4:32. And be kind one another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as what who? As God, for Christ's sake. Half forgiven you. Why can God forgive us? Because of Christ. Why should we forgive others? Because God forgave us. It is godlike for us. to forgive. Look at 5. 1. Be therefore the word followers there, and we're going to learn this a little bit later, but the word followers means imitators It's actually, well, we'll get there in a minute, but it means imitators. It says, be therefore imitators of God as dear children. And then look at Ephesians 5, 2. And walk in love as Christ also hath loved us, and hath given himself for us an offering and sacrifice to God. for a sweet smelling savor. He says, walk in love as Christ hath loved us. In these four places, either God says that you need to Follow Christ's example, or you need to imitate Christ, or you need to imitate God, His whole point in this entire passage in going through this list of different things, whether it's corrupt communication or bad attitudes with regard to wrath and anger and bitterness. All of this is for one singular purpose that we would glorify God. And that we would be like Christ, that we would be an imitator of God. And we're going to learn more what that means. The question then for us is, how do we walk particularly in love, as that is the subject today? Those who are Christ-like will walk in love. How then do we walk in love? And we pick up here in verses 31 through 32. Now we have already read these verses and we've looked at these, and what you find in these verses is a list of various words, right? You see one word after another after another after another in these in this A list of words. And you'll find this occasionally in the New Testament where you have one word after another after another after another. Now, I want to say at the outset of this that we have to be careful when we are doing word studies. We're going to go into some of these and we'll we're going to sort of identify some word studies within these words. I did a lot of extensive word study that you'll never see today, basically. just for second for sake of time. And some of it would bore you probably. But um and that's not that's just because it's minute details. However, when it comes to word studies, I think we need to just I just want to When you are trying to determine the definition of a word or what a word means in Scripture, Some people will go and look up the word and try to trace the etymology of the word or the history of the word. There are others that will look up the word, and another way of doing it would be to look up the word and to look at how that word is used in other places in the New Testament. Particularly go back to the Greek, but you don't have a no-Greek. If you get a strong concordance, you could do this with a strong number. And look at see how the word is used in other places in the New Testament. Now, out of those two options, looking the history of the word or looking at the at the um at the word used in other places in the New Testament. Which which method is a more reliable method? There is no question that the second method, the method of going through and looking at how the word is used in other places in the New Testament is is a far more reliable method than to try to look up the word and figure out the construction of the word even or the etymology of the word or the history of the word. It's very it you really I I'll tell you this. Words can change so much over time that the history of the word may have very little impact on what the word means when it's being used in the text. And my point in simply saying that is that a lot of what we're going to talk about today is really we're going to gat great get grasp the word And the meaning of the word by noticing, and in my own study, noticing how it's used in the New Testament in other places. It's a really reliable way of understanding what these words mean. The first word that we're going to look here is at verse 31 of chapter 4. It says, Let all bitterness. The word bitterness. is used in several places in the Scripture. It is used in Acts 8. 23 and Romans 3. 14 for just a couple of examples. But probably one of the most important places to remember is Hebrews 12, 15, which says, Looking diligently lest any man fail of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness Springing up trouble you, and thereby many be defiled We learn a lot just by that one verse when it comes to this word bitterness, which is the same word, same Greek word in this text. Folks, it is so easy for us to be bitter. One of the reasons it's easy is because it is one of those sins that we can hide for a very long time. The next one is coming, wrath, you can't hide very long. But this one you can hide for a very long time. And there are many people that hold bitterness in their hearts and souls for years and never deal with it. But eventually, folks, it will defile them And it will defile others around them. God warns us in Hebrews to not be involved in this, to be very careful about bitterness. Make sure that there is not a root of bitterness that is inside of you that if it is, it will defile many. For sake of time, we're going to move through these words quicker than I would like to. But the next word is wrath here. Do you see the word? The word wrath. There are several this is used really rather frequently in the New Testament, but one place that it's used that is sort of Um interesting is in the book of Acts, verse uh chapter 19. And in that chapter, the Apostle Paul has come to the area of Ephesus. And you'll see why there's it's of interest in this when we're thinking about the Church of Ephesus here. He comes to the Church of Ephesus and he is going to explain to people like Demetrius the Silversmith in that passage. Maybe you'll remember the passage from that name. that their God, their their idolatry is indeed that. It is idolatry. And if you remember, there was very ornate um temple uh temple accoutrements that were used for the Greek goddess Diana in Ephesus And there was an entire range of business built around the worship practices of this Greek goddess Diana. And when we come to this passage, Paul is going to really cause some business problems And as a result of that, we find in Acts nineteen, picking up in verse twenty six, it says, moreover, you see in here that not not alone in Ephesus But almost all throughout Asia, this Paul hath persuaded and turned many uh turned away much people, saying that they be no gods which are made with hands. So that not only this our craft is in danger to be set at naught, but also the temple of the great goddess Diana should be despised, and her magnificence should be destroyed. whom all Asia and the world worshipeth. And when they heard these sayings, they were full of, do you see that word? They were full of wrath. And cried out, saying, Great is Diana of the Ephesians. And the whole city was filled with confusion. And having caught Gaius and Astarchus, men of Macedonia, Paul's companions in travel, they rushed with one accord into the theater. So these people were filled with wrath because not only was their idol being their idolatry being compromised, but their business was being compromised on top of it. And there was much confusion in the city as a result of wrath. I don't know if the Apostle Paul in Ephesians, when he's writing this, is thinking about that situation. But I could certainly imagine that he would be, don't you? I mean, can you imagine the great uh an entire city in upheaval over something that Paul has said? I think that would be rather memorable And he is telling these Christian Ephesians, hey, this is what you were. Don't be that anymore. Don't be full of wrath, which produces confusion. Instead Put this stuff off. You've got to put the wrath off. He uses the same word in his text. He uses this word many other times in the New Testament. We won't take the time to look at all of those different occurrences. But suffice it to say that this word wrath is the idea of an outburst of anger It is something that sort of quickly wells up inside of you, and you feel as though you've got to let it out. It's an outburst of anger. The next word that we see in our text is the word anger. And it actually is a synonym of the word wrath. These are often used even interchangeably. But when they're used together There has got to be a nuance of difference of meaning in between these two words because they're used together. And more than likely, the difference here in the passage that Paul's identifying by using both words is that wrath tends to be more the idea of an outburst where anger has to be is more of a disposition. Have you ever thought of have you ever heard somebody say, no, that's just an angry person His disposition is angry. There are some people that are sort of they they put out wrath, but there are others who, and actually maybe the same people, that are that they're they just have an angry disposition And Paul says, put that away from you. Don't have an angry disposition. For instance, In Romans chapter two, verse five it says, But after thy hardness and impenitent heart, treasurest up unto thyself Wrath against the day of wrath and r and revelation of the righteous judgment of God. So this word wrath is some uh which is actually the word anger. Like I said, it's used in interchangeably in the Romans 2. 5, for instance, the word wrath is used, but it's actually the same word that's used anger here. This word is used sometimes to talk about God's wrath toward the unbeliever. Or Christ's wrath. Sometimes we think of Christ as only loving. If your picture of Christ is only loving, you do not have a balanced picture of Christ. Because if you go to the second coming of Christ, he is going to come, and this word is used, he's going to come in wrath or in anger, and he's going to pour out his wrath against the unbeliever. But this is not in this context we're talking about evil wrath, aren't we? Or evil anger. It's someone who has a disposition of being angry And Proverbs twenty two twenty four says, Make no friendship with an angry man, and with a furious man thou shalt not go. Why does it say those things? It says those things, folks Because there is just such, it is such, there's such damage that can happen from our bitterness and our wrath and our anger. Now, if that isn't bad enough, it's going to get worse before it gets better. So hang on with me. And what we're going to find in verse 31 is the result of these kinds of sins. What we have in in is the internal sins, and now we're going to see how they sort of express themselves outwardly. And we see here it says next clamor or quarreling. It isn't long before if you have two bitter people that get together, you're going to have quarreling. Or if you have two angry people or people that are inclined toward an outburst of wrath, those people are going to begin to quarrel. That's one of the reasons God says, if you recall from last week, that you've got to put away anger And make sure you don't let down the sun, let the sun go down upon your wrath. Don't give place to the devil, because anger, if it festers among people, is going to produce Clamor. It's going to produce quarreling. If we think for a moment that we are strong enough to w Who to hold in ourselves bitterness and anger and wrath in our hearts and it never come out, we are fooling ourselves. It will come out. And these kinds of things will produce clamor. and quarreling. It happens in our homes and it happens in our churches. Frankly, it happens everywhere, right? I mean it happens in the workplace too. These things do apply to the unbelievers. I mean when you when you go to the un when you go to to to the to the job site and and you're got a lot of angry people around, there's a lot of quarreling around, there's a lot of confusion around. It even happens in the on the job. But there is one place, folks, this should not happen It should not happen in the church. It just should not happen here. That really is Paul's primary point. He is wanting this church of Ephesus to be a place that's different from the world. And so while you might expect quarreling and drama in the workplace, and while you might expect quarreling and drama even in an unsafe family environment, you ought to be able to come into a church and there ought to be peace. There ought not be quarreling. There ought not be strife. And it is, folks, possible Some of you say, yeah, okay, that's a great ideal. I'm glad you're so idealistic, but you know, this is the real world, and these our churches are in the real world. Can't isn't this possi look, apart from Christ, it's not w possible. But it is possible. And that is really what God desires for us. The next word that is used here is the word evil speaking. Talking now about slander, the clamor and quarreling is something that happens that is external and it's sort of in your face and you see a problem with someone and you're going to take care of that problem And you're going to deal with it in a wrong, improper, unloving way, and you're going to deal with it or whatever. Those are the kinds of things we're talking about, we're talking about quarreling. This evil speaking is the behind-the-scenes slanderer It's the gossip behind the scenes. It's those things. It's the word, actually the Greek word is the word blast blasphemia. Blasphemia. Now you immediately would go, your mind would go to the word what? Blaspheme. And that is the word. It is sometimes translated that But oftentimes we misunderstand what this word means when we think of the word blasphemia. For instance, in Matthew 12, 31, it says, Wherefore I say unto you Uh all manner of sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven you, but blasphemy against the Holy Ghost shall not be give forgiven you. That's one way of using blasphemy. But in Colossians 3. 8 It says, but now ye also put off all these these anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy communication out of your mouth. First Timothy six four says, He is proud, knowing nothing, but doting about questions and strifes and words, wherefore cometh about cometh envy, strife, railings, and evil surmisings. The problem, the difficulty with finding what this word means sometimes is because it tends to be used in lists a lot in the New Testament. And what is really helpful is if you go back to the Old Testament and the Greek use of the Old Testament, which is the Septuagint. And when you go back there, this word is used really very frequently. It's used 66 times in the Old Testament in the Greek Greek translation of the Old Testament. And it's used for the idea of crying out or complaining. Or shouting or crying out to God. Sometimes it's actually used positively when you're crying out to God like David did. But sometimes it's and often it's used negatively for the idea of complaining. And and and is there do we have or is that a possibility? I mean isn't it aren't we so inclined to complain? And inclined to gripe and to think that things should be a certain ideal, and they're not the way I think they ought to be, and so I have in my mind a particular concern about these things So we have here this word that's evil, but it's it's a behind-the-scenes thing where I'm not going to directly talk to somebody and deal with it. I'm going to I'm going to go and slander in the background. Now, with all of these things, Paul, what he does here then is he he makes he puts this qualifier that applies to everything that he just said. He says Put away from you with what? With all malice. And that word is just it means evil. Sometimes it's translated evil. What he's saying here is that all of these things and the way that he is using them are evil things. Bitterness is evil. Wrath and anger in this context is evil evil. Clamor is evil, evil speaking. is evil. He says all of these things are evil. There are some. Anger could be right if it's righteous anger, but in this context he's saying it's evil. Even this word blasphemia, if you're crying out to God, could be right, but in the context he's saying, he's talking about evil crying out and slander in the wrong way. His whole point here is he said you've got to these are ways, these are methods of evil. Now Why does Paul go into all this detail? And I think the answer is kind of obvious. Because if he never went into deep into any of these details, we would all think we're pretty good. But when you begin to detail out these words, I would imagine if I were to poll you and myself as well, all of us would be found guilty, wouldn't we? What God says here is He says that we they need to be put off. Do you see that? Be put away. And that in and of itself is an interesting It says, be put away. It's an imperative. It's a command, but it's a passive command. The implication here is that all of these things, all of these things are not natural for a believer, but all of these things, because we have our flesh, we can be inclined toward them because when we by responding wrongly to outside stimulus. And isn't that true? Why are you bitter You're bitter because of outside stimulus, something that someone has done to you. Or you're angry because of something that you see that seems to be wrong. and you're going to get angry about it. Or you're or you're wrathful because of something because you feel that you have you have been personally wronged and your rights have been violated And he says you need to he says all of these things need to be put away Just they need to go, they need to leave. It's almost the way he says it. He doesn't say you need to stay focused on these things and keep putting them away. It's like, no, the out the whole idea is stop focusing on them. Turn the other way. Don't be focused on the problem, on the sin. When the sin comes, you let it go. You don't latch on to it When bitterness comes your way, you let it go by you and you don't latch on to it. When anger comes your way, you let it go by you and you don't latch on to it. It's a passive term, but there is a command in here for us to let it go. But thankfully, folks, he does not just tell us to let things go. He gives us some positive things that we need to pursue. So next, what are we to pursue? And we find the answer to that in verse 32. It says, and be ye kind one to another, tender hearted, forgiving one another. Now I want to say at the very outset of this. That walking in love, Christ-like love, requires us to put to put on Christian kindness. But it isn't here's what he's not saying. The way it's worded here, he's not saying, you know what, you just need to do more kind things. You need to do more good things. You need to just have five, you know what? This week you need to come up with five things that you're going to do that are kind. Is that what he says here? What does he say? He says you need to be kind. You need to become kind. His point is that you need to be characterized by kindness. If a person is characterized by kindness, is that person, can he be characterized by anger? I don't think so. A person can can be uh you know perform an act of kindness and be an angry person Or a kind person could have a fit of anger. But an angry person Cannot be kind and be characterized by kindness, and a person who is characterized by kindness cannot be characterized by anger Now I really think that's what he's saying here. He's saying that the answer to your problems of bitterness and anger and wrath, which we are all inclined to, Nobody here at all needs to be thinking about anybody else, right? All of us can be inclined to these things. What God says here is we need to be, we need to become kind. Can I ask you a question? Would you say that your lifestyle is characterized by kindness? If you're not sure, maybe ask your spouse. It's probably a good indication, right? is are you are you characterized by kindness? The word kind means it actually is sometimes translated good or useful Have you ever thought of yourself as to whether or not you are useful to other people? You say, that doesn't sound very nice. I don't really want to be useful to everybody else. That sounds like I'm going to be used. And I don't want to be used. And I have problems being used. And in fact, I'm going to get bitter when I'm u used. See a person who's characterized by kindness very rarely thinks about whether or not he's being used. In fact, he is ready to be used by God. A truly kind person is one who is Christ-like. Isn't it? I mean you think of what Christ did. Christ was characterized in his earthly ministry by kindness. The word here means goodness or graciousableness or serviceableness or use But we find here also this word that we need to become tender-hearted. We need to be have our hearts tender. Now in our Twenty-first century Western world, it is not manly to have tender hearts. And folks, that is a problem. Now, um I'm not saying you need to have an effeminate heart. I just mean that you don't need to have a we ought to all be tender hearted. That ought to be something that characterizes a Christian. That there is a compassion and a tenderness toward the needs of others. 1 Peter 3. 8 says, finally, be all of one mind Having compassion, this is the same word. Having compassion, one of another. Love as brethren, be pitiful, be courteous. Say, well how do I be Christ-like? How do I stop being angry? How do I keep from being bitter? Become kind And become tender hearted. And I would imagine that that all of us at one time or another could think Think of times where people have demonstrated to us genuine kindness. I remember when I came back from Pennsylvania, back down to Maryland, it's been Maybe five years ago now, six years ago maybe. And to be honest with you, I had experienced up in Pennsylvania some of the most unkindness Not sure I worded that right, but lack of kindness um of any professing Christians I've ever experienced. I mean the unkindness was Was to the point of surprising. I'd experienced something similar once by a professing Christian when I was in college. uh was um a pretty bad situation. But I will tell you I uh this was far worse because um it was associated with the ministry that God had given me and and my heart was hurting badly. Many of you are familiar with it with some of that. Well when I came down to Maryland, my heart was hurting and I remember telling my dad, he probably remembers this, I remember saying, I don't think why doesn't anybody like me? I just said nobody likes me. Uh and I wasn't laughing about it at the time, but I was crying about it at the time. I remember um there were two friends that showed d genuine kindness to me. I mean there was actually more than that, but one two that I really recall. My my um Micah Colbert, you you know both of them, Micah Colbert. He was did the best he could from you know thou you know several thousand miles away in in Ghana, but we would talk from time to time and and the other guy because he was in this area that really demonstrated a lot of kindness to me that helped heal my soul was Joel Fourche. And And um he just took time with me. He he saw that I was like a wounded soldier. And uh we would go fishing together And he would always catch more fish than me, but that was okay. Because I really wasn't going for the fish that much. And I don't think he was either actually. Well, it's probably fifty-fifty with him, but um and we would even go hunting, and that really wasn't what I was going for. Um I I don't mind hunting but I'd like to see something. But Anyway but I will just tell you just the fact that he took and you know what it w I tell you what Joel what what Joel did for me. It's like Joel believed in me. He he you know he just said, Jim, God's gonna use you. He he will use you again. And um um it was it was Just he there was a a ministering to my soul. Another time that this occurred in my life was when I went down to Bob Jones. I I knew that I I just felt like I needed more preparation, obviously. I I felt like Like I wasn't doing too well with what I had, so I needed to go back for more and so I enrolled for my doctorate of Bob Jones and began to take classes down there. And although I really liked the academic environment That really wasn't the primary wasn't the thing that really ministered to my soul. It was really the graciousness of the professors. And the other pastors that I met down there. I I felt as though I was like I was going away and for the entire week that everybody I talked to was just ministering to my soul. one after another. There was an incredible amount of kindness. I had come from a school that that was not only a rival of Bob Jones, but frankly, my school said some very unkind things about Bob Jones in the past that really in some of some cases were not true. And um I came and I they would always ask me what school I was from and I would always kinda say the name and kinda give my thirty minutes. Disclaimer afterwards and um but they were very gracious. Everybody was very gracious to me, very kind to me, and I sort of walked away from saying this is what Christianity is supposed to be be like. There's supposed to be kindness. And there was. You know, our church needs to be that way. I think we are. I think we're going in the right direction. I I have experienced great kindness from you all and from people of course that aren't here tonight as well. well. But let's not stop working on this. This is the place that we ought to be able to come and after having a wounded soul Come in and experience graciousness and kindness from our brothers and sisters in Christ. You've got to go out every single day and work in the workplace and get beat up by unsaved people spiritually and emotionally. You've got to go and and just take it in the chin. When they speak at you, you've got to hold back and and do the right thing and they and respond correctly and when they're you've got to do that all week long. You ought to be able to come in here And just experience kindness one with another. And allow your soul to be to be fed and healed every time you come in here. That is why these things are so important for us to never have to not have in our lives, right? I mean if we have bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and those kinds of things, you're gonna come in here and it's gonna be like being out there. And very candidly, that's no good. And most of us in this room have probably experienced the time where that was the case in a church setting, and it is no fun. By God's grace, we can have we can emulate Christ by being kind. Finally, we have here in this text, it says, and I'm not going to be able to finish everything, but in verse verse 32 it says, and be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted. Folks, if we're going to be kind and tender-hearted one to another, there has got to be something here. You'll never be that if you are not the next thing. It says here, forgiving one another. This word forgiveness is actually not the more common term for the word forgiveness in the New Testament. It's a different term. I'm not trying to show off my Greek here, but I'll just give you an example. The word ephiami is the normal Greek term for forgiveness. It's the more commonly used one. This one's a different word. And its root is the word grace. See I but it is it is very is very frequently translated forgiveness as well. So it I mean that that's a very good translation here But it's a more active kind of forgiveness. It's got the idea of giving in it And there is a connection between giving and forgiving Some of you may really have be struggling with forgiveness. And what you really need to do is not just passively forgive, you might need to do something actively. in giving to the person you're trying to forgive The book of Proverbs says that a gift given in secret is something that God that is that is a blessing If you are holding an unforgiving spirit towards someone, one of the best things that you can do, and you're really struggling with it, one of the best things that you can do is you can give to that person. Now, that shouldn't be the only reason you give to others. If I have ten people coming and giving me things this week, I know what what ha I know what what you're struggling with, but But um that shouldn't be the only reason, you know. But really it is it's something where we need to be ready. It's it's like this word, you need to grace them You need to give them unmerited favor. And why can we do this? Why? Even as God for Christ's sake has forgiven you. You can imagine a man uh a man who is bar just barely making ends meet and trying to feed his family. He has small children and And a wife, and he's a young guy, and he's just really barely making ends meet. He just really is really struggling. And everything he gets in his paycheck goes to feeding and clothing his family. And every day on his way to work, he goes to the store, or he goes by a certain place. And invariably, oftentimes, somebody will come and ask him for money for food, or ask him for food. And what he finds is most of the sometimes this is not a legitimate request, but sometimes he finds this is actually a very legitimate request, especially when a a mother with his ch with a child comes and says, Would you please Please feed, I just need something to eat. But the man knows that if he gives to that woman and child that are in need, he's going to be withholding From his own family, in order to do that, he won't be able to feed his own feed his own wife and children. Do you imagine that that would be a tremendous struggle for a young man? It certainly would. How can I s how can I give to somebody in need if I'm actually going to have to take from the mouths of my own kids? In a similar way, that's why you and I are tempted not to forgive. We think as though we think as though if we forgive, we'll it will it's like as though we'll have nothing left We feel weak and vulnerable, and if we'll just forgive, then nothing will be left for us. But that is anything but true. What did Christ teach us to pray? He said, forgive us our debts as we forgive those who trespass against us. You and I, if we know Christ our Savior, has have experienced unlimited forgiveness. But if you want to, and we know that we've got it, but if you want to experience it, that forgiveness that God has given you, you've got to forgive others. Do you realize that you will that you can have something and not experience it? And when we choose not to forgive others, it's as though we've got the forgiveness of God, but we don't experience the forgiveness of God in our own lives. Now imagine that young man, a very wealthy man comes to him and says to him Uh listen, if you give uh I'll give you um every time you help somebody in need, I will double your money In other words, he comes a a yo a young lady cu or a lady comes in in need and he gives him ten ten dollars and the wealthy man comes by and says, How much did you give? He says ten dollars, he says, I'm giving you twenty dollars for that Now, do you suppose then that young man would struggle giving? He would not. In fact, he would be highly motivated to give. He would be able to feed his family better if he'll just meet the needs of others because he's going to get twice his money back. Folks, how benevolently has God forgiven us If you're struggling with forgiveness in your heart towards someone, then you are thinking too much of yourself. Because all of us are deserving of hell and a Christeless eternity. And yet God saved us and forgave us. What can we do but forgive? And if we do, it is the first step to being characterized by kindness. Chapter five, verse one says, Be therefore followers of God as dear children. And walk in love as Christ also hath loved us, has given himself for us as an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet-smelling savor. He says here, be imitators. Now, I don't know if that sounds strange to you, that we need to be imitators of God. Some people may feel as though you're not authentic if you're imitating someone or something. But the concept of being an imitator, which is what this word uses, every every modern translation, every other translation besides this translation. It's clearly what the word means. We see this word oh uh uh many times elsewhere in scripture. For instance, in First Corinthians four sixteen and first Corinthians 11, 1, it says in both cases that we need to be imitators of Paul. Paul says, be an imitator of me. In 1 Thessalonians 1. 6, it says that we need to be imitators of those who are in spiritual leadership, which is daunting for anybody in spiritual leadership. In 1 Thessalonians 2. 14, it says that churches may imitate other churches that are healthy. In Hebrews 6. 12, it says that we all ought to imitate faithful believers. And of course, we find in this passage that we are to imitate God Himself. Now, the reality is, why would God tell us and give us examples of people that we are to imitate? Well, it isn't because Paul. . Paul did not implore the Church of Corinth, for example, to imitate him because he was perfect. Nor are people to imitate spiritual leadership because they are perfect, nor are churches to imitate other healthy churches because they're because of perfection. In all of these cases, folks. You have flawed flawed examples. But you do need a baseline. Parents, the best baseline you can give uh hopefully the best baseline a child has is Christian parents. Doesn't mean that he isn't going to emulate every single characteristic of his parent. In fact, he ought to take it as a baseline and then say, okay, well there's some things I want to do differently. Some things I want to do the same, and I'm thankful for as an example. I can think of my parents that gave me a good baseline, but I don't do everything the same as they did. But all of us need that. All of us need to follow older, uh, more mature examples. We need to have people in our lives that we're looking to be to imitate, not not the bad things. You're gonna and and and so oftentimes when we are the ones looking at looking looking up at somebody else, it's so easy for us to look at our example at the example and find all the flaws. Instead of looking at all the positive things. And what we ought to do when we're trying to imitate somebody or trying to l follow someone's example is to identify the things that I want to emulate, to look at that and say, you know, that person is a very kind person. I I I I see how they're being kind. I can learn how to be kind from their kindness Instead of saying, well, that person has these problems, so why would I follow their kindness? I mean folks, that doesn't make any sense. But do you realize that, as in this passage, lest there be any confusion What we're ultimately trying to follow is we are to be imitators of who? Of God. Christ. And what he is saying here, of course, is not at all that we are to imitate or be like God in his incommunicable attributes, those things. of his omniscience and omnipresence will never those things will never be true of us and will always be true of God, but there are moral perfections of God that God desires for us to emulate His holiness is one, his love is another, and his unity is another. All of those are perfection. that God desires for us to emulate, and he is finally telling us, look, you've got to do that. And he says, if you are doing it, there's going to be a litmus test for you. He says, verse 2, you'll be walking in love. That's the thing that's probably most visible, that there will be genuine love for the brethren. And he says here in this passage, he says, here's why this is important. He says, when Christ died and gave himself, which is the definable, which is what love is, is to give yourself for the betterment of the other. That's what love is. It's not a it's not a feeling. It's a I'm gonna give of myself to the other person. When Christ did that The Father looked at that, and when Christ gave himself for you and for me, the Father looked at it and said, that was a sweet-smelling aroma to him. It was pleasurable. And do you know, I think that there is a very clear application here for us when we We are demonstrating love to brothers and sisters in Christ to each other, it's pleasurable to God. It's pleasurable to him. It's a sweet smell to him. Now, I don't have a very good sense of smell, to be honest with you That's different from smelling. I hope I don't smell, but I I I hope I s you know don't smell, but I don't have a good sense of smelling. Um but I have a good sense of taste Some people say that's not possible. I'm telling you, it's possible. I know I can taste things. Um But there are some people I know that just really enjoy fragrance. They'll go into a room and they'll just I mean I don't They'll s they'll close their eyes and smell nice fragrances. Is there anybody like that that just really enjoys good fragrances? Okay, we've got a couple, a few people here. Elizabeth really? I didn't know my own mili really? Um But God, when he sees his brother his his children showing love to each other, it's like he walks into a room and it's smelling If there is no other reason, folks, to show kindness and love to your brothers and sisters in Christ, would that not be enough? Let's pray. Father, we Admit before you that the things that we have gone through that we're going through in this text are immediately applicable. And in many cases convicting. And we do admit before you that we fall short. Father, I pray, Lord, that you would help us to understand and maybe even to envision just how pleased you are. When we choose to forgive. And when we become kind and tenderhearted. And when we choose to put off bitterness and anger and wrath Pray, Lord, that you would help us in these areas. That we would be Christ-like. And be pleasing to you. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.