That's what what you have here when you come to imprecatory psalms. It looks as though David is going to ask for things that that doesn't seem like would be his place to ask for, and it doesn't seem like it would be considered With godliness for him to ask for these things. And in a nutshell, what he asks for is for there to be retribution and vindication toward his enemies. Like, God will you deal with them? And in some cases, He even pronounces what looks to be almost like curses upon them. And this is, of course, under the inspiration of the Spirit of God, which sort which causes a bit of a problem. And, or at least, not it's not a problem to God, it's just a problem to our mindset. And I'll tell you this. We, if we're going to have a full, complete understanding of who God is, and not swayed to just one who is benevolent and and loving and to the point of to the extent of tolerant. If we're not going to be unbalanced in our view of God, we've got to consider these kinds of things as well, the things that are harder for us to understand. For instance, when God says He hates the wicked, does that bother us? Is that possible? Well, the reality is God both loves and hates the wicked at the same time. Does that bother us? Well, we're not God, are we? And somehow God can't I don't think we can do that. But God can do that. He can somehow hate the wicked and love the wicked at the same time. And so when we're considering who God is, that boils down to the major problem that some people find in this past with this issue of imprecatory psalms. I want to give you kind of a taste of this. So let's look at a few of these. Would you take your Bibles and just look at chapter 12 here, or Psalm 12 here, not chapter, but Psalm 12. And we'll look at verses 3 and 4 here. And we'll just look at a couple of a sampling of some of these, and you'll begin to see, you'll sort of say, well, boy, this is not how David's ever, I've seen David pray in the past This is not how I've seen anybody else pray in the past, perhaps. And how does this fit into an overall view of Scripture and who God is and how God wants us to respond to various situations in our lives? Chapter, or Psalm 12, I don't know why I keep saying chapter. Psalm 12, verse 3 says, The Lord shall cut off all flattering lips, and a tongue that speaketh proud things. And have said, with our tongue will we prevail, our lips are our own. Who is Lord over us? So he says in that case, now he's not directly praying in this case. He just says the Lord's going to do this. He's going to cut off these kinds of people. So that's kind of mild. That's not too severe among the imprecatory Psalms. Take your Bibles and just flip to the next one. Look at 35 and verses 1 through 8 here. Psalm 35. David says this, beginning in verse 1: Plead my cause, O Lord, with them that strive with me. Fight against them that fight against me. Take hold of shield and buckler and stand up for mine help help. Draw out also the spear and stop the way against them that persecute me. Say unto my soul, I am thy salvation. Let them be confounded and put to shame that seek after my soul. Let them be turned back and brought to confusion that despise my hurt. Let them be as chaff before the wind, and let the angel of the Lord chase them. Let their way be dark and slippery, and let the angel of the Lord persecute them. For without cause have they hid for me their net in a pit, which without cause they have digged for my soul. Let destruction come upon him at unawares, and let his net that he hath hid catch himself. Into the very destruction let him fall. Okay, so you see there David has enemies. They're going against him and he says, May May they be cast into a pit, may they be persecuted by the angel of the Lord, may they be I mean he is he is praying these imprecations, these these um these uh almost curses upon his enemies How do we compute that with something like what Christ says in Matthew chapter 5, or chapter 6, I think, love those who persecute you, pray for those who despitefully use you and persecute you. I mean how does this how does this match up with this? And um we could go on. Uh uh we'll stop there just for the sake of time because I have a lot of material to cover here But let me just ask you generally before we get into this, how would you answer somebody that says, well, what about that? Is that really, did David really pray this under the inspiration of the Spirit of God? Any any thoughts on that? Um my initial thought because I've dealt with something similar where I've had a friend say, well what about the whole um killing of all the towns, okay? It's a different disputation. Okay. And and I know I can't just throw that word out there because I have to explain it. But I mean there's the fact that it's a national thing or a political thing as opposed to just the church on its own. Um and Jesus does clarify later on. Mm-hmm. Okay. So that's one explanation is that we're t dealing with an perhaps with an Old Testament, New Testament issue. Okay, that's one way that people have tried to explain that. I'm gonna argue that that's that's not a good good one. But anyway to be honest with you I'm just gonna be honest. But that is one that's very common and and and the uh uh um theologians will use that and and comment The problem with that, I'll just say out at the outset, is you actually have imprecatory psalms in the New Testament, or imprecatory prayers in the New Testament. too. So that's that's the right. Right. So you have those kinds of things. Uh other yes, Josh. God says that vengeance is his okay. So there's a difference between you know the kind of actions that we're supposed to take and um And what God himself will do when he meets out justice. Um I think also too um if you want to get philosophical about it, um uh can we really um Can we believe is that constrained by the same code of justice or whatever that that we are? Um because he is transcendent. And because he is holy, um can we uh necessarily uh put human limitations for justice and So the first title was a long while. Good. Okay, let me just ex explain I'm going to get into the into how difficult uh the difficulties here a little bit by just quoting some folks. And let me just tip my hand here a little bit. This was something that was in detail dealt with in a particular class I took. And a lot of this material comes from the class I took. So I just want to be very transparent about that. I didn't come up with all this myself. This was extremely helpful for me and I am doing a lot of borrowing tonight. Let me just put it that way. Okay. And I don't always do a lot of borrowing, but in this case I am. Um and I just tend to agree with it was uh with this the his conclusion so much it's like why would I why am I gonna reinvent the wheel? I'll just give you w what he says. But anyway, so a lot of this comes from from um one of my professors and and actually a Bob Jones. He in fact he cites this quote from Kidner in uh Psalm twenty uh Psalms number uh page twenty-five The sudden transitions in the Psalms from humble devotion to fiery imprecation create an embarrassing problem for the Christian, who is assured that a scripture, that all scriptures inspiration Here is what C. S. Lewis says. In some of the Psalms, the spirit of hatred which strikes us in the face is like the heat from a furnace mouth. We must not not either try to explain them away or to yield for one moment to the idea that because it comes in the Bible, all this vindictive hatred must somehow be good and pious We must face both facts squarely. The hatred is there, festering, gloating, undisguised. And also we should be wicked if we in any way condoned or approved it. Or, worse still, use it to justify similarly passions in ourselves. C. S. Lewis is dead wrong on this. Okay, because what he is saying here, if you're going to say that this is not, there's nothing redeeming or right about what David praised, what's the problem with that? What's the problem? Yeah, it's under the inspiration of Scripture. I mean God said this. It wasn't just David that said this. Yes. I read that book with questions on the book. Yeah. And later in the book he actually question the validity of the of the Psalms in general. Like questions and inspiration because of this issue. Yeah. And and and C. S. Lewis questions a lot of things in scripture actually. I really like his book Mere Christianity and a lot of things. But I mean he does he does he's not a creationist, for example. There's there's a lot of things that CLS to be careful about, actually. As much as I actually like reading him because he makes you think. But um anyway, so that's that's interesting. All right, so you see some of the problem that even see a guy like C. S. Lewis is having with this Um some are so here's one person's explanation. Some argue that such imprecations are merely hyperbole, emotional exaggerations by which the psalmist hopes to pre- Persuade God to act. In other words, the psalmist wants God to know how strongly he feels about the matter And function its function is in part to furnish victims the words in which to express their legitimate outrage. And I actually think he's got a bit of a point here. Okay, right. Is it is it appropriate to vent to God Alright, just keep that in your mind. Yeah. Yeah, I actually think I think the answer is yes. So we'll we'll build a case we'll we'll sort of talk through this a little bit more. Some of the passages that you could That are in seem to be contradictory to the idea of these imprecatory psalms are Old Testament passages, by the way. So I'm citing several Old Testament passages to actually argue that this is not an Old Testament, New Testament issue. For instance, it says in Leviticus 19, 16 through 18, you shall not go about us As go go about as a tailbearer among your people. You should not take a stand against the life of your neighbor. I am the Lord. You shall not hate your brother in in your heart. You shall surely rebuke your neighbor and not bear sin amoun abo uh because of the him You shall not take vengeance nor bear any grudge against the children of your people. You shall love your neighbor as yourself, I am the Lord. Deuteronomy 23, 3 through 6 says, An Ammonite, a Moabite, shall not enter into the assembly of the Lord, even to the tenth generation, none of his descendants shall enter into the assembly of the Lord forever. Because they did not meeting you and with bread and water on the road uh when you came out of Egypt, and because they hired against you Balaam, the son of Bear, the Pethar of Mesopotamia, the to curse you Nevertheless, the Lord your God would not listen to Balaam, but the Lord your God turned turned the curse into a blessing for you, because the Lord your God loves you. Ye shall not seek their peace Nor their per prosperity all the days of your life. Psalm 139-21, I do I not hate them, O Lord, who hate you? Do I not loathe those who rise up against you? Psalm 711. God is a just judge, and God is angry with the wicked every day. These are just some contributing thoughts to what we're going to have to come up with here. And Jehu, the son of Hanani the seer, went out to meet him and said to King Jehosaphat, Should you help the wicked and love those who hate the Lord? Therefore the wrath of the Lord is upon you Okay. Alright, so that's just some things to think about initially. Let's just um begin to answer this question now. What do we do with David, who is praying these prayers multiple times of retribution upon his enemies? And actually other imprecatory psalms throughout Scripture or uh prayers throughout Scripture. I want to begin by considering David's attitude in 1 and 2 Samuel. And some of you have been uh come uh have been in in in that the first Samuel class and now into the second Samuel class. Even this past Sunday we saw David's attitude when somebody came to him and said that Saul was dead and that they actually allegedly killed Saul, which they actually didn't do out. But but how did David respond to Saul's death? He mourned over it. You never find David. Saul was a major enemy of David before he became king. And you never find David trying to take revenge against Saul. In fact, he will not touch the Lord's anointed, and he actually commands his mighty men not to touch him either. Um all he ever does, the worst he ever does is takes part of his garment just to say, hey look, I could have been I didn't And that was really probably to demonstrate I don't have anything against you. I mean, please let's get this thing right. Is any still guilty for cutting chip Oh maybe he did. Maybe not. Maybe maybe don't be worried about that. The point is that overall he was not there Just say it here, there were there have been a few men more capable of generosity under personal attack as he proved by his attitudes towards Saul and Absalom. To say nothing of Shemai, and no ruler has more deeply stirred to anger by cruel and unscrupulous scrupulous actions, even when they appeared to favor his cause. So you have David who is is very benevolent and and I mean he turned uh with Absalom he actually should have dealt with Absalom And he should have dealt with them swiftly. I'm not saying he should have taken re retribution against that, but he should have dealt with them. And he didn't do he didn't even deal with them. He just l So David is not the kind of man, the point is that David is not the kind of man who is constantly trying to have vengeance toward people. That's not his behavior that you find in 12 Samuel. We can still see in the worst of their mouth Lewis says this. Well actually I'm going to skip that one. Well, no, I won't say that. Okay. And precatory prayers are expressions of holiness. So we're going to begin to build what's good about these prayers. First of all, their prayers of holiness. Lewis says this: we can still see the worst of their maledictions. How these poets were, in a sense, near to God, though hideously distorted by the human instrument, something of the divine voice can be heard in these passages. Against all this, the ferocious parts of the Psalms serve as a reminder that there is in the world such a thing as wickedness. And that it, if not in not its perpetrators, is hateful to God. In that way, however dangerous the human distortion may be, his words sound through this message, these passages too. So that's one possible, but I'm not sure we we want to take it as a human distortion here, but some of what he's saying has value in that in that sense. Secondly, in precatory prayers are expressions of meekness and deference. And I think this is a major point here. They direct their fury to the right person, the God of justice and vengeance. And this is really what Josh was pointing out in the very beginning here. The Bible does tell us that vengeance is mine, saith the Lord, I will repay. It is not as though God just turns a blind eye to all injustices. And it is not as though God just just looks the other way to sin. And so is it possible that the way that we ought to be viewing this is that when David praised these things, It is as though David is saying, I have done all I can do. I can't do anything else. They're going after me. God, would you deal with them? And if so, is that not the right response to the problems that he is facing? Yes. And I like how It's a deferring. Yeah. Letting God handle it and not taking it upon yourself. I mean that by definition is what prayer is. I am not going to do this myself. I am going to let God handle this Okay, so I think that's there's something really, really important there to really consider. Deuteronomy 32, 3035, Venges is mine. And recompense their foot shall slip in due time, for the day of their command calamity is at hand, and the things come to hasten upon them, and that's all reiterated in the New Testament, Romans chapter 12, verses 17 through 21 One person suggested this. He said, rather than asking if we could ever justifiably pray such a prayer as this We might better ask whether such thoughts as expressed here have any other permissible context than conversation with God. From whom no secrets are hid, and from whom no rage or anger can be concealed. To pray such rage Is at one, the same time, to let it go and to hold it back. It is not now a part of our dealing with our neighbor enemy. It is a part of our life with God. The ferocity of the psalm gives voice to and channels the ferocity of the soul. A raging prayer that finally leaves the matter where Moses and Paul both tell us it belongs. in the hands of God. That's interesting, isn't it? So instead of looking at these impregatory prayers as our taking, or David taking his own retribution on this person. He is going to the one who can rightly judge these things and who can rightly handle them, and he is leaving them with God. An imprecation is an acknowledgement that God's self-precatory prayers, another point here, are expressions of faith and confession. An imprecation is an acknowledgement that God's self-revelation about his nature and intentions to judge wickedness are trustworthy, that wicked will certainly be punished because God says so. So this really are are they not are they perhaps expressions of trust that God is going to deal with them? Yes? Absolutely. Because um uh not only are you acknowledging that defensive system and that he can take care of it in the best way, but you're also acknowledging limited knowledge. Um I've I've I've experienced it in in a little way um uh when my sister um a allowed uh a while ago, she was seeing this one guy who was um who was a really bad guy. And um he was he was very abusive. And and so in in my heart there isn't necessarily hatred towards that person but um but you feel this sense of justice rising up and you know It was you know, these kind of prayers you you you do think these things, uh when when you see this kind of stuff and carry out people you love, you know. And um and so you you you pray that God would do such and such and then there's always this like going back to but if you see that he would turn would you You know, you know. Right. Yeah. Well and also if you think of some of the examples, like look at Jo look at um um Jonah And his his response, like I mean the Ninevites were evil people. They were wicked people. The reason Jonah wanna didn't want to go to them is because they're wicked, and he had some prejudice against them, obviously. Find out. Well God turns their heart and He and they repent. Jonathan, he is so upset about this. Okay. And so God is long-suffering, and God will sometimes just cause repentance without retribution. And we've got to be ready to let God have the final say in the matter. That I think is the point here. And so I think that's definitely very good. And in fact, I'll just say this as well. God doesn't need you and me to administer justice. He just really doesn't need us. He can do it on his own. And he is just now if we have a responsibility, if we're church leadership or if we're members of the body and there's And there has to be church discipline. I mean that I'm not saying that we don't have a role to play within biblical parameters, but just generally speaking Uh we don't he doesn't ha he doesn't need us. He can do it on his on his own. And he does see all. And recognizing that is is is very is very important in all this. And precatory prayers are the voice of Christ. David was a prophet who did who, and this is by the way, another reason why it's It may not be a old net old testament, New Testament. I didn't I'm not trying to pick on you. Anyway, okay. David was a prophet who not only spoke of the spirit of uh of Yahweh, but who spoke Yahweh's words. Peter informs us that the Spirit in the prophets was none other than the Spirit of Christ. And the New Testament confirms repeatedly that Christ is the Yahweh of the Old Testament. So it's something to consider there. Imprecatory concerns are confirmed in the New Testament. The plea that justice shall be done and right be vindicated, uh this is a concern which the New Testament warm warmly upholds. As Ken Kidner notes, the parable of the unjust judge reiterates the word vindicate twice in the parable, and twice in the application of the parable to the passion and concern of God Himself. If even an unjust judge vindicates a defenseless but persistent widow, how much more will God vindicate his elect and vindicate them speedily? So we have New Testament teaching on that All right. The question then becomes, and I can't believe I did this in uh to in a in a in a in a uh in this amount of time. Praise the Lord then. I should get a medal or something. No, I'm kidding I'm I'm I'm kidding about that. Anyway, not really. Um so Christian application. What is how do we res so it Let me just ask you, is it right for us to emulate David and to pray in precatory prayers? Josh. It's a hot tart hard question, by the way. I think that um you know if you wanted to um avoid like just be really cautious about it, I think that you can pray at least against um wickedness in general for instance um the abortion extreme plain apparently i think you can pray that God would stop that wickedness, you know. At the same time you don't necessarily have to pray that God would ban every single abortion doctor's soul or you know whichever of their directors are talking about selling basic arts to science and all that kind of stuff. Um so I I think that is that at least you know you can you can pray that um the wicked people would be stopped but at the same time I don't think that you have to necessarily pray that person would have to say and and also try to think of like um somebody like Cori Temboom in the Yeah. Yeah. I think she would have been completely right to pray that God would stop Hitler and Nazis um while still being able to show uh uh love and forgiveness towards her um Catherine. Uh yeah. How many of how many of you re have read The Hiding Place? Okay, good. That is that is probably in the top five most influential books in my life, actually. Probably in the top five, maybe five maybe top ten. For top fifteen. Anyway, somewhere in there. But um that is a very, very influential I mean that's incredible. She doesn't Um a holistic hermeneutic and by what I mean is is if you look at all of Scripture and everything that it has to say about this, because we do have to factor in. It says love your inner, means pray for them that despitefully use you and persecute you. I mean you've got those passages in there. So if you keep all of it in mind, it suggests that there may be times, and Josh is kind of saying this. It may be times when it is appropriate for Christians to pray that God to deal in judgment with the enemies of his truth and cause. So If you know that there are people that are going against the purposes of God's kingdom, to pray that God deals with them. Mm-hmm. I don't think that I think that that's appropriate. Yeah. I I guess I have another question about that then too. Yeah. So Paul says in the Galatians um that if anyone preaches a another a gospel, let me a curse. Yeah. Um so would would could you say that it would be appropriate to pray that somebody who is spreading a false gospel for them Yeah, at least that God I mean however he be choose I I'm more comfortable saying, Lord, deal with them in the w but even you know if you think of uh first Corinthians chapter five, where um we have the man who was needed to be brought under church discipline for incest was the actu was actually the issue in that case. And and Paul said turn him over to Satan for the destruction of the flesh. It's pretty tough words there. And so to You know, to come to a point where you say, Lord, would you deal with that person with any means possible? I think there's sometimes you come to that point. For the sake of your kingdom. Here's what it's not. It's not about for my sake. And I don't think that was in David's mind at all. I think David was very concerned about, this is just my opinion, but I think David was very concerned about God's name and his reputation and hit and those kinds of things And so I think we've got to factor that in. And precatory prayers are not appropriate for merely personal rivals. or out of personal animosity, but for the inveterate enemies of God, God's people, and God's truth. There may be times, even for the New Testament believer, when it is appropriate to pray an imprecatory prayer But it would also be appropriate to pray such a prayer in submission and deference to God's greater wisdom, which is kind of Trisha's point earlier, and magnanimity of character. So I think you're left with this. You're left with, okay, well, how do we emulate these kinds of prayers? I think you're left with that there are times in your life where you know that someone is directly impeding the furtherance of God's kingdom. I'll give you an example Um I can't remember the name of the guy. It slips my mind. But years ago there was a man maybe you'll some of one of you will be able to remind me. There was a man that actually was keeping Ian Paisley from coming to this country to do revival work. And and Bob Jones III, it was a like a magistrate of England, I think. some magistrate. And Bob Jones III prayed, and I don't think I could do this, but this is what he prayed, that God would smote him hip and thigh Okay. It's pretty inflammatory. But they were kind of that you gotta remember that generation was pretty inflammatory back. That Bob Jones I think it was Bob Jones the one of the Bob Joneses. Anyway. Um And uh and you know what happened? The guy resigned like two two months later, out of I think for physical reasons or something But anyway. And um and so I look at that and I go, I'm not sure that I would want to be on in a newspaper for praying that. But I but on the other hand I guess Bob Jones III really felt like he was impeding God's kingdom and the furtherance of God's kingdom. So I don't know how you feel about that, but As a whole, to pray that God deals with someone, and your your desire, and your entire desire, is that you believe they are impeding the furtherance of God's kingdom That I think is an appropriate prayer. You don't have to pray like that they're damned or something, or you don't have to pray these Mean just Lord, would you deal with them in whatever way you choose to, so that they're no longer impeding the kingdom the and and I'm gonna be honest with you, I have prayed that on several occasions with different people And uh yes. The verse that keeps coming to mind too is that God is known by the judgments he executes. And so I think David, like you said, he he wasn't necessarily so interested in like haha you know no but he wanted to he wanted to know God by his judgment. Yeah. Yes, right. And he wanted the world to know him by his judgments. Yeah And and and what's the what's the distinctive difference between we us praying in precatory prayers and David praying them? He was under the inspiration of Scripture. So you sort of have to remember, just because he did it, I mean he was praying accurately. We know he was praying accurately because God inspired him to pray that. So I think we need to be more careful. He's very specific. I think there would be wisdom in us not being so specific. I think we should just pray, Lord, deal with that situation. Yes. Are there um is it more than just like David, Paul, and Paul um pray correct word prayer Um I I can look I'm not sure. I I think there's a few others. I yeah, um the saints in revelation, how long our Lord is. Saints of Revelation do. Um there are a few. It's not a lot. It's not like uh you see 'em all the time. Um but there's enough to you know cause C. S. Lewis to say that, you know, something's wrong. Yeah. Um Mm. What you just said is so um true too because David was Jesus was of David's lion. So the enemies of David huge implications when it came to Yeah, and God's kingdom and yeah, right. Yeah, exactly. So um anyway, so that's my take that that's my take that I adopted from somebody that I said, wow, I finally understand. I felt like I under I feel like I understand this finally after reading these. So I don't pray in precatory prayers in the way that David did, but I do uh pray occasionally when I really believe that somebody is impeding God's kingdom that the Lord would deal with them and and that's really I think uh appropriate. As long as I mean we should it shouldn't be everybody and you be sure um but at some point that that that I believe can be uh an appropriate prayer. All right, let's go ahead and close with a word of prayer, and it will not be in purgatory. Lord, we do thank you for your word. We thank you for all of it. We confess entirely that your word has been given to us under the inspiration of your spirit. And we thank you that you are a God who is entirely just. You are loving and merciful, but you are also a God of justice. And so we thank you for that, Lord, and I pray that you would really um just really um help us to to approach you uh with a full knowledge of who you are and and it and And an admission before you that you know best and you know all, and you are the judge. And um that we can, if there's nothing else we learn from this, that we can leave things in your hands. When we have done all we can do. And we thank you for that, Lord. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Alright, have a good week.