Welcome everyone. It's good to have everybody joining us today by way of streaming. We do have a few people in here. We're staying within uh what we're allowed to do here, but it is uh a thrill to have some live music today. That's going to be a blessing to it's a blessing to me already as I've heard them practice. It'll be a blessing to all of us. This is Memorial Day and we do really want to remember and appreciate those who gave their lives uh for the freedoms that we enjoy. And something that we need to do is to pray and be just grateful. for our freedoms and pray that God will retain our freedoms for us so that as Scripture says, we can live a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty. Many, many people gave their lives for our freedom. And so included in what we're going to be praying for today, we will thank the Lord for those who did. We will not have the Cycleship home groups tonight because it is Memorial Day weekend and traditionally we have just taken off for that and given you more time to spend with your families and so hopefully you will enjoy that time together this evening. That is just about all of the announcements that I have at this time. So let's go ahead and go to the Lord in prayer and ask his blessing on our service together. Father, we thank you just for the privilege of gathering this morning. We thank you for those who gave their lives. We think of the various wars and battles that have that have been fought from the Revolutionary War all the way through our present day and all of the battles that have been fought to uh for our freedom. We particularly want to appreciate this morning the freedom to be able to worship you. And Lord, we really fervently pray that you would give us again that freedom to worship you, that you would work in our government uh in the local government and in uh in that you would that they would allow us to be able to safely meet again to worship. We ask for that, Lord, and uh we pray, Lord, that uh that would happen soon. Lord, we pray that you would just bless us as we sing together today. I pray, Lord, that as we sing and as we read Scripture and as we hear the teaching of your word this morning I pray, dear Father, that we would be blessed and that you would be glorified, that your Spirit would work in our lives and through your word to help us to know you more. And we thank you for that, and to trust you through uncertain times. Lord, we thank you and we praise you and we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. If you have your Bibles, you can take them and turn to Psalm 95. Psalm 95. I enjoyed the singing this morning, the live singing this morning, I will tell you. And um and uh I will say this, that you can sing with a mask. Um I experienced that for the first time today. And uh it is possible, in fact I think I can get used to it for a few weeks or months and uh hopefully not forever. But anyway, so just so you know it is it is possible to do it sounded um well I didn't sound good, but other people are The two people around me sounded good. So anyway. Alright, Psalm ninety-five. Oh come, let us sing to the Lord. Let us shout joyfully to the rock of our salvation. Let us come before his presence with thanksgiving. Let us shout joyfully to him with psalms. For the Lord is the great God, the great King above all gods. In his hand are the deep places of the earth. The heights of the hills are his also. The sea is his, for he made it. And his hands formed the dry land. O come, let us worship and bow down. Let us kneel before the Lord our Maker. For He is our God, and we are the people of His pasture, and the sheep of His hand. Today, if you will hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion, as in the day of the trial in the wilderness. When your fathers tested me and tried me, though they saw my work. For forty years I was grieved with that generation, and said It is God who go astray, or it is people who go astray in their hearts, and they do not know my ways. So I swore in my wrath they shall not enter my rest. And duck to get over, you guys should be okay to be able to do that. I'm going to take this off at this point. And uh that way we're our the pulpit is or that works too. Whatever whatever works. And uh if you guys can sit in this section, I that would be my preference. Uh come on over this way. Um that way I can preach to more people. I've been preaching to a to a uh camera for so long that it's been a little bit uh A little bit interesting. Exodus chapter five is where we're going to be this morning. All right. So let's go ahead and go to the Lord in prayer, ask his blessing our time, and then we'll get into the passage this morning. Exodus chapter five. Let's pray. Father, we thank you, Lord, for the privilege of gathering this morning together. Thank you for your word. And as we look at your word this morning, I pray that it would be A blessing to our hearts. I pray, Lord, that it would honor you and that the text of Scripture that we're going to be going over, where Moses is wrestling with some of the things that has happened Um and you are again revealing who you are in the midst of it. I pray would be would be very significant for us in understanding who you are in the midst of the things that we're going through as well. And we pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen. If you look on the back of a $20 bill, as well as a few others, um I'm just curious, Pat, can you raise the camera up a little bit? Looks like it's cutting off my head. Is he back there? Okay. Anyway, um there you go. Although you probably people probably didn't want to see that part anyway because it's seriously Seriously receding, but anyway. Alright. Exodus chapter 5 here. So we're talking about in God we trust, the phrase in God we trust. And in X in the $20, if you look at the back of a $20 bill, you'll see then that it has this phrase, in God we trust. It's interesting that that particular phrase was was coined as the official motto of the United States of America not that long ago, back in 1957. I thought it was much older than that, but apparently that is when it was changed from a a Latin phrase that meant from many to one. But um from in 1957 Congress un Congress uh in a joint session uh as a joint resolution bipartisan agreed that that should be the United States motto in God We Trust. And we are celebrating, of course, the Memorial Day weekend, and although we may have various plans with our families, though probably not the same plans as last year, we are uh living in a day where we um we need to really consider the fact that we need to continue to trust in God. And the question that we need to ask ourselves is, do we really live in light of trusting in God? Do we live like we trust in God? And in easy times, it's easy to trust in God. In times where it's not that difficult, it's it's fine, we trust in the Lord. But in times where everything gets thrown around And plans go awry and we can't figure anything out and they keep changing everything on us. Um I'm venting a little here when it comes to what's going on with some of the decisions that are being made by our local governments, it becomes something where we have to sort of be settled and say, I've got to continue to trust in you, God. And we need to we need to have that kind of an attitude And I we come to Exodus here. And I've got to tell you, as I look at the people, the nation of Israel, as well as Moses and what's going on here, they begin to really wane in their trust of God. And the truth of the matter is, I gotta tell you, as I read through this, I can understand it. I I can empathize with them. I don't look at this passage. Later on, when Israel When Israel is like uh you know, they're um they're complaining and they want to go back into Egypt, back into the four hundred years of bondage that they did before. uh because they didn't get the right kind of food. I have a hard time understanding that. That seems to be I have a hard time understanding that kind of complaining and wanting to go back into Egypt. But but where they are now, Moses, of course, has already gone and appealed to Pharaoh, and that has not been successful. In fact Pharaoh has now, if you recall from last week, Pharaoh has now wanted to, he's imposed a the same quota of bricks, but without straw And the Jewish leaders are uh were very concerned they're actually being beaten because of it, and they went to Pharaoh, and Pharaoh says um I I I'm uh uh says no, we are going to continue to Do what I said. And now they are really in fear of their lives because they know they cannot fulfill this quota and they feel they fear their lives. So they go to Moses and they really blame Moses and Aaron, but particularly Moses, for what has happened here. And then Moses comes to God and says, God, what are you doing here? And I gotta tell you, I can understand how these folks I I I I can't empathize with them in a sense, but I I don't look at and say, well what's wrong with them? They are in a situation where it's a very, very difficult situation to be in And with all of that in mind, we then come to Exodus chapter 5, and we pick up in verse 22. It says, Then you shall say to Pharaoh, thus says the Lord, Israel is my son, my firstborn. So I say to you, let my son go that he may serve me. But if you refuse to let him go, indeed I will kill your son, your firstborn. I'm sorry, 522. 522 says this, so Moses returned to the Lord and said, Lord, why have you brought trouble on your people? uh on this people. And is it you uh have why is it you have sent me? For since I came to Pharaoh, it So Moses comes and he has two concerns. He says, first of all, Pharaoh has actually done evil to the people And secondly, he says, you have not delivered them at all. How does God answer Moses' concerns? I mean these seem to be sort of valid concerns, although God told Pharaoh that uh God told Moses that Pharaoh was going to harden his heart and he he in fact was going to do that But at the same time, how does God answer these things? Would you look at the passage then and you'll notice a couple of ways that God answers? Number one, God reiterates his promise. And just note how he does this, one step at a time. He says, first of all, 6-1 Then the Lord said to Moses, How you shall see, now you shall see what I will do to Pharaoh. For with a strong hand he will go he will let them go. And with a strong hand he will drive them out. He says, now you're going to see what I will do to Pharaoh. He reiterates his promise, number one Then he reiterates his name. Now this is very interesting. And by the way, what you're going to find as we look through this passage is you're going to see a lot of things repeated. A lot of things that God has already said, in some cases twice to Moses, he's going to say again. And now here he says this in verse 2 of Exodus 6. He says, and God spoke to Moses and said to him, I am the Lord. I appeared to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob as God ultimate as God Almighty. But by name I was not known to them. By my name I was not known to them. So there's a couple of things going on here. That's sort of interesting that he says it this way. We know in the book of Genesis that Yahweh, his name was used, but he says, By my name I was not known to them. What is he talking about here? Now this was not has not been said this way previously. This is something new, and as we look at this, this we begin to find more of what God is going to get at when it comes to what he's saying to Moses at this point. He said, I was not known to them. Now, understand when the Bible, particularly the Old Testament, uses this word no or known. It doesn't necessarily just mean academically known or just known mentally or intellectually. It's really talking about something much deeper than that, particularly in this context. It's talking about an intimate experiential kind of knowledge. And what he is saying, for example, in the Old Testament, when you see this when it says that one person knew another person and that meant that they they knew each other intimately, physically That's a deeper kind of knowing. And that's the kind of knowing that you find here. Where Moses is uh God is telling Moses the way that they knew me in the Old Testament In Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, the way they knew me, you're going to know me, or you're going to experience me in a greater way, in a new way. Why am I withholding my blessing on you? Why are you is actually getting worse before it's getting better? Because you're going to know me more. You're going to experience me more because of this. This is very important for us to understand, and you find this throughout the Old Testament as well as in the New Testament. You find this idea. That suffering and pain and struggle and wrestling with what God is doing and why He is doing it ultimately brings us to a place where we really experience the character of God more as a result. And the in the things that you're going through in life, the things that I'm going through in life, We often wonder, God, why are you doing this? Why the delay? What's happening here? This is hard. Uh I'm been thrown out of my comfort zone, as we all have, as I sit out as I look out at a bunch of people wearing masks. I mean this is Weird. But all of this ultimately will be that we will know God more. We'll experience Him more. We will be able to trust Him more as a result of all of this. He reiterates his covenant in verse 4. It says, I have also established my covenant with them. to give them the land of Canaan, the land of their pilgrimage, in which uh in which they were strangers. He says, I've established my covenant with them, and you're going to begin to experience now the covenant that I established with them. in the Abrahamic covenant. And then he reiterates his attention. He says, verse 5 And I have also heard the groaning of the children of Israel, whom the Egyptians keep in bondage, and I have remembered my covenant. Now he has said this already in chapter 3, verse 7, and he said it prior to that in chapter 2, verse 24 and 25. He again is pointing out, look, I have heard the groaning of my people. I have heard their anguish. I have heard their struggle. I am not ignoring them. See, at this point, probably uh this has gone on for a while, and Moses already went and appealed, and things are getting worse, and all this is happening. At some point, the people feel like, maybe feel like God didn't really hear. He doesn't really know what's going on. He really isn't paying attention. You ever feel that way about God? You ever feel that the things that you're going through and the trials that you're going through, they just keep going and going, they seem to get worse, they don't seem to get any better, and you think to yourself What's going on here? What do I I mean I are I don't understand Lord are do you not hear do you not see what I'm going through So God reiterates his attention to his people. And then you're going to see this where God then explains his total involvement. He's going to explain his plan. Now, we've seen a lot of this before, but we see in sort of a little bit of summarized fashion where he just lays it out again. This is my plan. Look at what it says, verse 6. Therefore say to the children of Israel, I am the Lord, I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians. With an outstretched arm, with great judgments. I will take you as my people. I will be your God. You see, he's like, I will do this. I will do this. I will do this. I told you before, I'm going to tell you again, with an outstretched arm, that's a uh uh uh uh an idiom for his power, his extended strength and authority and power. I'm going to do this. He repeated See what happens is as they go through this, God reiterates, I'm going to do it. It really is all about trusting God and depending on the first time. on God. It's not about me figuring out exactly how I can best do what I'm supposed to do. No, I've got to follow God and let God do what God's going to do. And I've got to trust him. So we see then that God goes even further in saying, here is exactly what I'm going to do. And I want you to notice how many times He says, I will bring, I will do this, I will do this. He says, I will take you as my people and I will be your God. Purpose number one. Another purpose he says is Then you shall know that I am the Lord your God who will bring you out from under the burdens of Egypt. You'll know I'm your God And he says, I will bring you into the land I swore to give Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. I will give it to you as a heritage. I am the Lord. Do we get the idea that God is trying to get something across to the nation of Israel at this point and to Moses at this point? I am who I am, I will do it, I will accomplish it in my time, in my way. Uh it's it's implied here, you've got to trust me. And you and I need to trust God as well In fact, isn't it true, folks, that what you see in this first part of this passage is that in order to experience God, you've got to trust God. You see, you have those two themes here. I want you to know me. I want you to know me better and in more in a deeper way than Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob knew me. I want you to know me, and I'm going to take you through these things so you can know more of who I am. But in order to do that, you've got to trust me completely. You've got to depend on me. You've got to stop depending on yourself and your ways and what you want and those kinds of things and your strength and your abilities and your giftedness and your plans and you've got to trust me You've got to depend on me. Jeremiah chapter 9, verse 23 says, Thus says the Lord, let not the wise man glory in his wisdom. Let not the mighty man glory in his might, nor let the rich man glory in this in his riches, but let him who glories glory in this that he understands and knows me That I am the Lord exercising loving kindness, judgment, and righteousness in the earth, for in these I delight, says the Lord. Philippians chapter 3, verse 10 says, That I may know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being conformed to his death. See, to know him, how do we learn to know him? How do we learn to experience him? We have to trust him. We will not experience him the way he wants us to experience him. If we do not trust him. Now, I want you then to notice what happens next. Moses takes this, and I would assume at this point that although Moses has been discouraged, that he's questioned God about these things, and understandably so He's now accepting, okay, God, you've reiterated this to me, and I'm going to do this, I'm going to do this. And now he goes back to the people with it. Notice what happens in verse 9 when he goes back to the people. We have Vicky chapter six verse nine, it says, Therefore say the children of Israel, I am the Lord. I'm sorry, verse nine. So Moses spoke thus to the children of Israel, but they did not heed Moses, because notice what it says, because of anguish of spirit and cruel bondage. They didn't heed Moses. They wouldn't listen to him. Now I I just want you to put yourself in Israel's place. Before they did heed Moses, Moses went back to them along with Aaron, and he was they were able to convince The nation of Israel that that they got Moses was gonna be the deliverer and God was gonna deliver them at Moses' hand and all that. And they were good glorying in that in the pre- in a previous chapter Moses goes to Pharaoh. Pharaoh says, No, I'm gonna make things harder for you. You're gonna have to produce more bricks. You're gonna things are gonna get worse. And they're feeling the intense bondage of that. And then Moses comes back and says, hey, hey, by the way, God's going to do this. And they go, pfft, yeah, we heard that before. Been there, done that, heard that. We don't believe you, Moses. I think all of us, there's a sense in which we can identify with that It says an anguish of spirit. The word means to be actually the word anguish means shortness. Shortness of spirit. They're discouraged. They're broken. There's despondency. They just don't have the motivation. They just can't go on. They're just done. You ever felt that way before? You're just done. And God then goes back or Moses rather goes back to God and he says this for verse ten. The Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Go and tell Pharaoh, king of uh uh actually verse nine says, So Moses spoke thus to the children of Israel, but they did not heed Moses because Verse twelve, and Moses spoke before the Lord, saying, The children of Israel have not heeded me. How then shall Pharaoh heed me, for I am of an uncircumcised lips? So there are two objections that Moses makes here in this passage. He says, first of all, he says, how is Pharaoh going to heed me when your people won't even heed me? And then he goes back to this old argument before. He says, I I can't speak, which of course we know in the past he has been able to speak. But he says I can't speak again. He's gone back to that again. He's reverted that again. Do you remember what God said back then? He said, Who made your mouth? Do you remember that? I'm the creator. If I want you to speak, you'll speak. I make people blind and I make people see. I'm the creator and I'll do what you I want to do in your life. This time, I want you to notice what happens here. It's quite interesting. Look at the text He says, the children of Israel, verse 12, have not heeded me. How then shall Pharaoh heed me For I am of an uncircumcised lips. Then verse thirteen, then the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron and gave them the comm a command for the children of Israel and for Pharaoh, king of Egypt, to bring the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt. Do you know what he does here? He doesn't even answer the question. He doesn't go over it again. He's already explained, I'm the creator, I made your mouth. He just says He gives the command. He says, That's basically what you have here. He's saying in response to Moses' objections, he says, Moses, just go to Pharaoh. Just do what I told you to do. Just follow what I told you to follow. You then have an extended section of uh historical historical identification. We may come back and address that in the future, but then I want you to look down uh look down a little bit more here and you're going to see the same thing reiterated uh again And he's going to say, if you pick up here, um, let's see, after all the different names and everything, then you're going to pick up here all the way in verse um Uh let's see. Verse twenty-six it says this is the name of the Aaron the most And Moses to whom the Lord said, Bring out the of the children of Israel of the land of Egypt according to the armies. These are the ones who spoke to Pharaoh, king of Egypt, to bring out the children of Israel from Egypt, these are the same as Moses and Aaron. And by the way, the whole point of that is to show the lineage of Aaron because he's going to be uh he's going to be part of the biblical priesthood. Verse 28, and it came to pass on the day that the Lord spoke to Moses in the land of Egypt, the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, verse 29, I am the Lord, speak to Pharaoh, king of Egypt. all that I say. But Moses said, he's reiterating what he said before, but Moses said before the Lord, Behold, I am of an uncircumcised lips, and how shall Pharaoh heed me? So he he keeps asking this question and the bottom line is that God doesn't answer it again. He doesn't say, okay, well let me explain to you how this works. He just says, go, obey. You need to obey You know, uh I think we could understand from a human point of view the struggle of Israel They didn't heed Moses. We can understand the inadequacy at this point that Moses felt there he's going and he's doing these things and it's not working out. Moses says, Maybe I'm the problem. You ever felt that way? But really, what we find here is that sometimes we just need to obey. We may not feel like we have the motivation to obey or the heart to obey. We've obeyed time and time again, and we're failing, and what we think is going to happen isn't going to happen. And God says, obey. Trust and obey, for there's no other way to be happy in Jesus but to trust and obey. You feel inadequate? You feel like you just can't go on anymore? Obey. Just do the next thing. Just do the next thing. Oftentimes in life, we uh you don't have to think ahead and say, well, what am I going to do ten years from now, or what I'm gonna do next month, or next week, or tomorrow? Just obey today Do the next thing. And so we find here this incredible passage that helps us to understand this. First Samuel chapter 15 said it this way. Samuel's speaking to Saul. You remember Saul? Remember the passage where Saul is going uh going and defeating the Amalekites, but he doesn't wait for Samuel and he doesn't obey? And he says, Oh, okay, I left these cattle and uh the king and a few other things that you told me God said to obliterate the whole thing, I I left these, you know, to sacrifice and and Samuel says, Has the Lord as great uh has the Lord has gr as great delight in burnt offerings as sacrifices As in obeying the voice of the Lord. Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to heed than the fat of rams. God puts us in certain situations where we say I am inadequate for the task, I can't do it. He puts us in situations where we are discouraged and despondent and it seems as though we have no hope. We can't see light at the end of the tunnel sometimes. And God puts us in those situations where all the the only thing we can do is take the next step and obey. But the Bible says you've got to trust God in order to please Him. Remember what it says in Hebrews chapter 11? To please God, you've got to have faith that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek Him. Without faith, it is impossible to please him. You might say to yourself, you know, I really struggle with that. When I don't See an immediate return on my obedience, which is what you have going on here basically. There's not an immediate return on their obedience. They just have to continue to obey. Moses just needs to obey. He just needs a good Pharaoh When I don't see an immediate return on my obedience, sometimes I struggle. What do I do with that? And the answer to that is to understand that God is far more interested, can I say it this way, in the long game. He's far more interested in future eternal results than he is in temporal immediate results. And we see this in Exodus chapter 7. It says, So the Lord said to Moses, See, I have made you as God to Pharaoh. And Aaron your brother shall be your prophet. You shall speak all the command uh all that I command you, and Aaron your brother shall tell Pharaoh to send of the children of Israel out of his land, and I will harden Pharaoh's heart and multiply my signs and my wonders in the land of Egypt, and Pharaoh will not heed you, so that I may lay my hand on Egypt and bring my armies and my people and the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt by great judgments, and the Egyptians shall know that I am the Lord when I stretch out my hand on Egypt, and I and bring out the children of Is Israel from among them. Then Moses and Aaron did so, just as the Lord commanded them, so they did. And Moses was eighty years old and Aaron eighty-three years old when they spoke to Pharaoh at that point. God says, first of all, he gives them a divine method. God says to Moses, I am going to make you as God to Pharaoh. You're going to be God to Pharaoh. It's a strange phrase, isn't it? You read that and you go, what does he mean by that? You're going to be God the Pharaoh. Moses is going to be God the Pharaoh. It actually doesn't even say like God the Pharaoh. It says I'm going to be God. You're going to be God the Pharaoh Well, I think in order to understand that, we first need to understand the the Egyptian concept of God. Who do they think was God or a God? Pharaoh himself. And Pharaoh believed this lie. Pharaoh believed that he was God, that he was a God, at least, if not God And the Egyptian mindset was that this Israelite God, yeah, he's a God too, but there's no connection between the Israelite God and our God. We have two different gods. And Pharaoh is one of our gods. The mindset of the Egyptians and the mindset of Pharaoh was that way. And God says, I'm going to make you, I'm going to make Moses, God to Pharaoh. Now here's what he's saying. Think about what happens. This will help us. Think about what happens. What does Moses do? Well Moses uh uh exerts power over all kinds of the created created p world. Over pl he sends plagues and and you know, turns blood to water to blood and he makes locusts go everywhere. And I mean he he he shows his he shows power and control and authority even to the taking of a life. So that Pharaoh can look at Moses and say, okay, he, and by extension, God, his God, is more powerful than I am. What he's actually doing here, what God is doing, is a very special thing that he's doing with Moses, but he's saying that you are going to be an image bearer of me, but you are actually going to decide You are going to display my natural attributes. So you can categorize God's attributes in natural attributes and in moral attributes. in two different categories, natural attributes and moral attributes. His natural attributes are things like he's all powerful, he's all-knowing, he's omnipresent. Those are things that are true of him and will not be true of us. They'll never be true of us You have his moral attributes that are true of him and can be true of us, his love, his wisdom, his kindness, his justice, those kinds of things. Interestingly enough, we're image bearers of God, but in this specific instance, Moses was also an image bearer of God, but God is saying, you're, I'm going to actually use you to display my natural attributes to the world, to it to the Egyptians. Now, God's not going to do that with us. He's not going to do that. This is a very special set of circumstances. But here's what God does want to do with us. As image-bearers of God, God does want us to display his moral attributes to the world. When others aren't loving, we ought to be loving. When others aren't kind, we ought to be kind. When others aren't just, we ought to be just. When ot There's art merciful, we ought to be merciful When others react the wrong way, we ought to react the right way. And in doing so, there is a sense in which we can be quote unquote, or let me put it this way, reflect God to the world. And we ought to do that, and we ought to want to do that. And frankly, that is an integral part of God's plan to bring people to Himself. That's what it means to be Christ-like. And that's what God wants us to do. And then you'll notice God has a long game plan, if you will. Notice His plan. His plan, uh you see in verses two and three, you've got some results here. He says, You shall speak all that I command you, and Aaron your brother shall tell that tell Pharaoh and I will harden Pharaoh's heart and multiply my signs and wonders in the land. That's how you're going, I'm going to show who I am through you. But Pharaoh will not heed you. He's not going to listen. Because by doing so, I have an ultimate plan. Notice the ultimate plan, verse 4. Chapter 7, verse 4. My ultimate plan is this, for Pharaoh will not heed you, that I may lay my hand on Egypt. and bring my armies and my people, the children of Israel, out of the land of Egypt by great judgments. And the Egyptians shall know that I am the Lord. I'm not just Israel's God. I am God. The Egyptians will know that. When I stretch out my hand on Egypt and bring out the children of Israel from among them. He says that I'm going to use you, Moses, in this way so that the entire Egyptian area, the they know that Do you remember the phrase like you remember Charlton Heston's Moses? How many of you watched that? I actually ha can do a raised hand. Okay, good. Okay, most of you have. Alright. Like half of that's wrong Okay, in that movie. Like there's so many historical inaccuracies it's it's mind boggling how off they got it. But there's one thing that they said that was very powerful and it was very true. Do you remember when Ramses, which isn't Ramses, he's actually a different Pharaoh, but when Pharaoh comes back uh from fighting Moses and going after the nation of Israel, and he comes back and he sits down, do you remember what he says? His God, speaking of Moses, is God. And that is the result of what happened with this. His God is God. Their God, Israel's God, is God. And that was God's point. He wanted Egypt and Moses to uh Egypt and Pharaoh to see that their God is God. See, God had multiple plans going on. One, he's going to Work with the nation of Israel to bring them out, to give them the land, to fulfill the Abrahamic covenant and to actually create a new covenant with them. Experience me more and all this, but ultimately also something else I want you to do, I want you to understand that this is all going to result in people knowing who I am, that I am truly God. And we need to remember this. We've got to keep this in mind as we're going through things. It's about making God known to the world. And we look and say, what is God doing? Why is he doing it? That ultimately people will know. Every knee shall bow. And every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. That will happen one day. And what we are doing now is involving ourselves in the work of God to make Him known. By emulating his moral attributes. So, in concluding all of this, let's understand number one. Let's ask this question, do you really want to know God in an intimate way? I mean, is that even a goal of ours? Do you really want to know God in an intimate way? The texts of Scripture teach us that to know God is the ultimate for us That I may know him and the power of his resurrection. Let a man glory in this that he understands and knows me. Well, if you want to know God in an intimate way, if you want to go beyond the academic, if you want to go beyond the intellectual, then you've got to trust him. in hard times. You've got to trust him. And you've got to be willing to not trust in self, but trust in God. Number two Do you want to have the strength to obey even when there seems to be no hope? Do you want to have the strength to obey even when there seems to be no hope? You know, you don't have to feel good to do right. It doesn't have to feel right. And sometimes we're going to do things that don't feel right, but they're right, and we need to do them even though we don't feel like doing them. If we want to learn to have strength to obey and when we have no hope, we've got to trust him. And number three You want to rest in his long-term purposes instead of being discouraged by short-term disappointments. You've got to look at the long game. That's why Colossians chapter 3 says Set your affections on things above, not on the things of this world. And when our affec boy maybe maybe all of this pandemic and everything that we've been going through, if nothing else, maybe it's learned that setting our affections on here and now and the things on this earth are really fleeting and futile, and you don't know if you're going to have them tomorrow. But you can set your affections on things above, not on the things of this earth. If you want to do that, you've got to trust Him. Trust and obey, for there is no other way to be happy in Jesus but to trust and obey. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for the time that we could spend together this morning in your word. We thank you that as we looked at this passage, we see that you have very clear purposes and intentions for us. As your people, you are using you want to use us to make yourself known. And ultimately you want to use us, and what you are doing in the world is going to ultimately bring everyone to a place where they know that you are truly the creator God. And when we look at this world and it it it seems as though people are not acknowledging you, but not acknowledging who you are. We can have this hope that one day, based upon what you are doing now, they will. And we look forward to that, Lord. But until then, may you help us to trust you and obey Nation, this this country in 1957 decided that its motto was In God We Trust. And although it doesn't really seem like our nation is trusting in you that well, may we as Christians not just say we trust you, may we live. Like we do. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Alright, if you can, we'll sing one stanza of in Christ alone. I will be doing it with a mask because I took the screen down.