I'd like to take your Bibles and turn to First Corinthians chapter eleven this morning, First Corinthians eleven. We are in between series right now, and as Those of you who have been here for years now know that as we're usually when I'm in between series, I'll usually preach a couple of messages about uh usually something um about a particular subject that I think uh is would be helpful for us and today is a subject that I'd like to I'd like to preach on in First J First Corinthians chapter eleven, on the Lord's Supper itself and the significance of the Lord's Supper. We'll probably be um we will return to Acts eventually. I think I might uh preach through the book of Philippians first before returning to Acts Uh that might be next. I'm still not a hundred percent, but I think that's probably what's going to happen. And then after that we'll return to Acts. But today I wanted to um I wanted to look at a subject that really is not very frequently preached on or taught on in some churches. And yet it is something that God has commanded us to do on a frequent basis as a church. And it's o one of only two ordinances that God gave in his in the in the Word of God in the New Testament, that Christ gave us before He ascended. One being baptism, and the other one that is on a repeated basis that we're to be doing is the Lord's Supper. And I want to begin by just explaining sort of an illustration from my own childhood about what I had perceived in my own life about what the Lord's Supper was all about, and then we'll that will set us up well, I think, for looking into this text Uh how many of you, I'm just curious, how many of you grew up in a in a Bible preaching church? How many of you had did we say, yeah, that was me. Okay, all right. Um I would say there's a majority here, not everyone, probably maybe a little maybe sixty percent if I guessed, right as long as all of you are raising your hands that Should be. But um uh I remember four things, and this really is not a reflection on necessarily on the church the church I grew up in. They were they it was a very good teaching church. Um I grew up in a church with expository preaching and um and it was a solid church. Uh we would pr we would practice the Lord's Supper on it once a month. I was saved and baptized fairly early. Um I and um and I really did come to the Lord at an early age. It wasn't just something that was a a trite profession. I really the Lord did get a hold of my heart at a very early age and I came to him um fairly early. I think I was baptized at like age seven or eight. I think it was seven. And um and then I was after that, uh, able to take the Lord's Supper. And there are four things that in my perception as a child growing up in a good church and partaking of the Lord's Supper, there are four things that I could tell you that I thought the Lord's Supper was about. Number one, I knew it had to do with the death of Christ. So I knew that. I knew that it that you needed to make sure that all your sins were confessed of. That I you're supposed to make sure all your con sins were confessed. I knew that if you didn't make sure all your sins were confessed, that you could get sick or die. In fact I was greatly concerned about this. I was a fairly serious child. Uh I was I I don't really know if I under had any sense kind of sense of humor at all until I was probably uh ten or eleven. I was I was. I was just a very serious kid. And um and I was greatly concerned about this. I would Partake of the Lord's Supper as a Christian young person and on Monday I start getting a sore throat and wonder if I was going to die. Because maybe there was a con sin that I didn't confess. Maybe there's a sin that I missed and Man, I hope I'm not getting the sore throat because of that. Like, boy, you had problems. It might be true. But anyway, uh I would be concerned about those kinds of things. The other fourth one was that that I knew about communion was that it made a long service even longer. So though those were the four things that I perceived from my childhood th about communion. That's what I understood about it. And it wasn't really until seminary that I b began to really study this out on what why are we doing this? What is the Lord's Supper? What is it for? Why are we doing it? What's the significance of it? I can tell you that there have been many people that have come to me, Christians who have been saved for many years, that have admitted to me, you know, I really don't understand the real significance of this. I I I don't I think I'm missing something. And perhaps today you would feel the same way that, you know, I mean we're commanded to do it, but it ought not be something where it's just just a ritual that we go through because we're commanded to do it. And sometimes I think that's a possibility, that it's just an empty ritual. Sometimes I think uh uh the problem is uh a matter of irreverence. Uh that that could be a problem in some churches. It's not usually we've not I don't think we've had a problem with that here, but there is a possibility of of handling it in a way that's irreverent. That's a wrong manner to handle it in. On the other hand, you can be so sober and somber that you actually don't realize that this is a celebration, that it's we are actually celebrating the Lord's death and what he did on the cross for us. And so on one hand you could be irreverent On one hand, you could be reverent and not celebratory. On the other hand, you could be celebratory and not irreverent. I mean, we need to learn how to handle and and have the Lord's Supper, partake of the Lord's Supper in a way that pleases him. And another quite significant possibility is the danger of a misdirected focus. And we're going to look at this a little bit later, uh a little bit more, but sometimes We actually partake of the Lord's Supper and we sort of view it as sort of this monthly Baptist confessional. And I'd like to like to submit to you that that's not at all what God intended for the Lord's Supper And we're going to see more about that as well. I was ringing in my devotions a few weeks or a few days ago rather, I'm in Isaiah right now, and I was reading in Isaiah 58, and in that passage, God is dealing with, through the prophet Isaiah, is dealing with the nation of Israel about the possibility of empty ritual, particularly the ritual of fasting. in Isaiah 58. 1. And it says this, cry aloud, spare not, lift up your voice like a trumpet, tell my people their transgressions, and the house of Jacob their sins. Yet they seek me daily and delight to know my ways as a nation that did righteousness, and did not forsake the ordinance of their God. They ask of me the ordinance of justice They take delight in approaching God. Why have we fasted, they say, and you have not seen? Why have we afflicted our souls and you have not you take no notice? In fact, in the day of your fast you have find pleasure and exploit all your laborers. And then in verse 5 it says, Is it a fast that I have chosen? A day for a man to afflict his soul? Is it to bow down his head like a bull rush and to spread out sackcloth and ashes? Would you call his this a fast, an acceptable day to the Lord? And in this passage, what it's talking about there is the fact that there was this empty ritual, and they were very faithful in doing it, and even uh even would get into a place of affliction in their own souls about this. And yet they were not really worshiping God in the way that they and that God wanted them to worship. And I think we need to understand that the whole idea of the Lord's Supper is inseparably linked to worship. In fact, in Acts 2, verse 42, we find that there are four different components to worship that the first century church did. One of them was the breaking of bread, the apostles' doctrine, the breaking of bread. Fellowship and prayer to get those four things. And so when we think of the Lord's Supper, it is it is a component of our worship And if we are worshiping in a way that is trite or a ritual, or we're really not having the kind of meaning or purpose that we ought to have. Then I'll tell you, we are not really handling the Lord's Supper and worshiping with the Lord's Supper the way that God would have us to worship with it. I am just this is not in my notes, but I I can tell you that the the the songs that were chosen today, as I was just reading these lyrics and listening and singing Uh what rich lyrics about the cross. I was, I tell you, I I felt like I was just listening to a message preached after going through all of those different songs about the cross. And I could have walked away, frankly, very blessed by all of that. Uh is that the w uh did we we need when we're when we are worshiping we ought to be focused really on the meaning of what is being sung, what we're singing, what is being played, all of that is part of our worship. The Church of Corinth, among many other problems, was having a problem with partaking of the Lord's Supper together as an aspect of their worship. And with that in mind, I'd like to pick up here in verses set, and we'll read verses seventeen through twenty-two together And um and then we'll pray together. We're gonna read we're gonna actually go through the whole passage, but we'll just do 17 through 22 uh to begin. Now in giving these instructions, I do not praise you, since you come together not for the better, but for the worse. For first of all, when you come together as a church, I hear that there are divisions among you, and in part I believe it. For there must also be factions among you that those who are approved may be recognized by you. Therefore, when you come together in one place It is not to eat the Lord's Supper, but in eating, each one takes his own supper ahead of the others. And one is hungry, and another is drunk. What do you not have houses to eat and drink in? Or do you despise the church of God and dis and shame those who have nothing? What shall I say to you? Shall I praise you in this? I do not praise you. And I'll go ahead and read the next few verses here, which we're going to see again, but For I received of the Lord that which I also delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus, on the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread. When he had given thanks he broke it and said Take eat, this is my body which is broken for you. Do this in remembrance of me. In the same manner also he took the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood This dew as oft as you drink it in remembrance of me. Let's pray together. Father, as we come to you this morning, I pray that you would help us. As we work through a passage that is intended to instruct us about this matter of worshiping you through the Lord's Supper. And Father, I pray that you would help us to really learn how to practice this in a meaningful manner. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to see afresh and anew the significance of this. And that our church, when we come together for the Lord's Supper, would be, it would really be a meaningful, purposeful time. Where we can experience in remembrance the death of Christ. And I pray, Lord, that you'd help us to understand all of this today. In Christ's name we pray. Amen So we pick up in verses 17 through 22 where the Apostle Paul is dealing with the Church of Corinth about a particular problem. Really, to understand the problem that he is dealing with, we need to understand some background about the Roman culture, particularly about the way that larger houses were set up. As you probably know, that in the first century churches met in houses. And it was of the wealthier people that had the larger houses that were Christians. that would open up their homes to allow an assembly to meet together to worship on the Lord's Day and really many times on a daily basis. And we find in Scripture in the book of Acts that actually the Lord's Supper was practiced in the first century daily. Certainly on the first day of the week it was practiced as well. And it was and it it was it it happened as people gathered and assembled together in these houses. And a house um uh uh a typical Roman style house Um a Roman villa, if you will, of the day had two major rooms for hospitality. The one room that it would have was called a triclinium. And a triclinium was a room that was usually around 24 by 18 feet in in uh in in space Um so it's a reasonably sizable room. There was a table in the center of the room, and as you probably know even from pictures from the Lord's Supper, from the first Lord's Supper There would be recline there would be a they would recline as they eat. So there would be these sort of these couches that would that would spoke out from the from the center table. Realistically, you really, because of the large couches that were in this triclinium, you probably could only seat maybe nine or ten people at the most in this in this room. But there would be another room in the house as well, and that room would be uh a bit smaller, twenty by sixteen feet usually, somewhere around there. And uh but it would fit more people because you didn't have these reclining couches. Uh in fact, it would fit you know 30 or 40 people or or perhaps even more. And and the people that were it was called the atrium actually. And and those folks were usually considered to be the the second class citizens, the servants The people that were not really the honor guests, maybe the latecomers, the ones that were less well connected, those kinds of Christians. Oh, those kinds of people. And that was in the Roman way of doing things, the Roman dining convention. Now This became a bit of a problem when it came to everyone, the Christians, assembling together for the Lord's Supper. They would have these love feasts. And what what began to happen is the wealthier Christians would invite their friends, the people that they felt were most important, that was their house that were that was they were being that were they were owning, and they would give them the best seats. uh in this triplenium, and then all the people that came later uh or or were not as special guests would be in the other place uh the the atrium and there would become uh there would be a sort of a uh a divide between these two kinds of people And in fact, what you f what began to happen is in the triclinium you'd have all kinds of of uh of drink and food and all kinds of things and the people in the atrium were actually expected to bring their own food uh with them. And they would, with that, in that kind of cultural context, they would then try to practice the Lord's Supper. Now, if you understand the context and all of that, then we can look at verse 17, and we will pick up here and we'll begin to see what Paul is dealing with. Verse 17 says, now and giving these instructions, I do not praise you, since you come together not for the better, but for the worse. The very first thing that Paul says is, you are actually assembling together, and it is actually you are doing more harm than good. This is not for the better. This is actually for the worse. It's doing, in fact, the exact opposite of what it in you what the assembling together should be doing Now what we find in the book of Ephesians as well as in the book of James, really all over the New Testament, is that the assembling together should always promote unity There ought to be a unity in the body of Christ. And when you assemble together, it is a reflection of that unity that you have in the body. But that was not happening in the church at Corinth. And there were divisions that were reported to Paul. Verse 18, for first of all, when you come together as a church. I hear that there are divisions among you, and in part I believe it. For there must also be factions among you, that those who are approved may be recognized among you. Of course, the one adult Sunday school class that we have been going that have has been teaching through the book of Coru of Corinthians, and they, I'm sure, noted in that class that there are many divisions in the Church of Corinth. Divisions over giftedness, divisions over wealth, divisions over who discipled who and who was of who. This was dealt with in the very first chapter of the book of 1 Corinthians, in chapter 1, where it says, Now I plead with you, brethren, by the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, that you all speak the same thing. And that there be no divisions among you, but that you be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment. For it has been declared to me concerning you by brethren, my brethren, by those of Chloe's household, that there are contentions among you. Now I say this, that each of you says, I am of Paul, or I am of Apollos, or I am of Cephas. For I am of Christ. The Apostle Paul later on in 1 Corinthians chapter 3 cites that the prop problem they were having is that these people were carnal. They were fleshly, they were not spiritual, and so there were divisions among them. Now, this is exactly the opposite of what should be happening. In Galatians chapter 3, verse 28, it says, There is neither Jew nor Greek. There is neither slave nor free. There is neither male nor female. For you are all one in Christ Jesus. Clearly in that verse. We have a unity, not a division, that God desires to have in his church. In Ephesians chapter 4, it says that we ought to endeavor to keep the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace. And there were many things in the first century church that threatened the unity of the body, and really, frankly, it could these kinds of things continue to threaten the unity of any body of believers. One of the major problems that that this that is contributing uh to the to the issue here was that there there was favor given to those who were wealthy. And there was the wealthy Christians were beginning to take advantage of those who were not wealthy. In fact, that is the central problem in chapter 6, verses 1 through 8 of 1 Corinthians. Where the wealthy are actually taking the the less wealthy to court because they can afford to do so. And God says you ought not be doing that. You ought to deal with those kinds of things within the household of God. That a problem again, the problem was a problem of division in the body of Christ. In James chapter 2, verse 1, you have the same problem. It says My brethren, do not hold the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ and the Lord of glory with partiality. For there should come into an assembly a man with gold rings and fine apparel. And there should also come in a in a poor man in filthy clothes. And you pay you pay attention to the to one wearing the fine clothes and say to him, You sit here in a good place And say to your poor man, you stand there or sit that here at my footstool. Have you not shown partiality among yourselves? And become judges with evil thoughts. Listen, my beloved brethren, has God not chosen the poor of this world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom, which he promised to those who love him? Well, we begin to see the problem. We know that this is what they're doing is actually causing more harm than good, but the result of all that they are doing surfaces in verse 22. He says, what? Do you have houses to eat and drink in? Or do you despise the church of God and shame those who have nothing? That sh that shall what shall I say to you? Shall I praise you in this? I do not praise you He begins to explain that the problem of the coming together that was happening there in that first century is that it produced or fostered rather a culture of shame. Where people who who should have been considered equal in Christ were shamed because they were in some sort of less status because of the of the issues uh with within how they were handling the Lord's Supper. The Apostle Paul is going to make this more explicit later, but he essentially alludes to the fact that look, you've got houses to eat in. Like eat your food, enjoy your food in your own house before you come together for the Lord's Supper. That the purpose of the Lord's Supper is not to have a meal to satiate your hunger. That's not the purpose of the Lord's Supper. Now, that might be foreign to us. Why? Because when you nobody's gonna satiate your hunger by that. And that is actually intentional. We don't want that to be we don't one of the reasons we do it the way we do it It's because we don't want that to be an issue in our church where the Lord's Supper is is is a matter of satiating your hunger Paul is saying, no, you're not seeing the right purpose here. This is not the right purpose. And all of what they are doing is causing shame. And it's interesting what it says. It says that it is despising the church of God. The word despise there means to think little of or to be mindless about. That what was really going on here was they were really not considering the importance Of the body of Christ, the unity of the body, the importance of the church, which is of paramount importance because it is the body of Christ. Now that's important for us to understand. In fact, it's interesting. I had a few weeks a f a few maybe a couple of months ago, actually was somebody who visited our church. And they asked me, what is the difference between a church and a Bible study? Do you know how to answer that, by the way? What is the biblical difference between a Bible study that meets weekly and a church? And you know essentially the answer to that is a church practices the ordinances and a Bible study does not. And they say, well, what if a Bible study practices the ordinances? Well then frankly it's just become a church. And so if you want to be a church, practice the ordinances. If you don't want to be a church, don't practice the ordinances. You're a Bible study. And there are other there are other considerations as well, formal church membership. church leadership and other things, but in its most essential, essentially, what makes a church a church are the practice of these ordinances. Because they represent the body of Christ. And that's exactly what we are. We are, as a church, the body of Christ. And the poor are being shamed, which is obviously a problem. Now, by way of application, we want to make sure, folks, that in our worship, whether it's in the Lord's Supper or any other part of our worship, that we don't We don't come together and it become more harm than good. I don't think that's happening, uh, thankfully, in our church But we always want to make sure that we we uh we are aware that that could happen, and we want to make sure that we don't allow that to happen. I wrote four ways just based upon based upon what we have here, four possibilities that would cause Cause a church to assemble in a way that would actually become more harmful than good. Number one is when our ulterior purpose becomes a primary purpose. When the church becomes, for example, a social gathering, that our main reason to come to church is to see our friends. Now you I we've always told our children that that should not be your primary reason for coming to church, that it's certainly enjoyable to see your friends. But your primary for reasons for coming to church is to worship the Lord and to have fellowship with one another, not to see your friends. But you know what? We as adults can fall into that as well. It's not just our kids. Sometimes if we're not careful, we can we can begin to think of church as just simply a social gathering And a secondary purpose, nothing wrong with having friends in church, and nothing wrong with seeing friends in church, could become a primary purpose. And if that's the case, then we actually could be coming come to a place where we're doing more harm than good. Another possibility is when ritual replaces meaning and purpose. If we're just coming to get through it, Or just coming to do our duty or to I just said do our duty. Somebody in here doesn't like that. But anyway, um or j or ri or a ritual. I mean, it really is um It really can be a problem. And then when disunity is fostered rather than dispelled, When they're when when actually coming together causes disunity, which was what was happening here. It was actually dividing people rather than bringing people together. And finally, when we are preoccupied with personal interests that distract us from pleasing God, those four things. can actually end up causing us to, whether it's the Lord's Supper or any other aspect of our worship, can really become a problem. Now what Paul does here in the next section in verses 23 through 26 is he lays out exactly Christ's Words, in fact, and exactly the manner in which and the purposes in which we ought to partake of the Lord's Supper. But to really grasp this, to really understand what is happening here. We need to really go back to a earlier practice that precedes the church, and that is the Passover. Remember when the first Lord's Supper occurred, Jesus was in the upper room, and they were celebrating the Passover feast. It's actually important for us to understand what was happening there in order for us to really get the significance of the Lord's Supper. We as Christians do not celebrate the Passover anymore. But there is a sense in which the Lord's Supper is to replace the Passover. In fact, that's definitely true. So what was the Passover for? Well the Passover was was intended to be uh to bring to memory The deliverance of the nation of Israel from captivity in the nation of E from from Egypt, from the bondage of Egypt. In Exodus chapter 12, verse 14, it says, so this days shall be to your you a memorial, and you shall keep it as a feast to the Lord throughout your generations. You shall keep it as a feast by the everlasting by an everlasting ordinance. And so you have here in this passage, it says there's an everlasting ordinance that you're supposed to keep in order for there to be uh a memorial, a remembrance of how of how uh God delivered the nation of Israel out of captivity in Egypt. But folks, there is more significance to the Passover than that because the Passover for foreshadowed or foretold of the coming of the the Messiah, of the one who would really shed his blood and break his body for us. They, as you may know, uh broke unleavened bread together and we that has not changed. We are essentially doing the same thing uh in the Lord's Supper as well. And so there is some confluence between the two. Also of note is what it says in Deuteronomy 26, verse 5. It says, And you shall answer and say, Before the Lord your God, my father was a Syrian, about to perish, and he went down to Egypt and dwelt there, a few in number. And there he became a nation great, mighty and populous. And that was an example of when they would actually rehearse Exactly Israel's history as the Passover continued, they would rehearse together Israel's history so that they could remember God's deliverance. But there is even more so, if you'll recall this, there was another besides the the element, if you will, of the broken bread, of the unleavened bread that they partook of. You remember there was actually another element And that is the element of the bitter herbs. The bitter herbs was a reminder to the nation of Israel that they were still in a kind of bondage. that there was a bitterness to their life, but that was going to one day be alleviated by the Messiah who would come. And of course, we as the church do not partake of bitter herbs anymore. Why? Because the Messiah has come. Instead of partaking of bitter herbs, we instead partake of what? We partake of the fruit of the vine, commemorating the blood of Christ, which is, we'll see in a minute, is the new covenant, which we'll identify in a few moments as well. Now, with that in mind, let's look at a couple of things when it comes to the importance and the actual purpose of the Lord's Supper. Paul begins by saying, what I have received, I have received from the Lord. Now he is saying this because He is recalling the fact that Christ set up the Lord's Supper Himself in person to the disciples, and they were to carry on this practice. As the church began. And Paul is saying, What I have received the Lord, I am now passing to you as a faithful apostle. That is that it is God's intention that the church always continue to practice the Lord's Supper. That's frankly why we always read from 1 Corinthians chapter 11. Because we are continuing on what Paul said as he continued on from what the Lord said, we are continuing in that vein, as Paul said it, under the inspiration of the Spirit of God. And you can find those passages in all three of the synoptic gospels, you can find when the Lord's Supper was taking place in Matthew 26. And Mark 14 and Luke 22, they all say basically the same thing. Christ, interestingly enough, did not partake of the fruit of the vine. He partake took of the bread, but didn't partake of the fruit of the vine. He said, I'm not going to do that because I am going to the cross. Uh and so he he the the the disciples did it in in looking to the cross, but he chose not to do that. But do you remember after he died and rose from the grave and met with the disciples on the road to Emmaus, do you remember what happened there? He did partake of both the bread and and the and the juice as well, and the fruit of the vine as well. This has all been handled, handed on from God or from Christ to the apostles. and to his church and that is appropriate. And so and so Paul is saying, look, don't don't don't allow the Roman culture Which in this case is actually harming the Lord's Supper to do that. Rather, do it the way Christ did it. And there are two purposes essentially in these verses that tell us what we are supposed to be doing when we partake of the Lord's Supper. The first is the remembrance, the word remembrance. You see it twice there. This due in remembrance of me in verse 24. You see the same thing again in verse 25. We are to do this in remembrance. Well, what does it mean that we are to do this in remembrance? It says that Jesus, after giving thanks So, the attitude in which we ought to have as we are doing this is a thankful heart. The remembrance that we are supposed to have is as we as we reflect on what Christ has done for us, there is a thankful heart The word, you'll know it, the Greek word for thankfulness, is where we get our word Eucharist from. Now, there are some denominations that almost exclusively call this the Eucharist. It isn't actually inaccurate to call it a Eucharist, although this is the only time that the word Eucharist is mentioned. The word communion is mentioned a couple of times. And then you have the word, the Lord's Supper. Now out of the three, which one do you think is mentioned most in the New Testament? Would it be Eucharist, would it be communion, or would it be the Lord's Supper? Yeah, uh the Lord's Supper is mentioned more fre far more frequently than the other two terms. Now you can use any of the three terms We tend to use communion or the Lord's Supper as as the two more favored terms And frankly, that is appropriate because they are used more frequently in the New Testament. But the attitude, nevertheless, should be that we ought to have a thankful heart. The central focus is the breaking of the bread. What is happening here? Well, Christ's body was being broken for us. And so it says here, this is my body, which is broken for you. Now, a couple of things that we need to understand here. One is, then it moves to the cup, and it says, This is the blood of the new covenant. Uses this word New Testament or New Covenant. What what is it? We read this every single month. Have you ever wondered what it's saying here? The blood of the new covenant? What does that mean? What's it talking about? Well, now with a little background, we understand first of all that the old covenant is the Mosaic Covenant is talking about The Old Covenant, under the Old Covenant, they practiced the Passover. Jesus is now saying that with the new covenant, the new covenant in my blood. You're not practicing the Passover anymore. Instead, you are practicing the Lord's Supper. And so you have this symbol of the blood of Christ that is mentioned here. But let's go ahead and ask the question, what is the new covenant? Well, if you recall, perhaps, from earlier studies A covenant is an agreement between two parties, and in the Old Testament, you have unconditional covenants and you have conditional covenants. The unconditional covenant of note that we all we all are recipients of is the Abrahamic covenant In that covenant, you have land promises, which we're not recipients of, but you also have the pro, it says, In thee all the families of the earth will be blessed. And in Israel, all the families are blessed through Christ. And so we are partakers in that sense of the spiritual aspects of the Abrahamic covenant. But you had things like land promises in the Abrahamic covenant. And then when you get to the Mosaic covenant, you have, which is a conditional covenant, you have all kinds of conditions on that covenant And what the new covenant is, is actually found in Jeremiah 31. And you might want to write this down. We're not going to look at it now, just for sake of time. But in Jeremiah 31, you have the new covenant is mentioned in a couple other places in the book of Ezekiel as well, it's mentioned. And what you have in that passage is you have physical promises, but you also have spiritual promises. The spiritual promises are the same promises that you find in the Abrahamic covenant, and they foretell the coming of Christ and how He is going to shed His blood on the cross for all men. And we are partakers in that way of the new covenant. Now, this gets a little confusing, but let me just say it this way: the new covenant essentially has two parts. The spiritual parts Part and the physical part. The physical part of the new covenant is not yet fulfilled. Where the lion lies down with a lamb, for example. Where there are other things that occur. That will happen when, folks, during the second coming of, after the second coming of Christ, the millennial reign. That's when the physical aspects of the new covenant will come. But the spiritual aspects of the new covenant we are recipients of now. And it says in Hebrews chapter 8 this. In that he says, a new covenant, he has made the first obsolete. How what is becoming obsolete and growing old is ready to vanish away. When we partake of the Lord's Supper, we are essentially recognizing that the old Mosaic covenant has vanished. Why? Well, it's not that Christ destroyed it when he came. What did Christ do? He fulfilled it so that we no longer have to fulfill the obligations of the Mosaic Covenant. Instead, we fulfill the the requirements of the new covenant, which essentially is unconditional, it's fake alone. That's the only requirement for salvation. It's to trust in Christ alone for salvation In Hebrews chapter 9, verse 15, it actually says that the blood of Christ ratifies the new covenant. In that verse it says, and for this reason He is the meteor of the new covenant, by means of death, for the redemption of the transgressions under the first covenant, and those who are called may receive the promise of the eternal, eternal inheritance. And it's kind of like this. So I'm going to bring up a controversial subject, but I'm not going to comment on, I'll just preface this, I'm not going to comment on what I think about it at all. So right now we have a government shutdown. Why? Well we have Congress and the President can't agree on things. And I'm not going to say who is right or I don't, you know, I whatever that's not the point of this Uh and so we have this government shut down shut down and and and and and what needs to happen is a bill needs to be passed through Congress and then needs to be So we have that all we have that kind of thing happening all the time in our country. But and and you could sort of a essentially say that that is essentially a covenant or a law that's now been signed. But sometimes those laws, isn't it true, that those laws are not do not take effect right away. Sometimes it's Well this one would need to, but uh but others may take a year before it actually goes into effect. And there's usually written into these laws some sort of something that actually s ratifies it, that starts the thing. That begins the actual execution of that law. The executive branch is there to do that. It's to exit execute the laws of the legislative branch. And so all of that to simply say that this that while God gave the new covenant To Jeremiah and to the nation of Israel, it's ratified by the blood of Christ. That is the beginning, the spiritual blessings of the new covenant. Are established, why? Because Christ did what? He shed his blood on the cross for us Now, then we look at this idea of it being a symbol of the, it says, this is my body and is And is the blood. Did you notice it says that? Maybe uh that is why you have some churches that would believe in something called transubstantiation where they say that this actually becomes the blood and body of Christ. Because it says, this is my body. This is my blood. Now I want to assure you that that's not what it's talking about here. Essentially, if I said um if I said something like uh this is um Uh this if maybe I s I took my wedding art ring off, I said, this is my marriage. It would be a kind of an interesting way to say it, but but it's not my marriage, but it is, it's representing, it's symbolically representing my marriage. And essentially that's what's happening here. It is a symbol. But let me hasten to say this. Although it is a symbol, it is a special kind of symbol. Sometimes I think we want to shy so far away from transubstantiation and consubstantiation that we don't realize how special a symbol this really is And we miss God's actual intended purpose for this symbol. And I want to just illustrate it this way. In my office, both in my home office and in my office of church, I have pictures of different members of my family. In my home office I have uh pictures of my of my wife uh or me and my wife together, those kinds of things. And every once in a while, you know, I'll just sort of look over at m you know my our wedding picture or whatever, that kind of thing, just kind of reflect on, boy, it's been you know, almost fifteen years now and just kind of reflecting on it and with fond memories of things and but but usually it's just sort of a glance and I sort of see it and then I you know, it's not really much more than that. But if you sit down, if I if I sit down and there is a scrapbook that might, you know, back when you made scrapbooks, does anybody make scrapbooks anymore with all the electronic digital stuff? Not too much probably, but back when you made scrapbooks, my wife made a scrapbook of when we were first dating. In fact, we were on our first dating outing and there's this is there's actually this picture. of my of Elizabeth and me and we are we are totally soaked. We're wet. We're totally soaked from head to toe. We're on the bank of a river and you could see the tip of a canoe. And that picture is more than just sort of some standard picture. There's like a whole story behind that. There's like, you know, a lot to that. It was actually the first time uh that well, I don't know if it was the first time we went on a date. She asked me a she asked me to that. Uh um and I always said that I would never go on a dating outing with a with somebody that uh when the when the girl asked the guy, I just didn't like that idea. It's amazing how your principles change when they're really good looking. But um anyway, so um So I I did and um and it was sort of funny 'cause that was pretty well known. I mean I had uh had other girls ask me on their dating items and I t always turn 'em down. And uh so we went on this canoe trip and I told my wife uh my wife, I told my not even girlfriend, my friend, um that um, you know, uh h she she had so if you know Elizabeth, she's always prepared. and she had like her camera in a plastic bag, she had an extra s thing of clothes in a th And she said, Well, uh in case we capsize, I said, we're not gonna capsize. That's just not gonna happen. And um and uh I said, I've been in canoes lots of times, I've never capsized, it's it it'll it'll be alright. And she goes, Okay, but she still brought all of that stuff. And um and we're in a canoe and so and so I I had been on canoes on a lake, not on a river, number one. And number two, I had no idea how many canoes were going to be out there. There were tons of canoes. This was a very large collegiate that she was a part of, and there was a ton of canoes at this in this dating outing. And um And um there were some guys, some friends of mine that saw me on this dating outing, on this girl's dating out, you know, like where the girl asked the guy and they thought it was hilarious. And understandably, and they decided that they were going to ram my canoe. And that's exactly what they did. They ran my canoe. We both ended up in the river. My wife had a change of clothes. I did not. My camera got ruined. Her did not. Hers did not. And um and that is the story behind this one picture. Now why do I tell you all that? Well, because I wanted to make sure you're awake. But um uh we had a lot of facts in there and this kind of lights things up. But the other but the other major reason was because you know a picture where you're just where you're just seeing a person doesn't necessarily allow you to reflect on an entire experience. But a but certain pictures Would allow you to reflect on an entire experience. And what God intends, with the breaking of the bread and with the with the drinking of the fruit of the vine, what God intends is for us not just to tritly remember what Jesus did, but to really, it's almost as though we experienced it. Think of the spiritual that sing that that that the the the the lyrics that say, were you there when they crucified my Lord? Were you there? In fact you could almost think of a a reenactment. Why do people go to reenactments? Like there's different people that I see on Facebook, they'll go to So I'll go to reenactments out in uh all kinds of different places. I don't know how people have that much time to go to reenactments. It looks like it takes a while It takes time to do that, but uh people do, and I thought to myself, well, why do people go on reenactments? My guess is that you begin by reading books about a particular Civil War or Civil War battlefield or whatever kind of battlefield uh Revolutionary War and and you're so into that and you begin to really get into it that you want to you want to get as close as you can to experiencing it. Now you don't really want to experience experience it. But you want to get kind of as close as you can, and so you go to a reenactment so that you can kind of really, really remember. Well, in kind of a sort of like that, God wants us to explain To really think and remember and contemplate what he did when Jesus died to pay the punishment for our sin and shed his blood on the cross for us. He wants us almost as though to s it's like to sit at the foot of the cross and experience it to experience what Jesus did, to personalize it, to realize how He did that for you and for me. You see, God understood We needed this ordinance because we have really good forgetters and we also are really good at taking things for granted Is that not true? I mean just think of all of the things that you have in your life. All of the blessings that you have. All the things that you don't deserve. We are very good at taking things for granted. And God did not want us to take the death of His Son for granted. He wanted us to really remember and to experience and to and to really take the time for it to be something meaningful. The word remembrance means to be a kind of a dramatic involvement, an actualization. A reenactment, an experience of what Christ did for us, a time of serious, meaningful, thankful reflection Then we find the second purpose here is verse 26. We find it is to proclaim the Lord's death. Every time we partake of the Lord's Supper, it is to proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. Now, this has gone a little bit longer than I expected, but let me just quickly just summarize verses 27 through 34 for us. Remember I talked before about the um about the the idea that I was really worried about not confessing a sin and getting sick the next day, that kind of a mentality. That's really illust illustrative of the problem that we sometimes have when we come to the Lord's Supper of using it or viewing it as some sort of confessional. Do you know what the major problem with with with viewing it that way is? Who's the focus on? The focus is on me. The real problem with viewing the Lord's Supper as a time to just confess all of my sin is that I am now focused on me, not on Christ. And I would encourage you that that was never God's intention. Now, it does say here that if you partake of the Lord's suffer unworthily that you are guilty of the body and blood of the Lord and that there is this possibil that there are people that that that are sick and and that even die because they are not handling this correctly. But let me begin by just simply saying this, number one, this warning has to do Not with did you confess every sin that you possibly could have confessed and if you miss one you're gonna get sick and die. It's not what it's talking about here. Aren't you relieved? I was relieved when I found that that out. I didn't find that out until I was in seminary, honestly. And I I began to I realized I I had a teeth I had an instructor that basically pointed this out and I said boy man what a relief That's not what it's talking about here, folks. Now, if you come to the Lord's Supper and you know that there is sin in your life, well, folks, just like any other time, you ought to confess that. As soon as you know you have sin in your heart that you've not confessed before the Lord, well, then certainly you ought to confess it before God. You want to have a clean heart before God, not just that the Lord Suffer, but anytime. And so so I'm not negating the necessity of confessing our sin to the Lord when we when we understand we're sinning. We need to agree with God about that so we can have a clear fellowship with Him. But on the other hand, the point of this is, let me put it this way for you grammarians, it's adverbial, not adjectival. It's an adverb, not an adjective. Now the point is simply this. That it's not talking about whether or not you are unworthy. It's talking about whether what you're doing is unworthy. It has to do with the manner in which you are doing it. So if you are doing this in the wrong manner, then you are taking of the body uh you're partaking un by the way, the King James says it this way, unworthily. You know why add to L-Y? It's on purpose. Because it wants to show you it's not unworthy, it's unworthily. It's an adverb there. And it is in the Greek as well. So, how is it that we partake, why how do we run the risk of partaking of the Lord's Supper unworthily? How do we do that? Well The context already told us how they were doing it. They were divisive in the way that they were partaking the words over. They were putting some people above another. They were handling it tritely. But I think it really boils down to this. It says in the passage, not discerning the Lord's body. And what it's talking about there is that when we partake of the Lord's Supper. We are not really seeing it as something that is special. Seeing it as just another ritual, or perhaps we're viewing it and doing it in a way that it's just trite. Or perhaps even worse, which we don't really do here, it's not even possible hardly, we are doing it to satiate our hunger or some other reason besides actually remembering and pro proclaiming the Lord's death. If you're doing it in that way, then you are partaking unworthily. And I'll simply say this as well: it does say that we need to examine ourselves. And we ought to examine ourselves. What does it mean to examine ourselves examine? It's talking about there to determine the genuineness of something It's like if you are I remember when I was when I was I all call it kinds of illustrations about my wife and she's not here today but um she's uh but anyway, um she's lot watching by by way of um Streaming. She's probably n nervous right now 'cause I'm talking about her again. But remember I remember when I was looking for a ring with for her. And I was looking for I wanted to make sure I I did I did enough research to realize that you needed to look at the cut and the clarity and all that in the ring to make sure it was a good ring. Well I would look at the ring and I would scrutinize it the best I could with my amateur way of doing that to try to make sure that what I was getting was something that was genuine Wasn't cubic zirconia or something like that. It was actually a genuinely a diamond. I could not be able to get a very big diamond at the time, but I was going to get something that was real. Folks, that's what it's talking about here. It's talking about a matter of genuineness. When we come to the Lord's Supper, is there a genuineness as we partake of the Lord's Supper? And God says we ought to examine ourselves, not to make sure that we like to figure out every sin that we don't even remember. But simply to say, am I doing what I am doing with a genuine heart toward the Lord? Is there a genuineness about not myself, because folks, we're totally unworthy? Remember that. We're unworthy no matter what, or we are completely worthy because of Christ, either way. But is there a genuineness in the manner in which I am doing it? That's what God wants us to get to. Now what we're going to do. is I had to I had to do some serious abbreviation there. We're going to stop right here. And um We're going to take some time then uh to to give you just a few moments to do exactly that. And that is to examine our hearts before we partake of the Lord's Supper. And remember what you're examining now. You're examining the genuineness in your own heart about a thankful heart and remembering what the Lord's Lord has done for you and we'll just take a few moments to do that now And then as we and then we will we will begin we'll sing together and then uh we will partake uh together.