The whole purpose of this is to introduce to you the different categories of Psalms so that when you're in your personal my hope and prayer, in your walk with the Lord and your personal d devotional time and just in Wanting to know the Lord and how to worship the Lord both corporately but also individually, that this would be able to help you. And so the psalms that we're going to go through tonight are called Lament Psalms. Psalms or there we're gonna we're gonna look specifically at individual lament psalms. There are corporate lament psalms that we'll look at in another time But tonight we're going to look at individual lament psalms. And these are psalms that consist of urgent and fervent cries to God from stressful and troubling circumstances. These psalms can be divided into into individual and communal communal psalms. The former may deal with such things as sickness, the betrayal of a friend, or, as we shall soon see, the keen consciousness of having sinned against God. And um we're going to what we're going to do tonight is not there is a subcategory of lament psalms called penitential psalms. We're not going to cover that tonight. We're going to cover that probably next next Wednesday. So we're going to look particularly at Lament Psalms. And so these are Psalms that have been written by people who are going through very stressful and difficult circumstances in their lives. Can any of us relate to that? I mean, all of us go through difficult and stressful circumstances in our lives. And it's just sort of interesting to me, we just last Sunday looked at what church? Oh boy. Thank you. Okay, that's good. I'm glad I thought, oh man, we're we're in trouble. The Church of Smyrna, which was a suffering, faithful church, and now in God's providence He's having us look at the Lament Psalms tonight. God does work mightily through suffering and through circumstances that are stressful and difficult. and uh and troubling. And if you think of the Psalms, if you just think generally and you open up Psalms You are gonna it may very well me that be that you fall on a psalm that David is lamenting something, for example. Lamenting the fact that his enemies are against him. Have you ever read Psalms about he's talking about his enemies a lot? And um, or or these kinds of psalms. So these are ones that are in troubling circumstances. This is very, this is very helpful for us. Because all of us from time to time are in troubling, stressful circumstances, and we need to see God's perspective on this. But I'll tell you something else that's going to help as we go through these. You're going to see that you're not alone and some of the thoughts that you have when you're in these difficult circumstances. Sometimes we feel like we are all alone and that nobody else understands what we're going through. That's a very common feeling. But when you read some of these Psalms where the person is extremely transparent, you realize, wow Yeah, I've thought that before. And you realize that you're not alone in how you you're feeling about things or thinking about things in these kinds of circumstances. So the first one, these are, and I would encourage you to write these down as I've encouraged you other times These are examples of the individual lament psalms, Psalms 3 through 7, 12, 13, 22, 25 through 28. Eight, thirty-five, thirty-eight through forty, forty-two through forty-four, forty-one, forty-five through fifty-seven, and seventy-seven. That's quite a few, isn't it? I mean if you look at the amount we've got 150 Psalms total and you've got a large number there, especially since, you know, you've got several psalms and and a lot of those groups. We're only going to look at a f a couple tonight. Um but you're going to get a taste of the kind of psalms that are are here. We're going to look at psalm and and and we're also sort of subcategorizing The penitential psalm. What is the most um well-known penitential psalm? Does anybody know? Yes. Psalm fifty one. It's when David repents from his sin with Bathsheba. Okay, that's a that is one of the most mm no well known penitential psalms. But there are others as well, and we're gonna go we'll look at that probably next Wednesday Psalm 3, let's look at Psalm 3 here, and I'll tell you what we'll do first. Let's go ahead and just read the Psalm. We'll pick up here in verse 1. Lord, how are they increased that trouble me? Many are they which rise up against me. Many there be which say of my soul, There is no help for him and God. But thou, O Lord, art a shield for me, my glory, and the lifter up of mine head. I cried unto the Lord with my voice, and he heard me out of his holy hill I laid me down and slept. I awaked, for the Lord sustained me. I will not be afraid of ten thousand of people that have set themselves against me round about. Arise, O Lord, save me, O my God, for thou hast smitten all my enemies upon the cheekbone Thou hast broken the teeth of the ungodly. Salvation belongeth unto the Lord. Thy blessing is upon thy people. Now, you have here in this particular psalm a superscript above it. Do you see that And that is actually inspired. That's not your study Bible. That is actually there. And what does it say? Who wrote this song? Okay, David wrote the psalm, and what is the circumstance with which he wrote the psalm? When he was fleeing from Absalom. Now just think about this. Can you think of a more troubling circumstance? Your own flesh and blood betrays you. Your own son betrays you And not only does he just leave you, it's more than just leaves you, he is going to fight against you He is going to turn on you, and he's going to rally other people to turn on you as well. And if I think of my own kids, I can't imagine that. I mean really, when you really think about your own kids doing that, I can't imagine my own kids doing that. And I imagine you would be the same way that you can't imagine your own kids kids doing that as well. And yet here is David, who is now he is God's anointed king, and he's got his son who is who is now going to going to fight against him. And He wants to overthrow the throne. And you can imagine just the strain and stress and trouble on multiple levels. You have a family problem of huge, mass, massive significance. And everybody knows about it. There's nothing secret here. It's all uh open. And not only that, he is the king, and he's trying to preserve the kingdom for God. And you have that problem going on. I mean you have you have a lot of and then you've got all kinds of s I mean David by this point he's got his own kids sinning against other s other kids and you you've got a lot of problems going on here And David is very, very troubled. This is extreme there is really, I would dare say, no one in this room that's going going through the kind of trouble that David is going through at this point, not to that severity. Maybe I'm wrong. Mm mm maybe either something, I don't know. But but but m more than likely, I mean, we're talking about really severe kinds of circumstances here. So that's the setting. And when we come to this, chapter or Psalm three, verse one says, Lord, how are they increased that trouble me? Apparently he's looking at this and saying, They're increasing. This is a number that is that is That is increasing in this. Many are they that rise up against me. But not only that, not only that, verse 2, many there be which say of my soul, there is no help. For him and God. They're really mocking King David, and they're saying there's no help for him. They are really sort of pouting like God has abandoned that God's abandoned him And David here is communing with the Lord, and of course David knows better. He knows he's a man after God's own heart. He knows the Lord. He's certainly n by no means a perfect man. In fact, some of uh I think personally that some of Absalom's rebellion is David's own fault and just being not there, not attentive to his son's concerns and things like that. And so I think there's some contribution that David had made. Absalom's entirely culpable, but there's some contribu. But o overall Day it is not as though God has left David, but you've got a group of people that are convinced that that that that God has left David, essentially that God is against David and that he that and that kind of a thing going on here. And so it is a very stressful, troubling time for him. And so we have here The other thing I want to mention here is you have this term Selah mentioned. This is the first psalm in the series of Psalms, 150 Psalms, that this term Selah is mentioned. Does anybody know this that term Selah, what it means? Yeah, it's a pause. It's a musical term. Remember that Psalms are it the nation of Israel's hymn hymnal. And so and so just like perhaps you would have a long rest. in in in a music. You you have this pause and it's like a dramatic pause that you're supposed to stop and think. If you think of a can a conductor who is who is um wanting to work through s quick, uh fast movements. But then he it he he takes the entire orchestra and he stops everything. It's pretty dramatic when he does when you hear that, right? I mean it's It's like you want you to to almost reflect on the previous several several lines of the music that have just been played. And so that's what you have here. So there's this sort of take a minute and reflect on this is kind of the kind of the idea with the Selah. And so you have three of them here. And so the first Selah is the Selah of trouble. He's in trouble. The second one is that is we ha have here David's response. And this is not our typical response, but you have David's response, which is trust. Verse 3: But thou, O Lord, art a shield for me. My glory and the lifter of mine head, he is now going to put all of his trust in God. It's not in individuals, it's not in, okay, well I've got a bigger army than uh than Absalom has. So he's going to say his main trust, he says, Lord, you're my shield. You're my protector. I'm trusting in you during this time. And so he is looking at nearly impossible odds in his mind anyway, and he is coming to the conclusion that I've got to just really trust God. I cried unto the Lord with my voice, and he heard me out of the out of his holy hill. So he had a sense. that God heard him as he was crying unto God. And then you have the peace and joy that comes from trusting God. Chapter five verse five. I laid me down and slept. I awaked from the Lord sustained me. Can you imagine even going to sleep during this time? You are in great turmoil. Your kingdom is in great turmoil. It's it is just and and he and he's Have you ever had not felt like you can't get rest because your mind is just running so much? I I've got that I I I I I mean it's very I've had that problem many times before. And there is a sense in which we've got when you when you're able to place all of your trust in God, I'm in Lord, I'm in your hands completely. The result of putting all of yourself in God's hands is that you can rest in the most difficult of troubling circumstances. Verse 6: I will not be afraid of ten thousand people, and have set themselves against me roundabout. Arise, O Lord, save me. O my God, for thou hast smitten all mine enemies upon the cheekbone. Thou hast broken the teeth of the ungodly. Now let me pause there. What is David doing in verse 7? He's praying the Lord and what is he what is he doing? Any ideas? What's that? Okay, okay. Um I didn't take it that way actually. I took it exactly the opposite of that. He's remembering the past is how I would take it. Now, I guess I mean it it is the future that he's gonna conquer, so I guess you could take it that way. But I I I think more likely what he's saying here is he's looking and he's saying, Look at what you've done for me in the past. Has David fought other battles in the past? Has he won other battles in the past? And so what what he is doing here is in one way he is he is finding joy and peace. Is to reflect on what God has already done for him in the past. And that, by the way, is a very, very good just thing to do when you are troubled and stressful. And stressed out. And you just take a few moments and think. And reflect on God, how God has gotten you through troubled times in the past. If you've been saved for any length of time, you've had trouble during those times. And though you have seen God work in your life to bring you out of those things, or to One of the most important things a Christian can do is essentially to say, Lord, I can remember the times that you have brought me through those things of the past that I'm going through. And so I can have peace and joy and safety during this time because I've seen your faithfulness in the past. I know it to be true and now I'm going to I'm going to rest in it now. And that is one of the most just and you'll see other you'll see patriarchs do this, you'll see Christ did this, uh other people will do this reflecting on the past. Paul David did this a lot. These lament psalms, reflecting on the past, seeing God's faithfulness, and projecting that into my present and even into my future, that He's going to be faithful. Verse 8, salvation, he just establishes this: that salvation belongs to who? Unto the Lord. Thy blessing is upon thy people. And so he wraps this up and he says, you know, the basis of my trust is the fact that I'm the king. You've anointed me to be the king. That salvation is of you, your salvation out of these circumstances. This salvation is not, I don't think it's talking about the kind of salvation we talk about. This is talking about just the circumstances I'm in and being saved out of them And he says, this is of God. This is of you to save you. And he says, that last line is kind of important. Thy blessing is upon thy people. The reason that you ought to save us, Lord. Because we're your people, and that's where your blessing resides. And that's the basis of his prayer. So that that gives us some lessons and some understanding of some of the things that of just a general basic approach. If you're in trouble, you need to trust the Lord. Once you trust the Lord, you need to reflect on what the Lord has done in your life that will help you trust the Lord. And the result of that is going to be peace and joy. Now what I want to do now is return to one other psalm tonight, and this one is going to be far more far more intimate and transparent and and And sort of deeper. So Psalm 77 is where I would like you to turn. And we're talking now about a different author, of course, same same divine author, but different human author. And let's go ahead and just read the superscript on this one. Who who wrote this psalm? This is a psalm of Asaph. Asaph has written other psalms as well. He is maybe the most prominent other than David of the of the psalmwriters. But this is a psalm of Asaph and we're going to see now a man some great, very strong emotion in these in these next Psalms here. So let's look at this. And what I'm going to do is instead of reading the entire thing, because this one's a little bit longer, um Let me just start off by looking at this. Asaph was troubled that not even thoughts of God were encouraging him. So let's look at this. I cried unto God with my voice. I mean, he starts off a psalm this way. Even unto God with my voice, and he gave ear to me. In the day of my trouble I sought the Lord, my sore ran in the night, and ceased not. Alright, here's a man who is who is lamenting, who who, you know, David, it's like, I'm troubled, but I'm trusting in you, and I got peace and joy as a result. Here's a man who can't get it. He can't trust he it's like he his soul won't let him won't let him rest. He won't he can't Can't trust, he doesn't feel like he can trust the Lord. He doesn't feel like anything is helping. His sore ran through the night. He is just he is just in pain almost over if if not in pain over the circumstances that he finds himself in. And we really don't know the the details of the circumstances he finds himself in But I think all of us to some degree can identify with times in our lives where we are just, it's a gut-wrenching time. And that's really what you have here. And a time where he actually says, not even thoughts of God are helping me. He says, In the day of my trouble I sought the Lord. And in verse 3, I remember God and was troubled. You know, David just said, I remember God and I was blessed and peace, and peace and joy. He says, I remembered God and was troubled. I complained, and my spirit was what? Now, folks, have you ever felt that way, honestly? Have you ever felt just overwhelmed And really, have you ever felt as though even thinking about God's providence and his strength and his faithfulness is not helping? If you're honest, and if I'm honest, there are times where we feel that way It's not reality. It's not true. God's faithfulness is right, but it is how we feel. And feelings, feelings are something that we have. They are not something we can always control. And they are su they are in this situation we're talking about a man named named Asaph who is saying, you know, I can't control my feelings and I don't feel like even even my I mean I'm just in pain even when I'm thinking about God. It's a very honest, transparent psalm, isn't it? So the next part then here, look at this. What's next? How it happens. Well, verse 4 he says, Thou holdest mine eyes waking. I am troubled that I cannot speak. Now, do you remember? Just pause for a moment before we read verse 5. Do you remember that David looked back at his life and encouraged him? What does this man do? I have considered the days of old, the years of ancient times. I call to remembrance, my song in the night, I commune with mine own heart And my spirit made diligent search. Okay. So we're talking about a man who is looking back. And is he looking back with fond memories or not? Yeah, he's looking back, he's saying, I I remember the song of the night. I remember the good times. This is a man who's been blessed by God And then he says, Will the Lord cast off forever? And will he be favorable no more? What's going on here? Here's a man who can look back and see God's favorableness in his life. But he's going through something now and troubled now and Stressed out now and frustrated now, or whatever the whatever things, emotions you want to put on it, he's there now and he's looking back at his life and it's not helping them. In fact, it's almost as though it's making him worse I'm going to lose my man card for this illustration. But how many of you have ever seen the old classic movie Little Princess? Maybe we've seen that movie. Okay, all the women raise their hands, all the men will not, because they were not going to admit something like that. Okay. But not the surely temple version. There's another version. Okay, well anyway, I remember seeing it because Because you know, when I was growing up we only were allowed to see five movies my entire childhood, so that was one of them. So anyway, uh that's a little bit of an exaggeration, but not that But anyway, so so during this movie, this is basically little princesses, this rich girl that loses her her uh her dad. No no no This rich girl that is sent off to a boarding school by her dad. I think I think she lost her mom. Her dad sends her off to a boarding school so that she's proper properly cared for, and he's really, really rich. And she's in the school and she's got the best of everything and she's treated extremely well until the dad dies. And in fact, it turns out the dad dies a pauper. He's he has no money. And suddenly she is she goes from that is that is that a that's called a little print. What am I thinking of? Is that the right one? Thank you. Yeah, he don't die They think he died. Oh, okay. Well, as far as the stories that that that doesn't matter. Okay. Alright, that does that's doesn't m not my point. Okay, here's my point. The point is that he's she gets poor. Like like dirt poor. And she she has to room with this other girl that's always been poor. Do you guys remember this part? And he said and she says and Jason's going nine And she says, and and so this girl is actually even just more homely and thinner and poor and starving than the the girl that was rich And she offers to give her, the formerly rich girl, food. And she goes, oh no, you're actually worse off than I am. And she goes, no, no, you're worse off than I am. I have always been this way. You're having I mean essentially she said you're having to make the adjustment. And so you're worse off than I am. Now, the point of that whole illustration is simply this. You know, when we when we've had it good for a long time. And we get hit, it's really hard. It's really, really difficult. And it's actually even more difficult. And that's what you find here with this man. That. He he has had it good for a long time. And now, when he doesn't have it good, when he doesn't seem as though he's been being blessed by God, he thinks God's abandoned him. Will the Lord cast off forever? And will he be favorable for no more? Is his mercy clean, gone forever? Does his promise fail forevermore? Hath God forgotten to be gracious Hath he in anger shut up his tender mercies? He's asking these questions. This man is just confused. And the truth of the matter is, all of us at time from time to time, at some point in our Christian life, have has has to learn, as I mentioned Sunday, all of us have to learn that sometimes Even when we are faithful to the Lord, sometimes we don't see good blessings come immediately. Now they're always there eventually with result, look, rewards in heaven, if nothing else But sometimes we get calamity and harm for doing good. And so that is a lesson that all of us at some point need to learn. And this is a man who's been blessed by what he has done for a long time. He's been faithful, Lord. He's done good things for the Lord. And he's been blessed by the Lord. But now he's not. And he thinks, is this always going to be the case? Am I never going to get blessed by God again? Am I always going to is this the that's where he's at And so he says this. Hath God forg- Okay, uh verse 10. And I said, This is my infirmity. But I will remember the years of the right hand of the Most High. Do you see what he does now? He asks all these questions. God, are you going to do this? Are you going to always be this? Is this always going to be this be? And then he does finally what David did almost immediately in Psalm 3. He changes it and he thinks about it differently. His attitude changes on it. First he's looking about it and seeing the stark contrast between what it what it was back then and what it is now, and then he looks at it and he goes, Oh, wait a minute No, God's just really been good to me all this time. And so he says here in verse 10, and I said, This is my infirmity. But I will remember the years of the right hand of the Most High. I will remember the works of the Lord. Surely I will remember the wonders of old. I will meditate also of all thy work and talk of thy doings Thy way, O God, is in a sanctuary. Who is so great is a God as our God? Stark stark difference here Well how did he how is he able to go from the one attitude to the other? He he just reflected on, he said, this is my calamity, this is my trouble. It's almost like somebody said, This is this is my cross to bear This is it. I'm going to own this. Instead of saying I've got to run from it. I don't like this. Maybe this is going to be forever. I'm going to have this. No, no. For as long as God chooses, I'm going to own this. This is just, this is the this is where I'm at. But I'm going to remember the time that God was good. And I'm going to look forward to the time that perhaps God's going to be good again. And I'm going to look at this differently so that I realize that God is always good. And so we see that that being basically played out here. Thou hast with thine arm redeemed thy people, the sons of Jacob and Joseph. So we have Asaph has been blessed by God in the past, which seems to be contributing to his anxiety. Asaph questions God. He then resolves his emotional despair in verses 10. ten through twenty and you can read the rest of the song. There's I I don't want to stop here, but I'm going to. There's there's it's a great psalm, but it's a very transparent psalm. I mean this is just I mean you can I can imagine in my in my w darkest times in my life saying, Yeah, I I I got it. I mean he's He's saying it really well, right? And uh and so these things are helpful for us. They're encouraging for us. They're encouraging because we know we're not alone in the kind of feelings and emotions that we have on these things. And it's also encouraging for us because it does give us instruction on how we're to what how we're to resolve these things in our lives. So lament Psalms are very, very helpful and it always ends up if we'll follow the course that God wants us to. With recognizing God's goodness and his greatness in our lives. And those kinds of things are able to be resolved. Hopefully that's been helpful for you to go through those and to see the kind of psalms that are in in there. Alright, what we're going to do now is I'm going to I'll pray. I'm going to pray for the end of this and the beginning of congregational meeting basically. And this is going to be a short I I hope it's a short one anyway. I mean it to me it's we gotta do it. Father, thank you so much for Just this psalm. And we thank you so much for the rich, the rich amount of psalms that we have. that um that really show us true what the world is like and what and and just the reality of living in the world And the reality of being able to have a relationship with you and knowing you and how you are, you overcome the world. And that really is our hope. Our hope is that you are God, you are great And so you have the ability to be able to have greatness over all of our trials and difficulties and struggles. Father, I thank you, Lord, for that. And we just pray that as we go through Just uh hopefully a short congregational meeting, Lord. I pray that you'd just help us as we try to figure out this uh um how to uh correctly um address these These um uh problems with the with the parsonage, and we thank thee in Christ's name. Amen.