We're going to finish up the introduction from last week and then we'll start on the first first section of this as we get through it. As soon as he pulls it up, we can get started here. Alright. So I have control. Good. All right. Convert your PowerPoint into a new folder so you can go to Okay. Alright, very good. Okay, so um we were looking last time we we said that there's a lot of Hebrew poetry in the Psalms, if you remember. You know what? Let me back up and just review a couple of things here. Okay. I'm not gonna go real fast, but I'm I'm I'm not gonna go real slow, I'm gonna go kinda kinda fast, but I just want to mention a couple of things. Um it's looking to me like all all the animations are gone, but it's All right, we'll we'll work out work that out. Um so um we talked last week Okay. Sorry. We said that the Psalms were it is a collection of songs and collection of worship songs. And uh the Psalms were composed over a period of approximately 900 years, with the earliest being written by Moses And so there are a variety of different authors to the Psalms. The primary author is David, but there are other other people that that have written Psalms as well. We have ASAF, and we'll look at one tonight from ASAF and uh Korah. Solomon, Ethan, Ham Hammond. So there's a host of different people. But the primary author of Psalms is David The specific divisions of the book are just book one books one through five here. And you can see those. played out. We won't be really dealing with that too much, but they were sort of compiled into individual books. You could sort of look at it as individual hymnals, if you will. So the Nation of Israel had five hymnals You could sort of look at it that way. Sort of some unique features of Psalms is we have before the first of all, Psalm is not a chapter, a psalm is a psalm. So it's a it's a it's a contained unit. Like if you think of an old test a New Testament epistle, which would be a really opposite example of a psalm You have different chapters, but they all go together. I mean, there is a flow of thought through an entire book of the Bible in the New Testament, like in an epistle in Ephesians, for example. But in Psalms, though, there are some general themes that we're going to look at. Each psalm is sort of its own contained unit And also, it also in uh what helps us interpret the Psalms is that uh often above the Psalm, you'll have this superscription. It'll say a song of Korah, and it may even say a psalm of David when he was in this place, in this location. And that's going to help us interpret different Psalms by just that little superscription that will give us sort of an idea of what the psalm is about or what are the what the background of the psalm is. And that particular that part of it is also inspired scripture. So that's that is helpful to us. There is different kinds of Hebrew poetry, and by poetry we don't mean just something that rhymes. We're talking about Hebrew parallelism here. And there are four different kinds of parallelism. There's synonymous parallelism that we went over last week. For example, when it says in Psalm 6:1, O Lord, do not rebuke me in your anger Nor chasten me in your hot displeasure. That's synonymous parallelism. What you have there is when it says rebuke, what is it talking about? Talking about chastening. And chastening is talking about rebuking. You have a fuller picture because of the parallelism. And the same thing with anger. Well, anger, uh, a more specific um idea of anger is hot displeasure So when you're interpreting the Psalms, you need to look out for this parallelism. You're really talking about the same thought that's fleshed out in a different way, and these are parallel thoughts So you get a fuller picture if you look at them in as they're supposed to be parallel. But sometimes you may have anathetical parallelism We looked at that last week. You'll have synthetic parallelism. In this case, it's a further explanation. God is our refuge in strength. What does it mean by that? A further explanation. A very present help in trouble And you have ascending parallelism in some cases. Our father trusted in you. They trusted and you delivered them And then sort of an ascending kind of it. They cried to you and you and were delivered. They trusted in you and were not ashamed. And so you might look and say, well, that's all very redundant, but there is a point in those kinds of things in fleshing it out completely. So you have a set and it takes the place, uh takes place when succeeding lines repeat some words from the first line. and complete the thought. So they'll take the same line, but there'll be something different in the next line that flushes it out, flushes the meaning out more. So you have ascending parallelism Now what I want to talk about now just for a minute is the method of study that we're going to be using. We're not going to do an exposition of this of each of the Psalms. That would take us a very long time. There are 150 Psalms It's the largest book in the Bible and we it would be we would be here for a very long time. Doesn't mean we couldn't do that, but but I decided we're not planning on doing that. Rather, we will work through various categories of Psalms. Okay, so we're going to say that there are categories, and to be honest with you, there is not consensus on how many categories or what categories, but we're just talking about categorizing these different psalms in in groups based upon subject matter. What are some of the types? Well, here are the types we're gonna look at. And we're you know somebody might say, well I don't think there are that many types uh kinds of song. That's fine. But we're just gonna look at these these and say they're you read different commentaries, you have different um different categories, but this is I one s this is one I'm comfortable with with. We have wisdom psalms, and uh we'll look today at that hopefully, Lord willing. Uh confidence psalms, who we're putting our dependency in, our confidence in. individual laments or communal laments. You actually you could separate those into two categories where your entire corporate body is lamenting something or an individual is lamenting something, so you have lament psalms. You have pilgrimage psalms, you have individual psalms of thanksgiving, or communal psalms of thanksgiving. We're all collectively, as a congregation, giving God thanks. And you have general praise psalms. It seems like there's these short little psalms that just are a general praise to the Lord. Descriptive praise. Sometimes the it details why they're praising. They may look back at How God led them out of the nation of Israel. And so the looking back at God's faithfulness and detailing that and you have interjections of praise in the Psalms. So sometimes you have that. And precatory Psalms, those are always Interesting. Who can tell me what precatory psalms are? Those are always the most difficult to apply correctly. Be careful applying these ones. Anyone know what precatory psalms are? Yeah, so David's literally praying that God will curse the wicked. And um I've had people ask me, is it okay to pray precatory prayers? Well, we'll get to that. Individual uh indirectly uh ms messianic or explicitly messianic, so you have some psalms that are clearly looking forward to the Messiah like Psalm 2 and others. And then you have enthronement Psalms where it's talking about the fact that God is on his throne. So these are the categories we're going to look at over the summer basically and we're going to take these different categories. And we'll take samplings of each. We won't look at every single one. For instance, tonight we're going to look at wisdom psalms. And there are three we're going to look at. We won't detail each psalm, but we're going to sort of cover them in somewhat of a survey fashion. But you'll be amazed, I think, at how much truth you'll get just even as we go through even survey. What do Psalms teach us? Well, Psalms teach us to be occupied with God. And that is really one of the prayers of my heart is for my own self to be occupied with God, and that our people, that God's people in this church would also be occupied with God. David was clearly occupied. with the Lord. Psalms teaches us to praise God. Psalms teaches us to have faith in God, dependency on God. Clearly David was very had a sense of dependency about him. Psalms teaches us to have a zeal for God's cause. And you definitely see that in some of the more purposeful Psalms, there is a great zeal for his cause. Psalms teaches us to value and practice worship, both individually and corporately. This list ought to cause us just to realize how valuable the Psalms really are. Let me ask you a question. Have you ever just found that you, as a Christian Sometimes find that your heart grows cold when it comes to spiritual things or even toward God. Where we are so, perhaps we're so preoccupied with the practical. We're so preoccupied with with going here and doing this and getting that done and making sure this is happening and all that, that we we are not we're just totally it's uh it's not that we're mad at God for something, it's not that we're upset uh at But we're just almost indifferent toward God. Our hearts are kind of indifferent toward God. To the point where when we pray, it's sort of We almost don't know how anymore, or we don't know, we don't exactly know how to pray, because our hearts are not are really not in tuned to God. They're really not knit to God Psalms is going to help with that. It really is. I'd just be transparent enough to say that sometimes I get that way where I just feel as though there's sort of a coldness in my heart. There's sort of a um uh indifference toward the Lord and I'm praying and I just feel as though my I I I it's like I d I don't feel like I sense um God's presence. Now you might think to yourself, boy, you are what are you turning into a mystic? I'm not. I I I know that when I'm talking about interpreting scripture, I'm not a mystical interpreter of scripture. things like that. But there is a s there is something that's important when it comes to our Christian life and knowing God. There is a non-material, spiritual side to that. That's very important. And it isn't all just about the mechanics of doing this and doing that and not doing this. There has got to be, there is a relationship And if you want to learn to have a relationship with God, Psalms is the place to go. Because David was who? He was a man after who? He was a man after God's own heart. And so, of course, David did not live a perfect life. There was really David was a a a failed leader. There was, he really was a leader who failed. But David still, his heart was in tune with God, and it stayed that way. And he understood the importance and how to repent and to realize his own um sin and to and to confess it before the Lord. He understood these things. And he he he any time when when there'd be times in his life where he was away from the Lord, but it wasn't long before he he realized how much he missed it. He just longed to be he would say things like, My soul followeth hard after God, Psalm 63. And so Psalms really is going to help us with this. If you feel your heart growing cold toward God, or if you are not in your heart following hard after God David's example will help us. Sometimes when I pray and I don't know how to pray, I will turn to Psalms and I will pray the s the Psalms after David. I figure, you know, these are inspired, I can't go wrong basically, unless it's in the Purgatory Psalm and we'll talk about those when we get there. I I don't pick the p a Purgatory Psalm. But but the other ones I just I'll just if I'm thinking about a particular problem I'm having, I can go to a particular psalm. If you know the general category, you know where psalms are, you go through and you just start praying the I don't know how to pray about this. Well go to Psalms. Psalms are like almost all prayer. I mean a lot of them are prayer anyway. Not all of them, but many of them are prayer. So so it can teach us how to pray practically Psalms is just very helpful for all these things. So what we want to do in the time remaining is we want to look at wisdom psalms. That's the first category. of the different categories that we're going to look at. And wisdom psalms are instruction and guidance for living righteously. Now, let me just ask you, what do you suppose the first psalm is that is a wisdom psalm? Very good. It is the first one. The first one is a wisdom psalm. So if you take your Bible and turn to Psalm one, and we're going to make a couple of comments in just a few moments about this. David M. Fleming said this, wisdom psalms probe life's mysteries to teach the congregation about itself and God. Now, are do li does life have mysteries? Don't they? I mean there is great complexities to life and life is complicated. David or and we'll look at Asaph as one who has he has some he's confused about something in Psalm 73 as we'll look at. And he f we find the resolution to his confusion in Psalm 73. So the wisdom Psalms probe life's mysteries to teach the congregation about itself and God. Is it important in your relationship with God to not just know God, but to know yourself? It is very, very important that we know ourselves. We know who we are and what our tendencies are and what our weaknesses are, which are Almost innumerable. But to know them specifically and to know how God compensates for our weaknesses. So these are the things that are going to help us to know ourselves and to know God. Our first example is Psalm 1. The righteous and the wicked here are contrasted. He starts right out of the gate. And it has been suggested, and I tend to agree with this. That Psalm 1 really sets the stage for the rest of the book. And I tend to think that that's probably true Uh you probably couldn't you don't want to be too specific on that. There are probably going to be some psalms that would be very e very difficult to be related to the first psalm. And by the way, you there are so many different theories. On how the Psalms work. For example, someone suggested that you have these different five books, and each book reflects a different book of the Pentateuch. So you have the first book that reflects Genesis, the second book that and then and and and that's really how the Psalms work. Well, I would the Bible never says that. The Bible never makes that connection. And you start when you start doing that, you start creating something that you have to pigeonhole things in and you have no clue wh why how how Psalm three or three has anything to do with Genesis. I mean Psalm 1 does or Psalm 2 does, but you know, you start having to twist things and you don't want to do that. You want to keep things the way they are and and just take from the text what it says But general categories are, of course, helpful for us and we'll we'll certainly uh appreciate those. There are some other ones here. We're going to look at Psalm 1 in a minute, but Psalm 14 would be another one where we won't look at that in detail. Folly and the wicked of men. for the uh choir director. Um 37, security of those who trust in the Lord and insecurity of the wicked. Actually Psalm 37 is one of my favorite Psalms. But we won't take the time to look at that one. Psalm 49, the folly of trusting in riches. Psalm 53, the folly and wicked of men. Psalm 73, we will take the time to look at this one. The end of the wicked, contrasted with that of the righteous. Psalm 78, God's guidance of his people in spite of their unfaithfulness. Wouldn't that be a isn't that a comfort for us? Those of us who are not faithful to the Lord sometimes. Well none of us are faithful to the Lord uh all the time Psalm 112, prosperity of one who fears the Lord. Psalm 119, which we will also look at this one. meditations and prayers relating to the law of God. So these are just some examples. There probably would be some more psalms that would fit into this category of wisdom psalms, but this is a good a good listing of those kinds of psalms. So, Psalm 1, Psalm 73, and Psalm 119 is what we'll look at. First of all, let's look at Psalm 1. You basically have two parts to Psalm 1. You have the part of the blessedness of the godly and the wretchedness of the ungodly. So let's read verses one through three of Psalm 1. It says, Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. But his delight is in the law of the Lord. And in his law doth he meditate day and night. By the way, what is when Psalms uses the term law What is that term? What's he talking about? What's David talking about? He's talking about all of God's word. And we know that because we see in Psalm 119, all kinds of different terms are used interchangeably, including law, and we'll get there. But when we see the term law, we're not just talking about the Ten Commandments or talking about the Pentateuch even. We're talking about all of God's law. And um and you'll see that as a uh clearly as you as you read the Psalms that that's that that's the case. So what we're talking about here is a person who is planted planted by the rivers of water, bringing forth fruit in the season, is a person who does what? To the law. What are the two things that this blessed man does? He enjoys it, right? That's one. What's the other one? He meditates on it. We have nothing here about reading it. Isn't that amazing? Psalm 1 has nothing about reading the Bible But he does say we gotta meditate on it. Now you gotta read it to meditate on it, right? Okay. And you gotta read it to enjoy it. So it's not but but the blessed man is not just enough for it to sit there and be read on a cursory level and just occasional reading of it. If we're going to be the blessed man in Psal uh that Psalm one is describing We've got to meditate on this and we've got to enjoy it. It's got to be really something that is that is an integral part of our lives. And verse 3, and he shall be like a tree planted by the river of water that bringeth forth fruit in the season, his leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. What the godly refuses in in verse one, what does the godly refuse generally? Bad advice. Okay? He's going to refuse bad advice. He has the wisdom to know good advice from bad advice, and he refuses bad advice. What the godly chooses, he chooses to meditate and to delight in God's law. And what the godly realizes, he is going to prosper. Now I d I'm not convinced that God's definition of prosper is always our definition of prosper. You know, our definition of prosper is to have you know a nice house and a and two car uh two car garage and a boat and you know acreage of land and all okay. But I'm not sure that's God's definition of prosperity But someone who is someone who has has everything they need. They're like a tree planted by the water. I mean, where else would a tree want to be? besides right by the source that's going to give him everything he needs, which is, you know, water and of course Planted next to it, being able to gain all the nutrients from it. So a tree planted by the river of water is a good illustration. In contrast, we have the ungodly. He's like a chaff. He's not rooted in scripture The blessed man is root. He's got his roots down and deep, and he's gaining all he needs, and he's prospering as a result of it. This guy, this chaff this this um ungodly person, he's not rude in anything. So he's everywhere. He's uh you know he's all over the place. The culture says do this, he does do that. The culture says do that, do that. He's He's just running around, you know, whatever you want to do, do do what you want to do. That's what life is all about, is doing what you want to do. That's that's the that's the ungodly chaff guy. He shall not stand, he's not going to stand in the judgment. And there is no place in the congregation of the righteous for him. Now, what does that mean exactly? Well, I'm not going to take a lot of time to discuss that, but basically, when it says there's no place for the congregation of the right uh in the congregation of the righteous, I don't think what this is saying is that a righteous congregation is going to shun an unrighteous man. Um I mean, in ch you know, I guess in and church discipline situations that I guess it could be applied there sort of but but generally I don't think that's what it's talking about. A good application of this Is that an unrighteous man who does not care about what is right from the Bible and doesn't care about what God says about things He is going to have a tendency to stray away from the congregation of the righteous. He will just stray. And and one of the safest things that a preacher can do is just preach the word Which tends to hit on everything. I mean if you just preach through scripture, it'll deal with just about everything in life at one time or another As long as a preacher is careful not to not to compromise and not to work around things and just preach faithfully, what usually happens is those who are interested in that will be interested and will want to come and will want to those who don't will sort of want to they'll stray away. They'll want to go to something that will tickle their ears that will make them feel good. And um and so the congregation of the righteous, it's I think it's more we do what's right. And the person the person who has a ch who's a chaff in the wind, he ain't gonna want it he he's just gonna end up he's not it's not gonna work for him, basically. So it's a warning for us as well. And what we want is to be rooted in the law of the Lord. So we see clear clearly, we have some real clarity here about the blessed man who's godly. He's blessed, he's prosperous. And then we have the unrighteous man, he's ungodly, and he's not prosperous, right? Well, until you come to Psalm 73, because Psalm 73 is now going to deal with a problem. Well you take your Bibles and turn there, Psalm 73. And what we find here is that we've got, this is a different author. This is no longer David here. This is A man who wrote a few Psalms, but not nearly the amount of Psalms that David did. Okay? And I want you to see who this is. Who wrote Psalm 73? ASAF, it tells you exactly who wrote it. No guessing about this. There's really no guessing about any of the Psalms. I think I no no no there's a few actually I take that back. I think there are a few that are not there that that we can't figure out But but many of them we can we can uh we can do that. Um this is written by Asaph. Asaph is a Levite musician appointed by David to serve in the tabernacle. And we see that appointment in 1 Chronicles there. And he's going to answer this question, why do the wicked prosper and the righteous seem to flounder? Alright, let's just pose this question for a minute. Do you have you ever thought about that before? I mean, if you look at church history, I almost think that the United States is a bit of a bubble, but it won't be for much longer, I don't think Um where you wouldn't necessarily see this quite as much. But have you ever noticed it, have you ever felt like, man, you know, the bad people get away with everything? The bad people seem to prosper, they seem to do fine, they seem to have no problems, everything seems to go their way And the good people, the people that want to serve the Lord, the people that want to do right and want to live, man, they get one problem after another, after another after another And if you make if you ever make have you ever made this observation how many of you all have ever won had made these observations before? Okay, alright ASAF is dealing with this. He's like, he's seeing this too. So aren't you know you aren't you glad you're not going crazy? That's the first lesson in this Psalm. I there have been times I've looked at this whole thing, I'm going, Man, it just doesn't seem right. What in the world? I mean it certainly doesn't seem to follow Psalm 1. So let's read Asaph's description here. Psalm 1, or Psalm 73, truly God is good to Israel, even to such as are of a clean heart. So he's not denying this truth. But then he says in verse 2, but as for me My feet were almost gone. My steps had well-nigh slipped. This is a man who's really struggling. He is struggling with what he is seeing. For I was envious at the foolish when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. For there are no bands in their death, but their strength is firm. They are not in trouble as other men, neither are they plagued like other men. Therefore, pride compass them about as a chain. Violence covereth them as a garment. Verse 6, it's like, and not only are they prosperous, they're like stuck up about it. I mean they're like flawing it. It's like they seem like they can do no wrong. I mean if I get even a l uh it seems like if I get a le even a little bit prideful, God knocks me down. But these guys have uh you know, constant success and then they're s they're really puffed up about it. They're not it's not like they they're grateful for their success, they're just puffed up about it. I mean I just don't you know say uh ASAF is really just confused about this. I stand out with fatness. They have made more heart, uh, they have made, I'm sorry, they have more than heart could wish. They are corrupt and speak wickedly concerning oppression. They speak loftily. They set their mouth against the heavens, and their tongue walketh through the earth Therefore the people return hither, and waters of a full cup are rung out to them. And they say, How doth God know, and is there knowledge in the mo in the Most High? Behold, these are the ungodly who prosper in the world. They increase in riches. Alright, let's just stop there for a minute, and I'm going to pose the question to you. All right. Everybody, I mean really almost everybody, even either with a raised hand or like with their nodding their head, affirmed that they but made this observation before So what's the answer to this? What what how would you if somebody comes to you and says, man, it seems like good people are always getting beat up and bad people are always prospering. How do you hand how do you answer that? Any ideas? Yes, Nancy. All they have is here on Earth. Ah, excellent. Okay. Nancy said all they have is here on Earth. Okay, what else? Nancy kind of hit the nail on the head in the first first try here, so that's good. There are a couple other thoughts I would have that aren't in the text. One of the thoughts is that very frankly, who is Satan after? Who's the devil after? Yeah. Yeah, he's after the Christian. He's not he's got the unsaved who where he wants them. The best thing he can do for the unsaved is keep them exactly where they are. So you'll see an unsaved person prosper. Even a carnal Christian Who is not serving the Lord, and who is really not useful for God, who is really sort of in a state of uselessness, he may be saved. God will chasten him, but Satan's desire is to keep him exactly where he is. And if he can keep him comfortable, I mean that's that's fine. It's those who are wanting to do right and choosing to do right Those are the ones that it's like Satan is after them. He does not want them to stay where they are. Does that make sense Okay, so I think that that's really a lot of the answer, and what we're going to find is ASAF bears that out here. The prosperity of the wicked, the difficulty of the righteous, and the way of relief is they basically outlined. Look at the difficulty of the righteous here. Verse 16, when I thought to know this, it was too painful for me. Until I went into the sanctuary of God, then understood I there therein. So now he's gonna say he's gonna he says, okay I sort of I went to the Lord about this. And now I understood their what. What did he understand? Their what? Their end He understood their end. What is the end of the wicked? Hell. What is the end of the righteous? Heaven and eternal fellowship with God. Surely thou didst set them in slippery places. Thou castest them down into destruction. How are they taught into desolation as in a moment they are utterly consumed with terror? Now let me just pause there for a minute. Where did this man go to get this perspective? He went into the sanctuary of God. Okay? So he went into this place where he stopped thinking about everything horizontally. He stopped thinking about all the problems of his life and all the things that he's seeing, and he gained whose perspective? He gained God's perspective on things. I'm going to make two applications here very quickly. Number one application here is you've got to have a time alone with God. Every day. You've got to have time alone with God where you are closing out everything. And you're just folks, you're getting your perspective from God. Every day. And you you've got to have time where you're coming in with God's people in the body. Now of course I'm telling the Well it Wednesday night crowd, so that's you know know, I should be commending you essentially. Okay. By the way, I'm just I'm thankful that you're here. It is eat you know it's nice weather out there, but you're still here, so thank you Um but also, but there you gotta you gotta do that. You gotta come away from you know I my prayer is that this is a sanctuary, not the building. The building's not the sanctuary, but the people are And if when we come in together and the and the to worship together that we get we we get you know we get God's perspective on things We we hear everybody else's perspective and the world's perspective, but when we come in together and we worship God and we hear from God and we fellowship with one another, we get a chance to get the right perspective, which is God's perspective, which is entirely different from everybody else's perspective And those who choose not to be together, and those who are straying away from the congregation of the righteous, we saw in Psalm 1. are not going to have the kind of godly perspective that they want that God wants them to have because the reality is, don't we need each other to check each other? If you're on your own all the time, you're gonna have a war perspective on things. You've got to have input from other people. You've got to have exchange with other people. There's got to be that kind of accountability. And so all of that is very, very important here And so when he gets into the congregation of the, I mean we get when he gets into the sanctuary, he gets alone with the Lord, he gets away from all this, he is then able to have God's perspective on things. And he says, whoa, they are headed for destruction and they don't even know it. It's almost like you take pity on the same people you were you were envious of. Because they're all blind and walking down into hell. Even though they look they're their blinders are their own material possessions and their all own worldly success. This is all blinders of them and they're walking down into a into destruction. Um surely thou didst not didst set them in slippery places, thou castest them down into destruction How are that are they brought into desolation as in a moment? They are utterly consumed with terrors, as a dream, when one w awaketh So, O Lord, when thou awakest, thou shalt despise their image. Thus my heart was grieved, and I was pricked in my reins. So foolish was I and ignorant. I was as a beast before thee. Nevertheless, I am continually with thee. Thou hast holden me by my right hand Thou shalt guide me with thy counsel, and afterward receive me to glory. Whom have I in heaven but thee? And there is none upon the earth that I desire beside thee My flesh and my heart faileth. But God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. For lo, they that are far from thee shall perish. Thou hast destroyed all them that go aw a whoring from thee. But it is good for me to draw near to God. I have put my trust in the Lord God, that I may declare all thy works. See, isn't that great? I mean, isn't that a great psalm? It deals with the problem that we're all struggling with, the mysteries of life It then helps us to understand God's perspective. It helps us to understand ourselves. It helps us to under- it puts everything right. Don't we need this? I mean, don't we need to get everything right in our heads after being out there? And that's what Psalms does for us. The wisdom psalms are the Psalms that really help us to see God's perspective and to know how to navigate life and to live righteously. And we don't have time for the last one. The last one is Psalm 119, but I will just say I'll just, I'm going to give you just these features very quickly. You have 22 sections in a psalm They're all based on the different letters of the Hebrew alphabet. You have two basic points. Why should we value the Word of God? And how should we do that? How do we show that we value the Word of God? And I'm not going to speed through that that quickly. We'll go we'll do that next week. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you, Lord, just for the privilege of being here tonight. We thank you for the for the psalms that um that you gave first to the nation of Israel and you preserved for your people, your church. And we thank you, Lord, that we can look at these different psalms and we can gain your perspective on things and your perspective on life Thank you that you have not left us in this world just to just to flounder or to be like that chaff. But may Lord we may we be rooted in your word and in the truth of your word. And may we do so by delighting in it and meditating on it And may that be may we be like the tree that plant is planted by the river of water. And though we may not see the success that others do, or the prosperity, the material prosperity that others do, we know that it is good for us to draw near to you and that one day we will stand before you and all things will be right and we will be able to be um in your sight pleasing to you if we've lived a life of righteousness and blessedness. And we thank you for that, Lord. May we follow those things that your word tells us, and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.