Turn to the book of James tonight. We are going to start a new series in the book of James. I'm excited about this series because it is a series That is very, very practical. That's the way James is. And most of you, how many of you all would say, I have some, I have a reasonable familiarity with this book See I I'm pretty familiar with this book. Okay, most of you are uh to one to some extent or another. Hopefully we'll delve into things that perhaps you haven't considered considered before. But if you know anything about the book, you know that it is one of the more practical, if not the most practical, New Testament book. And that is because it's much of it is considered wisdom literature. And so what I want to do in introducing this is for us to identify a couple of things about the book. James, of course, is writing. And let me ask you this question: who is James? Okay, he is the half brother of Christ. What else do you know about James? Yes, Miranda. Yes. Yes, he was the pastor of Jerusalem. You find his role in Acts chapter fifteen, and it was clear that even even among the pastors and And um apostles uh when they convene for a counsel to deal with the issue of of um of uh circumcision among Gentiles, he was leading the group. And so he was a very prominent pastor in the first century, the pastor of Jerusalem, which would would make him rather prominent. So that's James. He is writing to a scattered group of Jewish believers called the Diaspora. In fact, this is the same group of people. And it's and it's a scattered group, so it's it's people that have been pre pressed out of their living area to go other places. And and um it's the same group that John is writing to, oddly enough. Uh not oddly enough, that's not the right word. Can you know Um interestingly enough. And but with John, John is a is written at a later time. It's written um After all the other gospels are written, probably in the late 80s, early 90s. But James is one of the first books to be written Um it is very early dated. It may be the very first book in the New Testament to be written, which is sort of interesting And with that in mind, in fact, you'll find in the in the book, we won't take the time to look at all these now, but you'll find that you'll see you'll see the term synagogue used there. Because in the early stages of Christianity, the churches were meeting in synagogues. And so you see those that kind of term. that those kind of terms that are used in the book. And you see these early I early struggles like partiality, where some people are given partiality over other people, the rich people are given partiality over the poor people. And people of higher degree are are are given. And so you he deals with some of these issues in this brand new church after Christ has ascended, um, that he's trying to make sure that they understand uh how things are supposed to work. And many of these things we would know to be true as a church, we would know that if somebody walks through that door It would it should not matter to us whether they are rich or poor. We should be just loving them. That that should be our response to them. And it should not be, oh, that person looks like he has money. We should give them a better seat or we should treat them With n that should not at all be our mentality. And I think we know that, but it's not a bad thing to be reminded of that as well And uh and just general general partiality in the body of Christ is something that James deals with. He deals with things like faith and the nature of faith and what true faith is and and what it looks like. He's very concerned that people understand that true faith is going to yield works. It isn't works, but it's going to yield that. And he taught he goes he he deals with that. He deals with issues of the tongue and issues of worldliness and issues of wisdom and issues of prayer. You have a lot of variety in this book. But with all of that in mind, what I want us to do is to look at the first several verses here and to see what James has to say about the or what James James's purpose Is when it comes to this book. And so we pick up in James chapter 1, verse 1, where he says, James, and remember I said that he was a very prominent man in the first century, but how he, and he's the half-brother of Christ. But how does James uh title himself servant of God. And that in and of itself is significant. It is so important for us all to remember that that's really what we are. We're servants of God. And he says that. And of the Lord Jesus Christ. To the 12 tribes which are scattered abroad, and he says greetings. So that's who he's writing to the 12 tribes, and particularly Christian people, the believers, Jewish believers. He moves right into verse two, and so we also find that what what kind and and you'll see here, so they were they're Jewish people, but also they're believers, verse two tells us that, my brethren. So that's who he's writing to. He's he's writing to Jewish brethren, Jewish believers. And he says this, he says that that he says, consider it all joy or count it joy when ye fall into diverse temptations. Knowing this that the trying of your faith worketh patience, but let patience have her perfect work. And you see that word that there? The word that is going to indicate, if you have a King James, is going to indicate a purpose. Okay? And when we see that that it indicates for us a purpose statement, and what we're going to find here is that this is really going to be the purpose statement for the entire book. We certainly see in the context, it's specific to this context, but as you look at the rest of the book, you're going to find that to be the case, that this is what he's talking about. He says that ye may be perfect and entire wanting nothing. Now, let's just think about this for a minute. When you see this term perfect, what do you suppose he's talking about? Well, let's first talk about what he's not talking about. What is he not talking about here when he says that ye may be perfect? Right. He's not talking about sinless perfection here. He's not talking about flawlessness or uh inability to fail or those kinds of things. So we know he's not talking about that. What is he talking about when we uses the word perfect? Any ideas? Good. He's talking about maturity or completion. Completeness. Okay. And he so he his m his he's talking here about the need for ye or us, or the church these group of people he's talking to, to be mature. He says that ye may be mature, and he uses this word entire. have everything that you need to continue in maturity. So that you may mature and entire. Wanting, and that word wanting does not mean that you will no longer have anything you I mean you have everything that you ever want. That James's desire for you is well, you know what, if you want a Ferrari, you get a Ferrari. And if you want to if you want a a night a A nice big house, that's what you get. That's not what he's talking about here. When he's talking about want, he's talking about you you could you could insert the word lack. So he's talking here about lacking nothing. He wants us to understand. That we can be in a place where we are lacking nothing. Doesn't mean that we don't have things that we need. It doesn't mean that we don't have deficiencies. But it does mean that the things that God wants us to have, He'll give us. And that we are essentially, from God's perspective, He wants us to realize that we're lacking nothing. And that's why he's going to say later on in the book, in helping us to understand what it means to be mature, he's going to say later on in the book. Do not err, my beloved brethren, verse 16. Every good and every perfect gift is from above, and cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variabless, neither shadow of turning. Of his own will begat he us the word of truth, that we should be a kind of first fruits of his creatures. And so we see in that passage that when it says every gi every good and perfect gift, that's what it means. It means that if you God is benevolent in his And he wants us to realize that those things that come from him that are genuinely from him are exactly what we need. So that we can really say, I lack nothing. It's incredible, isn't it? Now, the other thing that you're going to obviously see here as you go through this passage in the first chapter. Is an emphasis on what? Well let me ask you, what do you see an emphasis on? It's repeated several times in this first chapter. Any ideas Okay, you do see patience there a a few times. That wasn't the thing that I'm thinking of, although it was definitely related. Okay, you definitely see wisdom throughout the book there, but that's actually not what I'm talking about either. Yes, right. Trials and temptations. Okay. So let's look through this and see how often you see this. Chapter 1, verse 2 says, My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into diverse, and there you have your word, temptations. Knowing this, and you actually see the word trying there, the trying of your faith worketh patience. Now that's interesting right away Now let me ask you this question. Is James in this first chapter talking about temptations? Or is James in this first chapter talking about trials? Alright, well let's continue and see what he's talking about. But let him but let patience have a perfect work, that you may be perfect and entire wanting nothing. If any of you lack wisdom, let them ask of God that giveth to all men liberally and that breadth not of It should be given unto him, but let him ask in faith, nothing wavering, for he that wavereth is wet like a wave of the sea driven to the wind tossed. For let this let not that man think that he shall receive anything of the Lord. A double-minded man is unstable in all his ways Let the brother of low low degree rejoice in that he is exalted for the rich and that he is made low. And so you see this whole concept here. If you look at verse 12, we'll just skip to verse 12. Blessed is the man that endureth what? For when he is what? Wait a minute. Well which is it? He shall receive the crown of life which the Lord had promised on him. Is it trials or temptation? Look at verse thirteen. Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God, for God cannot be tempted with any with evil, neither tempted any man. We thought, oh well, he's got to tell you that about tempted tempted there But every man is tempted when he is drawn away with unless he is enticed. And so we see clearly in verses thirteen through fifteen it's really more temptation than trial. But what is he talking about primarily? Well, let's look He is the answer, of course, you've already uh kind of all like muttered under your breath. Is it trials and temptation? The answer is yes. It's both. Okay, he's talking here about both trials and temptations. And he's and so when we're looking at all this, this trials versus temptations thing. Is there a difference between a trial and a temptation? Well, we better say yes, because it actually is going to say God's not tempted with anything, and he doesn't tempt anybody. So on one hand, we've got to say, yes, there's got to be a difference between a trial and a temptation. On the other hand, he seems to be using it interchangeably here And we see in the passage here, what kinds of trials and temptations are we talking about? It says, My brethren, can all joy when ye fall. What's the word there? Fall. So it's as though these things are happening to you. Now let's put all this together. Is it possible for the same event to be both a trial and a temptation? And that's the answer. The answer is we're talking about events in our lives. We might even call them the T event. And they are events in our lives. And these events have either two potentials. They either have a potential of temptation, or they are a potential of trial. Now, let me explain. What do you suppose the goal of a temptation is? Okay? When lust is conceived, it brings forth sin. It is to get you to sin Well, who do you suppose is the source of temptations? There are actually three: the world, the flesh, and the devil, and we're going to actually define that later in James. He says that. Okay? That's the source. But for our certain purposes, let's say it's the devil primarily. It's actually not primarily. It's probably our flesh primarily. But but let's just say for our for this illustration that is the that That is the devil. Okay, so we've got the devil who desires for us to be tempted so that we might sin and fall. But the exact same event can also be a trial. And what is the point of that trial? Okay, good. Alright. So who is the source of the trial? God is. What is the what is the goal of God in a trial? In this text, mature, you're absolutely right, that's the ultimate goal. But maturity, spiritual maturity, that ye may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing. That's God's goal. In other words, you've got the same event And Satan's got a different goal than God's goal for this event. And God wants us to mature with this event, and Satan wants us to fall with this event. And that is essentially what we're talking about here. We're talking about life situations and events that we're dealing with every day. And what does God say about them in the very first or the very second verse of this chapter. Count it joy. Now, let me tell you something a little bit about that word. That word is not a command. That word is a statement. Now it looks like a command in the English, but it's not. It's a statement. And so it is the idea that that's what Christians do, they count it joy. Okay, when these events come, that's the response that we're supposed to have, the natural response to events. N not that we don't have a obviously we don't always have that response. Otherwise temptation wouldn't be able to happen and temptation can happen. And does happen to all of us. But we've got this trial that God says, or this event, that when we fall into it, diverse temptations, and actually that word temptation, interestingly enough, could be translated trial. It's interchangeable. Depends on what the context is. But we have here count it all joy. We're to we're to consider it joy. Because if we look at this right, what do we find? It's going to give us an opportunity to mature. That's what it is. That's the only way we could ever consider something difficult to be a trial, right? I mean if it nobody wants nobody wants calamity to happen to them Nobody wants difficulties in their lives to happen to them. But when they come, if we will choose to respond To them as a trial rather than a temptation. And that trial leads us To giving us an opportunity to grow in our maturity, that's God's desire for us. And that is why we can look at the thing and say, I am going to count, I can, I can count it all joy. So it says here verse 3, knowing this, that the trying of your faith Works what? What is it work? Alright, and that patience is not generally the word that we think of in patience as well. We're gonna have to change the word here. a little bit just for us to understand it. It really is the word because there's another word patience in the Bible, like for instance in the uh in Galatians five where it talks about the fruit of the Spirit And patience is one of the fruits of the Spirit. Totally different word. Not even the same word. Okay? So in this context, when the word patience is used, what other word might you use? And some of you had different versions out there. What word might we use here? Endurance. Endurance or perseverance, right. So what we're talking about here is that the trying of your faith worketh worketh endurance. It worketh perseverance. And that leads us, uh, but and then we let and then so we're supposed to let endurance have her perfect work Let me just ask you, what do you suppose that that means? What does it mean that we're to allow adurance to have her perfect work? Okay, good. What else Does it mean they'll have your endurance let let endurance have her perfect work yet? Okay. Good. That's I think that might be the yeah. Keep it going until the end of it don't give up Good. Good. What do we want to do when a trial comes? We want to flee it or fight it. That's what we want to do. We want to just have it done. We don't want to go through it. We want to just get rid of it. Want to get rid of this. It's fight or flight. That's what we want to do No, that's not what God says to do. Don't try to run from it. Let patience, let perseverance have her perfect word. That doesn't mean that you run, you know, you can see a fire, let me jump into the thing so that I can You know, that's not what it's talking about there either. Okay? Let me jump in. But but what he's saying there is basically let patience have her perfect work. Don't shortcut it. Don't just let it have her perfect work, so that ye may be entire, perfect, mature, and entire, wanting nothing. Now that's harder said than done, isn't it? I mean easier said than done. It's easier said than done. It's hard. Okay. It's easier said than done. But if we will do that and we will have that kind of an approach, then we will grow and mature. What do you suppose happens when these kinds of events come into our lives and we choose not to respond to them correctly I'm just asking, what do you think happens? Let's just practically put this into perspective. Let's suppose that a Christian, God wants to grow a Christian in a particular area. What do you suppose happens if we don't handle it as a trial? We don't respond to it, and we run from it or escape it or don't deal with it in the right way. I think it'll come back later. Yeah. I I think it'll I think I think that God is going to He's going I mean the Bible says in Romans chapter eight that his goal, and we are predestined to be conformed to the image of Christ one day, that that's going to happen. And so God says, if you don't learn, if you don't do this, follow this process, it's going to come back. I think that's the that's what happens essentially. One way or another, maybe a different form of, but in one way or another. That's why it's so important we've got to respond correctly to these things. It's just incredibly important that we do that. So that we can, as God's word says so clearly here. We can mature and uh and uh wanting nothing. This is this book is the purpose of this book, and I think it's very important for us to understand, the very purpose of this book is to help the believers. That's a great book, isn't it? Any book that's going to help us mature in Christ in these practical areas of our lives. It's going to be a book that we need to go over and over and over and over again. And in fact, personally, I've studied this book many times. I've translated the entire book from Greek. But it's still one I need to go over again It's one that is constantly and I you know I read these sometimes and I go, Wow, that's really good again. And that's the way that's the way this book is And I think you'll find we'll all find that to be the case and very convicting and helpful for us as we go through this book of James on Wednesday nights. Let's go ahead and go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you and thank you for who you are. And we thank you, Lord, that you purpose in our in our You purpose in our lives as believers to mature us. And we know we've got a role in that. We know that we've got to respond to the events of our lives and see them as opportunities to grow in you. See them as opportunities To look to you for our supply and to look to you for our needs, and to see you supply so that we can be mature and And Lord, we thank you for the kind of instruction that we're going to receive from this book. I pray in the book it talks about the that we so easily look in a mirror and uh we uh uh um we look in the mirror of the word, we see who we are, and we turn and we find forget it. And I pray, Lord, that you would you would keep us from doing that. Help us through through a prayer life with you to constantly be going over these things. so that we can dependently live, so that when events come in our lives that That could be a temptation to which we fall. Instead, it will be a trial to which we grow and we mature in you. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Have a great week maturing in Christ