Bibles and turn to the book of John this morning, John chapter 1. John chapter 1. We are embarking now, just this is the first message on a news series in the book of John. Let's uh let's just go to the Lord now and ask his blessing on our time together as we open up his word. Father, we come to you and we thank you for who you are. We thank you that we can face tomorrow because Christ lives. And it is in Christ alone. That we live and move and have our being, and it is by grace alone, the amazing grace That is afforded to us because you chose to reveal yourself to us in the person of Christ. We admit before you, Lord, that we take these things for granted. Many of us have been saved for decades. Or even just years. And such profound truths, if we're not careful, become commonplace for us I pray, Lord, today, as we look at your word, that you would Encourage us and challenge us to appreciate Christ. Perhaps in some cases in a way we that we haven't done in a very long time. Time. I pray that you would give us fresh eyes to see the things that That you want us to see in your word today, that we would be able even to look at things with a first-time mentality as we look at a very familiar passage of Scripture. May you show us Christ today. I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. God has created all of us to have various joys and enjoyments and pleasures in life. As we develop and grow and mature just as human beings, we begin to realize just how important various aspects of our lives are. We learn to prioritize them in a way that that is indicative of a mature person. With that in mind, I'd like to ask you, what would you consider to be the greatest joy in your life, or joys in your life? When you are first, when you are a child, they are simple things. Perhaps it is a favorite toy or a favorite teddy bear or a favorite movie. Or TV show or something of that nature. As you get older, it might be a favorite sport or a favorite hobby. But at some point in your life, you begin to realize that the things that bring you the greatest joy are relationships. I would dare say that a grandparent enjoys his grandchildren, unfortunately, oftentimes more than a parent enjoys their child. And I would dare say that the grandparent probably enjoys his grandchild more than the child and uh sorry, grandparents, than the tr child enjoys the grandparent. I mean you just begin to appreciate so much about a relationship when you're when you are are of full age and you're in in maturity And we don't mind that so much. I don't think our kids I mean our kids grow and they mature. I'm I I my oldest um really does have a relational, understands relationships a lot better and than the others perhaps. All of my kids have that, but they're growing in their understanding of that. But we, you know, we appreciate it more because we know how to appreciate it more. And when we really think about it, the greatest joys in our lives are they are centered around our relationships. But the truth is, the greatest relationship and the greatest joy that we ought to have as believers is our relationship with Jesus. John understands this. John was more than likely the closest disciple to Christ. He was, he depicted himself as the cr as the as the disciple whom Jesus loved. He was in that inner circle of disciples. In every listing of the disciples in the New Testament, he is at least in the first four names. John wrote five books in the New Testament, and one of the books, 1 John, is written entirely that believers ought to be able to have fellowship with God. John is a man who is close to Christ, and he lives his entire life appreciating his relationship with Christ, both before the resurrection, when he was with him, and after the resurrection, when he remained with him in spirit. And John understood the joy that you can have when you are in close, intimate fellowship with God through Christ. And as John, toward the end of his life and toward the end of his ministry, read through perhaps the first several Gospels, the first three Gospels that were written prior to John, Matthew, Mark, and Luke. He looked at them and he looked at the account, of course, he appreciated them being under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit of God. But John looked at them and he said, I want to show them something different. They can know how to have a relationship with God from those other books. But I want to show them the depth of the relationship that they can have with God. There are some things that are missing about the person of Christ that I want to share with them. with with the world with the church. There are some unique things that are not accounted for so far. And under the inspiration of the Spirit of God, he pens down toward the latter part of the first century these words in the Gospel of John. John's writing is different, for example, than the Apostle Paul's. The Apostle Paul's writing is very detailed and very specific. And really fairly complex in its words and its sentences and its sentence structure. John's writing is simple. It uses simple vocabulary, it uses simple wording structures. And it uses simple, it uses simple concepts to some degree. But I want to say to you, don't mistake it for being simplistic and its truth. Because as you read, John, and I I pray that you discover today as we look at it, There in these simple words and simple sentence structures are profound truth. No less profound than the book of Ephesians, which we have previously studied. These are truths that John desires for the church to grasp. And they are very relational in nature. For instance, in John chapter 15, we see an extended discussion on how we can abide in Christ as we are the branches and he is the vine. And in John chapter 17, we have this extremely personal intercessory prayer to Christ by Christ to the Father on behalf of Himself and the cosmic plan of God, but then personalizing it to including us into this great fellowship that Christ has with his Father And his father has with God to the extent that he says in that passage that I have that we that he loves us to the same extent that he loves his own son. It's incredible. We find in this book one a huge portion of the book. I think it's actually two-thirds, if I remember correctly, it's two-thirds of the book are dedicated to one day. The death of Christ. And we know John, as far as we know, John is the only one to have, only disciple to have witnessed the death of Christ. Of course, my point in saying all of this, folks, is that we've got we need to listen carefully to this book. And it has been it has been, of course, a book that has been distributed worldwide, perhaps more than any other book. It is considered to be a book where the gospel is the clearest and is one and is the most direct. But folks don't miss this. Don't miss the fact that although you have clear gospel presentations in this gospel, you have seriously profound truth. And it is been said about this gospel, if you are going to glean all that is necessary from this gospel, you are going to have to have a mature mind This is a gospel that can reach the simplest of minds, but can confound the most profound of minds. This is the gospel that we come to today. And I'm not going to just tell you these things. I, by God's grace, am going to show you this today as we look at His Word. Beginning in the first several verses of this passage. John begins this way in chapter 1. He says, let me just pause before we read it and just say this. We have read this passage many, many times. You have heard it many times. Many of you perhaps have memorized portions of this passage. Passage. In fact, if you look at the if you think of the Gospel of John, more probably more has been memorized out of the Gospel of John than any other book of the Bible. I mean the most common verse in the entire Bible is John 3. 16 And you have all over the place various passages of Scripture. Who hasn't memorized portions of John chapter 3 and John chapter 15? And and who hasn't memorized John portions of John chapter ten where it says, My sheep hear my voice, I know them, and they follow me? I mean this is a very familiar book But folks, what I'm like, I'm going to ask you to do is to read this with a first-time mentality with me. As though you have never read it before. As though you have never heard it before And ask the questions, why has John read, written this this way? We're going to read the first five verses. And read this with me with a first-time mentality. He says this. In the beginning was the word. And the word was with God. And the word was God. The saying was in the beginning with God. All things were made by him, and without him was not anything made that was made. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. The light shineth in the darkness, and the darkness comprehended it not. John begins his discourse This gospel by using the three words in the beginning. Why would he begin that way? Well, you and I know of another book of the Bible that begins that way, and it's of course the first book of the Bible, the book of Genesis, and we read, of course, in that book, in the beginning, and the next word is God. John says, in the beginning was the Word And as we look into this, I want to point out something to you to help you understand just the significance of this. He is saying that whatever this word is, this word is eternal. In verses 1 and 2, he is speaking of eternal things, those things who never had a beginning. And then in verse 3, there is a break, and you'll see here it says, all things were made. In other words, in verses 1 and 2, you find a different category of things that are created. You have a category of things that never were created. And this word, which is is mentioned here, is in the beginning. And in Genesis chapter 1, before anything was ever created, it said, in the beginning, God. And of course, the fact that God created things. If you were reading this for the first time, you might ask another question that you would not otherwise ask. Why is it that John chooses to use the word word? Why doesn't he just say, we all know he's talking about Christ here, why doesn't he just say, in the beginning was the Christ? Or in the beginning was Jesus? Why would he say in the beginning was the word? Well, to answer that question, I want to remind us of an Old Testament truth. The Bible says in Exodus 33, verse 20, that Moses was speaking to God, and he wanted to see the full presence of God. And God said to him, Thou canst not see my face, for there shall no man see me and live. God said to Moses, You cannot handle my full presence. For if a human being would handle the full presence of God, he would surely be consumed. We cannot see God. In fact, the Bible tells us no man hath seen God at any time. And do you know where it says that? This chapter. Would you look down at verse 18? No man has seen God at any time. In other words, folks, God has not revealed himself. At this point, physically. Because he can't do it physically, because nobody can receive that physical expression of God, or he would be consumed. No, at this point God had revealed himself by what means? Look at what it says. The only begotten of the Son We know that, but look at the next phrase, which is in the bosom of the Father, he hath, what's the next word there? Declared him. How had God in the Old Testament revealed himself? He had revealed himself through the word. It is the word that is God revealed. In some cases, through prophets, it was the spoken word In other cases, through scribes and those who pen down, like Moses and others in the Old Testament, it was through the written word. But God revealed Himself through the Word It was the word that is God revealed. He hath declared him. And so John, in getting across who Christ is, he wants Folks, to understand that Jesus is God revealed. But he is in the beginning. Nobody had created him. He was never created. He is God. He is in the beginning. Now, I want you to notice then the next thing, and in fact, actually, before I go any farther, I want to illustrate a couple of things for you. Folks, what we have here is very divine truth. John is going to get later on into very relational kinds of terms and pictures and colors and things that will help us to understand Understand a relationship with God. Things like He being the good shepherd who cares for his sheep, and He being the door through which we can walk through, and He being the bread of life, and the water that that That can be quenched by the thirsty soul. I mean, those are the things that we're going to see. But before we ever get there to the relational expressions about Christ, he wants us to know something about Christ. He wants us to know the objective truth And so what John is doing here is he is laying down a foundation for the objective truth. He is laying down Christ's identity. Now, if you were to go into a basement and you were to touch a basement wall, you would not be inclined to hug it. But you would be glad that as you pushed against that basement wall, it doesn't move And in the first expression here that John lays out, it is it is almost cold. It is almost as though you are pushing against a wall that doesn't move, but it's not protecting Particularly warm. It doesn't really give us expressions of color, expressions of relationship. And I think, folks, there's an important principle here. Your relationship with Christ is built on objective truth You are not ready to experience the subjective relationship with Christ until you clearly understand the objective truth of who Christ is. And what he does here is he lays down a almost cold foundation, but one that is absolutely firm and there is no cracks in it. It is absolutely, it is solid, and it's and it's in its composition. Now what I want to do is give you two metaphors and they are going to be a mixed metaphor and then I'm going to kind of Combine these together. This is not something you do in English writing, but it's something that you do to really even understand this. You've got to kind of do this. So the one metaphor is this foundational idea. And what we see here is that John's going to establish a foundation for us in Christ. The other thing I want, the other metaphor I want to bring into perspective is if you would just picture a ring. But this is a ring that is no that is no ordinary ring, this is a ring that has no seam. This is a ring that you would not be able to tell that not even the gr the best, let's say it's a metal ring, you would buy a gold ring or something, and you would not even the best jeweler would ever be able to tell where the beginning and end of this ring is. This is a ring that has never been joined. It always was a ring. It never had a scene, because it always was in that shape, in that form. And this is a ring that is something that has no seam. It's like it has no beginning and no end. Now I'm going to combine two metaphors. Those would seem to have no absolutely no no um no basis at all. You're gonna have to help you you'll see this in a minute, but I want you to I want you to see this. If you could just imagine A fortress that is intended to keep out enemies. And this fortress has been there for centuries. For hundreds and hundreds of years, and no one had this is an impenetrable fortress because the fortress has a foundation that is just unmovable. So we're imagining a fortress with an unmovable and impenetrable and penetrable foundation. In other words, folks, it's a foundation that will never crumble, and it's a foundation that an enemy cannot penetrate. But it has another characteristic. It is one that if an enemy cannot even scale, and really no one, not even a person who's trying to scale, you just can't scale it. It's like you get to a certain level and in understanding this foundation and and if you imagine like climbing a rock wall a couple a couple of uh days ago, a few days ago, I I climbed one of those rock walls Okay? And I said, give me the easiest one. I'm trying to, you know, trying to see where I'm at and move forward in life. And so and so um I I I climbed the eviest the easiest one I could find and I got all the way to the top. I don't hear any applause. No kidding. Uh okay. I got all the way I got all the way to the the top of this wall But if you could have imagined climbing one of these rock walls and they've got the handholds and then suddenly you get to a certain point and like it's not there. There's no handholds. And it's like it is incline it's like an angle like this and you can't get up it anymore Of course it wouldn't it'd be hard to have an angle like that if you want to go that direction. Anyway, but but for our purposes it's not gonna make complete logical sense, but you'll understand what I'm doing in a minute here This is a foundation, this is a structure that is round. We're going to make it round, all the way around. There's no corners, there's no seam, and somehow that is going to cause it to be unassailable. Impenetrable, and it's not going to be able to have it is a firm foundation where it will not crumble. Folks, that is what John is now going to describe here. And let's let's with that in mind keep that in your mind and all of that in your mind and let's if you can and and we'll try to we'll try to read thro read through this and You're going to see a little bit more what we're talking about here. In the beginning was the Word. That is, God declared. And it says here that the Word was. You notice what it says? What does it say? It says, in the beginning was the word, and the word was with God. So the word that we are talking about, remember we're looking at this from a first-time Italy, the word that we're talking about is in the beginning, it's eternal. It is infinite in its time. It is not subject to time. It's outside of time. And it is eternal and it has no beginning because it's in the beginning. But this is a word, a word, a revelation that is with God And you think to yourself, okay, it's with God. It indicates for us that we're talking here about something or someone or a revelation that has some sort of relationship to God. Alright, you got that? It has some sort of relationship to God. Well, you know, as an Old Testament um uh uh uh a Jewish person, you would read this uh and then And in the New Testament, you read, you know, the Old Testament, you know that how many gods are there? There is only one God. And so you say to yourself, Okay, this is talking about somebody outside of God. This is talking about somebody that's with God, but somehow he's eternal. And then you read this, and the word what? Was God. Alright, you uh you understand what we're talking what what's happening here? This is this is an unassailable foundation. This is a foundation like it's like a circle. You can't, I mean it's uh okay, wait well. Okay, so what we're talking about here is a revealed God, a revealed person, a revealed something, revealed word that is with God, so he has a relationship to God, and he's eternal, and he Is God. Well, wait, wait, wait a minute. I thought there was only one God. How can you have one God and yet somebody else is with God and he's also God? And you say, well, it says God, so what we must be talking about is the same person. Same person, right? I mean it's it is God. There's only one God. So what we must be talking about is the same person. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, not so fast. Verse 3. I'm sorry, verse 2. The same was in the beginning with God. Well, wait a minute, wait a minute. I mean, which is it? I mean, this is almost sounding like double talk now, right? I mean, is it God or is it is this word with God? I mean, which is it? And of course you and I both know the answer is yes. But do you understand? I mean, just establishing the foundation of this, this is the way that this is worded, it is worded so simply and yet so so directly that every tense Every word matters, and the way it is constructed, it's like this foundation you can't crack. It is Jesus is God But he is, he is, on the other hand, with God, and yet he is God. It's both. And if you think that's hard to understand, Amen. Right? I mean, since when should we be able to scale God I mean, the reality is, folks, this is what is awesome about who God is. God is so awesome. That you get to a certain point, okay, I got that. He's with God. He's got a relationship with God. Okay, I've got that. He is God. I got that. Okay, and then you reach out for that next grasp. I can't grasp anymore And you know what? That ought to that ought to and that ought to encourage your mind. And your convictions that there is something out there that is far more powerful than you, that is far more above you, that is you can't comprehend, and you can get to a certain point, He is your creator, God. You can't understand everything about him. And this is something, folks, that if we can if we can just begin to just Stand in awe of. We look at this and we say, I don't get it. I I I mean I understand it. I understand that. Is is he is Jesus God? Yes. Is Jesus does it have a relationship with God? Yes Is Jesus a different person than the Father? Yes. Is Jesus the same as God? Yes. Does that make any sense to us? No. Is that okay? Yes. And you have a solid foundation for being able to begin to understand the true person of Christ. And who He is. This is something, folks, that is so important that we establish. Jesus is not part of God. He is not separate from God, and yet he is distinct from God, and yet he is this we've got to we've got to grasp what we can grasp And we've got to leave it where we are, and the rest of it we say, I stand in awe. There is always a point in theology, and that's frankly what this is. There is always a point in theology where you say, I understand it, okay, now I don't understand it. That's why Paul, remember, if you'll remember, he says, Oh though, oh, how incomprehensible is the wisdom and knowledge of God, his ways are past Finding out. It's okay we don't understand. It causes us to stand in awe. Look, if you understand it, you're not going to be in awe of it. But if you don't understand it, if you understand enough, but don't understand anymore, you will stand in awe of it. In in trying and really trying to establish what we're talking about here, I really appreciate what the London Baptist Confession of 1683 I'm going to put this up on the board here. I don't know if you can read that from here. Oh no, I'm sure you can't read it from here. I'll read it to you. Let me just read this. This is this is In fact, I'll probably email it to you because this is just so helpful. It says this In this divine and infinite being there are three substances. Subsistences. Excuse me. The Father, the Word, or Son and Holy Spirit. The one substance, power, and etern eternity Each have so there's uh I'm sorry, of one substance, power, and eternity, each having the whole divine essence. Yet the essence undivided, the Father is of none, neither begotten nor proceeding. The Son is eternally begotten of the Father, the Holy Spirit Proceeding from the Father and the Son, all infinite, without beginning, therefore but one God who is not to be divided in nature and being, but distinguishing by several peculiar relative properties and personal relations. which the which doctrine of the Trinity is the foundation of all our communion with God and com and comfortable dependence on Him. Now that's a m- that's that's a that's a lot, isn't it? I've spent some time like looking at that, and I'll tell you it's a great statement Folks, what this ought to do is cause us, okay, so let's let's reduce this down so that we understand it. Oh no, not that we understand it, so that we at least can communicate it without understanding it. God is one in nature, and he is three in nature persons. That is, folks, that is the right way to describe the Trinity. It's not one nature with three parts. As soon as you do that, you have broken it down to our understanding, and as soon as you do that, you have lost the awe. It's not one God with three personality, like three positions, like I'm a father, a man, and a pastor, or husband and a pastor. I have three positions, and that's No, no, no, that's wrong too. There are all kinds it's not, it's not the same as like having an apple where you've got a core and a m and a and a skin and no no, because that's three parts No, let's just establish, folks, it is it was one in essence and nature. He is one in essence and nature, and he is three persons, and we don't have to get it What we ought to do is remember it, believe it, stand in awe of it, and establish it. And folks, when you believe, and here's why this is important. When you begin to think about who Jesus is, you can't divorce the fact, you cannot emphasize his humanity to the exclusion of his deity. You cannot think of him as one who is so loving, for example, he's tolerant of your sin. A man, a person can do that, but not God. Or you can't think of him, on the other hand, as someone who is so esoteric that he can't be reached because he is man as well. You see, when you when you begin to know Christ, when you begin to understand who Christ is, when you begin to learn of Christ and you You sit at the feet of Jesus, you better start with a solid foundation, and folks, there it stands. And now he's going to add to it, and he's going to say this. John is going to say this in verse 3. He's going to say, this non-created being who is God is creator of all. He says, all things were made by him, and without him was not anything made that was made. In other words, folks, all creation is made by this word who we know to be Christ. All things are made by him. And folks, immediately you might think of flowers and trees and grass and people, but this includes things like time. It includes things like the universe, like space. This includes all things. This is Christ. Christ is God and He is creator of all and He stands outside of His creation. He stands distinct from His creation. He is the creator and we have the created. And John wants to establish, before he ever gets to this word being made flesh, he wants to establish that Jesus is very God. And then we move to some specifics about Jesus. It says, in him was what? Was life. And the life was the light of man. What is John saying when he says that Jesus is the life? This is a word that John is going to use extremely frequently in the book of John. It is used many times throughout the book. It is used nearly in every chapter of the book. If you think of John 3. 16, it's there. If you think, I mean you you you you can really think if you just think through the book of John, if you have a good working knowledge of the book of John, it is in nearly every chapter and in many cases multiple times. So folks, because it is such an established under, we've got to know what this word life means. And to begin, I'd actually take like to take you to the b to the end of the book. But before I do that, I want to explain why. When you are studying the book of a Bible of the Bible, you need to understand the Intention of the book, the purpose of the book. It's going to drive for you the interpretation of the book. In other words, folks, you can't understand what the book means unless you understand the intention of it. In other words, why did God give us this part of his revelation? And to do that, you need to read through the book several times, but also it's very helpful for you to look at the beginning of the book and see what the opening verses meant, which is what we're talking about now. But it is also sometimes helpful to look at the back of the book because what you'll find sometimes in either the beginning of the book or the back of the book or both is something called the prologue. And we find essentially the prologue in John's case in both the beginning and the end. In John chapter 1, verses 1 through, and it's it's sort of debatable where the prologue end begins. And ends, but at least, but probably, uh potentially even through verse 18, you have an extended prologue. But the back of the book, you're going to find the same thing. Would you take your Bibles and turn to John chapter 20? John chapter 20. And you're going to see what God's intention is for this epistle, or through for this gospel, rather. In John chapter 20. Do you see in verse 31 it says, and these are written. Do you see that? Alright, this is very clear. It's telling you exactly. Why this thing is written. To help us, you look at verse 30, it says, and many other signs truly did Jesus in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book. John is saying, hey, there's a lot of stuff I left out John has a very pointed and specific purpose for writing this book, and so he wants to get to it, and he says here in verse 31, and these are written that ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ the Son of God, and that believing ye might have what? Life through his name. The purpose of the book is for you and I to have life. And it says over in John 1, which we just read, that Jesus is the life. And we're going to find later in the book there where it says in John chapter 14, for example, where it says, I, Christ says, I am the way, the truth, and the Life. What is it that John is talking about when he uses this word life? Sometimes you'll find this word in conjunction with the word eternal, and often eternal it's eternal life. Or occasionally it's everlasting life. But what you find, I just want to show you a couple of things about this. Number one, John is describing, we we know that his purpose is for is is to show the way of eternal life, but John is describing this eternal life And something that is not just physical, but is also spiritual. He says in John chapter 6, verse 53, Then Jesus said unto him, Verily, verily I say unto you, Except ye eat the flesh eat of the flesh and the Son of Man and drink his blood, ye have no life in you. He says, if you don't partake of me, you have no life in you. He's going to say in John 11, 25. Jesus said unto her, I am the resurrection and life. He that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. But this eternal life is much more, folks, it's much more than just spiritual elongated life. It's more than just life that is quantitative. This is qualitative life. John chapter 10 Says this, verse 10. And a thief cometh not for to steal and to kill and to destroy. I am come that they might have life and that they might have it more abundantly John chapter 12, verse 25 says, He that loveth his physical life shall lose it. But he that hateth his physical life in this world, it says, shall keep it unto eternal life. We're going to have to learn how it is that we through Christ gain life. And let me just say this: eternal life only begins when you're saved. That's why Paul can say, lay hold on eternal life to Christians. Because there is more to this eternal life than just quote unquote, getting saved. There is this abundant life that begins when you are converted, where you pass from death into life, and there is this abundant life that God wants you to have, and you can only have it through Christ. And John is going to get us there. He's going to teach us how to have this abundant life in Christ. That's the reason he wrote this. In other words, John wrote this gospel, and he says, he says, I have abundant life in Christ, and I want the church to have this. And you have it by knowing Christ. This is so much a reality. Would you take your Bibles and see it in John chapter 17? I'll ask you this question, what is eternal life? And you'll find the answer in John chapter 17. And would you look at verse 3? And this is life what? Eternal, that they might what? Know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. You want abundant life, you've got to know God and Christ. Your abundant life will not come through material possessions. Your abundant life will not come through power or security or wealth or friendships. Your abundant life comes by knowing God And if you start looking everywhere else for abundant life, you will be disappointed and discontent and distraught. Discouraged, and you'll have unrealized expectations, and you'll be frustrated, and you'll be bitter, and there's all kinds of Christians out there that way. And what they need is to look in the face of Jesus. And they need to know him because it is by knowing him that we can not only gain eternal life and enter into eternal life But we can live in eternal life. That's this book John is writing for this very purpose. Now I want you to notice this. Would you look back at John chapter 1 with this in mind? While you're turning back there, I'll point out that it's going to say uh it's going to talk about this eternal life in terms of water, Christ being water that is fills a thirsty soul, and bread, various things you're going to say see throughout this book, but I want you to see this. It says in verse 4, in him was life, and the life was the light of men. Who came to reveal this kind of life to the world? It is Christ. Christ came for this. It's incredible. Are you not excited about this book? Are you not excited about studying what God has for you in this book that is going to help you to get a hold of Christ and to know Him, that you can have abundant life that transcends all per Experiences or all circumstances. May God help us As we study this profound revelation of God, the Gospel of John, the Word of God, Christ revealed in this book. And let me just say this: I would be remiss. If I would not say, invite you to get to know the person of Christ even now, there are a lot of suggestions. And messages and communications about how to get to know God. There are suggested ways and approaches. Some say you work for it, some say you go to church for it, some say you pray for it, some say you do this or that for it But more folks than the Jesus says, I'm the way. I'm it. I'm the way. Very candidly, there are some people that think that that know that Jesus died and know that Jesus died for them, but the problem was they never knew who Jesus is. Folks, the gospel includes both the person and work of Christ. And you can't divorce the two. And if you know the work of Christ without knowing the person of Christ, you don't have the gospel. And there are some people that are suggesting that the substitute of the atonement is true, that Christ did die by substitute, but Christ is not really God. If he is not God, then he cannot die as our substitute. They go together. And maybe you're saying to yourself, you know, I have never, I have never known. the person of Christ in that sense that He is very God and that He condescended to reveal Himself to us and that ultimately He died to pay the punishment for my sin. I did not know that. You might not be saved. In fact, if you have a misunderstanding of the person of Christ, then you're not saved. And let me just encourage you this way. I'm not gonna call you forward. I could. I mean that wouldn't it's not terribly wrong to do that, but if God's working on your heart very candidly, you Don't need to be called forward. If God's working on your heart, you can come and talk to me afterwards, and I would encourage you to do so. You say, you know, I really don't know for sure if I've ever truly embraced Christ. I don't know if I really have a relationship with him. I don't really know if I know him. Not in the way you're talking about. Would you would you come and talk to me? Man, I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know Christ and know that you know him, which John writes in his other epistle in John chapter 5. These things are written that ye may know that ye have eternal life. If you don't know today, would you come and talk to me or talk to somebody else that you're comfortable with? And we'll be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you have eternal life. Are you living it? Are you living in light of the abundant life in Christ that you have? And if you're not, it is because this these things have become mundane to you. These things you're taking for granted. You're not appreciating Christ like God reveals in His Word. You're taking it for granted. Because if you know Christ, to know him is to love him, and to know him is to have abundant life in him. And maybe you want to say just to your own self before the Lord, you say, I have not appreciated Christ in this way in a very long time. Lord, would you help me to appreciate Christ afresh and anew in this way? I encourage you to be ready for what Christ has for us in this study in John. Let's pray Wait, Father, we come to you and we thank you for who Christ is. We thank you that you did not veil it for us. You took us in your word as far as we could go in understanding the person of Christ. And though some of this is infathomable to us, it's unassailable, we can't understand it completely, we are thankful, Lord, for that because we awe. May we not lose that. May that all in who Christ is. Who you are, may that awe cause us to worship. We're going to learn about that Lord, you're going to tell us in John 4 that we must worship you in spirit and in truth. I pray, Lord, that we We would begin that worship in our lives or continue it today. You are worthy of our worship and worthy to be praised. And may we run to Christ. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.