So as I'm studying the book of James, we're going through the book of James, we we come to a section here that James is really dealing with this issue of community. And he's warning the people uh here of uh the the his writer his readers he's warning them of this compromise that is taking place in their midst when it comes to this issue of unity plus community, um sorry unity plus love equaling community. And you're going to see this in this passage. To help us to get our bearings on what we're talking about here and seeing in this passage, let's do this. Would you notice a couple of things? First of all, if you'll flip back with me just to see the context of the book. If you look uh sw switch over flip over to James chapter two for a moment, I want you to see this. This is this is gonna Help us to understand what James is driving at in his warning at the very end of the book here. He's talking there about partiality. And as we see him develop this concept of partiality and of not giving favor to people that have uh more riches and That kind of a thing. You see that in the passage. You begin to see that not only is James driving at this individual n need for spiritual maturity that we found in chapter one. But chapter two opens up another realm that he's really dealing with, and that is uh corporate health within the body of Christ. And he is concerned about this issue of partiality. And we'll remember as well in the book of James. that James is a book that is an early book. In fact, it's probably the earliest book written in the New Testament. That's significant because we find that the The first century church is really in its infancy stage. James realizes this, and as he writes to the believers here, he is he has this this infant church in mind as he writes. But in the very earliest of times in this church, though we read through the book of Acts of great exploits and great all kinds of great things happening, we find that there are problems in the church. And we see this very clearly in chapter 4. Would you turn back and look at chapter 4 here? And you see that these problems are actually very severe. James 4, 1 says, From whence come wars and fightings among you, come they not hence, even of your lusts that war in your members. Ye lust and have not, ye desire and have, and can obtain, ye fight and war, and ye have not, because ye ask not. So verse 1 tells us that there is wars and fightings among them Then we come to James chapter 5, and now we're going to read some verses here from this passage that we're going to be looking at tonight, and I want you to see a few things about this particular passage. And what we're doing here is we're going to build a case for a particular uh thread of thought that's through this passage. This is a passage that's actually just like last week when we looked at the the uh elders coming and and anointing the person with oil. That's a very sort of controversial passage. This passage is as well. And it may look like this these verses don't really go together. But there is a single thought through these verses that you'll see here that I'll highlight for you. Verse 16, it says, confess your faults, and then what are the next three words? One to another. And then he says, and pray what? One for another. So are we talking here, is James talking here specifically about just Is the individual person confessing his faults and the individual person praying, or does he have a corporate mentality in mind here? Really? Really corporate, right? He's dealing with the corporate setting here. Now we've already seen him do this throughout the book. I just showed you two different places where he does this in James. Where he's dealing with corporate problems, the corporate probable partiality, the corporate problem of fightings and wars, and now he says You need to confess your faults one to another. You need to pray for one another that you might be healed if the effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. Now that the second part of that phrase is or that verse is very well known We've all heard that phrase, the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man, availeth much. But have you ever read the context, even in that verse, having to do with the corporate setting? This passage is really dealing with the corporate body of believers, and James is going to say here that they're at risk. And he's saying here that you've got to confess your faults one to another, and you need to pray for one another. And then he says here in the passage, Elias was a man subject to like passions as we are. And he prayed earnestly that it it might not rain, and it rained not on the earth by the space of three years and six months. And he prayed again, and it and heaven gave rain, and the earth brought forth her fruit Then he says, verse 19, first word, what is that word? Okay, so he's again speaking to this collective body. Brethren, if any of you do err from the truth and one convert him, Let him so he's talking about this one going after another person and converting him, or we'll use another word, uh to turn toward is what the word means Let him know that he which converted the sinner from the heir of his way shall save a soul from death and shall hide a multitude of sins. So what we clearly see in this passage, the one thread that's running through the entire passage here Is it has to do with James is concerned about the a corporate community of believers And he wants them to do certain things in order for them to champion this Christian community. It's at risk. There's partiality. There's there's fightings and wars He says because of individual desires, they're warring in their members, they're coming out and causing divisions and problems. And now he at the very end of his letter, he's going to give them basically what you have here are three abmonitions. The first two admonitions we find in verse sixteen. The first one here is confess your faults one to another. So so First of all, we must deal with corporate trespasses correctly. So in other words, let's this is the qu this is the the question that James is going to answer. How do we champion Christian community? How do we foster, put another way, how do we foster Christian community? And he says, first of all, number one, you've got to deal with corporate. Trespasses. The word false there is the word trespass. It's translated most of the time in the New Testament as trespass. So when it says confess your faults one another, I will relieve you for a moment. What it is not talking about here is that every sin you've ever committed you need to tell everybody about. Now aren't you thankful about that? There are some people that would take it that way. In fact there are some denominations that would suggest that when you sin then you come into the and then you come into the into the assembly and you make sure that you sort of confess it to the old the whole assembly There are one very prominent denomination all over the world that has this idea of confessional and takes it to a level that the Bible never really intended. When we're talking here about confess, what is the word confess, the Greek word behind it? What does the word mean? Anybody remember? Nearly every time the King James uses it, it means this it's using the same Greek word. Yes, very good. To say the same thing. Homologeo is the word. It means to say the same thing. So the word confess here meant means to say the same thing. And when we're thinking about this idea of false, it helps us to specify the word meaning trespass. What it's saying here is this. It's not saying you need every every sin you ever committed, you need to tell everybody else. What it's saying is that when you have trespassed against someone in the body, you need to deal with it If I have trespassed against someone, I've got to come into agreement with them that we I have trespassed against them. I need to confess my fault. We need to confess our faults one to another. You know what will happen one of the great ways that that causes disunion in the body and body of Christ, if there is an unwillingness to confess when you have trespassed against someone else. If there's an unwillingness to do that, isn't it true that it would cause just naturally cause a schism in the body or schisms, as the case may be? And so at the very outset, if we're going to foster unity, if you know you've trespassed against someone in that assembly, or any believer, frankly then you need to go and you need to make it right. You need to you need to correct the trespass. You need to admit your fault to them. I have trespassed against you. And you confess that to that person. Rather than defending yourself. You see, this is exactly the opposite of what the world says to do it, doesn't it? I was in uh doing tree work. Um uh to put myself through uh uh college and seminary. I remember having a safety meeting, a safety meeting. And we were they were all discussing what to do if you have a a motor vehicle accident And they all said, make sure you don't do what? You don't admit fault So make sure you tell them you're sorry it happened, make sure that they're okay, whoever it is, but make sure you do not admit they they told us, make sure you don't admit fault. Why? Well, we do live in a soo happy world and everything. and they're concerned about all that, but folks, that's not the biblical approach, is it? Particularly put particularly when it comes to the body of Christ. When when it's when it's a a trespass against a brother or sister in Christ, we know we ought to be ready to say the same thing, to come to agreement. Yes, I did trespass against you. Now, if you didn't, you didn't. But if you did, you need to have the humility to admit it. The other side of this is what is in ma is in Matthew chapter 18. Verse 15, which tells us if someone trespass against us, what should we do? Go to him and him alone, the passage says, right? So when you get these both sides together, if you trespass against somebody, you ought to go to them. If they've trespassed against you, then uh then you ought to go to them. The point is that when you're in the body of Christ We need to get together on these things. Individual problems within the body, one individual having another problem with another another brother or sister in Christ is going to create disunity in the body. And so at the very outset of this He says, confess your trespasses one against one to another. That's the first thing to do here Secondly, then he says, and this is going to naturally, when you have unity in the body, you're going to have a desire to pray for one another. Do you see that in the passage? He says, He says, and pray one for another. Now, it's interesting then he says that ye might be healed. Why is that interesting Well, remember last week where I said we we talked about the whole idea of sickness here doesn't necessarily have to mean physical sickness That these are very general terms. And it's the same case here with healing. And I'm actually going to suggest to you tonight that although it could include the idea of physical physical ailment it may very well not be what's in mind here. And the reason I'm going to suggest that to you, and we're going to get this get to this later is did you notice did you notice the illustration that he gives here, the example of Elijah in this passage? What what example does he give of what have what did Elijah pray? But it wouldn't rain and then it didn't, and then it would rain and it did. What does that have to do with physical healing? Now, let me just pose this question to you. If James wanted to get across physical healing in this passage, what other illustration from Elijah's life might he use? Right. There's other there's other miracles that Elijah did that had specifically to do with healing. Alright. I'm gonna set that aside for a minute And I'm running out of more I really gotta move along along here because I have a lot to say. But um but just keep in mind here that this very well may be talking about healing, spiritual healing in the body. I think that's what it's talking about here. Right, so we're if that's the case, we're talking about healing in the body, then he says this the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man If you see if you see problems in the body, if you see a lack of health in the body It says the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. Now, let me ask you this question. When it says righteous man, what does it mean? Well, let me relieve you again. He does not mean flawless, and he doesn't mean perfect. The reason we know that is because he's going to say with this illist illustration of Elijah, he says Elijah is a man of what? Of like passions as we are. He's identifying the fact that Elijah wasn't perfect, neither are we. So so we're so this isn't talking about perfection here. What are we talking about then? What is righteousness? Any ideas? A consistent desire to please the Lord. Okay, very good. Well, let's look at how James uses this term righteous. That's going to help us, isn't it? I mean if James has used this term consistently, which he has, it'll help us understand it. So, for example, would you take your Bibles for a moment? We're just going to flip through this real quickly. Would you take your Bibles and look at James chapter 1, verse 20? And we're going to flip kind of quickly tonight. James 1. 20 says, For the wrath of man worketh not what? The righteousness of God. Look at two twenty-one. He asks a rhetorical question here. He says, What was not Abraham, our father, justified by works? That word justified there, if you recall from the passage when we look at it way back when Justified has to do in this context with displa displaying. It's showing faith. He says, justify by works when he had offered Isaac his son upon the altar. Now look at verse 23. The scripture was fulfilled which saith, Abraham believed God, and it was imputed unto him for what? For righteousness, and he was called the friend of God ye see then how that by works a man is justified and not by faith only. Now again, this is not talking about the same kind of Romans 3 justification There's a different he's using the word differently here. It's talking about how you show your faith. And you show your faith by your works, by your righteousness. In other words, a righteous man is one who is full of faith. Okay. Uh a man who is righteous is one who is a believing man. He is one who is full of faith. You remember in James chapter one when it where it says let Patience have her perfect work that you may be perfect, an entire wanting nothing, and let him ask in faith. You see this term faith going all the way through the Bible here So we have this term righteousness and we have this term and it really you need to think of somebody who is who is who is one who believes, who has faith, who who has strong faith. Okay? Now Um I could take it to other places, but for the take of sake of time I won't. I do want to read this to you. This is written by a man by the name of David Crum in a book called Knocking on Heaven's Door, a New Testament Theology of Petitioner. Petitionary prayer, I would highly recommend this book. He says this righteousness is the obedience that always attends true belief. It is not a matter of moral perfection, but of willing surrender to the ways of God. The double-minded can never, by the way that we're double-minded, James chapter 1, right? The double-minded can never be righteous because they are unwilling to entrust themselves completely to the Father's direction. They are solely concerned with being woven properly into the unfolding tapestry of God's design. Their submission is always unconditional. And so we're talking here, when we say a righteous man, we're talking about a man who is so full of faith he is entirely submitted to the will of God. That's a man whose prayer, whose effectual and fervent prayer is going to accomplish something. Now that would make sense, wouldn't it? Because that kind of a man is going to pray correctly. It really is presupposes that he's going to pray according to God's will. And we find in the passage here as well, it says the earnest fervent prayer, the effectual fervent prayer, this fervency. Now let me just pause and mention that. What would be the opposite of fervent prayer? What would be the opposite of fervent? Could we say flippant? Or just sort of trite? Now, have we ever prayed that way? Sort of mutter under breath, oh Lord, would you help that person? Oh but that Lord that that her that person needs help. I've been test I have done that before. I've been thinking about it. I've been worried and concerned and I'll pray, I'll think about that person, I'll think and think and think and think and I'll pray one little sort of trite statement. Instead of really settling down and stopping for a moment and saying, okay, Lord, how do you want me to pray fervently for this person? What can I pray? What should I pray? And then praying fervently for that person. And let me ask you this question. When's the last time you've done that for a brother or sister in Christ in the body? I mean if we're going to be a body of believers, a family together of believers, a community of believers the way God wants us to It's going to require for us to really fervently pray for one another. That's what God is saying here. And when we do that one with another, Scripture says there's a healing that takes place in the body. It's a healing process. Now, what we then want to do is look at this example that he gives here. And remember I asked the question before, and I'll ask it more specifically. When we come to this passage Remember he healed the widow's son uh son at Zarephath in first King 17. Elijah did Why would James not use that illustration, which would seem to so parallel the idea of healing if that's what he was getting at? Instead, he uses another illustration of another time where God used Elijah of not of rain, when rain didn't come and then it did come. Now here's what else is interesting about 1 Kings 17. You don't find prayer in that passage. You read through 17 and you read through 18. You don't find Elijah praying. Is that it that sort of interesting, right? He prays other times, but he doesn't pray there. And there's no healing there So let me make let me ask you to take your Bibles and turn there. Turn to 1 Kings, and what we're actually going to do is start in chapter 14 of 1 Kings. 1 Kings chapter 14. So we're asking the question: why did James use this example as an example of prayer, particularly in the corporate setting, for this passage? And I actually want us, the the passage we're going to be looking at is chapter 17, but preliminarily I want us to look at chapter 14. Chapter 14. And would you notice and I'm going to have to pick out very specific verses And just for the sake of time, but feel free to, of course, anytime read all the whole passages, of course. Verse 22, verse chapter 14, it says this. And Judah did what? Evil in the sight of the Lord. And they provoked him to jealousy with the sin with the sins which they had committed above all that their fathers had done Folks, at this point, the nation of Israel has reached the height of its sin and decadence And do you know what kind of king rises to the scene? Well, look at 1 Kings 16, verse 30. This man Ahab now finally ri rises the scene just a few kings later, a few chapters later we ha have here now he's rising the scene. And Ahab, the son of Amri, did evil in the sight of the Lord above all that were before him. Now, here's a little bit of a side note. Is that not interesting? Do you know what God does not usually do? He does not usually meet match a righteous nation with an evil king. usually matches a righteous nation, which there aren't any, with an e with a with a with a righteous king. Or we find very little of that in the in in the Old Testament at all. Most of the kings are evil, right? I mean you have Joshua who was a really righteous leader, he wasn't a king, and you have Moses before that, but they weren't a key he wasn't a king either But you find here in this passage you have God's let me just I'm gonna put it this way, you have God's judgment on this nation just by the fact that this evil king has now become their king and he's done evil above everybody else. And so with all of that in mind, Elijah comes on the scene and look at look at what it says in 17. 1. And Elijah, the Tishbite, who was of the inhabitants of Gilead said unto Ahab, As the Lord God of Israel liveth, behold, before whom I stand, therefore shall not Be due nor rain these years about uh but according to my word. Now we don't have the time to go any further with this, but let me just simply say this. When it comes to Elijah and this passage We're dealing with God's God's going to deal with the nation of Israel rather harshly to to try to reform them back to himself through this punishment. This this famine in the nation of Israel, in Judah, is a punishment, right? It's clearly clearly it is. Now, we James is going to add extra information for us to note that Elijah actually prayed that it wouldn't rain according to God's will. We don't know that from the passage. We don't need to know that from the passage, right? We don't need to know that from first John 1 Kings. Why? Because all scripture is what? God breathed. Is God breathed. So we can take James' word for what it says that this happened back then. So let's just parallel this a little bit. What would James then if James if this is a corporate setting that James is concerned about, what is the parallel? Where was Israel? Was Israel, let me put it this way, was Israel the nation that God had as his ideal at this point? Were they a unified nation? No, they were a separated nation. Were they a righteous nation? No, they weren't. Were they a a nation that was submitted to God? They weren't. Were they a light to the Gentiles? They weren't. They weren't doing anything, they were not fulfilling what God had intended And if you look at James, what what do you suppose the first century church in James's, at least the recipients of James, what were they risking? Same thing. And what does James say? He says that the answer to this is what? It's prayer. It's prayer. Now you think about pro even if you have to think hypothetical, which most of us don't. You think about problems in a church, in any church, by God's grace, I'm going to tell you relatively we have very few problems here. I'm very thankful for that. I am not in any way bragging about that. I'm very thankful. Okay. God has been very gracious to us. But but in one time one time or another, many of us have exper have experienced problems in the church, haven't we? And if we haven't experienced those problems, we can certainly imagine them. Or just imagine a family times a hundred or two hundred. What James is dealing with here is this. He wants to illustrate the power of the righteous man's prayer. And he's illustrating it this way. And he draws that he's sort of implying here that Israel that the church, if it's going to be the kind of church that God wants it to be, it needs to confess those faults to another, it needs to pray for one another. Prayer needs to be a very significant component of the church's health and well-being, its community. And so he uses that as as an example. The willing destruction of community life removes God's blessing from his people, opens the door to various forms of suffering, and impedes the church's ability to pray Elijah, a man just like us, once confronted a similarly dire situation, yet by obeying the Father's directions He prayed as he was instructed and labored for the community's healing and restoration by reminding his own community about Elijah's story James underscored God's unchanging call to obedience, repentance, confession, and prayerful reconciliation in the body of Christ. Now then we finally come to our third point. And our third point, well, he says here verse four verse eighteen, and he prayed again, and the heaven gave rain, and the earth brought forth her fruit. But then we have this third point here. That if we are going to foster community in the church, Christian community, we're going to have to, and I'm going to use a very common term, we're going to have to go after wanderers. We're gonna have to go after them. Do you see what it says in the passage? It says, Brethren, if any of you do err, and the word err has the idea of w one translation is wander. or to stray away. In fact, it's translated in the New Testament often to go astray. It's like someone who's straight. In fact, if you remember the parable of the s of the lost sheep, this word is used when the lost sheep goes astray. Same word. And he says here, if one goes astray from the truth and one convert him, the word convert means to turn him back. Let him know that he which converted the sinner from this from the air of his way shall save a soul from death and shall hide a multitude of sin. Now, there are two Views on this passage. The most common view in the passage, if you look at the different various commentaries, I looked at a bunch. Is that this is talking about the unsaved person. And it looks like that there's a lot of indications of that. It uses the word sinner, which doesn't have to be mean unsaved, but often it does in the New Testament, depending on the usage of it. We see the word soul from death, so it would indicate here, we're talking about spiritual death rather than physical death. And and so you sort of and so you could very well take this as meaning somebody who doesn't know Christ. Maybe they're they're they're worshiping in the assembly in some way, but they don't know Christ and and they're gonna and somebody's going to to go after them. But on the other hand, it's quite possible that you could be dealing with someone who is who knew the truth And experience the truth in Christ, know Christ, they're astraying away and they're coming back. Or they need to be con they need to come back And the first verse in verse 19 would indicate that. Notice what it says: if any of you err from the truth, it implies by its wording that they were in the truth at one point. So which is it? Are we talking here about someone who knew the truth, accepted the truth, knew Christ, and strayed from the truth? Or are we talking about somebody who never really knew the truth and came to cr and didn't come to Christ and didn't come to Christ? And is it talking about somebody who's who's bringing somebody to Christ, who maybe thought formally they knew Christ and really didn't? I don't know. But here's what I do know. I think it well, here's what I think, perhaps. Is it possible that James is nondescriptive on purpose? He doesn't specify on purpose. Let me give you an example. Let me illustrate it this way. Does a carnal believer, does someone who is not following after Christ look that different from someone who never knew Christ in the first place? Does someone who doesn't know Christ look any different from someone who is who is really wayward than they've they've they've been a s they they've strayed from the truth? Is there that much visible difference? The answer is really, in some cases, no. You can you tell the difference between someone who is a carnal Christian and someone who isn't a believer? Not all the time. What's the difference? Kevin? Okay, eventually, if they know Christ, God is going to chasten them and turn them back to Himself. If they know Christ, that's going to happen. There is going to be repentance. There's going to be remorse for sin. There's going to be those kinds of things that are indicative of a believer. An unbeliever doesn't have those won't necessarily have those things. Doesn't mean that they won't feel guilty for sin. They've got a conscience. But they will never be grieved. That they have sinned against God the same way a believer does, and they won't repent of their sin. But during the time that a Christian is wayward and carnal, you there's not that big a difference. You don't know the difference. So can we say that the application either way is the same here? If you know someone in the assembly that is falling away from the Lord, whether they never knew the Lord the first place or whether they they did know the they they did know the Lord, they're just straying for a time, either way, what's the point? That those that brethren who go after them, who convert them, let's the word there means to turn in the other direction, basically. Doesn't mean a salvation conversion necessarily. It says they'll do what? It'll save them, their soul from death, and shall hide a multitude of sins. Now, in this passage, when it says save a soul, the word soul usually means non-physical, but it could just mean, it could mean here. What's the other possibility? It could be talking about the sin of the sin unto death, which we don't have the time to go into. Of course, in first that would take a that was that's a whole message in and of itself. First John chapter 5 talks about the sin and the death as well, a couple other places. But could we talk about that? Either way, what's the point? That when there is somebody in the assembly That you know of that is straying away from God. Or it seems as though they are. Number one, what should we do? Well, if I've trespassed against that person. I ought to make it right. Number two, I need to pray for that person. And you know, in some cases, number three, I need to go after them. And you know what's interesting about this passage? It doesn't say the pastor only needs to do this. Okay? Sometimes, I mean yes, I will do these things. Okay? By God's grace I will anyway. But this is a passage that's not just telling pastors to do this. This is one another. We all ought to have this kind of care and concern for people that are in the body of Christ. And if we do, then we will have this unity in the body that God wants us to have, this love in the body, we will have true Christian community in the in the body of Christ. And this is so important In James's mind, and he's so urgent about this that do you notice what's kind of missing here? It's not really missing, but it would seem to be missing. There's no there's no final words of anything. I mean he stops here. He's very abrupt in how he ends this book. Other times, if you read Paul's writings, he'll say Grace and peace be unto you, and you know that there's sort of this salutation that this sort of final thing. You don't have any of that here. First John, the same thing. The last words, remember 1 John? Children, my children, do what? Keep yourselves from idols. He's done. Why? Because this is where he wants to leave people. He wants to leave people very abruptly, but at the same time understanding the urgency of what he's saying, and he brings all of the whole book of James to a head by doing these three things. Number one, deal with trespasses in the body. Pray for one another in the body. And thirdly, we need to go after those, go after wanderers, those who are wandering from uh from the truth. And we are done the book of James. Aren't you excited? Some of you just came in from your uh teens and doing other things, so uh this is the this is the end of the book. Let me a well I don't have time, I was gonna ask you if any if you have any questions about that. this passage since we're more discussion oriented. But I will well I I got five minutes because they're not done yet, right? Any any any questions about this passage? I did c I kinda gave you a fire hose. I gave you a lot at one time, yes. When it references healing, uh-huh, do you think maybe that could be just a reference to the root of bitterness bringing up when problems Yeah, I I do think it's possible. Yeah, I I think the healing there could It's a very general term and I think it could be I could I think it could be talking about physical or various spiritual problems in the body that have never been taken care of. And that kind of as well into the opposite of open for every man who's praying. Right. God willing to hear you pray. Right. You're holding on to sin intentionally, which is what happens if you refuse to make things right Right. Yes. Very good. Nobody can live on an island, right? So if I've sinned against my brother and sister in Christ, I'm not right with God. If I've not con dealt with that, I've not confessed with that with him. So it's good. Any other questions or thoughts. Alright, let's go ahead and go to the Lord in prayer. Lots to think about in this passage, huh? I'm not sure, um, but before I studied it, I did I'd never taken it that way. Okay. Sort of new to me. I really had to study hard on this one. Um but um this is this is I am pretty well convinced this is a passage dealing with one another and how you deal with Christian community in the body. Let's pray together. Lord, thank you for your word. Thank you for its rich truth and how it does cover every every area of life. And Lord, I do I just want to apply this to our body, to Bethel Baptists, Lord. I I thank you for this church. I thank you for the people of this church, and I thank you for Sending whom you will to our church, Lord, and I thank you, I pray, Lord, that you would help us to continue to be a loving community of believers. And ultimately, as in the book of Ephesians, we find that we are to display your wisdom to the world. And Lord, I pray that we would be we would do that and that you would give us opportunities to But Lord, I pray that we would just really have a f love for one another, that we would be very careful that if we trespass again Against someone that we would make it right with them. And if somebody's trespassed against us, then we would go to them. That we there would be a clearness in the body, that there would be a um a transparency and a clarity in the body one with it one with another. And I pray, Lord, that we would we would fervently pray for one another. We would watch out for one another. I ask, Lord, that you would help us to be the body of believers that you want us to be, that we really can make an end. impact in our community uh for the cause of Christ. And I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.