Sometimes the energy better in you could help energy. He helped it Twenty Don't it You can bend on the things you can use it. Time them you He was a cow Thank you all for being here. You are dear friends and family and church family, and I am just grateful that you're here. It would be Dad's desire for this to be a service that Is uh one where we celebrate Christ, where we worship him. Uh all of the songs uh actually were selected by him. He these are his favorite songs that we'll be singing, and there are more than a normal funeral. Um but we'll sing them quickly and we've selected verses to try to uh to you know uh be respectful of your time but I think it'll be hopefully a blessing to all of us to hear some of the some of the hymns that he found most dear. And um we have more people downstairs in the overflow. I've instructed the ushers that Once we've ever we about five after seven to feel free to come bring more people up here uh to fill in all these seats and so that's no problem for them to do that. Just sort of expect that um and that's or where we want to fill this sanctuary first and then anybody else that left over we want to uh so that's gonna be happening I think uh soon. Um I don't think you know a you know w when I was a y when I was a preacher and a young when I was younger I used to say who there survived by the it's all in the it's all in the program. You can read who who's still left. And all that. I want to focus on Christ tonight. And so let's go ahead and go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you and praise you for who you are. We thank you that you are a loving God. You are a God who is all-wise, even though we don't always understand your wisdom. Your ways are high. Higher than ours, your timing is different than ours. And yet, because of the love that we know that you have for us, For the shed blood of Christ, we can be confident and trust you in all things. Lord, we thank you for the hope. The hope that we was exemplified in dad's life, the grace that was exemplified in Dad's life. And there are people here tonight who have True biblical hope, and there are those here tonight that don't. I pray, Lord, that tonight those who have biblical hope who have true hope, confident expectation in the future, that tonight we would all be encouraged Those who don't, I pray tonight they would receive that hope freely offered to them For the finished work of Jesus Christ. Lord, we desire to honor Dad tonight, but I know it would be Dad's desire that Christ would be honored tonight We thank you. We thank you that Dad has finished his grace well. And I pray, Lord, that Christ would have would be the center of this worship service tonight. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Our first song tonight is How Great Thou Art. If you need the hymn book, it's number 28. Let's stand together and sing verses 1, 3, and 4 Four. Oh Lord, my God, when I I think that we want to try to follow the whole day. Let's be my door, my day. I'll make my door. I am not merely spending to God I shared that on the cross my birth life. Every black and brown wake up, we might go my dear. I'll pray thou watch, I'll pray thou law. Let's be my soul my name to me. I'll pray thou How may thou when Christ are both and they be gone? What if boy shall fill my heart then I shall bow in humble adoration and there was pain to my God? Thy watch, dancing thy door my favorite, how great. You may be seated. Winning gone, winning cough by the terror of tempest you see I'm not ways before you row, and the end of out in peril is eternity. No fear and conflict sees your soul Just think of stepping on shoes and finding it heaven. Of touching the hand and finding it cause of breathing new air and finding insults. I'm waking up really. And finding its hall When surrounded by the blackness of the dark night. Oh, how literature can be At the end of this long tunnel is true. A shining light where death is swallowed up in victory. Just think of stepping on shoes and finding it heaven. Of taking a hand and finding it God, of breathing new air and finding it to last job. Awaken up in glory and finding your home. Finally home. We're going to sing a medley of hymns that Jim has chosen that talk about the foundation for why he has this hope and why we know today that he is with God in heaven. We'll start with number 578, How Firm a Foundation. And we'll sing all four verses. Now they shut in a lot. It is late for your faith in the world. I am with me for me that is me, for I am thy God, I will build in thee. I was saying when he helped me and was easy, a price that I was a time. When through my respire, thy shall lie, my grace for submission shall be thy supply. All ways shall not burn me, my load me is thy, thy cause could come to, and thy goals should reply. Lord so that our Jesus has me for report. I will not be so I saw the whole hell should it ever be since I'll never forsake Continuing on, an old favorite, the old rugged cross, we'll sing verses one and three. He has one lost suffering. Till my school is my job I hope to get for. And version three. To the old rocking cross I will be through, yes, save every post my friend. There will come in the day, should I go for a way, where is stories for the But here it will come in growth till my flow we have last my later And number three ninety-two, Rock of Ages, fleck for me. Let the wheel that we cover Let the water and the blood from my brain. Not the labor of my hand and what will I love me back Could I know? Could I be Walking thing your right. All I want is speaking breath when my eyes come in death, when I saw the no seeky heart. All I should grow, what the ages like for me let me hide myself in green. Reading from First Corinthians. 15, 50 through 58. Hear what Scripture says. Now this I say, brethren, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God. Nor does corruption inherit incorruption. Behold, I tell you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed. In a moment, in the twinkling end of an eye At the last trumpet, for the trumpet will sound and the dead will be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed. For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality. So when this corruptible has put on incorruption and this mortal has put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the same That is written, death is swallowed up in victory. O death, where is your sting? O Hades, where is your victory? The sting of death is sin. And the strength of sin is the law. But thanks be to God, who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor is not in vain in the Lord's work. And now from first Thessalonians four, thirteen through seventeen, But I do not want you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning those who have fallen asleep, lest you sorrow as others who have no hope. For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so God will bring with him those who sleep in Jesus. For this we say to you by the word of the Lord, that we who are alive and remain until the coming of the Lord will by no means precede those who are asleep. For the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of an archangel, and with the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first. Then we who are alive and remain Shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and thus we shall always be with the Lord. Yeah, just uh uh It is not time to die, to leave this way. And so in those days well found their home with God. Is not down to close the eyes on his title. Awake enjoy me for your throng deliver from our fail. Conquering the ring, your pressures what has power to say. Trust in you will in your mercy find for it. It's not time to play aside this word. With strong and noble wings to live among the jobs is not down to ear The key unlock the door that sets us free from mortal ears to break in the remote. Your presence. One has power to stay to trust in you will in your mercy finds. That it is time to do it. Cross paths approximately seven years ago. We met at our old church that used to meet in Stuart Lane in Glen Burning. And as I recall, what attracted me to Brother Jim Senior. I came to church one day there at the old building, and there was this beautiful, large Honda Goldwing motorcycle sitting in the parking lot with all the bells and the whistles. And I thought to myself, I wonder I wonder who draws this big Honda Goldwing in this little white church? Well, it was brought to my attention That this motorcycle belonged to none other than the pastor's dad. So, from that day on, we became instant and best of friends But much to my dismay, two weeks later, Brother James sold the motorbike. Um so we never got to ride together. But anyway, I was really not it really wasn't the motorcycle that attracted Jim and I in our friendship. It was his love for God. And God is the one that brought us together. And Jim Sr. had a very high view of God And it was reflected in all that he did. Brother Jim Sr. set very high standards. his workplace, not only for the workers, but for himself. At the church he had high standards, even in his family. He loved his family. God blessed Jim Sr. with many talents and many abilities, and he used him and used Jim. And Jim used Use those talents and all for the glory of God. And I will tell you at this moment from all that I have learned and known of Brother Jim. As Pastor Jim mentioned earlier, that Jim Sr. would never want to bring any glory to his own name He didn't want people to be boasting in him, but he wanted him to boast in his Savior. And when it came to our friendship, I was reminded of Proverbs 27:17. And it says, as iron sharpens iron, so a man sharpens the countenance of his friend. We had this friendship where we could talk about Anything. We could talk about woodworking, which Jim was very good at. We could talk about motorcycles one sided since he sold his. But we could talk about guitars and gadgets. Jim was very good on the guitar and uh that was a lot of the things I'm mentioning here are things That we had in common. And God knew this ahead of time. And I think that's why he crossed our path. But uh when I think about all these things we can talk about, but where God used Jim most. in my life. The greatest thing was understanding Scripture correctly. Jim and I taught Sunday school together uh before and I was always blessed to have him in the class when the hard questions come. I could look at him and he already had the answer. He knew scripture very well, and I was very thankful for that. Jim Sr. was a no-nonsense kind of man. Always straightforward, always honest, sometimes blunt. Brother Jim, as I said before, loved his family. He cared most and deeply for them. When we would have prayer time together, which we did almost every week, one of the things that we spent a lot of time on was both of our families, wanting everybody to come to know and understand the gospel of Jesus Christ, to put their faith in Christ and live for His Glory. And he was praying even ahead to other children that may come into the family. There is so much that I could say about Brother Jim Sr. , but one thing he would never want us to to do again is to boast about him. It is God who made Jim Sr. who he is, or who he was. And he was the person that he was. And Jim Sr. knew that. He knew that it was God who was directing him and growing him. And as we would have our times together in Bible study and uh Well just uh prayer time and talking. Uh we always ended up around God's word. And uh we could bounce things off of each other And uh it was just a wonderful time. And I will indeed miss my dearest friend. Our wonderful times Together. And I think about in the past weeks, several weeks, he loved mashed potatoes and gravy. Every week almost we got macraising records. And Mac and G's. But I know Jim is where he wants to be. Right. Now. He wanted to be home with the Lord. And when we prayed together and talked when he was going through his uh illnesses and all his cancer, he Wanted to do the will of God. And he wanted others to see Christ in him wherever he went. We prayed about that. We would pray that God would enable him to withstand the treatments. and all in the pain. And uh it was amazing how much Jim did suffer and yet uh survive through. And uh so when it came to the day of his parting, I didn't uh have the opportunity I did speak to him, but I hope he heard me. But it was a wonderful time. A very wonderful time. And uh I know that Jim is very grateful to be home with the Lord. And not only that, but he gets to see his wife again And uh Jim always wanted to do what God wanted him to do, though he was not perfect by God's grace He was a very faithful and godly man, and he was faithful to our friendship, and that's one thing So much more I know many people in this room could tell other stories of Jim. He was a good man, good father, great family. And yet he would want us to say what the story Next song says, complete in thee, number 349 says this, complete in thee, no work of mine may take, dear Lord, the place of thine. Let's turn our eyes to Jen's Savior. the reason uh for our hope today and the and the place where he is right now singing praises to God. Let's stand together 349. We'll sing verses 1, 3, and 4 Come three number of mine, making your law thy love. All in one reason that I'll clean and meet my salvation. Don't we can be for the life and no birthday to be denied Thou I have no Lord, come in mind, all that is part, and I can't wait to walk, my blood and walk. And for it shall we save your way, give for thy part, all thy next pause. And I be a me, yeah, in my own. And take in my salvation cross, thy blood has fallen by east, and glory by thy shell. You may be seated. Just take your Bibles and turn to the book of First Thessalonians this evening. And we're going to be looking at verses uh chapter four, verses thirteen through eighteen. Picking up in verse thirteen it says this And I and I do not want you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning those things who have fallen asleep. Lest you sorry us those who have no Hope. This passage that we're going to be looking at this evening has to do with hope. And it says at the end of the passage that it is intended for us us to be able to comfort one another with these words. To me, my dad was a wonderful teacher, a provider, and friend, and I will greatly miss Him. You just heard Harry who spoke of a man that my dad became. But I want to emphasize tonight that all that he became was due to the wonderful Grace of God. The passage that we're dealing with deals with those who are hopeful, those who have hope, and those who do not. And he wants those who are genuinely Christians to not sorrow as those who have no hope. Dad's life was a life that was full of hope. It exemplified the intervening grace of God. I want to begin by just kind of going back to the very beginning of his life for just a few moments and sort of mentioning as we think Think about his life. All of us, every one of us, are born hopeless. And we'll learn why in just a few moments. We're born hopeless. As was my dad. Dad was born in a family where brokenness often overshadowed love And at twelve years old, his own father left him at a time where he was most vulnerable. did not have the day-to-day guidance of his earthly father. But there, and and he lived that way through his teenage years into high school. For there are two there are two people in his life that really showed the grace of God. The most important, without question, and there is no Second close is Jesus Christ. We'll talk mostly about him in a moment. The other was my mother. I remember having a conversation after my mother died. She died of cancer when she was forty-eight years old. We had a conversation and we were in the car, and I'll never forget it. We were driving. And he said, you know, your mother, you the fact that your mother was a gift of grace to me. It was all God's grace. And that was really true. Because not only did sh did dad receive a wonderful wife, but he received a wonderful father. Father in law and a wonderful mother-in-law. And he saw them as God grace. Dad did not always know how to express affection in the way that that maybe some would. But Dad did recognize in his life the grace of God throughout it. And because of the work of the of Christ and what he did on the cross When my dad there were, and now we're turning to the other person and the main person we want to talk about tonight, and that is Jesus Christ. He was introduced to Jesus Christ at an early age, at about four or five years old at a good news club. At age 21, he confirmed his decision to follow after Christ. And from then on, he never turned back. I can tell you that my father, though not perfect, never, I don't ever recall him questioning his faith. Not once. He was extremely stable in his in the truth. In fact, last week, uh we had unders we began to understand Um I think it was Monday, not this past Monday, but the previous Monday, we had a a a visit with the doctor and we realized it wasn't going to be long. He said weeks to months. It didn't wasn't weeks, but anyway. But we realized time was short. And I went up to my dad's room and and just talked with him. I said, Dad Dad, do you have any concerns or thoughts about dying? I said, Do you have any you know I honestly even a Christian I I thought, do you have any any uh anything we want to talk about? And he said, Nope. I'm I'm good. I know where I know I'm going. I don't I'm I know what's gonna happen. I'm I'm really I'm good. And that was my dad's way, like nope. If there was nothing to talk about, there was nothing to talk about. And if there was, there definitely was. Anyway. And uh and so dad died and uh on Tuesday, this past Tuesday. And now he is in the presence of Christ. The passage that we're going to look at tonight shows us this. That Jesus is our only hope in life because he is our only hope in death. This hope that is mentioned in this passage is not a hope of a questionable prospect. This is a hope of confident expectation of the future. And this passage teaches us that some have it and some don't. And it comes only through Jesus Christ. Well, why is Jesus Christ our only hope? We're going to see three things. Number one, because the contrast between the hopeful and the hopeless is real. We're then going to see is because the con con the condition necessary to receive hope is undeniable. Finally, we're going to see because the outcome of those who have received it is irresponsible. First, because the contrast between the hope and the hopeless is real. He says, But I do not want you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning those who have fallen asleep, lest you sorrow as those who have no hope. We're going to learn in just a few moments about those who do have hope, but I want to mention those who don't have hope. There are people who have no hope. In fact, as I mentioned before, all of us are born without hope, within a state of hopelessness. A wonderful illustration of this, I think, is in Luke chapter 7. If you have your Bibles, you could turn there. In Luke chapter 7, verses 11 through 15, we find a woman who is really quite hopeless. It says in verse 11 of that passage, now it happened the day after that he went to the city called Nain, and many of his disciples went with him and a large crowd. And when he came near the gate of the city, behold, a dead man was being buried out or was being carried out, the old son of his mother, the only son of his mother, and she was a widow. And a large crowd from the city was with her. When the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her and said to her, Do not weep But he came and touched and opened the coffin, and those who carried him stood still. And he said, Young man, I say to you, arise. So he who was dead sat up and began to speak, and he presented him to his mother. Here is a woman who was a widow. and lost her only son. In those days, the the two ways that a woman was going to get support was either through her husband or her son. And she had neither. She was, by definition, destitute entirely. She was a person who had no hope. And Jesus comes to her and he says, weep not hope. Now, Jesus wasn't saying you shouldn't cry. In fact, we know from other passage, Jesus wept himself. But when Jesus said, weep not, what he was saying was, do not have hopeless sorrow. Why? Because The next thing Jesus did was to demonstrate an illustration of the resurrection by rising that son from the dead. And that becomes an example of a resurrection for us. Now, the resurrection for us is way better. It's way better because we don't have to die again in our resurrection. This man, uh, he had a r he rose from the grave and then he's gonna have to die again. He's gonna have to do it all over again. It's almost cruel in some sense And yet it gives us an illustration of exactly why we sorrow, but we do not sorrow as those who have No hope. It is because we have hope because of the resurrection of Jesus Christ and how that is the basis for us to one day rise ourselves from the grave. This body that is right here in front of us, the spirit has gone to be with the Lord Dad's spirit is no longer here. Dad's spirit is with the Lord, and we're going to see that clearly in the passage. I don't want anybody to be doubting about this. But there is going to be one day where he will rise, and we're going to see, we're going to see exactly how that works. What causes such hopelessness? Well, when Christ when God created the world, everything was good. It was full of abundant life. Genesis 2. 9 says, Now the ground made the l- the Lord made a got uh the Lord God made things to grow, every tree from the P from the uh that is pleasant in the sight and good for food, the tree of life also in the midst of the garden And God anticipated man's every need. In Genesis 2. 18, it says the Lord God said, It is not good that man should be alone. And he made him a helpmeet for her. He anticipated the need, even the need of a spouse. In fact, James chapter 1 verse 17 says, Every good and every perfect gift is from above and cometh down from the Father of lights, from whom the There's no variabless, neither shadow of turn turning. Everything was good. In fact, very good that God created in the beginning. But God gave man a choice. And to authenticate that choice, in the middle of the garden he put a tree, and in that and that tree he commanded that it should not be eaten of. And of course, you know the story. Adam and Eve did eat of the fruit of the tree. They did sin against God. And with that came clear consequences. Un uh very clear consequences. First, eventual um eventual physical death Immediately their bodies began to die and decay. We get disease and decay and all the things that we get, uh the fact that our bodies are all we all know that, right? We're all all going the wrong direction here Uh I guess not all of us, you know the y the the kids in the room, they're going the right direction and some, you know, uh early on we start going I'm way I'm really bad I feel like. Some of you are going, you're not down there yet, just wait. Anyway. Most more importantly, there was an immediate spiritual death. That is, they were absolutely, they were separated from God. And the fact is, what the Bible says is that in Romans 5. 12 it says, Wherefore as by one man sent any We everyone experiences spiritual death because they inherited sin from the human human race. The problem is that God cannot overlook our sin. There is a thought among people that yes we sin, but God just overlooks. it. He cannot. He is a just judge who cannot overlook sin. Exodus 34, 6 and 7. It's interesting In this passage, it mentions how he's long-suffering and gent and and uh and gracious. But notice what it says in this passage. The Lord, the Lord, merciful and gracious, long-suffering and abundant and goodness. and truth, keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgressions and sin, by no means clearing the guilty So the God who is forgiving and gracious and loving and merciful cannot by any means clear of the guilty. Why? Because then he would not himself be just. Now there are some people that really struggle with a God like that. They say, how can a loving God be that way? Are you sure you want a God that is not just? Really? I mean think about our world, all of the injustice, all of the wrong, all of the things that go unnoticed. Is there not a comfort in the fact that there is God, that God is just? And that one day God will execute, He does execute his justice, and He will And that puts us in a real bind, doesn't it? Because the Bible tells us wherefore it's by one man sin and We're going to come back to that, but also sorrow and suffering are as a result. You have the sweat of the brow, you've got work that's really, really work now, and you've got women that have pain in childbearing. You have all these things mentioned in Genesis chapter 3 verse 16 through 19 that tells us that sorrow and suffering are now a part of life. It was not that way before the fall, but now it is, and we go through life and we experience uh ph physical death and we experience spiritual death and we experience sorrow and suffering. These are the things that some even say are natural part of what part of life. And although they are normal part of life, that was not God's design in the beginning So every person is now sinful, born sinful, and born helpless because of their sin. In fact, it says in Ephesians 2, verse 12, that in that time you were without Christ, having no hope, and without God in the world. That is a state where everyone who is born finds themselves However, the question is how is it that we access this hope? Brings us to verse verse 14. It says, For if we believe that Jesus died, remember that the problem, the consequence for sin Is death, spiritual death, spiritual separation from God. But what did Jesus do? He died and rose from the grave Even so the Bible says God is willing, so God will bring with him those who sleep in Jesus. The bedrock foundation of our future resurrection is the resurrection of Jesus, and we must believe in the death and the resurrection of Christ. And believing means this, according to Romans chapter 10, verse 9, which says that if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God hath raised him from the dead, you'll be saved. Confess with your mouth means that there is a genuine understanding of the fact that you are a sinner and that Christ is the Savior. And believe in your heart. That means that there is an agreement about this, and there's also an acceptance of it. And if we do that, that God, it says God will bring us with him. That is our hope. What was God's plan? God's plan in spiritual death is that Jesus died as our substitute. 1 Peter 2, verse 24 says, who his own self bore our sins in his own body on the tree, that we, having died the sins, might live for righteousness by whose stripes you were healed. First Peter chapter 1 Corinthians chapter 15, 3 and 4. For I delivered unto you first of all that which I received, how that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. And that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. Remember I said that God cannot look over sin. The Bible is clear. It's not a matter of what I said. The Bible is clear that we can't God cannot overlook sin. So you know what he did? He judged sin by allowing and sending his own son to the cross to take on our sin and he judged his own son. by separating from him. And Jesus died in our place. So that we could do what? We could have So that God is both a loving God and a just God. He's both He is a just God, but he also loved us so much that he provided the only way by sending his own son to take our place. In sorrow, that's spiritual death, in sorrow and suffering we find this, Romans 8. 18. For I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. God takes the suffering, the suffering that my dad went through, the suffering that my mom went through. Many of you knew her. He takes the suffering and he uses it for his purposes and the the glory the Bible says is not It's not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed. Now, I've got to tell you, I don't know how that works exactly, but I believe what the Bible says It says this in 2 Corinthians 4, 16. Therefore we do not lose heart, even though our outward man is perishing, yet the inward man is being renewed day by day. For our light affliction, which is but for a moment, is working of us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory While we do not look at the things that are seen, but the things that are not seen. For the things that are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal. And then even in physical death, for particularly for the believer It says this in Hebrews chapter nine verse twenty-seven that it is as appointed unto a man once to die, and after that the judgment. judgment. Even our physical death, God superintends over so that it is all in his timing. Now very frankly, it's not in my timing. My mom died of cancer at 48 and my dad died of cancer at 63. That is not my timing. That's not my sister's timing. But it's God's timing. And we can trust Him not because we understand that, but we understand the gospel and the love of Christ. And what Christ did on the cross for us on our behalf. Now the question comes, what where is Dad and my mother and many of you who have Christi who who have of uh Christian loved ones and friends and brothers and sisters in Christ that have gone on before us. What's going on now? And I'd encourage you to take your Bibles if you would and turn to 2 Corinthians chapter 5 And I want to just read through this very quickly in verses one through eight. I don't want there to be any confusion about this. And Christ, and God didn't either, because he put this in his word. I think there's a lot of confusion about this actually In that passage, it tells us exactly how this works. In 2 Corinthians 5, verse 1, it says this: For we know that our earthly house, it's talking about there, our body. Our physical body. Our earthly house, this tent, is destroyed. We have a building from God, a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. For in this, Paul's a little bit, you know, struggles with the idea of being out of the body. He says, for in this we groan, earnestly desiring to be clothed with our habitation, which is from heaven If indeed having been clothed, we shall not be found naked. For we who are in this tent groan, being burdened, not because we want to be unclothed, talking about not be because we want to be out of the body, but further clothed, that mortality may be swallowed up by life. Now he who has prepared us for this very thing is God, who also has given us the Spirit as a guarantee. So we are always confident, knowing that while we are at home in the body, we are absent from the Lord. For we walk by faith, not by sight. We are confident, yes, well pleased rather to be absent from the body and to be present with the Lord. Where is Dad? He's present with the Lord. Are there all kinds of angels? I don't know. I don't I don't I don't know. Maybe there are, maybe there are, I don't know. Is my mom with them? I hope so. I think probably. But here's what I n I mean I know my my mo mother knew the Lord. I'm I mean I don't know how all this works is what I mean by that But I know my dad is with and my mom is with the Lord. There is one day where this body and all of our bodies that know Christ, if we We truly know Christ, that those our bodies will rise from the grave. And that's what the next part of this talks about. We have this hope because the outcome of those who have this hope is irrefutable. in verses fifteen through eighteen. It says it tells us there In 1 Thessalonians 4, it says, For this I say to you by the word of the Lord, that we who are alive and remain at the coming of the Lord will by no means precede those who are asleep. The Lord Himself will descend from the heaven with a shout, and with the voice of an archangel, and with the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first. And we who are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and thus we shall always be with the Lord. Therefore, comfort. Comfort one another with these words. What is going to happen? We see here in very clear detail, we've got this order of what's going to happen. There's gonna Christ is going to come from the heaven with a shout, the voice of an arch an angel, the trump of God, the dead in Christ, those who are dead now in Christ, who know Christ Will rise first, and then we who are alive and remain will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. It is the resurrection of Christ that allows us to one day rise again with Christ In 1 Corinthians 15, verse 17, it says this, and if Christ is not risen, your faith is futile, you are still in your sins, and also those who also uh have fallen asleep in Christ have perished If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most pitiable But now Christ is risen from the dead and has become the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep. For since by man came death, by man Jesus also came the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ all shall be made alive. And we will also be changed like Christ, for we will see him As he is. And that's why Paul could say at the end of his great section on on res the resurrection, he could say this. So when this corruptible shall have put on incorruption and this mortal shall have put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? The sting of death is sin, and the strength of sin is the law. But Thanks be to God, which gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. And by those words, we are to comfort one another. Christians, I hope though this truth is encouraging to all of us tonight. Sorrowing is going to happen, grieving will happen. You all knew him. Many of you knew him quite knew my dad quite well. And there's going to be grieving in the days ahead. But we don't ever have to sorrow as those who have no hope. We will see him again one day. And he is with Christ. But I would say, I would ask this question. As you are looking into eternity, as you think into eternity, do you have hope or not? I am sure that in a crowd this size, there are some that don't truly have hope. What I mean by that is that confident expectation of knowing that one day you will be with Christ. Do you know? And if you don't, I want you to know this. This is what I want you to know. Dad knew And the Bible, you know, there's some people that sort of say, you know, I don't think you can really know that. Like, how can you really know? The Bible says these things are written that you may know that you have eternal life. And so if you don't know, you either have to believe what the Bible says that you can know, or you're believing you're you're you're not believing what the Bible says. That's the choice. But I can tell you that you can know today, and and it isn't anything about being a good person. Or doing good things, or having good like doing all kinds of self-effort uh all things, kinds of things that are um, you know Some people believe, well, if my good just outweighs my bad, then maybe that'll get me to the Lord or get me to heaven. All these different things that people come up with. If I'm religious, or if I go to church, or if I do all None of it works. The Bible says, not by works of righteousness which you have done, but according to his mercy he saved us. It is only Only by the grace and mercy of God. The finished work of Jesus Christ on the cross and dying for you has paid the price, and it is a gift that is offered to you. And if you are here tonight and you say, Boy, I don't think I've ever heard this before, or maybe you are unsure of your standing with God, or maybe you say to yourself, you know, there have just been things, man, if you knew what I've done in my life You would not be thinking that I'd ever be able to be with Christ. You know, Jim was a good man, and I'm not a good person. No, we're all sinners, including my dad. No question about my dad was a sinner. And apart from the grace of God, my dad would be in hell. But because of the grace of God and what Christ did for him on the cross, I know that he is in heaven. And you can know today. Let me just say it this way, if you are unsure or have questions about this, please come and talk with me. I'm going to be standing right out here at the end of the service. All you got to do is grab my hand and say, I want to know more about Christ. And I And I will take you back and we'll talk. Or I'll or if you want to talk to Pastor Matt or Harry or anybody up here, really. Michelle, anybody up here, we'll be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you have a relationship with God. The Bible says in John thirty-three John three three thirty six I'm sorry John three thirty six He who believes in the Son has everlasting life, and he does not believe the Son shall not see life. But the wrath of God abides on him. Remember, God is a just God. And he cannot just overlook your sin. You must accept what he did on the cross for you in order to be saved. If there is anybody here that has never come to Christ, let me encourage you today talk with me. Talk with somebody that that that you're you're familiar with and we'll be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure. Now you may say, well I need to think about this. Call me. Call the church and get my number, whatever. I'll be glad to take I'd be glad to help anybody with this. Because I'm looking forward, frankly, to seeing most importantly the Lord one day. But I'm also looking forward to seeing my dad and my mom. And I'd love for you to join me. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you this evening and we praise you. Because you are a good God and a loving God and a just God all All at the same time, and we see all of that in Jesus. Lord, my earnest prayer tonight Is that if there is anybody here that doesn't know you, that doesn't have this hope that we're speaking about, the hope that dad had, that the night would be a night. Where they would place their trust in the finished work of Christ on the cross And be saved. We pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Our final hymn is a quick conclusion to that message and to this service. But before we sting, uh Pastor Jim asks me to make two announcements. Uh first uh Um the uh casket will remain here. If you have not had a chance to be here at the the the viewing or you'd like to pay your final respects, you can do that after the service. The second announcement is going to sound a lot like what Pastor Jim just said, but it's very important, so he wanted me to emphasize it. If you have not put your trust in Christ as your Savior and you have questions, And you're interested in that, please do talk with him. Or if he is busy, talk with myself or anyone here on the stage. We'd love to help you to share the hope that we have about eternal life. Now the final hymn is number 239. If you need it, it's on the screen also. In Christ alone my hope is found. Let's stand together. It's the bow, my life, my stray, my straw, is the four stone, is done, where is the prince? The bear of hill extra I don't know. Thanks to Lord Someone says all this body. To give the law and says, Scored by what he came to say, till he's dying. I have done that, or every single place, yes, and that time. I know that I thought you say For I admit that he is mine for a precious blood price. You divide your Please remain standing as I close in prayer. Dear Lord, thank you for your goodness to us, your goodness to Jim, your goodness to the Cadam family. Lord, thank you for their faithful testimony here for you. Lord, I pray you bring comfort to family, comfort to friends in the coming days. And thank you, Lord, for the hope that we have in you. We know in you alone we have hope for life and we have hope in death. Thank you, Lord Jesus. In Jesus' name. Amen. You are dismissed. Profile