John chapter one. occurred uh out west um where it allegedly I don't know that it's completely confirmed this, but the killer allegedly the shooter allegedly asked people whether they would were Christians or not, and if they answered in the affirmative they were shot, and if they weren't, um then they I guess were not. That's an alleged story, so I want to be clear about that. I'm not sure that that's really been confirmed But as a result of that, either way, there have been pee different various people that have held up signs saying, I am a Christian, declaring the fact that they are a Christian. And in our country, which has been historically what has been called a Christian nation, and perhaps is no longer that way. It is easy for us to get in the mindset that if someone says they're a Christian, then they are. Or if someone has made a decision, a point-in-time prayer kind of decision, then they are saved. And I will just tell you that that that that kind of thinking can be dangerous. Discussing this with a actually I think more than one person this week, if not uh uh at least one person, just the reality that if we're not careful as Christian as as a Christian church, as a church that names the name of Christ, And as churches just in general, as we uh all most many of us have have historically had had uh relationships with other churches and been in other churches, we can, if we're not careful, um Think of following Christ as a one-time decision instead of an ongoing process. It is true that at some point in the process of salvation, we do pass from death unto life. And logically, there would be a point in time where that happens. But it is it is sort of it is there is a dangerous religion, religious ritual overtone to the thing When you begin to think of your relationship with Christ and you look back to that point-in-time decision for your assurance, which the Bible never says to do And you look back to that time and you begin to just live your life without following Christ and you've got that decision in your mind. And you begin to bank everything on that ritual, that prayer that has been prayed, or the decision that has been made. It's not as though God does not enlighten us and cause us to see Him, and it is certainly a there is certainly a time where we depend upon Him. If we know him as our Savior, if we've truly been born again. But folks, there are a lot of people that say they are a Christian that are not truly born again. And I would wonder, even in our midst, teenagers and preteens. And kids even younger than would not be considered preteens, but are old enough to understand the gospel, and you think you've prayed a prayer, and you think And you may have. I'm not questioning that. And frankly, it's not biblical for any of us to question e uh someone individually on that on that level, or not question, we can question it, but we can't judge on that level. And so I want to be careful here, but I do want to say this, that we need, we desperately need to see our relationship with Christ. As an on-going going process. Christ said it this way. He said, follow me. He didn't say, decide to follow me and then do what you want. Or decide to follow me and make a decision and then go live your life. He just said, follow me. And as we look at God's Word and we're looking at the Gospel of John, I am very much struck with the reality that we don't know Him like we think we do. Many of us have gone through that series in um uh behold your god And I will just tell you, and this is very transparent, but I will just tell you some of the things that they said about having the fullness of Christ in your life were pretty convicting even for me. Do I know the fullness of Christ in the way that Christ desires for me to know it? Do I know him? And am I ongoingly following him And the truth is the greatest danger to that, or at least one of the greatest dangers, is that we become so familiar with Christ If I tell you ahead of time that we're going to preach a message on Christ being our Savior, you say, well, I already know that. Give me something else. And yet, as we go through God's Word, when you begin to look at this with a first-time mentality, when you begin to look at this, you're going to see the amazing Work of Christ again and anew by God's grace, hopefully. I'm going to pray that way in a minute. Oh, how we desperately need that. We need to see Christ New and fresh, and his person and his work, not as an old stale doctrine. But as an ongoing living truth in our lives. And I pray, and as I'm going to be praying in a moment, I'm praying that God will teach all of us that this morning. The truth is, as I look at the Gospel of John and I was deciding on what gospel to what book of the Bible to study. I, in my own personal life, just said, you know, I want to know more of Christ. I want to know more of what it means to be filled with Him. And I don't mean indwelt by him. I know that that's a one-time thing. But to be content with Christ alone. And um I thought to myself, maybe everybody else needs that too John writes this, and I don't want to forget this, folks. John chapter 20, verse 31 tells us that he writes these things. And in fact, go ahead and turn there, just flip over there for just a moment. And I would just encourage you, if you have the freedom to underline this, underline this verse in your Bible, because this is the prologue, it is the purpose statement. In the book of John, where it says these words. He says, But these are written. He says, verse 30, there are many things I could have written about. Christ did many things, they're not in it, not contained in this book, but John said, I have a very specific purpose for you He says, but these are written that ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. Now, let me pause for a minute. You say, Well, I already believed that. Folks, be careful there. Not suggesting or suggesting that you deny that you do believe it But belief, belief is a dependency, but there is an ongoing truth in belief. That is, we are growing in our faith. I mean, just look at Hebrews 11. That's why he says to Christians, without faith, it is impossible to please God. For he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder to them that diligently seek him. Then you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing ye might have what's that word there? Life through who? Through his name. And what we're learning as we looked at last week is the kind of life that Christ is talking about is abundant spiritual life And Christ is the way to that. And we need to remember that. We need to not just think, okay, well, I've got that and I go live my life. No, no. Christ is the way to abundant spiritual life every day of our lives. Let's go to Him in prayer and ask His blessing our time together. Father, we come to you and we're thankful that your way is perfect, and we're going to see your way in this passage. That despite the darkness that we reside in, despite the sin that is all around us, and the fall and the effects of the fall, despite all of this. You chose through your sovereignty and your providence and your love and your mercy and your grace to establish a plan whereby you are the savior of men. And in your own perfect will and way, you save as many as who have believed. And I pray, Lord, today, that as we look into your word, that you would help us to see this great plan that we so easily take for granted in our lives. And that it would cause us to be changed. It would cause us to just seek Christ And to want to know him, that he would be preeminent in our lives. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. How do you view the world? I'm sure you are probably aware that the majority of the world views itself as pretty good Certainly they see the atrocities of the world, they see the problems of the world, and they often blame God for that. But they look at the world and people of the world and humanity and they see it getting better. And they have this very positive outlook on the world, and that we are moving forward, and We are improving and it's the world is dominating and it's robust and it's right and it's good and it's enlightened. Sometimes you hear those kinds of things. A very humanistic approach to life and the world. But that is not at all the way the Bible depicts the world. The Bible depicts the world as fallen. And as riddled with the effects of sin, and as overwhelmed with death and decay. For example, in Ephesians chapter 4, verse 17, it says, having the understanding darkened. being alienated from the life of God through the ignorance that is in them because of the blindness of their hearts. The kind of depiction here is that the world is actually not enlightened, but it is in darkness. And there is death all around, and there is fallness all around, and there is decay all around. We live in darkness. That's important for us to understand as we get into this passage. Because we find in verse 5 of this passage, and the light shineth in where? The darkness. And the darkness comprehended it not. Jesus says in verse, or it says about Christ in verse 4: In him was life. And the life was the light of men. If we are going to understand the significance of the light of men and Christ being the life and the light of men, We must remember how dark the world truly is. From every apart from the power And the plan and the wisdom of God. This world is so dark, it is so fallen, it is so f sinful, it is unredeemable. It is a dark world. Ephesians chapter 2 tells us that we are born spiritually dead. And that there is no life in us And then you have bursting forth on a scene, Christ as the light. What is it that is the light? Well, it is Christ's very life. The life of Christ is the light of men. Genesis chapter 2, verse 7, prior to the fall, it tells us this: the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground. And breathed into his nostrils the breath of what? The breath of life. And man became a living soul. But when man fell, we know that he all immediately began to decay physically. But it was worse spiritually. He died spiritually at that moment. And so the life that was breathed into him was compromised. And yet, because man was made in the image of God, there is a sense in which There was a way for that God used that aspect of man of his creation in man to be able to bring forth his plan of the life of Christ to the world. It's an amazing thing what Christ did. Actually what God did. All three of the persons of the Trinity. So the question is, what is this light and this darkness? Well I've already tipped my hand a little bit on what the darkness is. But when we're talking about this light and darkness, what we're talking about is moral good and righteousness versus moral evil. For example, in 2 Corinthians 6, verse 14, it says Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. For what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness And what communion hath light with darkness? And so when you see this concept of light and darkness in the New Testament, you can think in terms of righteousness. versus unrighteousness in its most simplistic form. And darkness blinds people, and light enlightens people, causes people to see what otherwise they would not be able to see. And we know that Christ as our light, he causes men to see what they would otherwise never see. The very life of Christ is the light of the world. Matthew chapter 4, verse 16 says that the people which sat in darkness Saw a great light, and to them which sat in the region and the shadow of death, light sprung up Ephesians chapter four, verse eighteen says, having the understanding darkened, being alienated in life of God, which I've already read. Folks, what we have here is a contrast between light and darkness. The question that would then remain is this: what is the light and how does this work in penetrating the darkness? And John is going to describe this a little bit further in John chapter 3. Would you take your Bibles and turn there for a few moments? John chapter 3, verse 19. He says this about this light. Christ here says this, and this is the condemnation. That light is come into the world. But we have a problem. And men loved what? Darkness rather than light. Why? Because their deeds were evil. For everyone that doeth evil hateth the light, neither cometh to the light, lest his deeds be reproved For he that doeth truth cometh to the light, that his deeds may be made manifest, that they are wrought in God. You have a very clear contrast between the world that is in darkness and the source of the world is darkness and sin and death And those things that are right and true are find their source in God, which the Bible says he is light. And Christ brings that light into darkness. And illumines the minds of men. Except that men, when they see the light, don't want the light because their deeds are evil. Do you see the almost the conflict that we have here? That's why John is going to later on say, No one comes to me unless I draw him. How does God do this kind of drawing? Would you take your Bibles and turn to Romans chapter 2 for a moment? I'm not going to take a long time on this, but I just want to show you very quickly how God moves in with the light of the Word of God, with the light of Christ, actually. Which would certainly include the light of the Word of God, and arrests the attention of a man of men whom otherwise would have nothing to do with the light. Well we'll pick up in verse 14. For when Gentiles which have not the law Do by nature the things contained in the law, these having not the law are a law unto themselves, which show the work of the law written in their hearts. Their conscience also bearing witness, and their thoughts the mean while accusing or else excusing one another In the day when God shall judge the secrets of men of Jesus Christ according to my gospel, behold, thou art called a Jew. And resteth in the law, and makest the boast of God, and knowest his will, and approvest the things which that are more excellent. being instructed out of the law, and art confident that thou thyself art a guide of the blind, a light of them which are in darkness, the instructor of the foolish, the teacher of Daves, which has the form of knowledge and of the truth of the law. What Paul is really saying in this passage is that there are people, and that there were Jewish people that were instructors of the law and righteous in the law. Or at least in their own external righteousness, and they they taught the law, and he says to them, You don't even need the law to know your right and know right from wrong. He says, Gentiles who have not the law do by nature the things that are in the law, and they do it with their conscience that is within them. And so this light shines in the darkness, and there is this there is this realization on the parts of certain people. We're going to get into that, how that works. Which we don't really know exactly. But the light shines in that area and they begin to see their own sin as God sees it. Now, with all of that in mind, what I want you to do is take your Bibles and turn back there to John. And I want you to notice something about chapter 1, verse 5 here. In verse 4, there's going to be a change in tense. John chapter 1, verse 4 says, In him, what's the next word? Was that's past tense, was life, and the light was the light of men. Then look at verse 5. The light shineth or shines, it's present tense now, shines in the darkness And the darkness comprehended it not. And what it means by that is this: the word comprehend, it's actually a play on words, but what it essentially means is the darkness could not overtake the light. That is, when Christ came into the world, there were many other times other things overtook the light. For example, for example, if you think of the Old Testament. And you think of the Shekinah glory in the temple, in the presence of God, both in the tabernacle and later on in the temple, when the sin of the people became so great. And the people were brought into Babylonian captivity. The Shekai of glory of God left the temple. And the presence of God left that place. But when Christ comes, and when Christ invades the darkness, the darkness can't comprehend it. It can't overtake it. It might reject it. It doesn't want it. But it can't overtake it. And so that to this day we have the light of Christ even now in the world. Through his particular means, actually. Back in the first century, when Christ came into the world, there was a forebearer. And so now John mentions the method with which he chose to have this light, to have this light shine. And we have this man by the name of John the Baptist in verse 6. It says, There was a man sent from God whose name was John. The same came for, what's the next word there, folks? The same came for a witness. That's going to be a very important word. The same came for a witness to bear witness of the light, that all men through him might believe. He was not that light. So John wasn't the light. Christ is the light. But was sent to bear witness of the light. That that was the true light which lighteth every man that cometh into the world. Now, there's a few things I want us to notice about this concept of God sending a witness. To the light. And there's an extended discussion on this in the book of John that I'd like you to turn to in John chapter 5. Would you turn there with me? John chapter 5. And I want you to see, we're going to pick up in verse 31. And I want you to see, beginning here, what Christ says here about the need for a witness. And I want you to see something that's going to be very amazing and grand. Let me pause for a minute before we set it up this way. Christ came into the world, and Christ shined his light into the darkness, and the darkness was not able to overtake it. But in God's master wise plan, God not just sent a light. But he, in his desire for men to receive that light, which we're going to get into in a few moments He sends a witness to the people. You would think, just practically, let's just think about this for a minute. If you, if some, if you uh This doesn't sound right at all, but if you were God, which you're not, and neither am I, but you're in the situation, wouldn't you think that it would be enough To just send Christ and send the light, and if they accept it, fine, and if they reject it, fine. But God goes to great lengths, great extent By which he wants this light to be able to penetrate the dark hearts of men. And so he sends this witness because he says in John chapter 5, verse 31, this. Christ says this. If I bear witness of myself, what did he say? My witness is not true. Well, what is he saying there? Well, we need to understand what a witness is. And there's going to be very specific application for us. I want to set it up this way. When you are, as a Christian, many of you have been saved for many years, and you have been told at one time or another that you need to witness. When someone says that, what do they usually mean? What they usually mean is that you need to give the information of the gospel to someone or to many people. That what you need to do is you need to disseminate the information of the gospel. That's usually what people mean. They're not say it exactly that way, but that's what they mean. You need to, hey, I witnessed to someone, that means they I gave the gospel to somebody. I communicated the gospel to somebody else And if you say, I need to be a witness, you would essentially think the same thing, I need to go around telling everybody the gospel. And certainly the Bible tells us that we need to preach the gospel actively and verbally to people around us. But let me just ask you a question: What is the primary role of the witness? Let me just suggest to you that is not primarily, and I don't want to diminish the need to preach the gospel. But it does not primarily, with this word witness, it does not primarily have to do with the with the communication of information. Not primarily What it has to do, because folks, don't we have the Word of God to do that? And we have we had Christ who came himself to tell about Himself. Nothing's better than the words of Christ to tell about himself. What the witness does is it authenticates the message. That's what the witness does. John the Baptist, when he came, was not coming to give new information. John the Baptist, when he came, was not coming to say, well, let me give you information you never heard before. Actually, the Old Testament has enough information for everybody to receive Christ. And when Christ came, his own words were enough. John the Baptist came as a witness to authenticate the message of Christ. In fact, there were five different witnesses that God gave. I mean, just consider the extent to which God desires people to be saved and to come to the light. And you're going to see this here. Verse 32, it says this: There is another that beareth witness of me. I know that the witness which he witnesses of me is true. Ye sent unto John, that's John the Baptist, and he bear witness unto the truth. But I received not the testimony of man, but these things I say that ye might believe ye might be saved. He was a burning and shining light, and ye were willing for witness to rejoice in his light. But John God didn't stop there when he sent Christ. He gave other witnesses, other authentications to the witness To the truth of Christ, both in his person and his work and his message. You find then in verse 36 another witness. He says, But I have a greater witness than that of John. For the works which the Father hath given me to finish, the same works that I do bear witness of me, and the Father hath sent me. The works there that he's talking about are the miracles, all the miracles that Christ did to authenticate the message. That's what the miracles were there for. We oftentimes have all kinds of other ideas about what those miracles are for, but we see very clearly in this passage that the miracles are to authenticate the message of Christ. Christ wanted to demonstrate that his words were true, and that his person is true, and that his work is true. But God didn't stop there. The Father himself, verse 37, which has sent me, has borne witness of me, he says. He hath neither heard his voice at any he hath neither heard his voice at any time, nor seen his shape. But in some way or another, the Father exact we're not sure how this happened, but some way or another the Father Himself bore witness on him. It is possible that what he's talking about here isn't Christ's baptism, when the Father actually says, This is my beloved Son. Hear he or believe in me. And and when he said to John in the transconfiguration, the father comes and says, Remember that? And they're all saying, hey, let's build a temple for for each one for Moses and Elijah and all that. He says, This is my beloved son. So he had in two cases there. The father actually says They never saw the Father's form or anything. They just saw the words of the Father coming down and saying, Hey, this is my son. So you have an another witness. But that's not the only witness. You have another witness that authenticates the message. When you look at verse 38. And ye have not his word abiding in you, for whom he has sent, him ye believe not. Verse 39, we've got another witness there. The scriptures are another witness For in them ye think ye have eternal life, and they are they which testify of me, and ye have not come to me, but ye that ye might have life. And then we're going to find, we won't take the time to turn there, but in Matthew chapter 5, 12 we actually have the final witness, which is the Spirit of God, the Holy Spirit. Folks, God went to such great lengths For us, for the darkness to be able to receive the light that He gave these five various witnesses. And the final witness there with the Holy Spirit, the nation of Israel rejects, and Christ says, enough is enough. He says, you've rejected all five of the witnesses that I've sent to authenticate the message, the nation of Israel. And he turns his attention then to the Gentiles. Now, what is the application for us? There is a clear application for us because we find in the book of Acts, chapter 1, verse 8, it says, When Christ leaves and the miracles leave. The person of Christ leaves and the miracles leaves and John is no longer there. And the Father is not speaking vocal or you know verbally. We have the scriptures still that are clear are our clear witness But we also have in Acts chapter 1 verse 8 it says this, but ye shall receive power after that the Holy Spirit has come upon you, that ye shall be what Witnesses. Folks, what is our job as witnesses to the light? It's to authenticate it. That is, folks, there are people that ought to look at us and say, you know, that message is true because of that life. That truth is right because I see the life behind the message. And that is convicting, isn't it? It is not enough for you just to get your 15-minute gospel message out. Make sure you get them, like get that thing said to them And then you I'm all okay, they rejected it's okay, I I did my part. And sometimes that's the way we act, don't we? I'm not suggesting, folks, that you can expect a warm reception. In fact, in most cases, Christ says you'll have tribulation when you begin to go go ahead and and preach the gospel and be the witness that you are going to be. But folks, our job is to authenticate the message of Christ. That is going to then require for us, by way of application, it's going to require for us authenticity in our lives. There ought to be a genuineness and a sincerity about the believer. And folks, I'll tell you, as I studied this, I was convicted myself There ought to be a w a genuineness and a sincerity and authenticity about our lives That we are living, I don't mean a a seamless life, or a life of of ease, or a life of No problems, but a life of eternal life, abundant life in Christ. And so in First Peter Peter as it discusses so so thoroughly there that when trials come and Difficulties we face, the world sees those difficulties, they see how we respond and handle the trials and handle the difficulties They see that those trials become an actual opportunity for us to be an authentic witness to the world of the message of Christ for them. That's why John came. That's why Christ was sent, sent John, to authenticate the message Because if you'll turn back there now and you see the extent to which God desired for people to know him, would you notice this? In fact, you're going to see several times, I just wanted you to see this several times in this um in this passage. He says, for example, in verse 7, the same came for a witness to bear witness of the light, that why? Why? That all men through him might believe. Verse 10: He was in the world, and the world was made by him, but the world knew him not. Look at verse 9. That was the true light which lighteth every man that cometh into the world. And then verse 12, but as many as receiveth, folks, do you get the idea that God is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance? There is all of course great debate over this how this all works out And whatever it is in your theology that would be specific in the redemption of an individual, let us never forget. That generally speaking, it is God's will that all men be saved, and folks, He has made every provision for it. He has offered it to all. In First John chapter two And verse 2, it says, and not for us only, but also to the whole world. And you see when it describes the world in the book of John, like John 3:16 Christ gave himself for the whole world. We're talking here about the world, about everyone. And so let us never rem never forget all of the provision and all of the extent to which Christ went and the Father went to reach into this darkness, despite the fact that light doesn't like darkness, or darkness doesn't like light. Because men's disease are evil, but God went to all of this to make all of this provision for us. It's incredible. It's amazing. I mean, why would God do this? At least humanly speaking. It isn't because of any value he sees in us. It's not because he saw a spark of divinity in us or something. It is because I don't know. I mean that's what you're left with. I mean yes, we know God loves us and he's merciful. But why? All we know is where it leaves it, and we're going to leave it, we're going to see it left here as well. In fact, I'll give you, I'll go ahead and show it to you. It's going to be left in verse 13. It says, by the will of God. I mean, the whole thing's going to be left according to God's will. It's just according to God's will. But we can stand in awe about that, can't we? Now, what I want you to do at this point is I want us to notice a couple of things. We've seen the witness that that God has made, we've seen the light of Christ. We've seen that this is to to penetrate so that and make provision that all men might come to him. But would you notice in verse In verse, picking up here in verse 10, we're now going to see how the light is received. And I want to just mention this before we get into this. Have you ever thought about this? Why it is that there are some people that don't come to Christ. They may be preached to, they may have had lives authenticate the message. They may have had the Word of God, they may know the Word of God well, and yet they never come to Christ. And there are others that seem to just immediately grasp a hold of it. Have you ever thought about the process by which some seem to reject and others seem to receive? And do you know that that is going to be a major theme throughout the book of John? You're going to see people like the woman at the well receive. You're going to be see be able to see people like Nicodemus receive John chapter 3 and John chapter 4. You're going to be able to see Different individuals. You don't you haven't seen this in the other gospels, but you're gonna see this in John, how different individuals actually receive Christ And you're going to see other individuals reject Christ. We're going to be looking and observing what John is trying to get across to us and how some people receive him and some people reject him and how that all works And he begins in this prologue. Remember this is a prologue, all the way through verse 18 is a prologue. And he begins with John is saying Some people receive, some people reject. Verse 10. He came unto his own, and his own did what? They rejected. They received him not. Who is his own? We're talking here about Jews. Okay, he came into his own, the Jewish, the nation of Israel, and his own rejected him. Verse 12. Verse 11, he came unto his own his own rejection. Oh, verse verse 10, look at that, I'm sorry. He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world did what? They didn't know him. I mean, you've got the world on one hand, he comes to the world, the whole world doesn't know him. Even though he made it, he created it. He comes to his own people, and his own people don't even recognize him, and they reject him too. What is John saying there? He is saying that all of the provision that has been made, all of the extent to which God has, in his plan, has come to redeem mankind, and the world rejects him, and his own reject him. And that's why we're going to find over in Ephesians that we've already studied that there is no difference essentially between the Jew and the Gentile, that all are equal, equally damned. And all have the opportunity and the offer of eternal life. And so that's why you have here in verse 12, but as many as what? As many as received him. It's not about the world. They rejected him. They couldn't recognize them. It's not about Israel. They rejected him. It's just individuals now. God Christ the how do people come to Christ? It's not it's not what church you belong to. It's not what religious sect you belong to. It's not even what denomination you belong to. It's not but it's not it's not any That it is The Spirit of God and the Word of God penetrating the heart of the individual and bringing him, pulling him out of the darkness to bring him into light. It's but as many as received him. Now I want you to notice this. This is just incredible. John is so careful. You remember how last week we saw how careful John was with the wording of all of of this to make sure that Jesus is not seen as just a part of God, but the He is all of God, and yet he is distinct in his person from the Father. I mean we saw how w Carefully John Worthy is, of course, under the inspiration of the Spirit of God. He's going to be just as careful with Helping us understand how people come to Christ, he's going to be as equally careful. Would you notice here what he says? He says, But as many as received him, to them gave you the power, the ability. Who gave the ability? Christ gives the ability, again gave you the power, to become the what? Where are they going to become? The sons of God. They're going to become children of God. Okay? That's the goal. That's what's happening. Even them that but what what needs to happen? Even that them that believe on his name. Okay, just pause here for a minute. Who Before someone comes to Christ, do they have any ability to come to Christ? They have no ability. Folks, the New Testament clearly teaches total inability. There is no ability for someone to come to Christ apart from the work of God. And so they were given the ability. You see that there? The word power just means ability. To as many as received him, to them gave you the ability to become the sons of God. What is what is our role in that? Believe on his name. But lest you think that the anything of you Lest you think that it's of your own mustering up your own will, lest you think for a minute that you have any self-effort in this at all, he then is going to come back to you on verse 13 and he says this Which were born not of what? Not of the blood, not of blood, nor of what? Nor of the will of man Nor of the will of the flesh, or the will of man, nor of the will of man, but who? The will of who, folks? God's will. It's incredible. Alright, let's just follow this. Here's what he's saying. He's saying that those who receive Christ have been given the ability to receive him. And they have believed on him. But lest you think that it's your mustering up your own will to believe on him, you need to understand it's not your will, it's God's will who believes. It leaves you with salvation being entirely a work of God. Now, do you have a role? You certainly do. You've got to believe. It is an accurate, it is so accurate, uh at least I think it is, a really accurate illustration. Every illustration breaks down, so to me it's just really accurate. Um Where you think of a a a doorway and salvation is the doorway and you're looking at the thing and you're saying It says, Whosoever will shall come, or something like that. Believe in the name of the Lord thou shalt be saved. And so you are going to believe and you walk through that door. And on the other end of that door, you look back and you say, Chosen before the foundation of the world. That's how it ought to be. I get real nervous. I'm just going to tell you, I get real nervous when you talk to somebody about your salvation and you say and they say even by accident they say, oh yeah, I did that That's dangerous. I didn't do anything. If I'm truly saved by the working of God in my life, I'm looking back and going, God did that. God saved me. It's not I did that. And sometimes the way that we present the gospel gives people the indication that if you do this, if you pray a prayer, if you Usually that's it, pray prayer. That's normally what people say in our circles. Then you are no, no, no. It's not about you. It's about Christ. It's about God by the will of him saving you. Now, I think at this point I would be very remiss if I did not present the offer that Christ clearly does in this passage. And I want to present it this way. Way. I'm not going to suggest to you today that what you need to do is pray a prayer to be saved. What I'm going to ask you is do you see do you by something outside of yourself do you see your own sin And do you see that your sin is defensed against a holy God? Do you see that? Do you see that you fall short of God's glory? Do you see it? If you don't see it. Very candidly, if you don't see it, God's not working on your life. You need to see that The Word of God says it. The Word of God bears witness to the fact that all, the Bible says, all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. And maybe there's somebody in this room that for the first time you are really seeing your own sin And I guarantee you it's God working in your life. If you see it. And do you see that Christ is the provision for that? That the wages of sin is physical and spiritual death. Physical death eventually, spiritual death immediately. Spiritual death is eternal separation from God. But Jesus Christ died in your place so that he could give you his life. As his substitute. And maybe you're saying today, boy, I have never realized that Jesus died To pay the punishment for my sin. I never realized that he died in my place, that I should I'm spiritually dead. Jesus died in my place so I could be given life because Christ rose from the grave And if you're saying, I've never realized that before, I've never really in my heart, the Bible says, I've believed in my heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. I've never believed that in my heart before, then today is a day where you need to believe and trust it. And confirm that in your mind. And if you are, if God is working on you, let me just encourage you this way. Need to come and talk. Please come and talk to me. I'd be glad to give you further instruction on this. Or come and talk or talk to somebody else that you know knows the Bible. And you know will give you instruction on the gospel because Because very candidly, it is not about what you do to save yourself. It's not about a decision you have made. It's about what God has done for you in Christ. There is a time where, aren't you glad, for those of us those of you who know Christ, those of us who know Christ as Savior, aren't you glad it has nothing to do with you Because none of us would come to Christ. Isn't that true? None of us would come to Christ if it had something to do with us. It's all about what Christ did for us. And we can glorify him. Does your view of Christ and His Word include the reality that Christ went to great lengths to be your Savior? I mean, do you think about the lengths, the extent to which Christ went to be your Savior and all the plan of the Father to do this? Do you ever view your own salvation as something that you have done? Is God drawing you to yourself, to Himself? Let's pray. Lord, we thank you. I pray that perhaps today For those of us who do know you, we've seen this anew and afresh. It is essentially a simple message. I pray that if there is anyone there there is anyone here that thinks they know you But doesn't truly know you, that you would show them that. That they would understand their sin. And they're in need of a savior. And they would come to you. Thank you, Lord, for sending your Son to die for us, to live a life for us, for to shed his light in the world that was so dark. And it is sterile, it is so dark to this day. And I pray that you would help us as witnesses to authenticate the light. We need you for this. It's going to require for us a daily walk with you. May we be the vessels that you want us to be in this area And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen