John eighteen John Christ has been arrested in the Garden of Gethsemane. And he is about to await trial. He is about to go into his trial, his first pretrial, if you will, by a man who was formerly the high priest Annas. This family, Annas and Caiaphas, along with four other men who were the sons of Annas. Caiaphas being the son-in-law of Annes was a very corrupt family that had held power over the high priesthood for some time. When I was studying this text and looking over it and seeing the level of corruption, which we'll get into in a few moments, it did cause me to think about just how corrupt things really are. And I wrote a short list of some of the things I I thought of corruption, what are some of the things that I just immediately thought of. For me, the first thing I thought of was cancer. Cancer is the corruption of otherwise ordinary cells and the body and they take over uh usu uh if they're not you know if they're not dealt with. The next one I thought was the government When I thought of corruption. And of course, if you're following the news at all, um regardless of what side of the various issues you are on, probably the one thing we can all agree on is that there is a lot of corruption. Uh I thought of the I don't know why I thought of this, but I thought of computer viruses. And they corrupt computers. It's really annoying. And then just sickness and disease is a corruption of the fall. Really, when you think of what where corruption is, it really affects nearly every aspect of our lives. Corruption can affect our vocation. Corruption can affect our families. Corruption can affect our churches. Corruption is a real problem, isn't it? Where does corruption come from? Why does corruption occur? Well, generally, corruption occurs because of sin. Is that not right? If you have no sin, you have no corruption. The more sin you have, the more corruption you have. Corruption is is a complicated mess of things usually. When you think of Righteousness. There is no corruption in righteousness. And things are simpler. They're often less complicated. The more corruption you have, the more sin you have, the more complicated things get, and you're going to find that Jesus has six different trials Because things are so complicated because there's so much corruption. Corruption occurs usually because of two components that mix together to make corruption One is greed, and the other is fear of loss. If you think of various corruption and think of our government, for example. How much greed is involved even in our federal government? How much of fear of loss is there? When you think of politics, a lot of the decisions that are made are are political pressure is placed because people are afraid of losing their position. of losing their office and they make legislative decisions based upon losing their position rather than what would be best for the country You have corruption when you have that, and corruption is rampant. And of course, there is pragmatism in that decision because people think to themselves, well, if I'm not in office, I can't do more good. And so they have to compromise. Well, compromise often is part of corruption. And so you have greed with the fear of loss. Greed is just wanting more of something. Or sometimes we're so w we we go past greed because, you know, the height of greed is when you have everything and then you're afraid of losing things. You're afraid of what you lost what you have. That's why Roman emperors and Greek emperors of old, uh, they were at the top, but they be often became very paranoid of losing power. Because once you're at the top and you have all the power, the only thing left to pursue is keeping it. And so you have this kind of corruption going on in this text, this kind of greed and corruption. And it caused me to ask the question, why? Why does John describe things this way? Why is it that the trials of Christ were so corrupt? And I think in part, it is because as Jesus goes into these corrupt trials, As people that were closest to h him, like Peter, denies him three times. It causes Us to look at all of this and to say, this is the kind of thing for which Christ died. He died for sin. He died because we are so corrupt. And the only thing that was going to redeem us is the blood of Christ, which cleanseth us from all sin. He took upon the sin of the world so that He could He could. uh give us his righteousness and we could have eternal life. So what we see here is a picture. Of what happens when sin takes over. And we see this in two different veins that happen at the same time. John does this in kind of a unique way. It's called juxtaposing when this happens. Basically you have two stories that are over trying to overlap because they're happening at the exact same time, and you see this where there are four different scenes. This is sort of a unique way of doing this. Some of the other gospels don't do it this way. Clear reason, you're going to see an abrupt change from uh the setting of the trial, then over to Peter, then back to the trial, and then over to Peter again. And the reason that he does this is that he is going to show The corruption that takes place on two different veins, and how sin works in two different ways. On the one hand, sin is in the world, and sin corrupts the world. But on the other hand, a follower of Christ also can experience corruption to the point that he is going to deny Christ. There's no question, as we'll learn in this text, there's no question about Peter's own loyalty to Christ. He was prior to this loyal to him, and he did love Christ. We find that to be the case in John 12 when he's asked about his love. Peter loved Christ. But Peter, in his own life, Did not prepare for the temptation that he was about to undergo. And because of that, he fell to the temptation of denial of Christ. And we're going to learn all about how all this works. But what we're going to also see is God's sovereignty in all of it. That ultimately all of this corrupt, dark, sinful time right before the death of Christ is going to bring about the death of Christ. And the death of Christ is a point at which some people felt as though Satan won. But actually God is the victor, isn't he? And he brought through all of this eternal life to us all. So with that in mind, we pick up in verse 12, but before we get into the text, let's go to the Lord and ask his help on studying all of this. Father, as we come to you, we pray, Lord, that you would help us. To see sin and its corruption. And it would cause us to be grateful for your great grace And Lord, would you also show us and teach us from Peter's life How he fell and denied you three times. May we learn what we need to learn in our own lives to keep from doing the same. Father, we pray, Lord, that you would just bless this time as we study this text. Give us clarity of thinking. And I pray, Lord, I really pray, Lord, that these things would We would not just listen to them and learn them and then walk away, but we really would be a doer of the word and not a hearer only. That the truth of this text would transcend into our lives and be ingrained into our hearts. It would last into next week and into next year and into our lives. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, we pick up in verse 12 where Jesus is being arrested by a cohort of Roman soldiers. And there it says in the text are are the officers of the Jews, the Jews being the religious John has used this term Jews throughout um throughout the book of John in various ways, but primarily when he says the Jews, he is usually actually talking about Jewish leaders. And so they are there, and it says that they took Jesus and they bound him. Now, it may have been that they were concerned that he would have escaped or something like that, but there is a sense of humility to this as well. Jesus is bound and they want to humiliate him to show to show that he is simply a common criminal, even though it's very unlikely that he did any kind of resisting based upon the previous text. Verses 13 and 14 say, and led him away to Annas first, for he was father-in-law of Caiaphas, which was the high priest that same year. Now Caiaphas was he that gave counsel to the Jews that it was expedient that one man should die for the people. So Christ is sent ab is is uh presented before this man Annas. Anas was a very corrupt man. He was a man who was a high priest. In fact, he was the last high priest that was selected by the nation of Israel. Caiaphas, who was after him and the other, they were actually uh they would take turns uh several uh maybe they were supposed to only stay in in office one year, but Caiaphas Turns out I think he stayed, I believe it was like nine or nine to twelve years, somewhere around there. But uh the way that it ended up working was when I when Annas was the high priest, he was the high priest from eighty six to eighty fifteen And a ba a man by the name of Valerius Grat Gratus, which was Pilate's predecessor, deposed him because he didn't want him to gain too much influence and too much power. This is common among the Roman Empire in order to maintain power, they would depose people that before they gained too much power. But under Mosaic let Mosaic legislation in the book of Numbers, chapter 25, verse 13, the high priesthood was supposed to be a lifetime uh a lifetime position. So the nation of Israel very likely Still thought of Anis as the real high priest. And that's why you have in this text, on one hand, John says that Caiaphas is the high priest during that year. And another time in the text, it actually cites Annes as being the high priest. They were both essentially high priests, but the Caiaphas was the Roman-selected high priest for the nation of Israel. Annas and his family, even though they were sort of sort of an interesting thing, even though Annas was deposed, uh, the Romans uh for a good amount of time decided to keep people that were related to Annas in power. So he had, I believe it was five four or five sons, and Caiaphas was his son-in-law. So basically what you ended up having was this family, even though Annis wasn't in charge, this family that remained in power. And they liked that power. Annas was a man who probably retained a great deal of influence. And some of the things that we need to understand about this text is that this was a real corrupt situation. In fact, this family was so corrupt that they would bribe various Roman governments with various expensive gifts. So that they would be able to retain their power. You say, well, how do they do this? Well, they did this by charging exorbitant rates for sacrifices as Jewish people came in to offer their sacrifices to the Lord in the temple. In fact, it was said that outside of the temple precinct there were these booths that were set up called and and it was like it was called Anis Bazaar in one place in one one text that I read. And there were all these booths set up to buy sacrifices, and even within the temple courts, this was occurring, and they were gouging the nation of Israel. to provide the prophet for them to be able then to provide gifts for these Roman govern government officials, then it would cause them to be able to remain in power. But not only that, they also became very wealthy. So you have the Sanhedrin as well as the high priest who was probably the president of the Sanhedrin. We don't know that for sure. We don't know whether Caius was. It's possible that Anis Annis remained. the president of the Sanhedrin. But either way, you had a leadership that was very corrupt. They were pragmatic in their dealings with the Roman Guard. They had figured out a Roman uh uh Roman nation They had figured out how to work with intimate retain power, and they were very greedy as well. When Christ comes on the scene, What does he do to that temple? Do you remember in chapter 2 of John, and he does it later on, right before all of this happens, we find that there are two temple cleansings. He goes in and he turns over the money changers. Well, from that background, you would then understand why. There was so much corruption taking place in the temple. And Christ said that you have made God's house a den of thieves. They were stealing from the people. They were robbing from the poor to give to the rich. Robbing from the rich to give to the poor is wrong too, but it seems to be even wrong. More bad. Badly something. In order to do the other the the exact opposite. And so that's what you have as you come to this text. John points out in chapter 4, in verse 14 of this text that Caiaphas had had said that it would be expedient for one man to die for the sins of the people. John is reminding us of a text that he has already mentioned. in just a few chapters back in chapter 11. So I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn there to John chapter 11 to help us to understand what is going on here. We have here picking up in verse 47 of chapter 11, the high priests are concerned because Jesus is gaining popularity. It says that he is doing many, many miracles. At the end of the book of John, we find that the that it says that the words cannot contain all of what he did. Because he did so many miracles and so many signs. And so he was gaining popularity. And as you might expect from the corruption of the high priesthood at this point, they were very concerned. They thought they might lose power, that there might be a revolt. In fact, they were concerned that Christ would lose power, or could Christ would gain power. And that that they would actually end up losing power because the Roman guard would just get rid of everybody, all those that were in uh in influencing everything. The Romans would do that. So they were very concerned about this man Jesus. And they were also concerned because Jesus was constantly, if you'll recall, Jesus was constantly saying things like, you know, your white sepulchres with dead men's bones. To the Pharisees. And they didn't like that very much. So we have real animosity that is building for these Jewish Jewish leaders. toward Christ. And it was also and something else about the Romans and how they they occupied areas and kept power On the one hand, they wanted to make sure that nobody would gain too much influence, but if there was a leader or a ruler that really was disliked by the people, that was really re the people would rebel against that ruler, they would depose him as well. In other words, they would choose leaders that would both not have too much influence, but have enough influence to keep the peace. And so if Jesus rose in power here, they were concerned that the Romans would just get rid of all of them. Now, with all of that in mind, let's pick up here in verse 47. Then the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered a council and said, What shall we do? For this man works many signs. If we let him alone like this, everyone will believe in him. And the Romans will come and take away both of our place, notice what it says, our place and our nation. They were concerned that this would destroy the nation, but they were also concerned about that destroy their place. Now it's interesting. John doesn't mince words. He is very concise in the way that he speaks throughout his book. And there's some debate as to what the word place means. Most agree that the place is probably referring to the temple. Of course, this would not be the first time they would be concerned that the temple would be at risk. In the past, pre rulers have uh desecrated the temple. If you remember, Alexander the Great went in and and desecrated the temple many years prior. And so they would be concerned about this. Herod's temple, which is what the temple is here, was actually the third third temple. You had Solomon's temple You had Zerubbabel's temple, which was a kind of a meagerly temple, but it was a temple that was rebuilt uh af after the Roman captivity, or Babylonian captivity. And now you have Herod's temple, which was the largest of all the temples And they're concerned about this. And it may be that they're also concerned along, probably is, not just the place of the temple, but their own place of position. Since their place of position was so tied to the temple, if you lose your temple, you're essentially losing your position as well. And so that's what they were concerned about. In other words, folks, they were they were it w the problem was there was a fear of loss. They had learned to enjoy great wealth and great influence, and they were fearing loss of all of this. Then we have Caiaphas. They're really worried about this. They're all concerned about this. They're sort of fretting about this. And Caiaphas says this to them. He was probably not known for his diplomacy, as you'll see. And one of them, Caiaphas, being high priest that year, said to them, You know nothing at all. How would you like to you don't know nothing. He said, nor do you consider that it is expedient for us That one man should die for the people, and not that the whole nation should should perish. He said, This is obvious. You've got to put Jesus to death. Now, this was irony when he said this. And what we find in this text was that as he was in his evil intentions trying to get rid of Christ This was actually ordained by God that he would say this. Notice what he says here, verse 51. Now this He did not say on his own authority. Of course, he thought it was his own authority, but it wasn't his own authority. But being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus would die for the nation. And not for the nation only, but also he would gather together in one the children of God who were scattered abroad Now, let's not make any mistake about this, and I want to be very clear about this. John is again, as he is many times before. He is again pointing out that the sin of the people of the nation of Israel and of the sin of the high priest here in this passage, God is going to use for his glory. You can't get around it. You can't get past it. We find it hard to believe that that's possible. How could an offense against God be used for God's purposes? That's how great God is. He's so great that he can do that. And we ought not question that We look at life and we look at corruption and we look at sin and we ought to look at all that and we could say and we can be concerned and we can be upset, but candidly we ought to be able to say that God in the end will use all of it for his glory. And we've got to believe that. We see this so clearly in this text, this irony that teaches us of the sovereignty of God over all things. It was not by surprise that Caiaphas said these words. And very frankly, the corruption that we see on every level in our world today. does not bring God by surprise either. And we must believe in the sovereignty of God, that He has a plan to do all of this. Well, after all of this in John chapter 11, we see that that that was the point that they began their plot to kill Christ. We see that clearly in verses 53 and 54. Now, turn now back to John 18, just a few chapters back. Forward here, a few chapters forward. And you're going to see then an abrupt change John intends on purpose. You would think that after verse 14, you would then begin to hear a description of what took place at the trial of Anis, this first of six trials. But that's not what happens. John doesn't do that. John is going to switch gears now, and he wants to point out that at the same time what is happening inside The trial, there is something going on outside of the trial that we need to know about. And so he says in verse 15: and Simon Peter followed Jesus. And so did another disciple. That disciple was known unto the high priest, and went in with Jesus into the palace of the high priest. So, Simon Peter, it says, and with another disciple, he followed Jesus. This other disciple, I have no doubt in my mind that this is John himself, the writer of this gospel. We find that John never in his gospel speaks of himself. He never names himself. He always says the disciple whom Christ loved or some other term like that. But he uses this exact exact term in John chapter 20, verses 2 through 10, which we won't take the time to look at. So this other disciple, I think, is very obviously John. This has been by some that have suggested that there's no way that John would have had the connections to the Sanhedrin that allowed him to be able to get into uh into the precincts where they were and to allow Peter to be able to do that, John a lowly fisherman, never would have been able to do that. But as re- as it's been researched actually rather heavy heavily, John the son of Zebedee was Zebedee was a man who was wealthy enough to have hired servants, according to Mark 120. And both of the sons of Zebedee were concerned about status and pr prestige in Mark 10, 35 through 45. We find that John's mother appears in the same light in Matthew 20, verses 20 through 28. So it is very likely, and actually, uh Eusebius, a church f church father, mentions that John, the son of Zebedee, may actually have been part of the priesthood. Now, all of this is a little bit of conjecture, but the bottom line is there really isn't any reason to believe that this isn't John, and so I'm quite confident that this is John. So John enters in with Jesus into the court of the high priest, and he enters and he obtains clearance for Peter to be able to get into that precinct as well. Now, let me just mention some things about Peter. I think before we start we start destroying Peter's character, which is going to, he's going to do that for himself here in a few minutes. Um we need to really think about we need to actually put a little bit of a good light on Peter for a few moments. All how many disciples did Christ have? Well, he had twelve, one left and really wasn't a discipline essentially with Judas. Then you have so you have only two that followed Christ. Mark probably probably the case that Mark initially followed. In his gospel, he seems to indicate that. And then And then it didn't last long because actually they grabbed him when he was going for an arrest, they grabbed him and took his clothing and he ran off without a lot of clothes on actually. interesting passage. But um but uh so mark may have been originally going with them but he didn't go so it was just John and Peter as far as we know We know that Nicodemus, who wasn't one of the twelve, he probably would have been there as well. But anyway, so we've got John and Peter here. And Peter was a pretty loyal guy when you think about it. For example, John chapter 6, verses 67 through 68 say this. Then Jesus said to the 12, Do you also want to go away? He had a crowd that was leaving him. And Simon Peter said, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life. You have this great statement by Peter, this great statement of loyalty by him. And again, John 13, verses 37 through 38. It says, Peter said unto him, Lord, why can I not follow thee now? I will lay down my life for thy sake. Jesus answered, Wilt thou lay down my life for thy sake? Verily, verily I say unto thee The cock shall not crow till thou hast denied me three times. And then in Mark 14, verse 31, it says And he spake more vehemently, if I should die with thee, I will not deny thee any wise. Likewise also said they all. He Peter, in fact, led the group in loyalty to Christ, in saying, I'll die for you. I will not give up on you. I won't do it. Peter demonstrated a lot of loyalty. And imagine all the other disciples stayed back completely. They didn't follow at all. But Peter did follow. He along with John followed. Why did he follow? Well, Matthew 26, verse 58 tells us as in a parallel passage that he followed at a distance. to the high priest's court, courtyard, and he went in and sat with the servants to see the end, it says, to see the result, to see what would happen. He was both loyal and he was concerned, he was curious, he was interested, he was engaged My folks, the point I'm simply making here before we get into the denials of Peter is that Peter is not all bad. It's not like Judas. Judas was all bad. He was taken over by Satan. Judas went to his own place, the Bible says. Judas did not know Christ. But you have here in this passage and who has demonstrated love for Christ, who has demonstrated a love of faith in Christ. He's demonstrated loyalty to Christ, but now he is going to fall. He is going to falter. He is going to fail. Verse sixteen But Peter stood at the door without then went out that other disciple which was known unto the high priest, and spake unto him that kept the door, and brought in Peter Then said the damsel that kept the door unto Peter, Art thou uh Art not thou also one of the mo of the man's disciples? He said, I am not Peter's first denial. Verse 18, and the servants and officers stood there. One had made a fire of coals. For it was cold. And they warmed themselves, and Peter stood with them and warmed himself. Now the reason that John probably mentions this detail. He's the only one that mentions that it's a fire of coals or a charcoal fire, if you will. John is going to give us a unique perspective because John is a an W uh as far as we can tell, the only white eyewitness of the four gospels that eyewitnessed everything, even to the death of Christ. He was there to take up take Mary's uh as a responsibility from Christ. as Christ was dying on the cross. So John has a very unique perspective, very eyewitness perspective perspective. But why would John mention this detail, the probably the he mentions this detail to note that this was at night This was when it was cold, and it wasn't usually cold during the Passover season except at night. And in the Middle East, it does they have warm days and usually cold nights during this time of year. And it was apparently cold, so they needed to start a fire, and he was warming himself by the fire. This was demonstrating this sort of night scene. Now that's significant for this reason. Trials were illegal at night. This was an illegal trial that was taking place. It was es it's estimated that it was taking place around 2 a. m. in the morning. And so this was totally illegal for them to do this. Now the reason that they probably did and not even probably the reason that they did this was because they didn't want to take Jesus during the day because they recalled Not too much earlier, how he goes through with palm branches into the into the uh uh into the city and everybody is is proclaiming him as as the Savior. To save their people politically. So he had great popularity among the people, and so they they probably felt quite inclined to do this at night. Such is the way of pragmatism. When we have greed and we have fear of loss and there is corruption, the end will justify the means, as clearly it does in this case. Of course, something else that is obvious that occurs here as we pick up here in the third scene in verse 19. Is that uh it says in verse 19, the high priest, this is talking about Annas, not Caiaphas, then asked Jesus of his disciples Now this another was something else that was also very strange This was strange for Annas to ask this question of Christ, what about your disciples, and what about your doctrine? Because at trials, the person who was guilty was, or the person who was tried was not asked questions. They were required to bring in witnesses. Now, because Annas was not technically the Roman high priest, he may not have really considered himself to be the actual high priest. And so he took the liberty, we could say in a sense this was a pre-trial, but it was still illegal on every level. It was something that should never have actually happened. Here he is questioning Jesus when when there was an official arrest and what should have taken place is witnesses should have come in order to uh in order to to uh uh uh corroborate his his uh illegal activity. Now I'll mention this as well just as a side note. Um if you take time to read through the entire account of the trials, we did this Um not the entire thing, but we we did parts of this at the uh at a Bible study this week on Wednesday n on Wednesday at the at CCBC. I went through all uh we went through all the trials. um and read through them basically as a as a group of of uh people there. It is crazy all the all the things they violate as far as leg legalities and everything. It is corrupt. It's just crazy. Well, the crazy starts here. And you'll see what I what I mean in just a moment here. Picking up here in verse 20, Jesus answered him. By the way, he's going to say nothing about his disciples. Why? Because he's going to protect his disciples. He's not even interested in having that discussion. So he immediately answers the second question about his doctrine, and he says this this. I spake openly to the world, and I ne uh I ever taught in the synagogue and in the temple. Whether the jerk Jews always resort, and in secret have I said nothing. So he says, look, my testimony, my doctrine, my teaching is open. Everybody knows what I teach. He says verse 21, why askest thou me? Why did he say why why did he ask the question? They weren't supposed to be asking him. Essentially is saying, why aren't you bringing in witnesses and asking them what I teach? That's the way a trial is supposed to be done. In a sense, in summary form, Jesus is asking for a legal trial. He's saying, let's be legal about this. Ask them which heard me what I have said unto them. Behold, they know what I said. And when he had spoken thus, and when he had thus spoken, one of the officers which stood by struck Jesus with the palm of his hand, saying, Answerest thou the high priest so? Now this is interesting, isn't it? He goes in what was supposed to be a legal trial, which wasn't legal, and strikes him. For answering the question this way. All Jesus was doing was pointing out you need to bring in witnesses. Jesus was not being disrespectful here He was simply saying, why would you ask me this? Would uh ever everybody know other people you can you can bring in other witnesses to see what I taught And yet, out of frustration, out of anger, this man hits him. Now I'll just note a couple of things about this. Number one, this man Has experienced the corruption of everybody else. And when you live in greed and corruption, and you've got to have your own way and you're fearing loss, you do irrational things, you lash out in anger. And that's what this man has done. But something else I would just note about this as well in this passage as he strikes Jesus. is that he is uh and it says he does this as the palm of his hand, he says, Answerest thou the high priest so He has this sort of semblance of righteous anger here. Like he is justified for doing this. You know we do that with our anger? We find we we lash out in frustration and in anger and we do something out of anger and we are very quick to justify ourselves. Well I had a right to do that or say that. Because he did this and he did that And we always somehow are able, for our conscience sake, to get that righteous anger thing in there. That's just an observation I would make. That's what he has done here basically. He's saying, how can you do this to the high priest, how can you say this to the high priest? out of righteous anger, even though Christ was really not being disrespectful. Then we have in verse 22, verse 23 rather, it says, Jesus answered him. Now, this is just, you know, Jesus is perfect and he's all wise and like his answers are just confounding, right? So this is what he says. If I have spoken evil, bear witness of the evil. In other words, he's saying, if I've spoken evil here, you got me. If I've said something wrong, well, you've got your witness. But he says, but if I've spoken right, he said, so don't be angry, you got what you want. But he says, but if well, why would you hit me? Can you I mean I almost see a little it's not funny, but I I just sort of go, he's so way above these guys. I mean he's just looking at all this as a you know he can just confound them so quickly uh with his speech and what he says here and these questions that he asks. And and he and they have and you know what happens? What happens? And it's like I'm done with you. I got nothing else to say. I'm done. You know. I can almost sort of see the frustration all these guys' faces. They can't even get anything out of him. They can't get dirt on him. They can't they're trying. They they can't even do that. And so verse 24, now Annas had sent him bound unto Caiaphas the high priest. He said, all right, this is Caiaphas' problem. I'm going to send him down the road to Caiaphas. Caiaphas was, of course, the legal high priest of the time. Now, that's all you see there in this passage, and now he's going to switch back. He's going to switch back to Peter. And there are a lot of things I could say about this point, but I I I guess what I will just say I guess I what I will just say with regard to the trials. It's simply that these trials really do depict sin. On every level. There's nothing right about what happened there in Annis' trial It is a vivid illustration for us of the very sin that Christ is going to die for. And in so doing, shows his sovereignty over all. Now, then we pick up again, we're going to change scenes here to scene four, and we're going to pick up again on Peter's denial, his second and third denial. Verse 25, and Simon Peter stood and warmed himself. It's the exact same phrasing that we saw previous to this. And the reason that John uses this same phrasing is it's like he wants to pick up right here where he left off to show that this was a simultaneous event that occurred. They said therefore, so at the same time, if you sort of picture it, at the same time that Jesus is asking for witnesses, Peter's out denying him. So he says this. They said therefore unto him, Art not thou also one of his disciples? He denied it and said, I am not. Then verse 26, one of the servants of the high priest being known being his kinsman, whose ear Peter cut off. Now why would P why would John include that? So this is a family member of the of the uh of the guy uh Malchus, who's named in the previous passage Whose ear was cut off. This is a family member of that guy. And he recognizes him. Maybe he was there at the arrest. Probably was. And uh it says, Did not I see that thee in the garden with him? Verse 27 So why would he mention that? Well, Peter's a little fear here going on, doesn't he? He's he's he's fearing vengeance or retaliation for cutting the guy's ear off And that's why he mentions that. So at a very surface level, we're going to get into a deeper level of what Peter's problem is. At a very surface level, Peter's problem is fear of man, isn't it? Okay. The Bible says the fear of man is a reproach and a snare. And we see in this passage that Peter's problem is that he is being ensnared by the fear of man, which is much more powerful. In person. In other words, you look ahead to a situation and you don't think you're all that going to be all that scared. You get in the middle of the situation and suddenly the fear of man kicks in. Uh a good example of this is is public speaking. You know public speaking is is one of the most um it's supposed to be like the the causes the most stress of any activity, like number one, I think. Well, you don't you know you think if somebody's standing up in front of somebody and talking, no big deal, right? Well then go and do it. Okay And for some some of us that do it all the time, it you just end up learning to act like a fool and you don't care anymore. But but for the rest, uh most people, you know, it's a fearful thing. You start you sort and there it's sort of this fear of man. We are Like it's it's in us to be afraid of man. Verse 37, Peter then denied again, and immediately the cock crew Now, folks, as much as we mention the loyalty of Peter, we have to mention here the great failure of Peter in this passage. Peter didn't deny once and say, oh man, I've messed up. I can't do this anymore. I need to repent now. It wasn't until he denied Christ three times. Folks, is a picture of our own sin, is it not? Every time we sin, we deny Christ. But the truth of the matter is, this is the picture for us to demonstrate that once somebody comes to Christ, once someone is a follower of Christ, Peter was a legitimate follower of Christ. There's no denying that. Once somebody does that, they are still prone to falter. They can still sing the song. We can all sing the song. Prone to wander, Lord, I feel it, prone to leave the God I love. And Peter, in a moment of temptation, left the God he loves. And we see the darkest of the darkness here in the corruption of the world, but we see the corruption of one of his own followers who denies him at Jesus' greatest time of need. And we better ask the question, why? Why did Peter do this? Was there any indicators that this was going to happen? Was Peter caught off guard? Certainly he was, but we need to take some time and look at the life of Peter. Peter and look at why this occurred in Peter's life. This is absolutely vitally important for us to understand. So what led to Peter's downfall? You think about past. Every one of us, if we are honest with ourselves, we can look at our past even after coming to Christ, and we can think of times where we failed. We faltered. We fell. Why did Peter fall here? And I'd like to point out several observations. Number one One of the problems was that Peter didn't know himself. He didn't know himself. You remember the illustr the the narrative where Peter is is in the boat and there's a great storm and Christ comes and he's walking on the water. And Peter thinks he's got enough faith to to to go out there if Christ calls to stand on the on the storm. I mean obviously he knew how powerful Christ is He knew that he could make, you know, the the faith in Christ wasn't the problem. The problem with him was he didn't know himself. And so he goes out there, and it says in verse 30, when he saw the wind was boisterous, he was afraid. To think out saying, Lord, save me. Peter didn't know himself, he didn't even know his own fear. In times of safety, he couldn't look ahead and say, I am weak. In times of safety, he was convinced he was strong. Instead of realizing his own weakness. And we see that clearly illustrated in that passage in Matthew 14, verses 38 through 30. Peter didn't know himself. And I'll just tell you this, when you come to Christ and when you grow in Christ, you need to begin to know yourself. You need to we need to know our weaknesses. We need to know our strengths. And your strength might be someone else's weakness. And someone else's weakness might be your strength. And you've got to know the difference. Sometimes we have certain standards in our lives. certain things, protections that we know ourselves well enough to say, you know what, I'm not going to go there. I'm not going to do that. And others may, and I cannot, because I just know my own weakness in that area. Folks, a sign of maturity is not that you have no weakness. A sign of maturity is knowing that you have weakness and knowing where they are and not going there. So Peter's downfall was because he didn't know himself. Number two. And this really goes right along with it. And this is far worse. Peter thought he knew himself better than Christ knew him. Would you notice? In fact, I'd like you to go ahead and take your Bibles and turn there. Mark chap uh go to Mark 14 for a moment. Mark 14, and we're going to look at verse 27 through 29. This is an account in both Luke and Mark, but we'll look at Mark here. He says, then Jesus said to them, All of you will be made to stumble because of me this night. He says, everybody's going to be made to stumble. Everybody's going to falter. It is written, I will strike the shepherd, and the shepherd will be scattered, and the sheep will be scattered scattered. But after I have been raised, I will go before you in Galilee. I mean, Christ says you are all going to stumble. What does Peter say? Even if all are made to stumble, yet I will not be. Well, what part of all did Peter not understand? Peter looked at the whole situation and he, in the safety of his own environment, looked at the whole situation and says, You know what he said? Jesus, I know better than you. I know myself better than you. Do you and I ever do that? And the answer is we certainly do. When the Spirit of God convicts you of sin, When the Spirit of God says you have that problem, when you're reading the Word of God, or you're under the preaching of the Word of God, or you're listening to the teaching of the Word of God, And the Spirit of God smites you and convicts you, and you in your own stubbornness say, No, I don't have that problem. You are saying that you know yourself better than God knows you, and you're putting yourself in a place of failure. We do this all the time. We don't want to think that we're weak. We don't want to think that we don't have strength. We don't want to think that we would be in we would have problems. We want to be strong. And there's a mixed motive in there. I mean, I'm loyal to Christ. I would never deny Christ. Christ, I'll never deny you. But in so doing, in a very subtle way, he is saying, I know myself better than you know me. Brothers and sisters in Christ, when the conviction of the Spirit comes in your life, you need to say, okay, Lord, you know me better than I know myself. We need to submit to the to the conviction of the Spirit of God in our own hearts We need to realize our own weaknesses. We need to address them. We need to deal with them instead of saying, I don't have that weakness. Or ignoring what God is wanting to do in our lives. Peter thought that he knew himself better than Christ knew him. This is absolutely important for us to understand. And really, folks, in James 1, verses 22 through 23, it says this, and this really goes along with this. Verse 22 says, but be doers of the word and not hearers only, deceiving your own, deceiving your own selves. For if any be a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like unto a man beholding his natural face in a glass. It's like somebody looking in a mirror, seeing who he is, and then turning away and forgetting. I know better than what I'm seeing in the mirror. And when we do that, we are deceiving our own selves Number three, Peter looked to himself for security rather than looking to Christ. We see this in Luke 22. And it says, the Lord says, Simon, Simon, indeed, Simon, Satan has asked for you that he may sift you as wheat. But I have prayed for you, that your faith should not fail, and when you have returned to me, strengthen your brethren. But he said to him, Lord, I am ready to go with you both to prison and to death. Now did you get that? Christ already said to him that he will preserve him. He said, Satan has asked that you be sifted like wheat. I prayed for you and I'm going to preserve you. And Peter, it's like he's not listening. It's like he's saying, he didn't hear that last part. He says, I'm going to with you to death. Well, why would he need to do that? He's going to preserve him. Why would he say that? You know, we do the same thing We see Satan and we see evil and we see problems and we stick to our own selves because you know what? If I'm going to make it, it's going to be on my own strength. It's going to be because I outsmarted it, or I figured it out. Do you realize, folks, there is a sense in which there should be no fear in a Christian when it comes to life and circumstances? Because the future is secure for us. You know the truth of the matter is, even if you lose faith, God will keep your faith if you know Christ. It's incredible. You don't have to worry about whether or not you're going to You we need the the really out the reality is sometimes we're so fearful of falling we fall And we don't have confidence in the security that we have in Christ. There is this great sense of security that Christ wants to give us. Where we say, you know what? I don't have to worry about falling unto him who is able to keep you from falling and to present you faultless before God And we should have no confidence in our flesh. Paul said, I have no confidence in my own flesh. But we can have wholly all of our confidence in Christ. You see, Peter, this isn't going to be the last straw for Peter. Peter's going to go on to serve God. Why? Because God said he was going to. Really had nothing to do with him. Everything to do with God's decree in his life. And the Bible tells us that we are secure in Christ. He tells us in this book, in John chapter 10, that if you know Christ, you are secure in him. Nobody can pluck you from his hand or his father's hand. And we have that security and we need to look to Christ for our security rather than looking to ourselves. Number four. Peter panicked when he should have prayed. Peter panicked when he should have prayed. Do you remember just a few hours earlier? They were in the Garden of Gethsemane. And we find both in Luke and Matthew, I think maybe all three accounts except for John, they are in the Garden of Gethsemane, and Christ says to them, Pray that ye may not enter into temptation. Pray, pray that you don't enter into temptation. And what happened? They fell asleep. It is so amazing to us that cr if you look at all of the various warnings that Christ is saying, hey, they're coming. I'm going to be arrested. I'm going to be taken. You're going to be sifted. All these different warnings. And Christ finally says, look, you just need to pray so you don't enter into temptation. And they're like, oh, we're okay, we're safe, we'll fall asleep. Do you know the truth of the matter is we're just like that. We've got to hit calamity before we start praying. God says, pray that you don't enter into temptation. You know, we are so quick. To try to do things ourselves and rely on our own flesh. You know what we need to do? We need to get on our face before God and pray. We should have Peter should have Peter panicked when he should have prayed. And finally, number five. Peter made decisions based upon the mood of his surroundings. He reacted to the mood of his surroundings. When all of the disciples wanted to express their loyalty, Peter was the spokesperson, and he said, thou art Lord to Jesus. He was the spokesperson. When the climate was a certain way, he was all about it, and he was loyal to Christ, and he was loving Christ, and he was doing, but when the climate went bad, When the surroundings went dim, when darkness surrounded him, he did not stand strong. He did not cling to his own trust in Christ. He faltered. He reacted with the mood of his surroundings. And you know, it's real easy for us to get all excited about church on Sunday and work that what a great message, all those kinds of things. The real test isn't on Sunday, folks. The real test is on Monday and Tuesday and Wednesday and Thursday and Friday. That's the real test. And we so easily are are are caught up in the moment. I mean, I'm going to give you a really clear example. Harry preached an impr a very important message last Sunday on hospitality. I went home saying that is a great message. I think most people went home saying that was a great message, and that's not to lift Harry up. He was preaching the word. It's the word, not him, and he knows it. But you know what? We could go home and say it's a great message, or we could start having people over. Very candidly. One is just like affirming the mood of the surround like reacting to the mood. The other is saying, you know what? When I am in the down in the when I am in the trenches, when I am on at work on Sunday, work on Monday. or Tuesday and I am surrounded. Do I react to my surroundings? Do I just kind of go with the surroundings that I'm in? Or do I stand strong in those surroundings? And by the way, this really is a digression. One leads to another. If you don't know yourself and you think you know yourself, but you don't know yourself and you know yourself, you think you know yourself better than Christ knows you And then you're looking at your security in yourself. If you're going to fall, pride goes before destruction and a haughty spirit before a fall. And that's what happened here. But here is the good news. Would you I'll just read it for you. In Matthew 26, verse 75 Matthew adds a detail that John doesn't add. When Peter heard that cock crow He said unto him, it says that he went out and he wept bitterly. Do you know what that's called? That's called repentance. We see a real contrast between him and Judas, don't we? What did Judas do in the end? He went out and hung himself, and he went to his own place. Judas, in his final act, was an act of selfishness. That's what suicide is. Peter did not. Peter repented. Peter wept bitterly. He looked at it. You know what he said? This is conjecture, but I'm pretty sure this is the way it went. Jesus, Christ, you are right. You know, that really is the key to repentance when we just simply say, Jesus, you're right. 1 John tells us if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all our unrighteousness. The word confess means to agree with God. You know the problem was with Peter? He was disagreeing with God way too much. He wasn't submitting to Christ's thinking. He was bucking it. And he thought he was doing right by doing wrong. And he ended up in failure and destruction. We need to learn three basic lessons from this. Number one, God does use man's corruption, corrupt ways for his purposes. And his glory. He does. He does. He does use man's corrupt ways for his purposes and his glory. Number two. Inward corruption results in corrupt behavior. We see that in the trials. There's all this inward corruption, and when it comes down to the wire, these guys are hitting Christ when he did nothing wrong. Inward corruption results in corrupt behavior. And number three, faith instead of fear results in consistent Christian maturity. You see, what we see in Peter's life is inconsistency. Inconsistency demonstrates immaturity. If you want to see a mature Christian, you're going to see consistency. Now, it's not perfection. But maturity, with maturity, there is a level of consistency. Doesn't mean there's never but there is ups and downs, but there's not spikes. Okay, or there's not many spikes anyway, hopefully, Lord willing. All right. The level of maturity really is measured by the level of consistency The problem with Peter is that he was inconsistent. He is saying he will die with Christ in one hand, and he is rejecting Christ's decree that he will falter in the other hand, and then he is denying Christ in the end. What God wants us to do is to grow and learn to live consistent Christian lives for Him. And that requires faith in the only thing that's consistent. Him. When we trust ourselves, we're easily really inconsistent, aren't we? The only way we ever get consistency in our walk is when we are consistently trusting Christ and His Word. When we consistently trust the Word. And trust the Savior, we will begin to live lives of consistency. And we will begin to live lives of maturity. Aren't you glad this is not the rest of the story for Peter? Peter goes on to do great things for God. He goes on to do amazing things for the Lord. The Lord uses him mightily, but he's got to learn first. That he has to rely entirely on the Lord rather than on himself. Let's go, Lord, in prayer. Our Father, we come to you and we are reminded of the terribleness of sin. But we're also grateful for your sovereignty to be sovereign over that corruption. We look forward so much, Lord, to the day where Christ will return, where we where we will no longer have to do this fighting of our flesh and our sin and the world. We look forward to that day, dear Father. We know that there will be a rest for us. There will be that day where we are no longer fighting, that we are just entirely at peace in Christ. But until that day, Lord, I pray that every day we would learn to trust you. The simple truth in Proverbs. Trust in you. With all of our heart, that we lean not on our own understandings. In all our ways, we got to acknowledge you, and you will direct our paths. It is a simple life of trusting and leaning and obeying I pray, dear Father, that you would help us. And we thank you in Christ's name. Amen.