Or of Christ and re being reminded of the character of Christ. In this wonderful book of John. John, if you recall, is a disciple whom was very closest to Christ. In fact, he was arguably the one who was closest to Christ, even of the three of the inner circle. And when we think of that, it ought to Give us some insight into this book because what John wants us to do is he wants for us to understand the fellowship that we have in him And in order to have the kind of fellowship that God wants us to have, to have the kind of life, Christ's life that He wants us to have, which is in, which is really key to this book In order to have the relationship that Christ wants us to have, that John is trying to get across in this book, we've got to have the right kind of belief. Did you know that not all belief in Christ is acceptable to Christ? That might come as a surprise to you. Sometimes people think of belief in terms, if we've mentioned this already, that sometimes people think of belief in terms of what is belief. In terms of you either believe or you don't believe. But the Bible does not depict it that way. And we're going to see that in this text. There is a certain quality of belief that Christ finds to be acceptable, and there is a certain quality of belief that Christ finds to be inadequate. And we're going to find in this passage the difference. We're going to find the difference because we're going to discover what Christ. clearly sees as m as one of the most important aspects of of living on this earth Because what you're going to find in this passage is a rather remarkable action on the part of Christ to cleanse the temple. That's really what the entire narrative is about, uh beginning in verses twelve through the end of the pa end of the passage, uh the end of the chapter is this whole concept of Christ uh being one who is going to cleanse the temple. I want you to notice something just by way, and I hadn't decided whether I was going to do this to tip my hand a little bit, but I think I'm going to Would you look at verse 17 for just a moment, and we're going to see this is a very interpretive key to understanding this passage Would you notice here what the disciples say or what their response is, their initial response to what Christ did, because it's going to be important for us to understand this. They say Verse 17, and his disciples remembered, after this Christ had cleansed the temple, the disciples remembered that it was written, The zeal of thine house hath eaten me up. The disciples recalled from the Old Testament, the book of Psalms, that the house of God was considered to be of great value to David And that this was a fulfillment of the prophecy because of the prophecy in Psalms because it was also going of great value to Christ. And the extreme attitude, or we would think of as extreme attitude in relation to relative to the other actions of Christ and His life Demonstrates that what Christ was doing here when he cleansed the temple is extremely important. And to see the significance of this is very, very important for us to understand what Christ values. And we ought to value the same things that he does. And so this is going to be very and hopefully very helpful for us as we go through this. I do want us to understand a couple of things at the very outset of this, picking up here in verse 12. Verse 12 is a sort of a transitional verse that sets up the the whole the whole narrative. Verse 12 says, After that he went down to Capernaum, he and his mother and his brethren and his disciples, and they continued there not many days. And what we find in this first verse is that they moved from Nazareth where Christ was, and his entire family moved to Capernaum. The one person that you don't mention that you might uh that you don't see there, that you might have expected to see there was Joseph, and more than likely at this point, he has passed away. And so Jesus He's taking care of his mother. He has d he has separated himself from his mother at this point with regard to any kind of authority or or mother mother status that you might think of and we saw that when he w in the in the whole um turning water to wine narrative. But certainly now he is still taking care of his family, he's taking care of his mother. He's resides in Capernaum. And if you'll show uh Tony, there's two sli go two slides ahead, you're going to see there a map. And basically what you're going to see there is Um it's a little blurry actually on this side, but you'll see that Capernaum and Cana and Nazareth. Those are the places that he's been so far. He resided in Nazareth. He moved up went up to Cana for the wedding, if you recall. That was in Cana And this particular location that he's in now, Capernaum, is sixteen miles northeast of Cana. And so that's where they're residing, and they're good, but they're going to be going down to Jerusalem for this feast of the Passover. And so this sets all of that up for us. You'll see in verse 13, and the Jews Passover was at hand and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. Now, you might look at that map and think to yourself, I don't understand this term up He goes from Nazareth to he goes from uh from Nazareth to Capernaum. Okay, that's logical. But how do you go up from Capernaum, which looks like down to Jerusalem. Does anybody know the well I'm not going to this is not a class, so I won't I won't do it that way. I'll just say that most people know the answer already and it has to do with the elevation. M Jera Jerusalem is up on a hill and everything was really sort of in lowlands compared to that great city of Jerusalem. And so it really is talking about the elevation of the city. So they are going up to Jerusalem, and it says here, the Jews Passover, and that probably is a r uh is is not in distinction from Gent the Gentiles. But it is the Passover that uh that is for the residents of Judea. All of that is important in figuring out and understanding the that all this. And also you see this the timing of all this, it says not many days, so we're not talking about a lo a significant amount of time from the time that that he performed his first miracle uh in in in water uh in uh in turning the water to wine. That's all actually extremely important for us. And understanding the next thing that we need to understand to set this all up, and that is how many times did Christ cleanse the temple? And there is much debate over this. Many people think that it was only one time that he cleansed the temple toward the end of his life on earth and his ministry. And that John is just taking the chronological order for his own purposes and putting up at the beginning for another purpose. And it is true that the gospel writers will from time to time for per for thematic purposes will move the their narratives into place in order f uh and and and not consider the chronological order. And so that's that's not abnormal But folks, if you look at the various at the two accounts of this, what you'll find is that the details of John's account and the details of the other three synoptic gospels do not match very well. And that is because there is another possibility, and that possibility is that what you actually have here are two different temple cleansings. And I'm going to argue for that very strongly, that what you have here are not one, but two temple cleansings in Christ's ministry. And I think, frankly, if you look at the Old Testament, you would see this more uh fairly clearly You won't have don't have to take the time to turn there, but you might want to write these references down. The first reference that you might want to write down is Matthew chapter 11, verse 10. In Matthew chapter 11, verse 10, you'll find an account of Christ's commenting on the life of and ministry of John the Baptist. And when he does that, He quotes another verse from the Old Testament in Malachi 3, verse 1. You might want to write that reference down. And the reason I mention the Matthew reference is that it demonstrates that the Malachi 3 verse has to do with the beginning of Christ's ministry. And in Malachi chapter 3, verse 1, it says this: Behold, I will send my messenger, and he shall prepare the way before me That's talking there about John the Baptist, it's the fulfillment of John the Baptist, Malachi 3, whom ye seek shall suddenly come into his temple. Even the messenger of the covenant, whom ye delight, and behold, he shall come, saith the Lord of hosts. You have in that passage a prophecy about John the Baptist, which clearly was in the beginning of his ministry. John died. Uh he passed he died before the middle or end of Christ's ministry. And so you have the beginning of his ministry, and in the beginning of this ministry you have a prophecy of Christ's coming in the to to to take on the problems that were in the temple. That's all in Malachi So, folks, what I would just suggest to you have a very strong argument for two temple cleansings. One at the beginning of his ministry and the other at the end of his ministry. And by the way, that is significant. It's significant because Christ decides And his earthly ministry to essentially inaugurate after that first miracle to inaugurate his work In his life and ministry with this temple cleansing, and at the end of his ministry, he again is going to do his final work before his death in the temple as well. And so this narrative is very important in understanding what Christ saw in being so important about the temple. And so that sets everything up for us to see the importance of all of this. Folks, what we want to do when we're looking at this narrative is to understand Christ's intention for us and what he is revealing about himself, what he finds to be most important, and what John is trying to get across by bringing up this narrative at this time. But what we've got to do is see some of the details of this narrative as we move through this. And we see here then, picking up here in verse 14 and he found in the temple those that sold oxen. Before we go any further, let's go to the Lord in prayer and ask his blessing on our time together. Father, we do come to you and we ask you To help us to understand the significance of this truth as Christ came and cleansed the temple. I pray, Lord, that we would see Christ as He reveals Himself in this way. I pray, Lord, that we would see how what he values, and that we would respond in the kind of quality of belief that he wants us to respond in. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, we see here in John chapter 2, we pick up with the details as Christ comes into the temple, he finds something. It says, and found in verse 14, and found in the temple those who that sold oxen and sheep and doves and the changers of the money sitting. The money changers, the tables there. So Christ comes to the temple and he finds something that he he deems to be out of place. And it's interesting It's interesting that they had, if you just sort of imagine, you've got now the nation of Israel has spread all over all over the area of Palestine, all over Israel, and Galilee and Samaria and Judea And so they're fairly well spread out by now. And they're intermixing, of course, with the Roman the with with all kinds of other other nationalities at this point You've got the Roman Empire that has taken over. And so they are all traveling great distances, pilgrimages, if you will, to come to Jerusalem during the Passover days. to bring their sacrifices and all that. And of course, in in old in old times what you would what you had was Each family would would be responsible to bring their sacrifice, and they would usually bring it from their own from their own wealth, and they would bring it to the temple and they were or tabernacle prior prior and then the temple uh to bring their sacrifices to the Lord. But it would be much more convenient if you are traveling long distances To come and then to purchase your sacrifice there at the temple. We do this all the time. We we we're planning on traveling somewhere, and instead of bringing what we have with us we say, well I'll just purchase it on the other end. It will be might be even be cheaper to do that so that we can have less maybe it's n um maybe we're considering uh mailing something or that kind of thing. And so we we we consider that. In other words, folks, what we're dealing with here was a convenience for them. But prior to them moving all of this into the temple They actually had these kinds of services for people coming in these pilgrimages, and they found themselves in places that were much more suitable. on the foothills of of the area of the Mount of Olives, as they came into Jerusalem, they would be able to stop by and and get their cattle or get their turtle doves or the things that they needed in order to sacrifice appropriately And and there was, I would just argue that there was not there would be nothing wrong with that. It wasn't as though the problem was that they were selling goods. It wasn't the problem that they were even making it more convenient by having them available. But they had chosen, they had gone too far in their convenience. They had sacrificed something for the sake of expediency. They had sacrificed something for the sake of convenience. And so they moved these things not into the inner inner courts, but they moved these these uh these um all these sacrifices and the money changers they moved them into the outer court uh which was a very large area in fact it was estimated that it was in terms of acres like six acres just the outer court It's estimated that Herod's temple in all of everything occupied fourteen acres at one point. And six of those acres were in this outer court area. And you found all kinds of things going on in the outer court. And I'll just say this. By our standards, if we would have been looking at that, I mean the inner court was preserved, the the um The the Holy of Holies was preserved. All of that was preserved and there wasn't a problem there. And it would have been very likely for us to walk into that area and we would have not noticed any problems We would have assumed, oh, this makes sense because these people are doing this in order to provide a service For worship. So this would be acceptable. In other words, we would have thought probably that the end justified the means How often do we not do that? How often in our minds and our hearts are we not guilty of rationalizing what we do by the end result. I think there is to some degree a lesson for us in in in that You'll see here though what Christ does. He says in verse 15, and when he made a scourge of small cords, He drove them out of the temple, and the sheep, and the oxen, and poured out the changers' money, and overthrew the tables. Now, when you here read this, there are some people, in fact, I have in my Christian experience so far as I've rubbed shoulders with other Christians, if someone gets angry about something and they want to justify their anger, My experience is then they often go to this passage. And they say, well, there are times for me to express anger because Christ did. And they begin to justify their anger by this passage and really by and just this entire idea that Christ expressed anger in this way. And sometimes people will go so far as to think that what occurred here is this violent, uncontrolled action by Christ, that he just lost it. And I would argue, folks, that that is not at all the case. That Christ in what he did and his actions were measured. Did he show great zeal? Yes, we know that from a disciple's response and recognizing that there was zeal for the house of God. Yes, there was zeal. Yes, there could have been a sense of righteous anger here, perhaps, although it's not explicitly said that way. Yes, there could have, but folks, that it was measured and it was controlled. Somebody says, well he he pulled out a whip. Wouldn't that be cruel? No, that's how you drive cattle. You put together something to get them to where they're want they wanted to go. It we should not assume that there was animal cruelty in this passage as some of suggested. No, Christ is very measured in what he is doing. He is finding a very clear way to get these cattle out of here. And then we see that he goes over to the money changers. And he does, at this point, turn the tables over. But let's not read more into that than we need to read. Some people would assume that there's this flippant throwing the tables over. But I would suggest to you that even that was measured and controlled. And we know that to be the case because of what he does next. Would you notice in verse 16 what he does? Verse 16 says, and he said unto them that sold doves. Now, that's it, that's significant. He goes to where the cattle are and he drives them out. Then he goes to the money changers, and what that basically is is you had various currencies and you had various ways of of dealing with there there was offerings that had to be given uh to the temple to keep the temple running and so they would give those offerings but me people to make it more convenient. They would they would there would be certain things that they would do to to make the money in in denominations that would be easier. That's just basically what they were doing there. And easier to handle. And so um and so that that's what they were doing there. But then when he comes to the to to those who are selling doves Those whom were selling to poor people. Because if you recall from the Old Testament, to those who were poor, to those who did not have the kind of funds to buy the cattle. There was a provision made for buying turtle does instead for sacrifice. And to those who are selling those, He did not flip it over. He did not drive it out. And it was probably for two reasons. One is if you drive out doves, what's going to happen? You'll never be able to regain them. Cattle, you'll be able to regain. You drive cattle out and you go chase them down and bring them back. You drive doves out and they're gone. And so Christ, in his measured, controlled response to what is going on He did drive them out. And secondly, this was to poor people. This was to a a s a section of people that he chose not to not to express the kind of zeal that he otherwise did And so you see in the passage it says, he just says to them, take these hands. And then we see a statement that helps us to understand exactly what Christ is dealing with here, what his concern is. He says Make not thy father's house an house of merchandise. Now the way that Christ expresses this Is very significant. But before we get there, I want to just make this point that is a bit of a side point, but one that I just want to bring to your attention about what Christ does here Christ goes no farther than he needs to to deal with what he needs to deal with. He does not, as Moses did, strike the rock when only he needed to speak to it. Christ, in a measured, controlled way, does express zeal and deals in importance with the issue with which he deals with it. And he is not going to make any and he's not going to beat around the bush about it. He deals with it directly, but he doesn't go farther than he needs to. He knows exactly how far he needs to go. And he's and he goes no farther. And it just reminds me of the kind of character that Christ has, that God has, and his holiness, and his sovereignty. It is like I just was reminded of a verse. When I read this, I said to myself, it's it's like where it says, in wrath, remember mercy. And that's what we have here. God does deal with things, but God deals with his He is a good heavenly father. And we ought to take great comfort in that. It is a great Gratefulness that we ought to know that unlike we as earthly fathers may go farther than we need to go to deal with a situation, or might not go far enough to deal with a situation God goes as far as he needs to go, and he goes no farther. And that's the kind of character that we have revealed here about Christ. That is a bit of a side note, but I think it's important to understand that in the narrative as we continue throughout this narrative to see how Christ deals with the situation. But then we'll return here to the point that Christ makes. He says, I do not want my father's house to become a house of merchandise. Let me just ask you this question just to illustrate the problem that Christ is bringing up here. Do you suppose at this point When the Jewish people came who were sellers of the cattle, and the money changers came who were changing the money, and they came into the temple. And they came during this time of worship. Do you suppose their mind was on worshiping God, or was their mind upon the business at hand? And there's no question by Christ's statement that their mind was on the business at hand. Their focus was on doing commerce. Their focus was on being on merchandise. The temple had become a house of merchandise. The focus was in the wrong place. And it tells us something about what Christ is doing here. Christ, first of all, he is very concerned about this area of worship. You're going to see two chapters later, when he speaks to the woman at Samaria, he is going to say that God must be worshipped in spirit and in truth. That's two chapters from now. God's very concerned. Christ is very concerned about our corporate worship and, of course, our individual worship. He's very concerned about that. And he wants us to be concerned as well. And I want to pause for sake of application just to ask ourselves the question. When we come to worship God in the church, which is not the temple, but it is, we'll see later, there is allusions to this being, to not the building, but to ourselves being. The temple of God. When we come to worship corporately, do we come distracted? Do we come To the temple, or I'll say, do we come to worship corporately? And our mind is on this problem or that problem or dealing with that or that situation or that issue. Somebody says, well I've got to work in a nursery. There's no pro I I I don't have a choice. I'm on the schedule. I'm on the greeter schedule. I don't have a choice. I'm teaching I've got music prop responsibilities. I've got sound responsibilities. I've got I've got all these things I've got to be doing. And folks, that isn't the point. There are we can serve God in those things or we can just be occupied with them In other words, folks, we can choose to come to worship God and say, like the Levites had to do, and say, hey, I need to give of um in other words, the Levites worship differently than the rest of the people, for example. And there were lots of them. You had to keep the temple going. It had to go. And so there isn't as though necessarily that what we need to do is we need to say, well, I just can't do these ministries. I gotta come in and focus on on God. No, focus on God in the ministry that you are doing. Don't become preoccupied with what you're doing. I think there's a very important application there. But folks, even further individually, I think it's a very important application for all of us individually, because we ought to be worshiping God as individuals. Every day of our lives ought to be a life of worship and focus upon God. Everything that we do, whether it be our vocation, whether it be our circumstance, what we're doing in our hobbies, what we're doing with our families, all that we do ought to be in an act of worship to God. And yet so often we are distracted by what we are doing. And the problem is not necessarily, though it can be, the problem is not necessarily with what we are doing, but the fact that we are no longer doing it for God. And one of the lessons that we need to learn from here is that God is very concerned when it comes to our worship of Him. He is primarily concerned about that. We don't see Christ expressing this kind of zeal really with any other situation that he is in. But when it comes to worship of God that has a preeminent uh character to it, it has a value to it. That we've got to remember and we've got to understand when it comes to what Christ is doing here. Now, from this point on in the narrative, what we're going to begin to see, the narrative is done. What happened is done. But now we're going to see the responses from various groups of people. We're going to see the response from the disciples. Then we're going to see the response from the Jewish leaders. Then we're going to see the response, another further future response from the disciples, and then we're going to see the response of all the Jewish people, or many of them, and then we're going to receive the response of Christ to the whole matter. What we're occupied with from this point on is the responses. The responses both of the people Various groups of people, and the responses of Christ to the responses of people. In other words, what was Christ's response to the responses? You follow all that Okay. In other words, we're looking at what Christ's opinion is of how these different people responded to what they to this to what Christ did. And we see the disciples' response, which is clearly commendable. Look at verse 17. And the disciples remembered that it was written, that zeal in thine house hath eaten me up. So the disciples realized that what Christ was doing was a fulfillment of scriptural truth. And that, of course, folks, is a commendable response on the part of of the disciples. But then we have another response, and of course what what they're actually quoting, if you want it for your notes, they're quoting from Psalms. specifically Psalm 66, I think. No, Psalm 69, 9. Then we next move to the next repeat. response, which is the res response of the Jews. And particularly the I I think here really it's the Jewish leaders, more than likely. Verse 18 then answered the Jews and said unto him, What sign showest thou unto us, seeing that thou doest these things? Now I want you to notice the question that's asked. Well, first of all, let's ask what it wasn't what he did let's let's consider what they didn't do They really didn't consider the meaning behind what he did. They weren't asking, why did you do this? That would have been a good question, wouldn't it have been? Jesus, why did you do this? They didn't ask that They didn't consider the fact that he had done other miracles at this point, more than likely. They didn't consider the fact of perhaps that he had authority to do these things. But he didn't consider that. By this point, they weren't taking him under into custody, probably because he had gained enough popularity with the people, with all the miracles that he was doing, that they couldn't do that Instead, they want, as we've seen we see so many times, they want to diminish his authority. And the questions that they are asking has to do with questioning Christ's authority to do what he is doing. And they say to him, would you give us a sign of your authority? Now this is sort of interesting Because what it sets up for Christ, if Christ is not wiser than them, of course he is, but what it sets up is this. If Christ would have responded by giving them a sign, it would have legitimized the question. In other words, it would have said, okay, well, you essentially have authority to ask me the question you're asking me in the skeptical way that you're asking me it to me. When they're asking what authority you have, they are really exerting their authority in asking the question. But if Christ chose not to give a sign at all, if he chose not to, it would diminish at least the perception of his own authority on the means of the people. And what they were trying to do were that was they were trying to catch him. But of course Christ can't. You can't outsmart Christ. I mean, you never can. They try over and over again as you read the various narratives, and you can't do it. So notice what Christ does in his response. He says this. Verse 19, Jesus answered and said unto them, Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. Now, you all know the story probably well enough to know that he's talking primarily about his own body. That's the next verse. But before we go there, I just want to ask you a simple question. If they would have chosen to destroy Herod's temple at this point, could Christ have risen it up? No question about it. Christ is all-powerful, He's God And before we look at the further understanding of this, I just want us to think in terms of the questions that were the literal question that is asked here. as is asked of these people. The answer is yes, he could have. He did have the power to do that because he does have all authority. But in order for him to exert the kind of authority and power that he could have, they were going to have to do something first. And it brings up sort of a a problem that we actually find in our world today and just in our in human nature. Human nature says, show me and I'll believe. Christ says, believe and I'll show you. That's some of what's going on here. He says, you're going to have to take an act of belief to destroy this temple. If you do it, I'll raise it up. Because I'm the one with authority, not you. And they're saying, you show me a sign of your authority and we'll let you do this. And their reaction to all of this is, folks, is their reaction belief or disbelief? Clear disbelief. They immediately do not attribute the kind of power that Christ actually has. They attribute an entirely different kind of power. And they say here in this passage, you can't do it. They say essentially this has taken us 46 years. And you can't, you can't Basically, how do you think you can raise this up if we destroy it in three days? And it swelches their response. They're done. Look at the passage Then said the Jews, 46 years was this temple and built building, and wilt thou rear it up in three days? And they're finished with him. They can't have no response after that. Verse 21, though, we see something that is really greatly significant here. It says here, but he spake of the temple of his body. When therefore he was risen from the dead, so now John's going to give some give some further commentary on this. John says, when Christ rose from the dead, the disciples thought back to this statement about destroying the temple. They thought back to it and they realize that what he is talking about, ultimately anyway, what he is talking about is his own body. Do you see that? His disciples remembered that he had said this unto them, and they believed the scriptures and the word which Jesus had said. So they had recognized, they had believed. Now, there's a few things I want to just express about the significance of the temple. And what Christ was doing here. The temple was the focal point for the connection that God desired to make between God and man. It represented the connection between God and man. It was a representation of that. What was Christ He was a representation, the representation of a connection between God and man. He was God become flesh. There is a sense in which then Christ's body replaces the temple. And so what Christ is doing here in coming in and cleansing the temple and saying essentially that he has authority over the temple and he does at the beginning of his ministry. He does it again at the end of his ministry. He is saying, I have all authority in these realms, because I am the one through which you will choose to worship. And that's why he's going to say to uh Chapters later when he's talking to the woman of Samaria, and she's saying, Which place do I worship? And he's kind of saying, Soon, it's not going to matter where you worship. You have to worship in spirit because you have to worship through Christ. There's great significance there in this matter. But I'm going to give you a further significance here. Do you recall in the book of Ephesians when we had gone through that passage, what else it says is now the temple of God? It says that the church is. It says that we are God's habitation. We are Christ's body. We are the body of Christ. Before you had the focal point of this entire build- uh of this massive uh building uh of the temple That was a focal point and a representation that God is a desiring to be with his people, that God's presence is with his people, that God is with man. It then moves to Christ as the fulfillment of all of that. And then Christ delegates, folks, he delegates not the connection. Christ is the only one that can be the connection He is the mediator between God and man, but the representation of all of that is you and me. And instead of being a building, a focal point, it is as we go out into the world We are to be a representation of what it looks like for God to be connected with man. There is great significance here in this passage, isn't there? And great application for us. If you think of it this way, folks, how well are you representing, and I representing to the world, our connection to God that we have through Christ? And God is very concerned about that. And we see the kind of value that Christ has here in this passage as we work through. this. Now what we what I then want us to notice here is I want you to notice then the final responses. You see in verse 22 that the disciples, though it's talking about future, it's going to be combined in this narrative with other responses. You see that the response of the disciples after he resurrected, what was the response? You see in the passage, what was the response? It's one word. They believed. Alright, you see the word belief there. Would you go to the next verse? Verse 22. Now when he was in Jerusalem at the Passover and the feast day, many, what did they do? They believed. And I want you to notice this as well. The next verse when it says and Jesus did not commit himself, the word commit there is exactly the same Greek word. It's believe. You've got three times this word believe is used, and it's all used three times in different ways. It's the exact same, it's the same word. The first time it's used, the disciples believed. And folks, what do we know about John's commenting on this? Is this acceptable belief or unacceptable belief? Clearly acceptable belief. But would you notice the way that the disciples, the way that the Jewish people believed? Look at verse 23. And when he was in Jerusalem at the Passover in the feast day, many believed in his name. Why do they believe? When they saw, when they saw the miracles which He had done, Christ has an opinion about our belief. The quality of our belief. Do you remember when Thomas, later on, after Christ's resurrection, when Thomas hears about the resurrection of Christ. And Thomas does not believe, and then sees the nails of his hand and puts his hand in Christ's side and then does believe. Do you remember what Christ says about that? Blessed are those who believe without seeing. Christ is very concerned about the quality of our belief. And he says in this passage that when they believed in this way, he said he didn't believe them. He did not commit himself to them. He did not, folks, their belief was inadequate. They did not have adequate belief. So he did not commit himself to them. Do you suppose that there are people in the world that say they believe in Christ and on some level have some sort of quality of belief? But the belief that they have is not acceptable to Christ. There's no question that that's what this passage is teaching. There is a quality of belief that is unacceptable. It is inadequate. So the question is, what makes this belief inadequate? And there's a couple of things. Hold off on putting those up. We'll summarize it with that, okay? Just hold off on putting those up. And we'll first of all let me ask you a question about these miracles. Do you suppose that these miracles, from what you know about the miracles of Christ, do you suppose that these miracles benefited the people that were there? Alright, so so what we're having here is Christ doing things. Perhaps he is feeding people with miracles, or perhaps he is healing people. He did a lot of that. But whatever he is doing, he is doing things that are benefiting them. He is doing them as a sign to bring people to himself. We know that to be true. But they are receiving it and they are receiving benefits. They're looking at the benefits. But further than that, folks, their belief Was based upon what they were seeing, and we've already mentioned that. Their belief, let me put it this way, folks, their belief was based upon their experience. Their belief was based upon their experience. Did you notice the disciples' belief, what it was based upon? What was the disciples' belief based upon? Look at it again. You've got to see this. This is very important for us. The disciples' belief was based upon what? They remembered that he had said unto them, and they believed the what? The scriptures. Faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. True, biblical, acceptable faith is faith upon the word of God. Not faith on experience. There are a lot of people that have some sort of experience and they say they believe in Christ based upon their experience. And folks, I'm not suggesting, I'm not suggesting at all that God doesn't use experiences in our lives to bring us to Christ. What I am saying is the basis of our belief has got to be more than our experience The basis of our belief has got to be on the objective truth of the Word of God. Our dependency on God in all manners of life. in all areas of life have got to be on the objective truth of the Word of God, not on our experiences. Our experiences deceive us, our perception of our experiences are tainted, and frankly we can experience this things that We think we have we are experiencing them and we're not experiencing them. Folks, our faith and our dependency has got to be on God's word alone. I remember back as a teenager discussing issues of questionable issues, actually. I forgot my former supervisors here in the class. And I can tell you who I'm talking about later. But anyway. And there was a particular person that had some some interesting interesting beliefs on some things and um and we would have some interesting discussions on those beliefs and I remember I remember her saying to me, Well, I said, Well, you know, if you look at what Scripture says, this is what Scripture says. And she finally said to me, Look, I'm not really talking about that. I'm talking about what I've experienced I'm really not interested in that, I'm interested in my experience. And that, folks, that is that is a man a kind of belief. Now I want to say this, it's not necessarily this was that was not talking about salvation, it's not that she wasn't saved necessarily. But in in that particular area, it was based upon our experience. But folks, that is how people often believe Their dependency on Christ, their belief is based upon their experience rather than the objective truth of the Word of God. And God says that's inadequate belief. So we have here, and you can put that up now, Tony, we have here three areas. Number one. Inadequate belief fails to recognize Christ's authority. And that's the one area we haven't really covered yet, folks. What we have here is Christ emphasizing the emphasis of Christ revealing himself today in this context is his authority. Last week was that he is creation. He is creator, which by the way gives him ultimate authority on all things. And what we have here is him exerting his authority in this situation And if you have belief without recognizing the authority of Christ in your life, you don't have true belief. Belief requires a recognition of Christ's authority. Sometimes we want the benefits of belief without true believing in the S. Submission of belief that we've got to submit to the authority of Christ. And we do this in salvation, but folks, many of us have accepted the authority in our salvation, but we don't accept our authority and our sanctity, his authority and our sanctification. And we've got to. Secondly, belief uh inadequate belief is belief that results from selfish motivation. It folks, it is not enough to say I've got my fire insurance and I'm set. That kind of belief is an adequate belief we see for that for this passage. And thirdly, belief that finds its basis in personal experience. rather than Scripture is inadequate belief. And God Christ says when he sees all that Christ knows. He knows the end from the beginning. He knows our hearts. He knows our minds. Would you notice why he doesn't accept their belief? Jesus said un said Jesus did not commit himself unto them because he knew them. He knew all men And needed not that any should testify of man, for he knew that was in what was in man. He knew, he knows our motives. He knows our heart. He knows what's inside us. He knows us better than we know ourselves. And he knows what is acceptable belief. And motive matters to God. Now, this really can be applied essentially two ways. It can be applied if you are here today, and perhaps you are saying, I have never really placed my trust in Christ as Savior in this way, recognizing his authority, that it's not just a matter of what I want, it's a matter of what God Christ wants for me. I've not really accepted my this is not the kind of belief I've had, and my belief is maybe based on some experience I've had. Folks, that's not biblical belief. It's not acceptable to God. And you need to really question whether or not you know the Lord based upon that kind of belief. Is your belief based upon the objective truth of Scripture? Does your belief include the authority of Christ? And is your belief a result of God's working in your life through Scripture, or is it a result of just wanting fire insurance? But folks, as Christians, our dependency on God cannot, it's the same. You're going through hard things in your life. I'm going through hard things in my life. We go through trials, we go through struggles, we go through difficulties, and we want to depend upon God. We want to depend upon God because we want the benefits, but we don't want the authority in our lives. Or we want to depend upon God for simply, I just want to get fixed. And we don't depend upon God for what He wants to do in our lives. Or we depend upon God. Or we don't depend up. Our dependence upon God is based upon our experience of God. Or our experience in God. rather than our dependency on God is based upon what God says about himself and his word. Folks, when we're going through what when we're going through life, whether we're going through difficult times, whether you're on a mountain or a valley right now, Either way, you and I have got to come to grips with the fact that what we do is we've got to live by faith in the Word of God. We've got to live based upon the truth of the Word of God. I've been teaching Last couple of times Sundays or a couple of Wednesday Wednesdays I've had a chance and also on Wednesday nights here, this essential concept about you've got to think right. And then you do right. And then you feel right. Folks, that is so biblical. That is so right. You get that mess you get that twisted around and you you got your feelings is based upon your behavior is based upon your feelings and you've got a problem. Or your doing or your thinking is based upon your feelings, and you've got a problem. Folks, you've got to think right based upon God's word. And you've got to do right based upon what you think about God's word being right. And then the emotions will follow in time. They may not even follow right away. That may be residual. And what we want is we want a quick fix on our emotions. So that we then can feel right, and so we do things based upon feeling right and we don't think right. Does that all make sense? Sorry if it doesn't. The bottom line is that we've got to think right. Then we do right. Then we'll feel right. And our thinking has got to be based entirely on the Word of God, and we have got to firmly depend on it alone. That's the kind of dependency. That's the kind of belief that will bring for us the kind of spiritual growth and the kind of pleasure of God and honor of God in our lives. It is that kind of belief. May you and I realize that Just by way of conclusion, a couple of things. First of all, worship was being compromised and Christ dealt with it. All belief is not equal. Christ is concerned about our quality of belief, and the quality of our belief must include Christ's authority. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and we thank you for all that you have revealed to us in this text. And Lord, I pray that you would indelibly mark in our minds these truths, that we would not quickly turn away from them and forget what we've learned, but we would choose to meditate on them. And think through them and live by them. May this be our heart's desire, and may we be able to please you in our belief And if there's anybody here that does not know you, that does not have the kind of belief that is acceptable to you, I pray, Lord, today that they would understand The kind of belief that they need, that they would believe on you in this way, and that they would be able to see you as their Lord and Savior and be and be in relationship with you. We pray for your working in our hearts as a result of your word. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.