Well, you would probably want to say immediately, yes, I do. Then I would ask you this question: how well do you know him? And I would be careful about answering that question. Because if we think we know him as well as we may think we do, then we may have a conceit. It may be that we don't know him as well as we think we know him. Let's ask it this way: Do you know Christ as well as he could be known? And I would suggest that nearly everyone in this room would answer that question with a no. None of us know Christ as well as he could be known. All of us, all of us have far more to learn about Christ. One of the activities that I enjoy doing with my family is hiking. I'm looking forward to the fall. How many of you all are ready for fall? I am I am ready for fall. I'm looking forward to fall. One of the things I enjoy doing in the fall is taking my family out and going hiking. We like to hike, we'll do short hikes up in Patasco State Park there. Sometimes we'll go out to the Fermock Mountain Range and we'll do some hiking up there or out somewhere else in western Maryland and do some hiking up there. Sometimes we'll do somewhere in Rock State Park. in um Harford County. But I really enjoy hiking. I like watching my kids hike. When I go out and hike, you know, I like to look around at the nature and everything, but sometimes I like to watch my kids look at nature. Kids are kind of cool. Actually they're really cool. But but when they're when they're uh hiking They will uh they'll get interested in one thing or another thing. They'll see that. They'll see a rock. And they'll your parent kids ever do this? Hey daddy, look at this rock or mommy, look at this rock. And what are you thinking? It's just a rock. But to them, it's a very special rock, even though there's five billion other what rocks like it. But for them, they're really interested in this rock, or maybe they're interested in a bird, or maybe they're interested in a in a flower that they see, or some kind of uh little animal that perhaps they see. They're very intensely concentrated on the on the little details of whatever they're looking at. But as a kid, they really aren't really that concerned with where they're going on the hike. Very rarely do you see a four-year-old ever get a map out and mapp their hype get out. That usually doesn't happen. And that is because they are so intensely aware of the details, but they're really not looking at the big picture. It's upon it's incumbent upon us as as adults to know where we're going and to know how far we can go and all those kinds of things. And so we have to back up occasionally and look at the whole trail and look at the whole the big picture It's sometimes not as fun to look at the big picture. Actually, I kind of like looking at maps. How many of you all can like enjoy looking at maps? Or Google Earth? Okay, no who looks at maps anymore, right? I I do. I can I can go on Google Earth and if I'm not careful I can get lost in just discovering different things on Google Earth. I can spend all my time looking at Google Earth and not get out there and do anything. Not not really. But um but I really enjoy looking at maps and those kinds of things. But it does take more concentration, there's less to get focused on, and what we find in this passage, it's amazing, John's amazing because John will go so far into looking at the at the delicate, intricate details of Christ, like the fact that he wept and why he wept. But also John is going to give some commentary now and look at the overall hue, the big picture of what God is doing through his son Jesus Christ. And he's going to do this in this passage. And as I read this passage, this is one of the most it probably is the most complex passage in all of John. It is the one one of the passages, if not the passage, that is most difficult to understand. And I have to tell you that when I when I preach through these passages, some of them, these are not sometimes as fun as the passages that you're dealing with some of the details. But folks, the whole council of God must be preached, right? And what you'll find, I will just tell you, is that even though this passage is very involved and rather complex If you will stay with me as we delve deep into this passage, as we dig up these truths in this passage, you will find that perhaps the re the work is going to be greater, but the reward can easily be greater as well. And I can tell you just from personal experience as I study this passage intently, the work was greater to study this passage. But the reward, the awe that I found myself in, the the the hum the humble spirit that it left me in as I looked at the greatness of God's plan and his fulfillment of prophecy and all of that, it leaves you in a place that perhaps a simpler passage would not. It in other words, folks, when we preach, when we study Scripture, all of it is profitable. And I pray, I hope and pray that we see that today. We are going to need the Lord's help today, and so let's go to Him and prayer and ask His blessing in our time. Our Father, as we look to you today, I pray that your Spirit would help us understand the meaning of your word. that we would see the significance of the truth in this text, that it would not only be something that is technically understood, but that it would cause us to respond in a way that That is intensely spiritual, that we would not be left to understand and an intellectual understanding, but that we would have a heart understanding about this passage And that we would even apply it to our lives in the way that you would choose. May you give us the diligence in our mind today and the clarity of thought to be able to work through this Because we know that what we work for often gives us the great amount greatest amount of reward. In fact, you designed it that way. You designed life that way. Life is not easy. Life requires diligence and work But the more work and diligence, the greater the reward. And it is the same with your the studying of your word. The more diligence it takes, oftentimes the greater reward there is. And I pray that you would help us to be diligent in our thinking. As we study your word today, so that we can receive the blessing from your word this morning as well. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. There's one very important thing that we have to recover from John chapter 12, and it's found in verse 20. In verse 20 of John chapter 12, The Greeks, or we, as discussed in the past, the Gentiles, have come to Christ. And they have they're actually coming for the feast of the Passover, and they are coming and they ask Christ a question. They want to see Jesus. Verse 20 says that there were certain Greeks among them that came up to worship at the feast The same came therefore to Philip, which was of Betheda of Galilee, and desired him, saying, Sir, we would, what does it say? We would see Jesus. Their desire was to see Jesus. And so they come to the disciples and they ask of them, can we see Jesus? Philip comes to Jesus and talks with him and says, These Greeks or these Gentiles have come. And the rest of the the passage is really answering this question. We want to see Jesus. Who is Jesus? And Jesus does not directly answer the question in that way. What he is going to do is he is going to Begin to address how you come to Christ, how you see Jesus. And he does so picking up here in verse 23, he says, the hour is come that the Son of Man should be glorified. And we looked at that text last two weeks ago. With that in mind, let's then pick up in verse 29. Verse 29 says, of course, the Father he has prayed to the Father, and the Father has actually come down and spoken to Christ. Christ explains that the Father has come and spoken to Christ, not for Christ's sake, the Father was always communicating with the Son, but for the sake of the people to authenticate the message that was about to be proclaimed to these people. And he says in verse 9, the people therefore that stood by and heard it thought that it wasn't God the Father. They thought it was an angel that said it thundered. Others said, an angel spake to him. Jesus has answered and said, This voice came not because of me, but for your sakes. Now is the judgment of this world. Now shall the prince of this world be cast out. And I have lifted up from the earth will draw all men unto me. Jesus says to him, he explains to these the Greeks the significance of what is going to be his death and his exaltation. We'll call it here his passion and his glorification. And there are four truths that we see just from these two little verses here. that describe the significance of his death. You see, by this time, the people were probably anticipating that Christ was going to be put to death by the Roman guard. His there there was, in a sense, a warrant out for his arrest. The religious leaders wanted to uh take him into custody and try him and put him to death. And they knew by this point that this was probably going to happen. But Christ wanted to make sure that they understood that this was no normal execution, that this had much greater spiritual and even eternal significance. And we find in verse 30, actually verse 31, it says it uses the word now. Twice it uses this term now, and he's signifying something about this description of the death of Christ. identifying the fact that now there is a new happening going to happen And what he's pointing out is that there is going to be, the death of Christ is going to happen, but it's going to have eternal results that is going to extend far into the future. First of all, he says that this result, the passion and the glorification of Christ, is going to result in a time of judgment for the world. He wants them to understand that the cross actually brings judgment. Now you may say to yourself, how does the cross bring judgment? Well, if you recall from John chapter 3, verse 19 The idea that Christ as light coming into the world by just by the fact that light came into the world brings judgment to the world. It says, and this is the condemnation, that light is coming to the world. And men loved darkness rather than light because their deeds were evil. For everyone that doeth evil, heedeth the light, neither cometh to the light, lest the deeds should be reproved. But he that doeth truth cometh to the light that he his deeds may be made manifest that they are wrought in God. And so when Christ came as the light, and as he is lifted up on that cross, dying for the sins of the world, he is doing so as the light. The light pierces the darkness, but the light gives people a choice whether they will come to the light or whether they will stay in darkness. And so by just by virtue of the of what the cross is It is judgment to those who will choose to reject it, who will choose not to believe. So the passion of Christ, the glorification of Christ brings judgment. Secondly, he wants them to understand that the that the glorification the passion of Christ, the death of Christ brings the world uh uh uh brings the prince of this world will be driven out. Now, of course, this term is used a couple of different places in the book of John and other places in the New Testament. Of course, we're talking about Satan here. This clearly has, when Christ goes to the cross, he renders the power of Satan useless And one day we look forward to the day where Satan will be driven out of the world completely and will be cast into the lake of fire, which burneth forever. The cross is what allows this to happen. And so this will have the cross will have an immediate result on Satan in the sense that it renders the power of sin and Satan useless. But it also will have a ultimate fulfillment in the future where Satan goes and is driven out of the world. We then moving on see that it says that the that the in the passage that the death of Christ is lifting is a lifting up of Christ, is the exaltation of Christ. And we know that to be the case. In fact, in Christ's own thinking, and in John's own thinking, the death of Christ and the exaltation of Christ all go together. In fact, the death of Christ, the resurrection of Christ, and the ascension of Christ are all components of this exaltation of Christ, for we know that this will cause Christ ultimately to rule over all things. We find, for instance, in Matthew 28 and 2018, Christ Himself says that all power, all authority is given to me in heaven and in earth. And in 1 Corinthians chapter 15, verses 24 through 28, we find in that passage that Christ has destroyed death, and as a result, the Bible says that the Father has put all things under his feet, verse 27. But when he has all things put under him, it is manifested that he is accepted, which did all things, which put all things under him And verse twenty-eight of that passage says, And when all things shall be subdued unto him, then shall the Son also himself be subject unto him, that put all things under him, that God may be all in all. It was in God's divine plan for the death of Christ, to exalt Christ, so that Christ could be given full authority. uh to do as he wills. And one day we will see that authority mediated mediated directly to us as Christ comes back. There is then this phrase here that says that when Christ is lifted up, he says, I will draw all men unto myself. This is a phrase that actually has caused quite a bit of debate. When it says that Christ, if I be lifted up, I will draw all men into myself, what does he mean by that? Now, this is so important for us to grasp in order to understand the rest of this passage that we really need to think through this. I want to give you a few different views on this. The most erroneous view is the first one, and that is that this this is talking about universalism, that when Christ dies, all people, no matter what they do, or no matter who That there's no condition necessary in order for them to be saved, that all people just come to Christ automatically by virtue of the fact that they are people. And that when Christ goes to the cross, uh he saves everyone. This is what is called universalism. Of course, we know that this is completely erroneous. The Bible says that there is no other way for us to be able to accept to receive the gift of Christ Except by faith alone. And so faith is a necessary condition for us to be able to receive the gift of Christ. So that cannot be what this is talking about. A second view is the idea that this is referring to some people, but all people refers to some people. But folks, that doesn't really make a lot of sense, does it? How can all people only refer to some people? Well, why didn't he just say some people? If I'd be lifted up, I'll draw some people to myself. There are people that believe that when Christ died, he died for only certain people. Well, that doesn't seem to be the case in this passage, and so we would reject that view as well. A third view, which is a common view, is a view that this is referring to everyone, but some will reject Christ. That when Christ comes, He will if I He says when I I'll be lift up, I'll draw them into myself. And what it's really talking about here is that he'll draw all people, everyone will he'll draw, but there will be some that will choose to reject Christ. Well, there is a problem with this act this view, actually. This probably is the most common view in our circles, but in John chapter 6, verse 44, it says No man come to me except the Father draw him, and whoever the Father draws, I will raise up in the last day. So John makes no distinction between the people that he draws and the people that actually come to Christ. There is no distinction in John's mind between those two people. And so number three is really not a biblically consistent option either. Let me suggest to you that view four is the right view, and that what he is talking about here is that he will draw all kinds of people to himself. That when he says, I'll draw all men to myself, he's saying, I'll draw all kinds of people. Now remember who he is talking to. Who is he speaking to in this passage? He's speaking to Gentiles, isn't he? For thousands of years the Jewish nation has been Chosen of God to be a light to lighten the Gentiles. They have been chosen of God as God's chosen chosen people. But because of sin, because of the idolatry of this wicked nation They never became a legitimate light to the Gentiles. And so now he is, Christ is saying, I will through my exaltation Be the light and draw all kinds of people to myself, so that all men may be able to come from me from every tr tribe and tongue and nation and background. That is absolutely core And central to the to the message of the gospel. In fact, in Romans chapter 3, which really is the core of the gospel, we find this to be the case. Romans chapter 3, verse 22 says, even the righteousness of God, which is by faith of Jesus Christ, unto all and upon all that believe. And it says in that passage, for there is no difference. If you want to go to the core of the gospel, you would go to Romans chapter 3, verse 21, which tells us of the very core of the gospel message. In the book of Romans, which gives us the most thorough explanation of the gospel, you go to Romans chapter 3, verse 21, it says, but now Christ. And verse 22 says, so that there is no difference. Now I I need you that we're going to come back to this. Would you keep that phrase, there is no difference, or there is no distinction Keep that phrase frame phrase in your mind. Lock it in there and we're going to come back to that in a few moments. Now, with all of this then he says in verse 33 that this is the nature of Christ's death. Christ was not dying just for a mere execution Christ was dying so that he would be lifted up. Christ was dying so that he would be able to draw all kinds of people to himself. Christ was going to the cross to fulfill the great plan of God for the world because of the problem of sin, and there was no other possibility of Of satisfying the just demands of God, besides Christ going to the cross. That is central to the gospel message. Verse 34 then tells us how the people respond to this. They respond with a question. By now they understand that Christ is claiming to be the Messiah of the Old Testament. And he is claiming to be God. But he is also claiming that he is going to soon die. This is confusing for the people. And so they say he says in verse 34 The people answered him, We have heard out of the law that Christ abideth forever. And how sayest thou, the Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is the Son of Man? They say this to him. They say, well, basically, in short, to put it simply, we thought, from what the Bible says, we thought that the Son of Man was going to live eternally. And you say you're going to die. So how is that possible that you could be the Son of Man? Jesus chooses not to answer that direct question. He is essentially by his answer implying that he's really already given them that answer, that what they need to do is keep walking in the light. Would you notice what it says in verse 35? Yet a little while is the light with you. Walk while ye have the light, lest darkness come upon you. For he that walketh in darkness knoweth not whither he goeth. While ye have light, believe in a light, that ye be the children of light. These things spake Jesus and departed and did and did hide himself from them So Jesus responds this way. He says, look, you've got to walk in the light. The answer to your question is to keep walking in the light that is being revealed to you. And let me just say this by way of application. There are times in life where we have questions. There are times in life where we have concerns, where we have perplexities. There are times in life where we don't understand what is happening And there are times in life where we just simply say, I need to walk in the light. I need to follow how Christ has revealed. Christ has revealed himself through his word. Not through some premonition or some feeling. He has revealed himself through his word. And when we come to a place of questions or perplexities, We need to go back to the light of the Word of God, and we need to walk in that word. We need to walk in the precepts of the Word of God so that we can live a life that pleases Him. We do not have to have every question answered all the time, do we? We like to have every question answered. But sometimes Christ's answer to us is to is to follow and walk in the truth of the word that you already know. Now, with this in mind, it gets more complex. This passage is extremely complex because he is going, and actually kind of hard. Because he is then going to say this next. But though he had done many miracles before them, yet they believed not on him. They said their response to him is that they're not going to believe. Now, why aren't they not going to believe? Verse 38. They that the saying of Isaiah, the prophet, should be fulfilled. Which he spake, Lord, who hath believed our report? And to whom hath the arm of the Lord been revealed? Therefore they could not believe, because that Isaiah saith said again, He hath blinded their eyes And harden their hearts, that they should not see their eyes, nor understand their heart, and be converted, and should Heal them. Now I want you to pick up in verse 39 here and see this again. It says, therefore they could, what did it say? They could not believe. Why? Because Elias said something. You know what it says in the Greek? They could not believe. Same thing in English, okay. There is no way of getting around what this verse says. This verse says that according to God's divine will, these people could not believe in order for prophecy to be fulfilled. Now, how in the world are we going to reconcile this? How in the world are we going to understand this? And what we need to do is we need to understand God's divine plan. Now, this is going to be deep stuff, but if you'll stay with me, there is great application for us as well. And we need to begin this way. Would you take your Bibles and turn to Isaiah 53? Isaiah chapter 53. As you probably know, Isaiah chapter 53 is a chapter that is most a most beloved chapter. by all Christians because it describes in rather specific terms who is going to come and be the arm of the Lord The arm of the Lord is one who is described in this passage as Christ Himself. He is one that is described here as one who is going to carry out the plan of God. He is the arm of the plan. And we find in this passage in Isaiah 53 the question that is asked, and it's repeated here, of course, in this passage that we just read. Who, here's the question, who hath what? Who hath believed our let's put it this way, our message? Who has believed our message The answer to that question is found in verse 3. Now we're gonna get we're not skipping verse 2, we'll get to verse 2, but I want you to see the answer to the question. The answer to the question is this: verse 3. Who? He is despised and rejected of men. A man of sorrows, acquainted with grief. And we hid, as it were, our faces from him. He was despised, and we esteemed him not. When Christ came to earth, what does it say? Who had believed his message? He was rejected. Now, the arm of the Lord, the answer to that, and whom have the arm of the Lord revealed is in verse 2. For he shall grow up before him as a tender plant, and as a root out of dry ground, he hath no more form or comeliness, and when he shall see him, there is no beauty that he shall b shall desire him. When Christ came, he was not physically beautiful. He did not have a charisma to attract people. When Christ came, there was not a comeliness about him. When Christ came, there was a humility about Christ. Verse 4 says, Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Yet we did, despite this, yet we did esteem him stricken. smitten of God and afflicted, but he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him. And with his stripes we are healed. Now, this same verse is actually quoted also in another passage of Scripture. And really to understand this, we're going to have to do a l a little bit of flipping back and forth Would you keep your hand in Isaiah and would you take your Bibles and turn to Romans chapter 10? Romans chapter 10, and we're going to pick up here in verse 12. This is going to give us a further explanation of God's intentions as he prophesied through Isaiah. this prophecy about the coming of Christ and who would choose to believe. What is God doing here? What is his plan for people to believe, for the Jews to reject? And what's going on here? Romans 10 is going to help us with this. I want you to pick up in verse 12 here where he says this. And remember I asked you to keep this particular mind and keep this particular phrase in mind. There is no difference. There is no distinction that we found over in Romans chapter 3. We find it again here in verse 12. It says, For there is no what? There's no distinction. There's no distinction between what? The Jew or the Greek. Now, folks, does that not line up with this concept of when Christ is lifted up, he'll draw all kinds of people to himself, both the Jew and the Gentile? It is absolutely a hallmark of Christ's of the gospel that all people of all kinds of different backgrounds, all different different ethnic groups. All different uh ways of life will be able to come to Christ. There is no difference. It says in Ephesians chapter 2 that Christ has broken down the middle wall of partition between us So that our unity as believers, our unity is not in various kinds of approaches, various kinds of backgrounds. Our unity is in Christ alone. And that exemplifies the gospel. It demonstrates tangibly to the world the gospel that Christ is the one who brings all of this together, that our unity is in Christ alone. And he says this, verse 16, but they have not obeyed the gospel. They have not all obeyed the gospel. For Isaiah or Isaiah saith, same verse, okay, same verse 53, Lord, who hath believed our report? So then faith come so the same question is asked. And he says verse 17, so then faith come by hearing, hearing by the word of God. And I say, have they not heard? Yes, verily, their sound went into all the earth, and their words into the ends of the world. But I say, Did not Israel know? First, Moses saith, I will provoke you to jealousy by them that are no people, and by a foolish nation I will anger you But Isaiah is very bold, and he quotes here from Isaiah, Isaiah 65, 1 and 2. He says, I was found of them that sought me not I was made manifest unto them that asked not for me. And but to Israel, he saith, All day long I have stretched forth my hands. unto the disobedient and gainsaying people. Now, let's understand some of this. When God came to Isaiah in Isaiah chapter 6, which we're gonna we're gonna look at in just a moment. He came to Isaiah and he asked Isaiah, he commissioned Isaiah to preach to a people that were were going to reject the message. If you read the book of Isaiah, in fact they actually persecute Isaiah. We see the same thing in Jeremiah and other and a few other prophets. God specifically I selects Isaiah to go to a people And Isaiah is going to prophesy of this coming Christ and the redemption of the nation of Israel, and they're going to on their spot reject it. And Isaiah still has to do it. Can you imagine being Isaiah? Hey, here's this great ministry for you, nobody's gonna listen to you. So Isaiah comes, and that is the thinking that that's behind this commissioning of Isaiah. Now, with this in mind, I want you to go to Isaiah chapter 6. Would you keep your finger in Romans 10? We're actually going to be back there. Isaiah chapter 6. Now I would just ask you, please stay with me. I know this is a lot of this is rather laborious, but there will be a point and you will you will see The horizon, the beautiful horizon, if you will stay with me. Verse 10. He says this as he commissions Isaiah. Make the heart of this people fat, and make their ears heavy, shut their eyes, lest they see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand their heart, and convert and be healed. Now here's what he's saying in this passage. Who is going to cause the nation of Israel to reject this message? The answer is God. God is going to blind them. He is going to harden their hearts. That is very that becomes very clear as you look at Romans chapter eleven, which we will in a minute. There isn't any question, folks, about this that God is God is Getting involved, God is doing a judicio judicial blinding of the people. He is hardening their hearts. By the way, we've seen this before, have we not? Do you remember Pharaoh? It said that God hardened Pharaoh's heart. Now it also says Pharaoh hardened his own heart. And so we can take that as an indication that God doesn't harden people's hearts in accept like opposed to their own will, that the will of the of people work together. Kind of like over in Romans chapter 1 where it says that God gave them, after they were reprobate, God gave them over to a reprobate mind. And we find other places, for instance, in Romans chapter 9, verse 18, where it says that He has mercy on whom he has mercy, and on whom He will He hardeneth. God will choose to harden certain people. 2 Thessalonians 2 verse 11 says, For this cause God shall send a strong delusion. That's most likely happening during the tribulation period. So, folks, during in God's overall plan for the nation of Israel, now this is really kind of hard to grasp, but God is doing some hardening work. He's hardening the hearts of the nation of Israel. Now the question then becomes, why does God do this? That's a good question, isn't it? Why would God send Isaiah to go to the nation of Israel? And for them to reject the very message of Isaiah. Why? Why would God do this? Why would God harden the hearts of Israel? And the answer we're going to find in Romans chapter 11. So would you take your Bibles and turn back there? Romans chapter 11 and verse 7. We see this. What then Israel hath not obtained that which he seeketh? 11 verse 7, by the way. That which he seeketh. But the election hath obtained it, and the rest were blinded. According as it is written, who blinded? We see it very clearly in this passage. God hath given them the spirit of slumber, eyes that they should not see, and ears that they should not hear unto this day. And David saith Let their table be made snare, and a trap, and a stumbling block, and a recompense unto them. Let their eyes be darkened, that they may not see, and bow down their back away. Verse 11. I say then, have they stumbled that they should fall? He's talking about the nation of Israel. Have they stumbled that they should fall? What does he say then? God forbid. But rather through their fall, salvation is come unto whom? The Gentiles. And then he says, for to what? To provoke them to jealousy. Now, here's the answer to the question. Now follow it here. Christ, God chose the nation of Israel to be the light to the Gentiles. Were they a legitimate light to the nation of it to the Gentiles? Essentially, no. Why? Because of their own sin. Sin messed it up. And so now Christ blinds them. Okay? And he hardens their heart. Why? To allow the Gentiles to accept them. You find in the book of Acts, you find Jewish people getting saved, but you find a lot of Gentiles coming to Christ as well. But why did God do it this way? Was it to condemn the nation of Israel? Was it so that they should all fall? No. Why? He says to br he was going to use the Gentiles' salvation to provoke the Jewish people to jealousy, it says And he says, for example, and we don't have the time to do an exposition of chapter of Romans chapter 11 for sure, but if you look at verse 20, it says, well, be because of unbelief they were broken off and thou standest by faith. He says, be not high-minded, but fear, for God spared not the natural branches. Take heed lest he also spare not thee. He says to the people that he's writing to in Romans, look, you you've got to believe. Now, let me make this real simplified. Actually, it's already been up there. Real simple. As simple as I can get it. God created man and sin messed it up God made provision for mankind and sin messed it up. God selected uh Israel for his chosen people and what happened? Sin messed it up. We we see a lot of sin messing things up, right? God blinds and hardens Israel, resulting in the redemption of some Gentiles. God uses the Gentile conversions to provoke Jews himself so that both Jews and Gentiles are included in God's redemption. Now, let me ask you this question. At this point, Is your mind blown? And if you say yes, that's the point That's exactly what God is trying to do. That's exactly what Paul is wanting to do in this passage. Do you notice what it says in chapter 11, Romans verse 25? He says, For I would not, brethren, that ye should be ignorant of this mystery. It is a mystery. Lest ye should be wise, what? In your own conceits, that blindness in part happened to Israel and to the fullness of the Gentiles come in. He says, I don't want you to be blind in your own conceits. Now let me just put it in really plain terms. If you think you've got Christ figured out, you don't have Christ figured out. And the problem sometimes, folks, in our lives is we get to a place in our lives where we think we've got a grasp on God. And we've got a grasp on the person of Christ, and we have an angle on this thing. And if if we're not careful, we can be, as it says here, wise in our own conceits. Paul, when he says this to the people that were listening to Romans chapter 11, he was not saying this to people that did not that were not wise apart from God. They were wise because they thought they knew God. And when you see the amazing plan of God, it ought to cause a sense of humility to simply say, I don't know God as well as I thought I did. And very candidly, that's exactly the place where God wants us all to be. He wants us to be a place where we say, I don't know God as well as I thought I did. The rest of our lives we ought to say to ourselves, I don't know God as well as I can. There is more to know about God. There is more to know about Christ. And do you notice secondarily what qu what Paul is wanting to get across is what he says in verse thirty three, Oh, the depths of the riches both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his gen judgments, and his ways past finding out. For who hath known the mind of the Lord, or who hath been his counselor, he says, You think you know the mind of the Lord? You don't You think you know the counselor that you you're gonna be God's counselor? You can't. You don't know the mind of God. You don't know his ways are past finding out. He wants us to understand how much we don't know. And he wants us to stand in awe of the mystery of the wisdom of God that is described only in the Word of God. And that ought to bring us to our knees. It ought to cause us to say, how great is the wisdom of God. When is the last time you stall stood in awe of the wisdom of your God? When we look at the complexities of God's plan, when you look at all of what God did, instead of, look, we would have wiped the whole thing out. All of the sin messing up every plan, three times. Sin messes up a plan, then sin messes up another plan. Then sin messes up. We would have said, I want to start fresh. I want to clean the whole thing up. Let's just start anew. And God says, no, no, I'm going to redeem you. And I'm going to use great, masterful wisdom in order for this to be able to take place. Israel rejects Christ and he is not done with Israel. He's going to use the acceptance of Gentiles to provoke Jewish people to jealousy so that they come to Christ. This is incredible. And it ought to cause us, it ought to very frankly, it ought to blow our minds And I'm not done. Would you take your Bibles, and actually the Word is not done, because we're going to go directly back to the God's Word here in John chapter. John chapter twelve, and I want you to see something in the very next verse. John chapter twelve, verse twenty one. I'm sorry, verse forty one. Now he says this. These things, well what are these things? Verse 40, that he's blinded the eyes and hardened the hearts of people. These things, saith Isaiah, when he saw his glory and spake of him Okay, here's the question. Look at the passage, verse 41. These things saith Isaiah when he saw his glory and spake of him. You've got three pronouns there. He, his, and him. Who is that referring to? Well, just to make sure, would you notice verse 42? Nevertheless, among the chief rulers also many believed on we got another pronoun there. And of course, that's obviously talking about Christ, right? Many believed on Christ. So the he and him there are talking about Christ. He says here, these things saith Isaiah, when he saw Christ's unc glory and spake of him. Now, we might need to turn there, but we'll try not to for sake of time. Do you recall from Isaiah chapter 6 where it says that I saw I saw the Lord in the day the king of Uzziah died, Isaiah 6:1, he said, I saw the Lord high and lifted up. Do you remember that passage? That's the commissioning of Isaiah. And he saw the seraphim around. He saw the glory of God. When it says that, what is this verse telling us? That when he saw the Lord high and lifted up, he saw the glory of God, what did he see? Or or rather, who did he see He saw Christ. Now, do you remember what it says in Isaiah chapter 6 verse 10? It says there that he is going to blind people's eyes. Who is it talking about in verse 10? Whoever is talking about in verse 10 is the same person it's talking about in verse 1. I'll just tell you that much. Folks, do you know who he's talking about there? It's talking about Christ. Christ is the one He is the author of the person who chose to blind and harden people's hearts and to blind people's eyes to the truth. Now let me ask you a question. So far we have seen through this book, we've looked full in the wonderful face of Christ, and we've seen his love, we've seen his grace, we've seen his extension to sinners. We've seen his weeping over unbelief. We've seen a Christ of compassion and kindness. We've seen a Christ who has great love for the people that he is around. That's the Christ we've seen. But let me ask you a question. Does this judicial authoring of the blindness of people and the hardening of the heart by Christ Himself, does this Cause you problems in your understanding of Christ. Have you included looking full in the wonderful face of Christ to include both the mercy of Christ and the justice of Christ? The love of Christ and the judicial decrees of Christ. Because if you do not Consider both, you do not have a full understanding and a full glimpse of Christ. And so we see here in this passage that Christ is the author and the finisher of our faith, as it says in Hebrews chapter 12. Who, for the joy that went before us, endured the cross, despising the shame, and is now set down at the right hand of the throne of God. Jesus himself is the author of the judicial hardening. Now let me ask you this question. Does that bother you? Do you struggle with that? Is that is Jesus, are you okay with Jesus being your judge? Well, that is necessary in order to have a full faith in Christ, a full belief in Christ. And the people of the day that were listening to all of this, the Bible tells us that they b that even some of the religious leaders believed. But it was a kind of belief that was not a full or acceptable belief. We know, for instance, that Nicodemus At least espoused to the message of Christ, as well as Joseph of Arimathea, and they both buried him. Would you notice here in this passage what it says verse twenty forty-two? Nevertheless, among the chief rulers also many believed on him. Now let me ask you that this is not not the kind of belief that we would think of where we're talking about saving faith. What keeps people from believing in the way that they need to believe? And the answer is found in this passage. He says here But because the Pharisees they did not confess him, lest they should be what? Put out of the synagogues. Verse 43 is going to tell us, for they what? Love the praise of men more than the praise of God. Do you know why these what hindered these people from really believing all of who Christ is from this passage? Do you know what happened? It was because they loved the praise of men more than the praise of God. Let me put it more simply, they loved the pleasure of men more than the pleasure of God. Let me make it even more even simpler to us. Do you know why we don't we choose not to accept certain truths? Because we don't want to. A lot of us think that our theology drives our lifestyle. But it is very easy for us, for our lifestyle to drive our theology. You find a person with right doctrine that is consistently right You will also find a person whose sole desire is to please God. You see Someone who really desires to please God with all of their lives will want what God wants, and it puts them in a place to be able to see who God really is. And it's okay if it doesn't if it doesn't fit into my mold and my box of who I want Christ to be. It's okay if I why? Because I want what Christ wants. I want to please God. Don't be deceived, brethren. Don't be deceived, sister. Don't think for a moment that what you believe is not based upon what you want. Because the reality is, what we want provides the basis for our belief. That's why it's so necessary, folks. To simply want what God wants. To be content with what pleases God. I want what God wants Even if it means going to the cross as Christ did. That is one of the this is this is a very complex passage. But what Christ is going to do in the vet in the rest of this passage is he's going to implore the people to accept him for who he really is. And he says, you've got to accept my words. That's the key. You've got to accept what I say about myself. And he warns them that there is a time of darkness coming, and if you don't accept the light, that the darkness will come, make sure that you accept the light while God is giving you the light. And you and I need to understand That God wants us to come to life. So, how do we apply all this? As I was studying all this, a verse came to mind my mind over in the book of Hebrews. It just came to my mind where it said Hebrews chapter and Hebrews chapter 3 verse 8. The writer of the book of Hebrews is talking to people, they're Jewish Christians who are being tempted to defect from the faith. They are tempted to reject the Christ that they have accepted. And he says to them, harden not your hearts as in the provocation. In the day of temptation in the wilderness, he says, he implores them, don't harden your hearts Now folks, there's no way that anybody can know any of our hearts. Only weak really sometimes we have a hard time knowing our own hearts because the Bible says our hearts dis our hearts are deceitful and desperately wicked. That's why David had to pray, Lord, search me and know my heart. David understood that he couldn't even know his own heart And we are deceiving ourselves in thinking that we can be true to our hearts and know our own hearts apart from the working of God and the Word of God But I'll tell you one thing. The admonition for all of us and application for us is this. God will use you even in your hardened heart. Nevertheless, He commands us and implores us not to harden our hearts. And I don't know what circumstances this message falls on. I'm just preaching from the text of Scripture here But maybe maybe there's something in our lives as individuals where our hearts are turning to be they're they're they're hardening to the ways of God. Maybe it's something that we don't understand, maybe it's something that we're unwilling to accept. I will just tell you from personal experience. This past week I was uh reading a particular book and one of the things it was talking about in the book was how we need to accept God's ways. And if we don't, there is a hardening that can take place in our hearts And may we never have that kind of hardening in our lives. May God keep us from it. But folks, there is a personal responsibility. This passage is clear. Christ as he speaks is clear that we have a personal responsibility to embrace Christ, all of him. Let's pray. Our Father, we do admit before you that our hearts are deceitful and desperately wicked. We admit before you that we are so easily allow things to slip in our hearts, we can harden our own hearts. To the ways of you. Lord, I pray that you would help us to want what you want To desire to please you above anything else that we would stand in awe and honor the mystery of your wisdom, that we can only know what your word declares to us. And that ought to cause us to just be in awe over your wisdom and your greatness. And it ought to humble us. It ought to cause us to realize how little we know of you. And that we are entirely dependent upon your word to teach us what we need to know. Lord, may we Turn our eyes upon Jesus and look full in his wonderful face, knowing that the things of earth, when we do, will grow strangely dim. In the light of his glory and grace. We thank you in Christ's name. Amen.