John chapter eight this morning. John chapter eight. We did read uh from verse fifty-two, and um it's sort of interesting. Um There there's nothing inspired about how they place the chapter breaks in there. Um but uh the Chinese Bible, I found this out when I was teaching through this passage, the Chinese Bible puts it in the right place. So uh it was sort of funny I was saying uh uh John chapter seven verse fifty two uh and they uh there was no John chapter seven verse fifty And the translator had to say there is no verse 52. They just put it in the right place. And I said, Oh, okay, that's interesting. But uh, and and there's several places in scripture where it seems to be uh that way. Um I also wanted to mention as uh I on Wednesday night I I w were was talking with uh you all and asked you to pray for Matt Conrad and particularly with some physical problems that he's ha he's having. He's having some sort of adrenal deficiencies, it was what it looks like. Um and I just wanted to sort of report he was um he uh messaged me this morning about seven o'clock which would be seven o'clock evening Sunday evening his time and um and said that he had gotten through the day very well. Um yesterday he uh he had a very busy schedule. He had to uh do a wedding yesterday. He had s to m he had to travel a lot today, preaching a couple of different places. And uh very he was actually very concerned about about it and um had to take long train rides which has become a problem for him, hour-long train rides and So anyway, um he just tex he just messaged me and said, hey, just want you to know I'm I'm a half hour away from home and I'm I'm doing well And uh I'm tired, but I'm not I'm not going through some of the symptoms I've gone through before. So I just wanted to mention that and thank you for praying. Please continue. And uh I w I'm thankful for him that he just can get over this. But th it it seems like things are are going the right direction. He's on some supplements and things like now that I think are helping him as well. And uh and I just sort of am was rejoic rejoicing today uh as he messaged me and thankful for that. We're in John chapter seven. And John or John chapter 8, really. And John chapter 8 begins with a passage that deals with Christ who is going who is challenged by religious leaders on how to deal with a particular sin correctly. Do you ever find it difficult to deal with sin in a proper way? I think one of the best ways to illustrate this is in terms of parenting. How many of you all have a hard time sometimes dealing with your kids' sins? It's very easy, on one hand, to become judgmental and condemning and overly strict. On the other hand, it's easy to sort of become permissive and and and allow things that you shouldn't allow. And on one hand, if you become judgmental and condemn condemning and overly strict, you'll have you'll build in your child's heart a sense of defeat like they never are going to be able to match up. And on the other hand, if you're overly permissive in in your in your relationship with your kids, then your kids will not have the conscience that is necessarily that they need to develop in order to be able to recognize when sin is is on uh when they're being tempted with sin. There is a difficulty, and I think every parent Christian parent that is working with their kids understands the difficulty of this tension. Between the two. There's sometimes I I I discipline my child and I think to myself, man, should I have been a little easier? Kids, you're not listening to this. Um I got two kids in here now, so anyway I'll just have to explain more I'm not getting ha easier on you, just don't worry about that. But anyway, but sometimes I think, well, am I am I being too hard on them? And then the other s the other times I'm I'm I'm thinking to myself, you know, maybe I'm not strict enough. May we need to we need to nail this down. We need to nip this in the bud, you know, like the old Barney Fife on tell you know, we need to paint it in the bud. Well, uh we sometimes I feel that way and sometimes I feel like Barney Fife when it comes to pain But anyway, um he wasn't exactly that good at it at his job uh if you've seen Andy Griffith. Um but um but it's difficult, it's difficult to do that. Wouldn't you also say it's difficult in your life in our lives and with others? And how we are what's so hard about this is that as we raise our kids, we want them We want them to know how others are perceiving them as well. And sometimes we can give them a complex about how others are perceiving them. We can have complex ourselves about how people are receiving receiving us and some people uh we might feel are overly judgmental and condemning and others are too permissive and and we do that ourselves with others and knowing how to even just interact in the body and with other Christians that becomes a little bit confusing and difficult to know what to do and how to do it correctly. But it doesn't end there. The reality is, isn't it true, that we can have a we can have an unbalanced view when it even comes to our thoughts of God's perception of us. Where we think in terms of God being overly judgmental and condemning, where God is like we almost feel as though God is against us The Bible tells us in 1 John that our hearts can condemn us. On the other hand, sometimes we feel that God is just going to skirt everything and let everything go and be merciful. and be so merciful that he is near permissive in his behavior toward us, in his disposition toward us. And of course This really boils down to ourselves and how we view ourselves. Sometimes we view ourselves in a way that we feel as though we are never going to match up to what God is expecting of us. And we feel we feel uh almost uh sort of uh strange when we when we're interacting with others, we wonder who is who is feeling the same way about us. On the other hand, when we're dealing with ourselves, sometimes we're too permissive. And we think, well, God is very merciful, and so I'll just let, you know, I'll be a little more easygoing with myself. And if we're honest with ourselves, we sort of like ping pong a ball, we go back and forth between those two. Not only do we go back and forth between those two when it comes to our kids, we move from strictness to permissiveness sometimes But sometimes we do that with ourselves. We move from strictness to permissiveness and we sort of bounce back and forth. Folks, wouldn't you say that isn't it true that what we've got to do is find Christ's example on this? We've got to see how Christ deals with sin. And we need to learn to deal with it the same way he dealt with it. And I want to say very at the very outset of it that it is Christ's desire that we be free. That we be free. The Bible says that the Son, therefore, will make you free. You will be free indeed. It's God's desire, Christ's desire, that we be free from sin It doesn't mean that we will be sinless. But Christ has atoned for our sin and he wants us to be free from it. And folks, that means free from the effects of sin. It doesn't mean that sin will not influence us, it will not always be aware of it as long as this side of heaven, by the way, aren't you thankful, aren't you looking forward to heaven? You won't be dealing with it anymore. I can't, I mean really, some days I can't wait. It's like just take me home, Lord, and I won't have to deal with this anymore. But until we go home to be with the Lord, we will be dealing with it. But God has given us Christ, Christ has given us everything that we need by His grace to deal with this. And what we're going to learn today is we're going to see some religious leaders that really, I think, fairly well represent uh organized religion in our culture. And how they deal with it, and really they deal with it incorrectly, and they become offended when Christ deals with it in the way that they do He does, and they want Him to deal with things in a certain way, and Christ says Christ deals with him with it in the right way. And we can really learn to deal with our own sin. And really, I think by application, we can learn to deal with our own kids' sin. And really just enlarge how to deal with sin, we can do this by following Christ's example Because not only has Christ given us the example, but Christ has made every provision for us to be able to follow his example. He's empowered us to do it. He's given the grace for us to be able to do this. And so it is that it is, Lord willing, that's what we're going to see in this passage. First, we need to ask the Lord's help, and so let's go to Him in prayer. Father, we thank you, Lord, just for the privilege of coming together today, and we thank you for Christ. And we pray today as we look at both his example and his provision. for the needs in our lives that are a result of living in a sinful world and being sinful people, I pray, Lord, that you would help us to see Christ's grace, Christ's provision, and really Christ's direction. That we would begin to follow Christ's example. And I pray, Lord, that it would it would help us We know we need help in this area. We know we so easily forget some of the simple truths about what Christ does. and following and dealing with sin. And I pray, Lord, that we would see the balance of Christ today, the only one who has the perfect balance, because we know we certainly do not And that that balance of how Christ deals with things would cause us to have the same kind in our lives. And so that we can say with Paul that sin, sin doesn't have dominion over us any longer. And I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, I should probably mention that as we look at this passage this morning, we are going through the book of John. I would not have chosen this passage in particular to preach from, but I'm also faithful to preaching the whole counsel of God and to not skipping skipping over difficult or awkward passages. But we will find, and what we need to focus on in this passage is how Christ deals with things. We want to lift up Christ this morning, and we want to see how Christ is going to deal with things in this passage. We find sort of a difficult and awkward situation that the religious leaders put Christ in in dealing with a woman who was caught in adultery. And we find in this passage that Christ deals with it as only Christ can. And we want to focus on how Christ deals with this. And we pick up here in verse uh one of chapter eight where it says, well actually uh verse fifty-three we find that they were meeting in the temple and then they all went to their own houses, and Christ went up to the Mount of Olives. And it's interesting that If you saw if you were here for Sunday school, uh Hisham uh gave us a little video actually and that was not planned. the Temple Mount and the other. And I I was I I was very interested in that. I actually am amazed at how um sharp the decline like it was it's very Uh what's the word? I don't know. Sharp? It's the only thing I can think of. That's not really the right word, but has a steep steep, that's the word I'm thinking of steep. Steep uh uh i i uh incline uh on both sides of this and so it was sort of interesting to do that. So apparently Christ climbed the Mount of Olive. He went down uh the Mount uh Temple Mountain climbed the Mount of Olives in order to be we would I I would suspect he would be he was he was with the Lord. He had been dealing with the people and he had been teaching them and he'd been rubbing shoulders with them and he'd be being actually opposed by the people, and there was confusion regarding his ministry and his work and his person, and the religious leaders were trying to were trying to fight an accusation against him, and he took time just to be alone with God. And there's a lesson, that's not the point of our message, but that is there's a lesson just in that, that there are times where we need to to just be alone with God. And Hisham kind of touched on that today in Sunday school as well. And we find if we look at the life of Christ that there are several, many times where after dealing with people, he took the time to just get away and be alone with God. And there's a great example for us as well. You ever struggle dealing with people? Say, nah, I just always love people all the time, and I never have any struggles with people because people are just perfect. And uh that is a bunch of baloney, what I just said there in a minute ago. All of us struggle with it. And we need to get alone and be with the Lord. But after Christ was t had some time with him, he went back with with the Lord, with his father, he went back into the temple and he began to teach the people. I wanted to go ahead and show you a temple what the temple looked like a little bit and I did not plan this. I guess you're going to get a second dose of the temp of how the temple looked. a little bit. And if you could see there you've got two diagrams here. You see the one with the number nine here. That's where Christ was meeting. It was called the Court of the Women. That was as far as the On this side you'll see the outer courts. That's the court of the Gentiles, but then into the inner courts, and that's most likely what Christ was teaching. That is where the rabbis you would gather and they would teach a group of people. And Christ used the same venue, although the teaching that he taught was significantly different than what many of the others were teaching. And so he had gathered a group of people, he sat down, it says all the people, what we would assume is that just means a great amount of people, and he's and pretty really probably everybody that was in that court of the women was probably gathered together to listen to him. There wasn't anybody else that was going anywhere else or listening to anybody else. They all sort of gathered to listen to Christ. And he was in so there was a group group of a large group of people there. And he was in the middle of the teaching them and the religious leaders decided to come up and they were going to deal they wanted to trip him up. And they thought, well, this is a b good big public setting, if we can trip him up and and in in public, then we can cause him to be able to diminish in his popularity and we can we can put away with this problem of Jesus that that we are dealing with. And so we see in the passage, verse 3, and the scribes and Pharisees brought unto him a woman taken in adultery when they had set here in the midst. And say unto uh they say unto him, Master, this woman was taken of adultery in the very act. Now verse 5 Now Moses in the law commanded us that which should be stoned, but but what sayest thou? This they said, tempting him, that they might have a have to accuse him. And so they came to Jesus in this way. We have two groups of people here described here in this passage. We have both the scribes and the Pharisees. The scribes were one, when we think of scribes, we would we would not get a full picture of what the Bible talks about when it talks of scribes. When we think of scribes, we would think of somebody that simply just sort of transcribes a document. And although the scribes were involved in doing that, they were involved in doing far more than that. They were responsible for preserving the documents of the law. And really they had become responsible for dealing with the details of the law. And it's but it's been suggested, in fact, that they bec they sort of took the roles of lawyer, ethic ethnicist. um not ethnicist, ethicist, ethicist, um, theologian, uh all into one, jurist all into one. These people had a lot of influence. And they were ones, they were considered sort of the authorities on what the Mosaic Law said. And really they got into how it should be interpreted and furthermore how it should be applied. And a large group of them actually were Pharisees in their thinking. And what I mean by that is this: the Pharisees were a group of people that had the greatest amount of influence in Christ's day. In fact, there were six over six thousand Pharisees during the time of Christ. There were other groups like the Sadducees and other peop other people, but the fellow Pharisees were the ones that influenced that had the most influence among the Jews in that day. They were the ones that were conservative in their interpretive interpretation of the law. And they really focused on strict adherence to the law, that you've got to follow every letter of the law, that you ought not deviate in any way to the law. And in fact what they did was they set up man-made barriers in between what the law actually said and what people did so that there were things that they put in place so that you wouldn't even get close to to to breaking the law. But Christ says of them that they were white as sepulchres with dead men's bones. He said, You're focused on external righteousness, but your heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. And he says in Matthew chapter 5, he says, that except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven. Christ realized and preached really against the teaching of the Pharisees because the Pharisees were not concerned about internal heart motive at all. They weren't concerned about internal righteousness. They were only concerned about external righteousness. And when somebody violated an external somet uh violated the law, they were ready to jump on them. They were judgmental in their approach. They were condemning in their approach. And they believed in strict adherence to the law. And I just want to say this, that their approach to law became very legalistic, and Christ began to, and their approach and how they dealt with people became very, very Christ really condemned how they dealt with people. I just want to say this just by way of application. Do you realize that in our country we have all kinds of organized religion? And the reality is whether it's a false religion or whether there may be truth in their doctrine and yet and yet they have um some some wrong attitudes and they feel correct in their doctrine, but their attitude is wrong in in in following it and and dealing with it and applying it. If we're not careful, we can fall into the trap of the Pharisees where we become condemning of people. Where we are concerned about strict adherence to the law without any internal heart change. And it can trip people up. It can cause people to feel condemned and like they'll never be able to match up to the standard that we have set for them. And this is a real danger for organized religion of nearly any kind. Baptists are certainly not excluded from this problem. In fact, maybe they're more to blame than others. We have to be very careful about this. The way that the Pharisees and the scribes were dealing with this woman, Christ is not going to condone. He is not going to say, yes, you are correct in how you are dealing with them. And in fact, they were incorrect in how they dealt with them. Because if they were going to deal with the situation to the strict adherence of the law, they would have brought the man as well. They brought the woman only But the man was to be brought according to Leviticus 20, verse 10, and Deuteronomy 23, verse 23. They should have brought both of them and stoned them together. And that was what the law said to do. That's not what they did. They only brought the woman. And so they, in trying to keep the law, weren't even faithful in doing that correctly. Now, how why what was happening in order for Christ to trip them up? A couple of things that we need to sort of be aware of. While the law did say to do this to someone who was caught in adultery. We find by the first century that that was not standard practice anymore. More than likely, there was a couple of reasons for that, but probably most prominent, at least when the Roman Empire was come about had come about, it was probably because the Roman Empire reserved the right to s to put to to uh uh do final dec give final decrees on who would be put to death. It was they usually took cues from the Jewish uh leadership, and you find that in the trials where Christ was uh tried by both uh the Jews as well as the as well as the Romans And they usually required the Jewish leadership to come to an agreement before it went to the to the Roman leadership. But it's very likely that the Roman leadership would have just simply discounted this as a possibility, just out of hand. That's not a reason for putting someone to death. Of course, we know that Christ's standard is Christ himself is the fulfillment of the Mosaic Law. And so we never find anything like that in the New Testament as as a as a necessary consequence for even this kind of sin. But the intended trap had to do with the fact that on one hand the law did clearly state to do this, the Mosaic Law did. But it wasn't common practice of the people. If Christ said, if he disavowed this part of the Mosaic Law, it would have looked as though he was discounting the law and it would have caught it would have brought him he he would have been come become uncredible and also he would have been contradicting himself in a sense because he claimed to be God And God wrote the Mosaic Law. And so if he said something against the Mosaic Law, then how in the world would he be able, he would be like self-con-conflicting. And of course, because we know that he claimed to be God, uh they were trying to catch him in this trap. On the other hand, if he absolved the w on the other hand, uh if he absolved the woman of of uh just out of hand and or I guess I should say uh on the other hand if if she if he would have um dealt with this in in a different sense that also would have been a problem for him as well. They had him, they thought they had him in a corner. They thought that they had him trapped. But they didn't have Christ trapped, did they? What we find in the passage is that Christ kneels down and writes something in the ground. There is a lot of conjecture as to what he wrote. Nobody really knows what he wrote. That's the reality. Ain't nobody knows. That's really the answer to it. But there are different people that would suggest that he wrote something, for example, from ex from Exodus 23, 1, which says, Do not help wicked man by being a malicious witness. Or Exodus 23, 7, which says, have nothing to do with a false charge, and do not put an innocent or honest person to death, for I will not acquit the guilty. Uh we find in the text that whatever he did write down, and by the way, why did he write something down? Well this is sort of this is sort of in in the same way a Roman um the Romans would have handled a decree. Before the Romans gave a decree to sentence somebody to death or to exonerate them either way, they would write that sentence down first, and then they would read it to the people. And so there's a sense in which more than likely when Christ hears this, he just kneels down and he's going to write something in the ground. We don't know what was written, but we do know that there were several uh scribal um marginal notes in some of the manuscripts and what is in the notes is basically that he counter it was a counteraccation against them. That is probably the most likely of likely um estimation. And the reason I say that is because it says in the passage that their conscience was bothered, uh their conscience smote them when they heard these things. Perhaps he wrote something down like was in Matthew chapter 5 where it says, if you look on a woman with lust in your heart, you committed adultery unto them already. But whatever they wrote he wrote down, it caused their conscience to be to be smote. They realized that they were not that they were themselves were guilty of this kind of sin, even though they perhaps were not guilty in this kind of way. And also he said to them, and so he finally says to them, he that is without sin among you, let him cast the first stone. Now the reason that he said this is for a couple of reasons. One is that the law required that the first one to cast the stone be blameless. Deuteronomy thirteen verse nine says, But thou shalt surely kill him. Thine hand shall be first put to him in death, and afterward the hand of all the people. Deuteronomy thirteen nine And also the law required that the eyewitness cast the first stone as well, and we find that in Leviticus 24, 14. So whoever cast the first stone had to be completely blameless. They couldn't have committed the same kind of sin. And they had to have been an eyewitness to the occasion. And so with that in mind, as he said those words, no one could cast a stone. Isn't it interesting that these Pharisees that were so that were so intent on adhering to the strictness of the Mosaic Law, they themselves were guilty of the same sin. that they were that they were accusing this woman of. Now there's no question that the woman was caught in this. John seems to make it clear she she was caught in it. This was not a question as to whether uh of the veracity of their accusation But they were not able to follow through in condemning this woman because they were not righteous themselves. In fact, the only one that was there that is truly righteous is who? Jesus Christ Himself. He was the one that was righteous. He was the one that was blameless. And he is the only one that is able to stand as judge and jury in this particular situation. And we find in this text, when we see him interacting with the actually I want to mention basically four implications of Christ's response here. Four things that we can see from cr in his way of dealing with this sin. Number one We see that righteousness should re should prevail. We're going to see that even more when he talks to the woman. He says, Go sin no more. Righteousness should revail prevail. He didn't discount the Mosaic Law. He didn't Say, no, the Mosaic law is wrong. He didn't disavow it. Now we know just by way of other passages of Scripture that what he did do is fulfill it. And so those consequences no longer have to be consequences in our day and age when somebody falls in the same kind of sin, because Christ fulfilled the law. Christ made all the provision necessary to take care of that kind of sin But it doesn't mean that righteousness should not prevail. It doesn't mean there had to be the death of Christ. There had to be the provision made by Christ Otherwise, righteousness, God's righteous demands would not have been met. And so we must understand that righteousness should prevail according to how Christ dealt with this. But secondly, Christ is the only one To be able to judge the situation. He is the only righteous judge. And we find in the passage, just a few verses later in verse 15, it says, ye judge after the flesh, I judge no man. It's interesting that he says that. He says, You're all you can judge is according to external things. He says, You judge after the flesh, and yet I judge no man, and yet he was the only one who was able to judge, for it says In verse 16, and yet if I judge, my judge is true, my judgment is true, for I am not alone, but I am the Father that sent me. We have Christ saying that if I judge, my judgment is true, but I don't judge according to external things. He is the only one that has the ability to be able to judge, because isn't it true, folks, that he is the only one that is complaining? And so we must understand that he is the only righteous judge. Thirdly, we see that Jesus makes is going to make provision for this sin. We're going to see this later on. It's kind of implied in the text. It's not clearly explicit in the text, but the way that he deals with the woman, it's clear that he just he makes provision for it. He takes We know that later on, when he dies, he's going to take on all of the sin of the world and he's going to make provision for it. And isn't it true? And can't we be thankful that God does the same thing with our sin, that he makes provision? For that, for our sin to be taken care of and to be wiped clean. 1 John 2, verse 2 says, And he is the propitiation for our sins. The word propitiation means to satisfy the just demands of God. There is a righteous standard. God does have a right, he wouldn't be God if he didn't have a righteous standard. And yet Christ came to satisfy those just demands, to satisfy God's righteousness. And he says, not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. John 8. 36 says, If the Son therefore shall make you free, ye shall be free indeed. Christ's disposition toward our sin is that he wants us to be freed from it. And not just freed from the actions, but freed from the condemnation and freed from the effects. and freed from all of it. Christ will make us free. He will free us in this life, in a limited sense, as far as we'll still be in the presence of sin. But we are freed from the penalty of sin and from the power of sin in this life. And we will one day be freed from the presence of sin when we see him face to face. And that is something that we must always remember as we deal with this life, because the vast majority of our problems are somehow related to sin. It may not be personal sin. It may be the sin of somebody else. It may be our own personal sin. Or it may not be, it may not be s it may just be the fact that we're in a sinful world. But regardless of the reality, the problems that we deal with in life are because we don't live in a perfect world. And you don't even need the Bible to see that, do you? Just live for any length of time. If you have any length of time in this world and experiencing this world and going through life, you know that our world is very imperfect and there is lots of sin everywhere. And Christ has made provision for all of it. Now, of course, it has to be accepted by faith. And we'll talk about that in a little bit. But clearly we want to see here that Christ has made complete provision for this woman's sin. And then fourthly It is Jesus' desire to forgive and to restore. That's Christ's desire. 2 Peter 3:9 says, The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness, but is long-suffering to usward. He's long-suffering to usward, not willing that any should perish. But that all should come to repentance. Well, we see that this is how this how Christ responded to these to this the Pharisees. And they had to go away it's as though their tails were wa were you know were They were they were put in their place. And they went away, and then we find that all of these people that have been gathered, they all left. Everyone left. And he was going to deal directly with this woman. Now Christ had the ability and the authority to be able to condemn this woman had he chosen to. He is the righteous judge. He is the blameless perfect one. He could do whatever he wanted. But Jesus Christ did not do that. Jesus demonstrated his love and his mercy to this woman, and we find this in this passage. Verse 7 says, um, or verse 8 says, well, let's let we'll go to verse 9. And they which heard it being convicted by their own conscience Went out one by one, beginning with the eldest and under the last, and Jesus was left alone, and the woman standing in the midst. When Jesus had lifted up himself and saw none but the woman, he had said to her, Woman, where are those thine accusers? But no man condemned thee. And she said, now listen to how she responds. No man, teacher Is that what she says? No man, Rabbi. No, she says, no man, Lord It's the word curiosity means master. This indicates, folks, that she was seeing Christ as the authority. She just this one word indicates that he in her life is Lord over all. She was experiencing repentance. She was experiencing a desire to move on from this. She was experiencing a desire that the Lord would be her master in every part of her life. She was saying that he is Lord. And you don't find that that often in the New Testament when you see Christ dealing with various people. The disciples said it a lot. But a lot of times people refer to Christ as rabbi or teacher. In fact, when the Pharisees and scribes came to him, they said teacher. That's what they said. They didn't say Lord. But the fact that this woman said, Lord, indicates that she had some was submitting her heart, submitting her life to the authority of Christ. And we find in this passage a great repentance on her part in that sense. And of course, we know that Christ knows the heart. And when Christ saw this kind of repentance on the part of this woman, he is able to say this to her, Neither do I condemn thee, verse 11. But then he doesn't stop there. It isn't as though he says, I don't condemn you, go your way. He does maintain a righteous standard. He says, go and sin no more. What a perfect balance Christ extends mercy to this woman. Christ extends his grace to this woman. This woman, God says he's not willing that any should That any should perish, but all that come to repentance, and this woman came to repentance, and he says, I'm not going to condemn you. But he says, Don't do it anymore. Go and sin no more. Leave, he's saying, your life of sin and follow me. It is the perfect balance. And of course, as D. A. Carson said in his commentary, I love how he puts this. He says the proper response to mercy received on account of past sins is purity in the future. Romans 8. 14 says, For sin shall have no dominion over, shall not have dominion over you. For we are not under the law, but under grace. It is because of grace that we can live for Christ. Christ could say to this woman, go and sin no more, because Christ is the only one that could give her the power to not do it anymore. Christ could say, go and sin no more, because Christ made every provision in the world for her to follow that command. Don't we see the character of Christ in this passage in an amazing way? And what we find in this passage Is that the reality is we can apply this to our lives as well. Whether you don't know Christ as your Savior today, and whether you are still in your sin God, Christ has made every provision for you to come to Him. Or if you know Christ is your Savior And you are still struggling with sin. Christ has made every provision for you to sin. Come to Him. I was thinking about this and meditating on this quite a bit, and thinking about how sin does affect us in our lives, and I wanted to just help us Because I think sometimes we think of of sin working in our lives and binding us and causing us harm in only one way. When we think as Christians think of sin, we often think of it in terms of how can I stop doing this sin? I just need to stop doing it And certainly that is one of the ways that Satan places a hold on our lives through sin. Now the Bible is very clear we never have to sin. God Christ has given us the power to not sin, but but Satan will tempt us by repetition. Number one, sin will place a hold on us, and we will feel defeated because of constant failure because of sin. And frankly, that is something that all of us have to deal with uh uh sometimes, where we are in a pro we have a problem, we have a particular sin that we are that we are repeating and is a besetting thing for us And the reality is we can feel constant defeat and failure over that sin that we can't seem to stop Number two, though, Christ number two, uh sin can place a hold on us through condemnation. The Bible says that our hearts can condemn us, even if we are not continuing in that sin any longer, even if we have stopped it. Their hearts can continue to condemn us. Our hearts can continue to judge us. Our hearts can continue to cause us a sense of inordinate amount of regret. We we can become introspective when it comes to these things, and we can become defeated just by the condemnation that we receive Because of the sin. But the Bible says in Romans chapter 8, verse 1, there is therefore no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus Christ has made provision. And for us to continue feeling condemned about a sin that Christ has already forgiven is to diminish Christ's work in your life and in my life as well. And thirdly, reminders. Just reminders from the consequences of sin. Now, the reality is when we sin against God, there are consequences. I just want to say this. What we see in Scripture is that Christ does not desire to put the full weight of consequences on us, does he? We see that in this passage. And there is a sense in which what you sow you reap, but you also find in, for example, in Hebrews chapter 12 that the whole intent of allowing conscious qu consequences to intend continue in life is to bring you back to himself. And if you look at the whole text of scripture and you look at what Christ says about this And what God's intention of this is, is that once you come back to him, though there might be cause and effect that you just can't avoid, once you come back to him, it is God's desire to cease in chastening us He doesn't want to chasten somebody who's repentant. That's not his desire. And so we have these reminders. And all of these three ways are ways that sin can place a hold on a Christian. But let me tell you something. All of these are ways that Christ can give us the victory. Christ has made provision for all of this in our lives so that we can be victorious over sin and death. And you know how he does this? He does this by demonstrating his word that there is no condemnation of them there in Christ Jesus. But also he does this by showing us that we can live obedient lives before him. And what he is calling this woman to, he's not calling her to victory. He's calling her to obedience. He says, go and sin no more. Do you remember he's done this before in the book of John, when he had healed that man from his uh his uh paralysis? Back several chapters ago, he said, go and don't sin anymore. And we see the same thing in this passage. That's Christ's desire. His desire is to not condemn us, that we get rid of it, and that we go in purity as a response to his mercy in our lives. That's Christ's desire. And let me just tell you this. That really helps us with parenting, doesn't it? If you're if you're children are you have to con you know you have to deal with their sin, you've got to discipl discipline them. But when they begin to self-correct, when they begin to catch their own sin And when they come to you and they begin to deal with it themselves, you begin to say, okay, well, your conscience is doing the work. And there are all kinds of application in their life. But let me just say this: it is not God's desire for you and I to live under a sense of condemnation. Why? Because of Christ alone. And the only way we could feel free from condemnation of sin is to recognize the blood of Christ in our lives to deal with all of these kinds of sins. And that's God's desire for us. He, do you know, isn't it true, folks, that the kind of life that God wants us to live and following Him is the best life we can live? There's pain and there's hardship and there's struggle, but it's still a life of joy and peace. Because you know you're following Christ. And not just externally, but internally in your heart, you're following after him. And the reality is, you and I as Christians can't do it alone. We must Constantly depend upon Christ to do what we cannot do for ourselves. It doesn't st it only starts when we come to Christ. Every day of our lives, we've got to constantly depend upon Christ to do what we cannot do for ourselves In dealing with this problem of sin. And we will one day be free from the presence of sin, won't we? When we go to him and we see him face to face, and we're free from this And we'll live eternally with him, still following him in a perfect way. But until then, God is going to make Christ can make provision for us. And let me just say this to you. There is really only one thing that keeps you from having this kind of provision placed on your life. And that is unbelief. Unbelief is it. If you don't believe Christ can do this for you, That will keep Christ from being able to do this for you. And even as a Christian, that's true. If you don't believe that Christ can free you from this bondage of sin in your life, it's unbelief that's the problem. It boils down to unbelief. But isn't it wonderful in Scripture as we can we our hearts can resound with the man who said to Christ, Lord, I believe, help thou my unbelief. The Bible tells us if our heart condemns us, the Bible says God is greater than our hearts, and he knoweth all things. And so the key is what Paul said: for me to live is Christ, but to die is gain. To live is Christ. Let me just give a couple of applications here. Number one, we must guard against the condemning spirit That provokes right helplessness and hopelessness. We must Guard against the condemning spirit that fosters helplessness and hopelessness. We want to show Christ to others that should not conclude a condemning spirit. We want to show people that Christ has the provision to help you follow Him, not to condemn them for what Christ already knows they can't do for themselves. And so we must be very careful. We don't want to be like the Pharisees and scribes. We don't want to be judgmental and condemning of other people. Well we want to be a show Christ, which means which means, folks, that we want to extend mercy and grace to folks. But we want to show them that Christ has every provision for them to follow Him. And the very best life that they can live is to simply say, I want to follow Christ in everything, to go and sin no more. Number two, we must realize that Christ's desire and ability is to forgive and restore. His desire is to restore. His ability is to restore. It's Christ's desire to do that. Number three, we must purpose to live in purity as the only proper response To God's mercy in our lives. We must live in purity is the only proper response to God's mercy. I'd like every head bowed and every eye closed this morning. I actually just want you all just, and I want myself to do this as well, frankly, in reflection of the message. We're all together in this. And just total silence. Before the Lord, I just want some time I want you to just take some time and just work talk with the Lord about in response to this. Wherever you are at, are you dealing with a sin in your life that is that you're struggling with and you're not giving to the Lord? You're not seeing Christ's provision? Are you dealing with a condemning heart? Are you dealing with someone else that's condemning you? you? Are you dealing what are you dealing with? Christ is the answer and he will deal with it correctly. And we need to ask him to do that in our lives. And if there is somebody here today that doesn't know you, doesn't know the Lord is our as there's your Savior, you could, if you chose to today, say, Lord, would you save me from my sin? You are the Lord of my life. I am allowing that to happen in my life, Lord. Would you do that? Would I I I am now giving you control Let's give a few minutes of silence before the Lord. I would just say to you that if you don't know him as your Savior You could please come and talk to me after the service. I'd be glad I'll stop everything I'm doing to talk to you. I'll just tell you I will. And I'll be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you are really genuinely having a relationship with God. Father, we come to you and we thank you for Christ. We thank you for his person. We thank you for the the life that he l lived for us as our example when he came down and condescended to our humanity to live. and set an example for us than to die in our place and to rise from the grave victorious over sin and death We thank you for Christ, and we thank you for the simplicity of Christ, and we thank you that He makes provision for every, for all, for all sin. I pray, Lord, that you would help us in our unbelief to believe Thank you, Lord, for the work that you do through your word, and I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Let's sing of Christ's provision together.