You're dismissed. Aren't you glad that the Lord has given us throughout the years of church history such wonderful hymns of praise and song and spiritual songs. I was thinking about that this week. and uh realizing that there are songs that that really um They they emphasize the transcendence of God. That last song, did you ever notice that about songs for this past that song we just sang? It emphasized the transcendence of God, that God is great and almighty, and the fact that He we want Him to come. So that really emphasizes the transcendence of God. There are other hymns that emphasize, or songs that emphasize the eminence of God. Nearer, still nearer, for example. Or our song of the month last month. There are some songs that really emphasize the eminence of God. Both are absolutely necessary. If you have a song that only emphasizes the eminence of God without acknowledging the transcendence of God, you might have a problem. Or if you have a song that acknowledges the transcendence of God, but doesn't have any connection to the eminence of God, there may be some something to consider there. But all of our music, all of our Christian hymn hymns and and spiritual songs, they either emphasize one or the other. And um And knowing that and realizing that, thinking through that is important as we worship the Lord. I appreciate the modern hymns of our day as well, some of them. And uh really thankful for them as well. And and uh and and how they help us to communicate uh praise to the Lord. John chapter 14 is where we are at this morning. I'm going to use an illustration that I've used before, but occasionally, occasionally illustrations I think are okay to reuse when they really make the point particularly well. Several years ago, in fact it's been seventeen years ago, something like that now. Um I between my I was uh it was between I I was working at a summer uh working for a carpentry company, uh trying to help them to pay my way work work my way through school And uh and I was working for them and one of the things that I did from time to time was I drove the forklift. In fact, I f I I wanted you to picture the kind of forklift that lift I was driving. That's a good example of it. And there's a reason I'm having you a picture up there, you'll see in a minute. So uh occasionally I would just be I would just do that, and as part of what I would do, I just do whatever my boss told me to do, is basically what I would do, and and part of it was driving a forklift occasionally to to transport lumber, material, those kinds of things. Well, one day I was driving this forklift and there was a um uh group of men who asked me if I would be willing to transport their appliances to the third floor, it was a townhouse, the third floor of of the building that we were working on. And they weren't with my company at all that I was working for, so I went and asked my s my the actually the owner of the company and I asked him, should I do this? Do you want me to do this? He said, yeah, we'll we do that kind of thing for you. them feel free to do that. He said, but then he stopped. He said, don't do what you're not comfortable doing. He said, just make sure whatever you do, you're not comfortable, just don't do what you're not comfortable doing. And uh I said, okay. So they had me go around the back of this building, and um I noticed immediately in the back of the building there was a large drainage drainage pond. And between the large drainage pond and the building where I was going to be placing the appliances was a steep, well at least I felt like it was a rather steep slope. So if you can imagine going around the building and suddenly you're on a slope. And I had I had a box on just like that on the on the um on the uh um Forklift, and I had two appliances in there, probably washer dryer, something like that, and I had a man in there. And they said, boom it up to the third floor. Now, I'm looking at this and I'm I'm sitting in this thing and I'm saying, if I boom this amount of weight, I could just see the whole thing toppling over and and landing in that drainage pond. And so I I'm I'm very nervous about it. And they seemed very authoritative, even though they weren't my boss. They were sort of very authoritative and I was a young kid back then now I wouldn't have I wouldn't have bad an eye over it but but at the time I was they were much older than me and much more you could do this no problem it'll work and everything And I was I didn't know what, you know, I'm sitting there going, I don't think I should do this. I don't feel comfortable doing this, but being feeling too timid to actually say, I'm not doing this. Until my boss came around. When he came around the bend and he was standing there watching, I said, I am not doing that And I said, I said, there is no way I'm doing this. I am I am and so I became much more bold. I became much more authoritative. Why? Because I was in the presence of the owner of the company. I was in the presence of the boss and I knew I knew he'd back me up. And so I got I said, I am not doing this and and my boss came over to me and said, Jim, you made the right decision. He said uh he said the guy last year fell into the pond. So anyway Now why in the world he didn't tell me that, I don't know. But anyway, all he told me all he told me was uh just don't do anything you're not comfortable with Um so anyway, all that to say that, you know, why was I why was I so timid before and then and then my boss came out and I was much more bold? Why? Well, because there was a certain assurance and authority that came with being in the presence of my boss. And I think that illustrates, not perfectly certainly, but illustrates to some degree what occurs when we're When we realize we're in the presence of the Lord. And when the disciples realized they were in the presence of the Lord here, and the thought of the Lord leaving them, they were very, very fearful about that. And it's very interesting as I have been studying this passage many, many hours in this in this one chapter of Scripture in John chapter 14. One of the things that just really resonates with me as I study this is I'm really coming to the conclusion that we would fail immediately. In this life as a Christian, if we were not indwelt by the Spirit of God, we would absolutely have no hope whatsoever of fulfilling God's expectations of us, of pleasing him, if we were not indwelt by his spirit. And Christ knew we couldn't do it outside of his presence. He understood this. That's why he would say in verse 18 of this passage, I will not leave you comfortless. The word literally there means I will not leave you as an orphan. Which was an which was an idiom to mean I will not leave you helpless. And one of the things I want to get across to you and I as we get as we start working on this passage together and studying it, I want us to understand That apart from the presence of God in our lives, we are helpless. If God had not chosen to send his spirit, if he did not indwell us, We would be helpless and hopeless, but Christ did not choose to leave us this way. What we find in this passage is that this is a serious, essential turning point that Christ is talking to them about how the kingdom is now going to be. They had understood, if you'll recall from previous messages, they had understood that they were going to take the kingdom by force. that Christ was going to lead them into a new era and he was going to set up his kingdom and the temple was going to now then have the presence of God there. And Jesus is getting across to them the fact that no, it is not going to look anything like that. You and I take for granted things like the indwelling of the Spirit of God. You and I take for granted things like an intimate relationship with God on a one-on-one or one-on-one-on-one in three basis. But these disciples had no concept of this. They didn't understand this at all. And so the questions that they're going to ask, they're trying to wrap their minds around this idea that Christ is going to leave them, but somehow yet still be with them. And Christ is going to be very div very clear about this in this passage, about how this is going to work. He has said previously in verse 14 And a few verses prior to that, he has said previously that you're going to do greater works than I've done. Or maybe even to be more specific, I'm going to do greater works through you. And you're going to pray on my behalf. You're going to pray representing me. And God's going to hear, He's going to answer your prayer, and you're going to see great things done through you. But now Jesus is now going to explain in more detail how that is even possible. And the answer in a nutshell is going to be that he is going to send them someone. He's going to send them God, the Spirit, the Holy Spirit. And we're going to pick up here after we pray, we're going to see this. Let's first go to the Lord and ask his blessing on our time together. Father, we do need your help. There is a lot of material to cover here. But more importantly, there is such important truth for us to grasp in this passage. I pray, Lord, that it would challenge us and encourage us. And comfort us as we look at this passage and we see the provision that you have made. in this new plan to execute your kingdom, not personally mediating it, but from a distance, and yet you'll be with us. And I pray, Lord, that you'll help us to see how this is all supposed to work. And I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, Jesus had his departure in mind. He wanted to bring comfort to them. Jesus understood that he they were going to have to live with his presence even though he would no longer be with them And so we begin this section understanding this, and we're really going to see today how this is all supposed to work. We pick up here in verse 15 of this passage, and we see a condition for being able to be to be a part of this kingdom. I want to articulate this with great precision here. It's going to be necessary for us to do this, but he's going to say this in verse 15. If ye love me, Keep my commandments. This is now going to control the next, this phrase is now going to control the next two verses and really will influence the rest of the passage. If ye love me, if you love me, he says, keep my commandments. This is a conditional clause. This is a condition for being a part of the kingdom. Now let me be clear about this. This is not saying that we have to come to Christ through any kind of self-effort whatsoever. We know that from many passages in the New Testament, Romans chapter 3, Galatians chapter 3. Romans chapter 4, there's all over the place we find that it is not a part, there is not human effort involved in our coming to Christ. But folks, when someone has come to Christ, there is at least on some level a love for Christ. In other words, you want to know whether you've come to Christ or not. You can determine that by at some level. Do you love him? We find this to be the case, for example, in 1 John 5, verse 3, it says, For this is the love of God that we keep his commandments Now let me just mention this. We have here inseparably linked two ideas. That you love God, and then you have this idea of obedience. Love and obedience. There are some today that would that would recoil at the idea, even Christians that would recoil at the idea of obedience to the commands of God. Of course, we know from previous verses that the primary commands He's talking about is to love God and to love your neighbor as yourself and to love one another as he has just said previously in John chapter 13. We know that that is his emphasis. Some people feel as though that with so much with too much emphasis on obedience, you have this sense of obligation, this sense of oppressiveness. But those who think this way are not factoring in what 1 John 5, verse 3 says. For this is the love of God that we keep his commandments, and his commandments are not burdensome. Have you ever thought of God's commandments as being a burden? Well, certainly they can be. If you think of the first century with the Pharisees and the adherence to all 611 commandments, in addition to that, you had additions that were made in the rabbinical writings that they had to follow. And it had become a burdensome thing on the people. They were enslaved to these kinds of things. But when we factor in the motive of love, no longer is a command a burden. A command becomes a delight. Just by way of illustration, I will tell you that prior to my knowing Elizabeth, the idea of buying flowers for a woman made no sense to me whatsoever. I'm just telling you the truth. I mean why would you go and spend a lot of money to give something s to someone that will that will very quickly die? It just makes no logical sense. I'd rather buy them something they can use, you know, like a drill or something. It just didn't I'm I'm joking a little bit about that But really it didn't make any sense to me until I met Elizabeth and until I started getting to know her And after a while, buying these dead flowers made total sense to me. Why? Because I knew that it would please them, please her. Until she stopped talk until she told me to stop buying them. She said they're dead flowers. I thought, this is the perfect woman. Anyways. Now she's still actually that that wore off after a w after a while. She does like flowers now. Anyway. But she actually would prefer me to buy 'em in potted plants. Ladies, how many of you all like that? Would rather just have pots of flowers rat or something that will grow along the time Anyway, so I try to do that now. Except certain times I know it better be the fresh cut flowers that are expensive that are overly priced and anyway. Um so all that to say this You know, when you it's not an obligation. I mean I forked I remember the first bouquet of flowers I bought. I was like forty bucks. Now I figured out a little better way to do it later on. But it was expensive the in the beginning of that thing. But I had no problem forking that money over. for those flowers. Why? Because I was trying to win her. No, it was hopefully because I was I wanted to please her. I I wanted just to delight her. You see, when you really love someone These commandments are not grievous. They're not burdensome. You want to do it because you love them. And that is the way that Christ wants us to be with him. He wants us to follow him because we love him. And he says, in all order for all of this to work right, this relationship that he's going to talk about, in order for it all to work right, you've got to love me and keep my commandments. How do you know you love God? Well, are you keeping his commandments? If you're not obedient to God, you can't say you love God. It's very clear about that in 1 John. Those who say they love God and don't keep God's commandments. They're a liar, the Bible says, and the truth is not in them. And so obviously, now let me just say this to balance it out. Are any of us perfect at keeping the commandments? Of course we are not. Are there levels of love? There are levels of love. But folks, on some level You can know whether you know the Lord if you truly love him. And the commandments for one who loves him are not essentially burdensome to him. Because you're wanting to please your God. And so he begins that way here. He then says this to those who do love him. Not that that's self-merit. Please don't misunderstand me, but those who exhibit a result of the working of God in their lives to where they do love him. Verse 16. And I will pray the Father, he says, and he will give you another comforter, that he may abide with you forever. Of course, you know that he here is talking about the Spirit of God. He says, I'm going to pray, I'm going to ask the Father, and on my behalf, I'm going to ask that he gives you another comforter. Well, why would he say another? Well, because he was the first one. He was with the disciples. He walked with the disciples. He was with the disciples. But we do need to understand this word that the King James translates comforter. You know, if you look at various modern translations, it nearly every translation uses a different word. Some translations use the word helper. One translation uses the word advocate. Another translation uses the word counselor. You have many translations that are using very good translations that are using their their employing this word a different way. So what does it mean here? Why what when he identifies the Holy Spirit in this way, what does he mean here? And the answer that I want to I want to begin this way by describing this. I want to start from the most technical and then work our way to the most maybe the most practical. Number one, I want us to understand this about this, about the Holy Spirit. and his description here. The word means parac the word in the Greek is paraklete or perakletos. It comes from the word para and kale'o. Kale'o means to call. We actually can make that connection probably. And para, we probably make that connection too, means to go alongside of. And so this para calao means to call alongside of, is what it means. This word paraclete is one then most technically who is going to come alongside of someone. Of course, we are going to find later in the passage he's actually going to indwell us. But this is the idea of someone who is going to come alongside. But also in a very technical sense, this word would the probably the best word to describe this on a technical level is advocate. In fact, in the first century, when this word was used, it was used in a judicial sense. It was used to describe someone who is going to be an advocate for someone else's position. That you hold a position on something, and then there's going to be somebody who's going to be at an advocate for that position. And so on the most technical level, this is someone who is going to be an advocate. But more practically, we know that this is someone who is an advisor or a counselor. Or a helper. Though if you think of helper, you need not think of a subordinate role. When you think of helper, you usually think of someone who's sort of a subordinate. Don't think that way. So this is a person who is a helper. He is he is he is a an advocate. He is a helper and he is a counselor. This is the Spirit of God in our lives He played he made he this is the role that he takes on for those who know Christ as their Lord and Savior. That is why, folks, he can give us the kind of assurance that nobody else can give us. For example, the Bible says that his spirit, the Spirit of God, bears witness with our spirit that we are the sons of God. That is, the Holy Spirit is able to give us this assurance of knowing that we are His. That's His role. He is our advocate. But he is one who is going to be help helping us, and he is one who is going to be our counselor And this person, Jesus says here in this passage, is one who will dwell with you and will be in you. He says here, verse 16, that he may abide with you forever. We have someone who's going to be abiding with us forever, and that is the Holy Spirit. Now, Christ does this with such assurance for the disciples. He does this with an up with such a comforting way. This Christ has is going to leave them after three and a half years. The disciples never expected Christ to leave them But with this guarantee of the Spirit of God coming to them, he wants them to know that he will never leave you. That's why we find later on in the book of Hebrews that he says, Christ says, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. The Lord is my helper, it says in that passage. And so we have this awesome privilege of having someone to indwell us. Now the other thing well let's let's keep going on the passage. I want to say everything at one time. I'm having a little trouble uh uh keeping things to myself until the right sequence. Um anyway, verse 17 Even the spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him, but ye know him For he dwelleth in you and shall uh he dwellth with you and shall be in you. The next thing that he says about this Holy Spirit is that he is the Spirit of truth. He is the Spirit of truth. Now, why does he say this? It is because Christ's most or the Spirit of God's most essential role is to identify truth. You know, we're living in a world that is full of lies and full of deceit and full of of of just all kinds of turmoil and corruption and wickedness nearly on every every level. And if we're honest with ourselves, when we look at our own hearts we see the same kind of thing. We see a heart that is deceitful and desperately wicked. When you are in a situation Where you see a lot of trouble, or you're in a situation where you are, let's let's put it this way, you are in trouble. There is trouble all around you. There is perhaps deceit. There's drama. There's problems all around you. What does that do to you? It makes you feel uneasy, does it not? It distresses you. It causes you to be troubled by things. And God says there's going to be someone that's going to be indwelling, Christ says that's going to be indwelling you that has no deceit whatsoever. They have no corruption whatsoever. They are within you, and they are the spirit of truth. Now we know that the Spirit of God in this dispensation takes on that role in very significant ways. For example, he's the one who inspires the Word of God. It is by the Spirit of God breathing the Word of God through men of God. He also, we're going to find in John chapter 16, another role of the Spirit of God is he is actually the one who brings conviction. He is the judge as well. How can he be both the counselor, comforter, and the judge? Well, for those who don't know him as their savior, don't know the Lord as their savior. He is one who is going to bring conviction. Because why? He is the spirit of truth. Truth to one is comfort. Truth to another is conviction. And so the Spirit of God that dwells in the believer is one who is the one who is truth. And who identifies truth. And not only that, we find in 1 John chapter 3, that he identifies the significance of truth even as we read Scripture. When we go through and we do the diligence of studying the Word of God, it's got to take diligence, by the way. We've got to see the Word of God as it stands. The Spirit of God helps us to see the significance of the truth that we are reading. It helps us to see the profoundness of it. It helps us, it is as though it highlights it for us. He highlights, I should not say it. He highlights it for us. This is the spirit of truth. Whom the world cannot receive. Now, I want you to know something else in verse 17. It's very important. Why can't the world receive it? Or him, I should say. I don't know why I'm keeping why can't the world receive him, the Spirit of God? What does it say in the passage? It says, Because it can't see him. The world cannot see him. It seeth him not, neither knoweth him. He says, but ye who are redeemed know him, for he dwelleth with you, and he then says, he shall be in you. Now this is going to become important as we look at this passage. Why is it that the Spirit of God cannot indwell the world? Why is it that the Spirit of God has no, the world has no recognition? Why? Because they can't see him. You ever notice that in the world, the world has a very hard time with things they cannot see? They struggle if they can't see it, they have a hard time believing it. Why is it that the spirit of why is it that that a Christian can know the assurance of the Spirit of God, it is because it is spiritually discerned. And that's exactly what it says in 1 Corinthians 2 verse 14. But the natural man does not receive the things of the Spirit of God for their foolishness to him, nor can he know them because they are spiritually discerned. And so the world, they can't receive the Spirit of God. They don't even know, they can't see it, they can't perceive it, Him, they can't do it. And it says, and shall be in you. That's incredible. By the way, verse 17 gives us the most definitive verse that demonstrates that the Old Testament believers did not have the permanent indwelling Spirit of God in their lives. There is actually quite a bit written on this, at least in academic circles, as to whether or not Old Testament saints were indwelt by the Spirit. Answer is no, they were not. We're not permanently indwelled by the Spirit of God. This seems to be very clear when we when you look at this passage Because here you have the disciples who are followers of Christ, and yet they are not yet dwelt by Christ, but it says the Spirit of God is with them. That really demonstrates here then that New Testament believers are permanently indwelt by the Spirit of God. But Old Testament believers It demonstrates that there is a completeness about the work of Christ that seems to allow the Spirit of God to really indwell us. Then he says in verse 18, I will not leave you comfortless. I will come to you. Yet a little while, verse 19, and the world see me no more, but ye see me because I live, ye shall live also. At that day ye shall know that I am in the Father, and the Father in me. The passage then begins to elaborate on the fact of who is going to be Who is going to be participants in this whole working of the kingdom? Christ has already laid out in the very first verse of his of the Upper Rune Discourse that the wor the world is going to be distinct from believers. That there is going to be the world that is going to be separate and the and the believers are going to be separate from the world There's no question about that as you go through this passage. Christ is, for example, in John 17, is going to pray for disciples, followers of Christ, but he's going to say, I don't pray for the world. And he is going to say that I pray that the world, that this, that my followers will be in the world and not of the world. Now, with that in mind, then, that is a little bit at this point going to be a little confusing for the disciples for this reason. When Christ came, he came for to reveal himself to the world. In fact, you have Old Testament passages, several Old Testament passages, that demonstrate that Christ came to uh for to to display himself to the world. And in fact, even at the end of this, he's going to say that the world may know that I love the Father. So what is he saying here to the disciples that you're going to be able you're going to have a special relationship with me and I'm going to reveal myself to you, but I won't reveal myself to the world. And the answer is exactly what's happening even now. If you think about it, will Christ one day display himself to the world? He most certainly will in the second coming. But that's not yet happened. He only now reveals himself to whom he will. He only now reveals himself to those who will accept him by faith. That is the dispensation, if you will, that we are in. And John is basically tea or Jesus is basically teaching the disciples that there is going to be like this period before I come back and display to the world my glory, there's going to be this time here where I'm just going to be revealing. myself to my own. Now that then brings up he he says here verse 18 I will not have you comfort or verse 19 Yet a little while, and the world seeth me no more, but ye see me because I live, and ye shall live also. At that day ye shall know that I am in the Father, and ye in me, and I in you. Now, verse 20 sets up a foundation for what he's going to say in John chapter 17. Two chapters later, he says that his goal is for I to be in my father. And for ye to be in me, and for I to be in you. You know what he's talking about here? He is talking about a unity that has not yet been experienced by those who follow Christ. He's talking about a unity where it says, I am in my Father, my Father is in me, and I am in you. There is a unity of fellowship that occurs when somebody comes to Christ. This is not something they had ever heard of before. And it is incredible, wouldn't you say? Is it not incredible that the oneness that the spirit that that the spirit of God has with the Son of God and the Son of God has with his father, that that same oneness we are allowed to be enter entering into. It's incredible that we have that kind of unity with the Father when we come to the Come to know Christ as our Savior. And he is saying that this is going to happen. Verse 21, he has, he that hath my commandments and keepeth them. He it is that loveth me, and he that loveth me shall be loved by my of my father, and I will love him. and will manifest myself to him. He reiterates again that this love and keeping of God's commandments are necessary in order to be in fellowship with him And this is all part of God's plan in order for us to be in oneness and in fellowship with Him. Now, at this point, then, this is really, at this point, probably blowing the disciples' minds. They're listening to all of this and going, how are you going to be in the Father and then we're in you and you're in me? This is not something they would have understood the the presence of God in the temple, they would have understood the presence of God in the nation of Israel as they kept they were careful to keep the ceremonial laws. They would have understood all this, but this idea that I could have this individual relationship with God, this oneness, this intimacy with God, this was something that altogether was foreign to them. Now, we do know there are times of the Old Testament where people did describe them, describe a personal relationship with the Father David is probably the best example of that as you read the Psalms you find that he's praying to his his close father. It's not as though someone could not have an individual relationship with a father, but there seem to be at this point at least Not very much emphasis on that. And the disciples had no clue about the extent to which we would be able to have this oneness with the Father and with Christ. And so Judas says this. Judas says, How is it that thou wilt manifest thyself unto us? And not unto the world. He is basically saying, what has occurred for you to choose to do that this way? Why would you do this? And the answer, folks, is found in verse 23. Jesus answered and said, If a l man, if a man, singular, love me, he will keep my words And my father will love him singular. And we will come unto him singular. And what does he say? And make our abode with him We will make our home with him. Now that is profound. The Father and the Son, who are unified, will choose. To the person that they redeem. They'll make their home with him. This is the kind of individual relationship. That the disciples had not fathomed before. And so what we see here is that when Christ rises from the grave and ascends to his Father, and the Spirit of God comes in Pentecost, there is a difference And how we relate to God, there is this individual reality in our lives. Now that doesn't mean there's no corporate reality. But the individual reality, the corporate reality, is dependent on the individual reality. In other words, folks, when we all come together as believers. It presupposes that we have this individual relationship with the Lord. And then we come together and we share in our individual relationships with God, collectively and corporately. The presence of God is no longer in a building. The presence of God is indwelling in us, and we corporately meet together. and worship together, we can share to one to another about this this individual relationship that we have, and we are collectively meeting together, corporately together, to be able to do that. So before you would have had a corporate idea of the presence of God, and based upon that, I can have my individual relationship with God. And now, after the resurrection and the ascension, you have the exact, you have the inverted, where my corporate relationship with God is based upon my individual relationship with God. And so then he says this. Verse 24. He that loveth me not keepeth not my sayings. And the word which ye hear is not mine, but the father's which sent me. These things have I spoken unto you being yet present with you. But the comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things. and bring all things to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you. And so Jesus has this plan for the disciples where he says that what he is teaching them all kinds of information now. And they are not really grasping everything. And they won't, wouldn't, and of their own selves remember even everything that he's teaching them. But he's going to send the Spirit of God to them to remind them and to bring remembrance to them the truth that Christ has already given them. Now, folks, there's something that we can actually really learn from this. The Holy Spirit's role is not here to give them new truth. Now, he is going to inspire the Word of God through them. But the Holy Spirit's role is not to give them new truth. The Holy Spirit's role is to give them, to remind them of the truth that Christ has already proclaimed to them with the word. I think that's very important for us to understand. It is the Spirit of God that uses the Word of God in order for us to identify the truth of God. It's not as though the Spirit of God sort of uses some sort of premonition or some sort of feeling. No, the Spirit of God uses the Word of God to show us the truth and the significance of the truth. And so this is how this is all going to work together. Verses 25 through 31 tell us how this whole thing is going to work. And the disciples are really not grasping this. This for us seems sort of We understand this, but they don't understand how this all works. And so he says in verse 27 this He says, peace I leave with you. My peace I give unto you. Not as the world gives I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. At this point, Jesus has perceived that the disciples are still extremely distressed. And they are troubled by this. They're troubled by everything that they're hearing, and they are concerned about everything they're hearing, and they they bottom line don't want Christ to leave. I think you and I could somewhat understand that. That's the position the disciples find themselves in. They very likely have never had the kind of meaning and purpose and And they don't want to lose that. And so Christ comforts them with this. He says, Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you. Now let me just mention this. This is not a separate subject. This is not a new subject. Why is it that he can infuse in us his peace? Because the Spirit of God is there. Remember, we said that the Spirit of God is the Spirit of truth. Peace comes when there is clarity of truth. You want to know peace? You need to understand this. And the peace that Christ offers and gives to his believer to the believers is not the same kind of peace that the world gives The kind of peace that the world gives is external peace. The kind of peace that the that Christ gives is internal peace. The kind of peace that the world gives is temporary peace. The kind of peace That Christ gives is eternal peace Back in this during this time period for over 200 years between 27 BC and 200 years, 260 years after that point. They were experiencing the Pax Romana. That was a time of peace, of political peace in the world that had been brought on by the Roman Empire. It was a time where there was very little conquest, there was very little further occupying of nations. It was a time of relative peace. And they were in that time period. They were experiencing this political peace. Now it was at a cost, and they knew that cost, and they were not comfortable with that cost. They wanted to overthrow the Roman government. But there was, in a sense, this this There was not of unruliness and unrest that there is in our world today. This Paks Ramana did represent for them a level of peace. But Christ says to them, the kind of peace that the world can offer, that's not my peace. I'm giving you a different kind of peace altogether. One day Christ will come back and he will establish this both external peace and we will have internal peace. Aren't you looking forward to the day where Christ comes back and sets the whole thing right? But for now, what Christ is going to offer his disciples is internal peace, so that we can go through life with all the turmoil and all the struggle and all the despair and all the deceit. And all of the corruption and all of the problems, we can go through that, and there is this internal peace in our lives. Now, I'm going to do something that I don't usually do And I want to use an illustration, two illustrations actually, and I have not asked their permission. I usually do ask their permission, but I have chosen not to this time, and I don't I think that they I'm sure they won't they'll be okay. with it. This past week has been a a interesting week for our church as we have as I have been watching personally both um um what has happened to Roberta Kilkup as well as Joey Solomberg over the last few weeks. I just want to tell you from I've had first-hand knowledge of the uh of things as I've watched these two godly women. And I have watched them be very human in struggling with anticipating surgery and coming out of surgery and dealing with pain and all of that. But can I tell you that there was in each in both of these ladies, there was, in my perception, an overriding peace in these ladies Doesn't mean they weren't scared about going to surgery like the rest of us would be, or like anyone would be. But I can just tell you experientially that there was a peace that went through that that was in them that when they went through those things, they were not, they weren't, there was not a sense of despair about them. Even I even in visiting Joey for just a few minutes a couple of weeks ago, just I was only there ten minutes, I knew that that she had just come from a procedure that she was uncomfortable. But I'll tell you, there was this there was this emphasis on glorifying the Lord. And hoping that God uses this in the lives of other people, the same thing I saw in Roberta. Her focus was others' focus. Now, I want you to notice something about this passage. Would you notice what it says here? He says, Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you, not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. And I'm not saying to you that these ladies did not have any fear. I think they probably did. In fact, I would quite much imagine that they did. But there is a kind of fear That draws us into hopelessness. There is a kind of fear that causes us to despair. And I will tell you from first-hand testimony that in these ladies, that was absent. It wasn't there. Never did I see a sense of despair. Never did I see a sense of hopelessness And that is a, folks, that is an experiential testament to God's peace in their lives. When I was studying this, frankly, I could not help but think of these two ladies. And God's working in their lives. And all of us can identify this in our lives when we think about it. There are times where there is a m A huge amount of tumultuous circumstances in our lives that are overwhelming and troubling and distressing in our lives. But when we've got the Spirit of God in us, though we may be troubled, as Christ was, he says, and as the disciples were certainly, though we may be troubled, there is a distress There is a despair. There is a hopelessness that you and I do not have to face. And that's why Paul is going to say later on that we sorrow not as others who have no hope. But he warns these disciples. He says, Do not be afraid. We have to be warned about that, don't we? Do you know the struggle that we go through, you can usually find at its essence, has to do with fear. And that's why the Bible tells us in 1 John that perfect love casteth out all fear, because fear has what? Has torment. We have seen multiple verses here that have emphasized the love of God and the love for God. And what he says here, in order for this relationship to work right, in order for there to be a unity and a oneness, in order for us to experience the peace that Christ gives us, he says, you've got to, you cannot be fearful. He says And by fearful he's not, it doesn't mean just the normal human nervousness. He's saying here, you cannot be in despair. Guard yourself against that. Well, how do you do that? Perfect love does what? Casts out all fear. There's no fear in what? In love. The problem, folks, why do we fear? Because we don't love enough. And that's exactly what he's going to say to his disciples here. He now is going to point out to them a problem in their lives. He says, verse 28, Ye have heard how I said unto you, I go away. And come again unto you. If ye loved me, ye would rejoice, because I said, I go unto the Father, for my Father is greater than I. Do you see what he says here? Jesus, when he came to earth, limited his own glory. When he, we find that in Philippians chapter 2. One now when he is about to rejoin the Father and again experience his full glory, we find that in John chapter 17. He says to his disciples that if you had loved me enough, if you had loved me, you would be glad I'm going for my sake, because I'm going to my Father who is in greater glory than I am. Do you know what he's really identifying the disciples? He's saying, your love is not complete. You have a love that Let's say it practically needs a lot of work. Why did he say this? Because they were so preoccupied with themselves. and their needs and him leaving and their despair and what were they going to do without him and what in the world was that they had did they lost their love for Christ. Now, are you and I, if we're not careful, could be the exact same way. We could be so preoccupied with how things affect us. and what what is going to deal what what's happening to us and how circumstances uh are going to result with us that we lose our love for God Our love to focus on who God is and how things affect him This is a problem that he warns the disciples about. He he says you can't, don't fear Fear is going to drive love out of you. What's the problem with fear? The problem with fear is that fear is entirely self-focused. Now, of course, we're not talking about fear of God here. We're talking here about fear of circumstances and fear of man and fear of people. You have those kinds of fears. And God says that those kinds of fears taken to a degree of despair is going to, the problem is a focus on self. D. A. Carson said this, the failure of these first disciples, sad to say, has often been repeated in the history of the church. Where Christians have been far more alert to their own griefs and sorrows than to the things that bring their master joy. And so he warns them about this. Can I just tell you from personal experience and if my discernment is all right about these things? But in these two ladies, what I saw is a great deal of love for their God. They were concerned about others the whole time. They were concerned about their families, they're concerned about their husbands, they're concerned about their leading somebody to Christ in their situation, about being a good testimony, about Pleasing God, about not knowing why in the world this is happening, but wanting God to be glorified through all this. That was were the thing that are the things that have been on these ladies' lips. And I'm not here to glorify them at all. This is only because they are indwelt by the Spirit of God. But it does for us give us a good example on how we ought to also live. Do you have in your life enough of a love for God that you're willing to be inconvenienced? Do you have enough of a love for God that you're willing to go through discomfort or even pain or struggle? You love God that much that if it will bring him joy and and it will be for the furtherance of God's kingdom that you will go through those things. That's what true love is. We find that exemplified greatly in the cross. He loved us so much that he he he experienced the suffering of the cross. That's love And all of us here, there's not a soul here, I'm sure, that would say we have reached the degree to love that we need in our lives. That we can't grow in this area. But I would hope on some level we can we can affirm the fact that Christ Has put in us a love for him on some level that will allow us to sacrifice for him. It may be extremely imperfect. It may be very flawed. But if there is no if there is no desire to sacrifice for Christ There is a question as to whether there is true love. Because these disciples did not have the kind of love that God wanted them to have. But I will tell you this: that God's That Christ's point here was not to condemn these people. We find here that Christ has a provision made for their deficiency of love. Would you notice what it says here in verse 29? And now I have told you before it come to pass, that when it is come to pass, ye might believe. He says, I'm telling you all this now because your problem is actually a faith problem. That really is always the problem, isn't it? Every sin is as a result of unbelief, according to the book of Hebrews. Every failure is a in love is because we do not believe enough. For to believe is to know, and to know God is to love God. The more you trust God, the more you know God. The more you know God, the more you trust God. And this causes you and I to love God. And so he says to them, he says, I'm going to be sending the Spirit of God to indwell you, to enlighten you as to the significance of the truth that I am teaching you now. So that you will have greater faith. Faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. The Bible says, let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly. You think you can love God apart from this book? You can't. Because you can't trust God apart from this book. Because faith comes by hearing the word of God. And if you say my faith is weak, you've got to get in the book. God's emphasis in this book is to memorize it and to know it and to meditate on it day and night, and when it dwells in us richly, when the Word of Christ dwells in us richly. Then we believe the way God wants us to believe. We grow in our faith. And when we grow in our faith, we grow in our knowledge of God. And when we grow in our knowledge of God, we grow in our love for God. He finally says here in this passage, And now I have told you before it come to pass. That when it come to you, verse 29, ye might believe. Verse 30, hereafter I will not talk much with you For the Prince of this world cometh and has nothing in me, but that the world may know that I love the Father, and that as the Father gave me commandment, even so I do. Arise Let us go hence. I have three questions for us this morning. Can you take comfort in the fact that you have an advocate? That lives inside of you? You know, we don't think about that as often as we ought to, I don't think. But the Spirit of God indwells in us. Do you know what this means very practically and very succinctly? God has given you and I everything we need to live a life of godliness And Christ-likeness. He's given us everything we need. His own spirit is within us if we know him. That means, folks, that when we have failures and deficiencies, we have very little where w uh uh very little place to blame anybody else except ourselves. And what God wants us to do is to admit when we have failures, to admit when there are deficiencies. Because we're going to find in John chapter 15 that when we do, we realize we can't do anything without him, that's the really one of the first steps to being able to abide with him. And we find here in this passage that we need to just remind ourselves that Christ is with us, that the Holy Spirit is in us, he is an advocate. The other side of that coin, folks, is that when you do sin, you have an advocate with the Father. It's Jesus Christ according to 1 John. But the Spirit of God lets you know that according to this passage. We must realize that love for Christ is the ultimate test that distinguishes the world from followers of Christ. Now let me let me be very clear about this. The world doesn't love God. The world doesn't love Christ. You know some people in the world say they do, but they don't. Christians love their father. A child of God loves his father. And though his love may be imperfect And though his love may be diminished, and though his love may need to grow, there is at least on some level of love for his father. And there needs to, and and folks, if there is somebody here that you'd say, I really have no real love for my father I am not suggesting to you that you keep his commandments perfectly. The fact that you don't keep his commandments perfectly demonstrate that you don't completely love him, but neither do I none of us do we. We're growing in Christ-likeness, aren't we? But if there's no desire to live for him, if there's no desire to serve him, if there's no desire to sacrifice for him, it does beg the question, do we really know him? And if you don't know him, I would encourage you to come and talk with me or find a Bible and help me to show you how you can know the Father through Christ alone. And finally, we need to embrace the peace that Christ gives all believers. This internal peace that God gives. Look, if you're looking to your circumstances, to be resolved in your life so that you can have a happy life. You're not living the life that the rest of us are living. Okay. In other words, in our world, you in fact anybody who says they can bring peace is a liar. I didn't come up with that. The Bible says in um we don't have the time to take the time to turn there, but in the Old Testament, when the prophets all were at their most corrupt state. They said, peace, peace when there is no peace. Peace comes and it rules in our hearts When we allow it to, because Christ is the Prince of Peace and He gives us that peace. And we need to ask the Lord to really help us to be content with messed up circumstances, but with peace that comes from within A peace that is internal and eternal that Christ gives that the world does not know. This is the kind of peace that God gives us And when we love him, and when we focus on him, and we don't focus on ourselves, and we don't fear, that energizes that peace within us If you're struggling with peace in your lives, focus on Christ. Serve Christ. And you will find that peace to be far more apparent to you. Let's pray. Father, we thank you, Lord, for your word. We thank you for the truth of it. We thank you for the peace that you do give us. And we pray, Lord, that you would help us as we partake of the Lord's Supper today, that you would give us this This appreciation of the of the cross, this appreciation of all all that Christ has done for us. Thank you for coming. Thank you for dying and suffering for us. Thank you that you give us your spirit. Thank you that you are our substitute. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen