In scripture that that you have to read in a way that they they're intended to take large portions of the time in order to be able to grasp the concept. And so those kinds of passages you move through fairly quickly. Narrative passages are that way if you're looking at stories of different kinds. But there are other kinds of passages that in order to really glean what's being said, you've got to move slowly. You've got to see the details. And I think we are on that kind of passage in John 17. We're not moving very quickly through this. But we are gleaning a lot of truth because we are doing our best to sink our teeth in deep. And that is something that that is what we intend to do. It's something that is helpful. Well of course you know that uh I feel like guys this is there's some reverb going on or something here. Not sure what's going on, but Okay. Um of course uh you know that um there's uh the Super Bowl is tonight. And uh nothing wrong with wanting to see that. Um But what makes a great Super Bowl team? Have you ever thought about that? Hopefully not too long. It's not that deep. But um but I tell you it's more than just having players that can run fast, throw hard, catch and tackle. Imagine you you know like the the New England Patriots got a new player for their team and and they were really excited about this. They're gonna he's gonna help them in the Super Bowl. I don't think you can draft in the middle of the uh do that in the middle of the season, but let's say you could. And um they're they're really excited because this guy can throw hard. He can he can catch, he's he's big, he can tackle, he's fast, he can run, he's got all these things that he can do really well. And he gets on that team and the QB throws a throws a pass uh out and the guy runs the opposite way toward the end zone toward the uh the other team's end zone. And they're total everybody's totally shocked But they didn't vet him correctly. They realized the guy just doesn't have any clue about football. He just knows how to run fast, throw fast, catch fast, and tackle people. He doesn't know when to do what. He's not really aware of how the game works Well that's kind of a totally crazy idea, right? Some of you are saying, boy, I hope the Patriots have a guy like that on their team tonight. Anyway, uh the truth is sometimes that's the way we are as Christians. We understand as Christians we need to do certain things. We need to read our Bibles. We need to pray. We need to go to church. We need to witness to people. And we try to get really good at doing those things. But we really don't understand the whole plan. We don't really get the whole picture. We don't really understand the whole game, if you will, quote unquote. And so we become a bit frustrated as we try to go through this life and do these different things and we wonder why we're struggling. Well, maybe, maybe it's because we don't really understand the whole plan. Christ, when he prays this prayer, he is praying about this whole plan. If you could sum up God's intention for the Christian in one word, it would be the word sanctification. But there are many people that do not understand this concept. Many Christians that really don't grasp the nature of what sanctification really is. There are some people who feel as though they think they know what it means. There are other people that have that are actually rather sure that they know what it means. But I will tell you that as I have listened to different people talk about sanctification, it is sometimes very disconcerting to me. I think that many people do not understand what sanctification really is and how it works in the Christian's life. For example, just to pique your interest, is sanctification positional or progressive? If you said progressive and you said progressive only it's a trick question. The answer is that it's both. Many people think of sanctification only in terms of a progressive truth. They do not realize, and this is absolutely essential. That we understand its positional truth first. We will never understand the progressive truth of sanctification until we first understand the positional truth of sanctification And if you say, I'm not really sure what you're talking about at all, well then stay tuned. Hopefully through this message you'll understand all of what this is supposed to mean. We need God's help in all of this. Let's go to Him in prayer and ask His blessing our time. Father, we come to you and we ask, Lord That as we understand and study this all-important truth of sanctification I pray that you would give us clarity of thinking. I pray that you would really help us to grasp your plan of sanctification. in its depth, in its expanse, and in its process. And Father, I ask, Lord, that you would help us to be able to not just understand the various components or disciplines of the Christian life, but to understand all of the Christian, or to understand the whole plan of the Christian life. And we recognized Christ's divine prayer as he interceded on our behalf 2,000 years ago that we would be sanctified. And I pray today that you would help us to understand exactly what that means. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, our text today really picks up in chapter in verse 17 of chapter 17. I ask him to read all of it because I just think it's good for us to keep going over and over this glorious intercessory prayer. But you'll notice as we pick up here in verse 17, Christ now prays this prayer. He says, Sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth. And as I said before we prayed, there is much confusion about what this concept of sanctification is. At its very essence, sanctification means, as you probably know, to be set apart. To be set apart. But for some reason, we sort of know the definition, and then suddenly we sort of move on to this idea of sanctification being a progressive idea Sometimes people think of sanctification as simply nothing more than spiritual growth. We grow spiritually, that's our sanctification. And although spiritual growth is included in our sanctification, There is much more here than just the idea of growing spiritually. What does being set apart have to do with progressing in sanctification? We really have a lot of confusion in this area among Christians. And I hope that we can clarify some things today. At the very essence, sanctification has to do with being set apart. Now then, what then does it mean specifically? There are essentially two meanings to sanctification. When you see the term sanctification in Scripture, you should think in two ways. The one is positional and the other is progressive. Sanctification in its first beginning stages of understanding is to be set apart from the world and for God's service. We find in this text clearly that that's the case. God says, I am Christ says I am praying for them, and not for them, not that they should come out of the world, but that they should be separate from the world. They are in the world, but they are not of the world. the passage is going to say. We are set apart from the world and we are set apart for God's service. And by the way, that is all Christians. There are not some Christians that are set apart and others that are not. All Christians are positionally set apart for God's service. In fact, that is the purpose that people are saved. And that is something that people really do not grasp. We secondly see, and we'll learn more about this, is that that sanctification is the internal working of God to purify those whom he has set apart. In other words, God has positionally set apart every Christian. And we're going to learn more about what that is. We've got to understand that better. And then God is also in the process of helping us, helping our life be match our position. In other words, another way to put it this way, we are growing in Christ-likeness. Our sanctification is that internal purifying work in our lives to help us to grow to Christ-likeness. So first though, before we understand that aspect of things, which many times we jump to that, we first must understand this positional truth of what sanctification it really is. It means to be set apart. So practically what does this word mean? Well, to understand this, we need to understand a few things about this concept of sanctification as we have looked at it, as we look at it through the scope of Scripture. And we're going to take our time in doing this. We need to understand what this means. And so I've taken the time to look at every occurrence in the New Testament of this word. And several, if not many, of the occurrences in the Old Testament, or at least understanding the concepts and how they connect with the New Testament concept concept of sanctification. We need to understand, first of all, that God is sanctified. The very first time this word is used in the New Testament, it is used in Matthew chapter 6, verse 9. That may ring a bell to some of you. That is the Lord's example prayer for his disciples, where he says, hallowed be thy name. It's the same word. When Christ sets an example of prayer for the disciples, he is praying that God's name would be separate. that God's name would be set apart in the world. There is this request for God's name to be set apart. It is God's, there is a sense in which then God Himself is sanctified. He is set apart. And it is God's desire that his name be set apart in the world. And that's important for us to understand. We need to understand then also, and so there is this also this connection with holiness. Holiness essentially is to be set apart or separate from sin particularly. When Isaiah saw God, the very first thing he noticed is that when he was completely separate from sin. And the seraphim were around him and they said, holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. We find in Leviticus chapter 11 and in 1 Peter chapter 1 Tells us that we should be holy. Why? Because he is holy. And so in its first in the first movements of understanding set of sanctification We need to understand that it is directly connected to holiness. God has set us apart as a holy people, and God wants us to progress in our holiness toward Him. To help us to understand this a little bit more, there's a couple of passages, a couple of things that we can understand that God has sanctified for us, or sanctified for Himself. Genesis Jeremiah 1, verse 5, for instance, says, Before I formed you in the womb, I knew you. Before you were born, I sanctified you. I ordained you as a prophet to the nations, he says that to Jeremiah. Exodus 28, 41 Says, so you shall be put them so so you shall put them on Aaron, your brother, and on the sons with them. You shall anoint them, consecrate them, and sanctify them, that they may minister to me as priests. We find that the Levitical priesthood in the Old Testament was sanctified. You had all of the nation of Israel, but the Levites, the one tribe was particularly set apart to minister to the rest of the tribes. They were set apart. You have this concept in the very earliest stages of the Old Testament, this idea of being set apart, specifically designated for something. Then we have the concept under uh fleshed out a little bit in 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 verse 23 which says this. Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely, and may your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. Sanctification in the way that God describes it is a complete sanctification. There is a wholeness to the concept of sanctification. It is all of us that God intends to sanctify. When we are saved, we are sanctified. Our spirit and soul is sanctified. And we are in the midst of our body. One day we'll be sanctified. There is a completeness to this concept of sanctification. We are intended to be all in when it comes to our sanctification. We find in Ephesians chapter 5, verse 26, that the husband is to sanctify his wife. What does that mean Well, it means he is to set his part his his wife apart, that his wife is to be special, his wife is to be different than everybody else in his mind. And the his wife is to be actually nurtured by him and cleansed with the word by him. That he is to minister the word to his wife. That is intended, it says, to sanctify. In other words, your wife, husbands, are to you're to set them apart from everybody else in your mind The same thing we find in 1 Corinthians or in 1 Peter chapter 3 Verse fifteen it says, but sanctify the Lord God in your hearts. We are just supposed to sanctify God in our hearts In other words, there is supposed to be a separate place in our hearts for God. Sanctify the Lord God in your heart and be ready always to give an answer to every man to ask if you a reason of the hope that is in you So we see that this is a far-reaching word. This term sanctification is something that is throughout the whole Bible. From the Pentateuch all the way through the New Testament, we find this word mentioned. There is a particular Old Testament illustration that will help us. To some degree to understand this word better. And that illustration is the illustration of this of the temple or the tabernacle, and then later on the temple, the sacrificial system. I think perhaps there is no greater misunderstanding among Christians of what the sacrificial system was for than probably any other concept in the Bible, perhaps. Many people do not understand the reason for the old sa for the blood sacrifices in the Old Testament. They do not understand what the tabernacle was there for and what the temple was there for. And here's what I'll tell you. to get to pique your interest, it was not to cleanse sin. The purpose of the sacrificial system, the blood offerings, was not to cleanse sin, and I will prove it to you in a in a moment. So we need to understand what the sacrificial system was for. What was the tabernacle and the temple for? It was, folks, to sanctify certain things. Its purpose was sanctification. I'd like you to take your Bibles for a moment, and I want you to see this in chapter 9. We're going to look at Hebrews 9 and then Hebrews 10 and then Hebrews 13. We won't look at all of it, we'll just look at selected portions for us to grasp this concept Hebrews chapter 9, verse 13 says, For the blood of bulls and of goats and the ashes of an heifer sprinkling the unclean sanctifieth to the purifying of the flesh. In other words, there was the sanctifying job, function of the blood sacrifice. Verse 14, how much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit offered himself without spot to God Purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God. And so he makes this this this connection What is the connection between the Old Testament sacrifices and the sacrifice of Christ? It is this concept of sanctification. When Christ prayed this prayer to his father, sanctify them, their minds, very likely, the disciples' minds would have gone back to this whole idea of the tabernacle and the temple and the sa and the setting apart of all of this. for the presence of God. What was it for? It was so the glory of God and the presence of God could reside in the tabernacle. and then and then later on the temple. That's why it was sanctified. And when the disciples heard these words, their minds would have gone back to that. And the connection here is that what Christ did when he died on the cross is that it then offers this sanctifying work to those who will believe. to set them apart for God's purposes, for God's glory, and frankly, even for God's presence Would you then notice Hebrews chapter 10 verse 10? Go one page over and look at that. Hebrews 10, 10. By the which will we are sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ. We see the connection there. We're sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ. Once for all, and every priest standeth daily ministering and offerings oftentimes the same sacrifices, which can what? Never take away sins. You see that? The Old Testament sacrifice was not to take away sin. Now, here's the where the confusion comes. Christ, when he died for us, what did he do? He did take away our sin, or at least offers that to anybody who will believe. But folks, let me be clear about this. Sometimes what we do is we get so preoccupied with Christ's work of the cleansing of sin, of justification. That we fail to understand what Christ did in our sanctification on the cross. Christ did both. He cleansed our sin. Why? For a reason to then be able to set us apart. In other words, the sanctifying work of Christ was his intention. The reason to get the what had to happen to get there was the cleansing of our sin. Christ cleansed our sin so that he could rightfully sanctify us. His work on the cross is intentionally and purposefully a sanctifying work. Now, I want you to I'd like you to turn to one other passage, chapter thirteen, verse ten. He says this, we have an altar whereof they have no right to eat which serve the tabernacle. For the bodies of those beasts whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high priest for sin and burned up with a camp. Therefore, Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people with his own blood Suffered without the gate. You see, Christ, He was what He did on the cross was to sanctify His people with His blood. This is a role that we do not often think of when we think of Christ going to that cross. But when Christ He's hours away from the cross. He prays to his father, sanctify them. Why? Because sanctification is the process by which we glorify God. Why were you cleansed of your sin so that you could be set apart? There was a reason for it. That is absolutely necessary for you and I to understand. And what we have then is the result of our sanctification, is that God is making a peculiar people. 1 Peter 2 verse 9 says, But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, and holy nation. a peculiar people, that ye should show forth the praises of Him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvelous light which in time past were not a people, but are now the people of God, which had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. Likewise in 1 Corinthians 1 verse 30, but of him you are in Christ Jesus, who became For us, wisdom from God and righteousness and sanctification and redemption. We must, on one hand, understand that justification is different than sanctification But we must on the other hand understand that justification was for sanctification. Christ declares us righteous so that he also could sanctify us. Now, then that brings us to this second truth. And this second truth is that there is an internal working that Christ does on the cross for us. This internal that Christ does in our lives progressively. And he says here this. He says, sanctify them by your truth. Your word is truth. So then the second meaning of this is that Christ, that the sanctifying work is something where we are living out our sanctification. There is, how does that occur? It occurs by living out the truth He says, sanctify them by the truth. Your word is truth. Now, this is so full of meaning. You say, well, uh, yeah, okay, the truth sanctifies us. That seems simple enough. We need to delve into this. We need to understand this. There are many people that struggle in their sanctification because they do not understand that sanctification occurs by means of the truth. And let me begin this way so that we can understand it this way. We need to understand some negative implications of this. In other words, What what is sanctification not? Or what what how are we not sanctified? When we understand these, it will help us to understand more about what sanctification is. And so I want to begin this way. This does not mean that God does everything for us. Sanctifying by the truth does not mean that God does everything for us. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 10, for we are his workmanship. We are his workmanship. Why? created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God has prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them. We're his workmanship. He's molding us. He's working on us for good works. In other words, if you are progressing in your sanctification, the natural result is going to be good works. It's going to be that you are doing something. There is going to be practice as a result of what God is doing in your life to produce good works. That is absolutely necessary for us to understand. Number two, this does not mean that God usually works directly rather than indirectly. Here's what I mean by that. There are some Christians that are so preoccupied with the direct working of God that they misunderstand that God's intention is to primarily work indirectly. Let me give you an illustration to help you. Some Christians are so preoccupied with with healings, for example. with direct healings, like people being healed through some sort of gift of healing. And it is possible that God could use not the gift of healing, not the sign gift has gone away. It is possible that God you could pray for someone to be healed, and that God could use almost a direct way of doing that, of just healing them without any other means. But God does not usually work that way. God usually works through his creation. We call that today modern medicine. God works through modern medicine, not separate from it. It is incorrect to say, well, I don't need a blood transfusion. All I need to do is just pray, and God will heal me. God chooses to work in conjunction with his creation. We see that in the miracles cr of Christ, even in John Christ could have immediately said when he fed the 5,000, here's a bunch of bread, here's a bunch of loaf uh fish, and just did it from nothing. Christ didn't do that. He did it from the creation that was already there. God uses his creation to do things in life. He works primarily indirectly in our lives. And that brings us to this. There are some Christians that are also preoccupied with the idea that what they really need for their sanctification is more power or less desire. I just don't have enough power to do, to resist this temptation. I just don't have enough power to do what God wants me to do. Lord, would you give me more power? Or I just have too much desire. Lord, would you take away my desire? Now, God occasionally will do that, won't he? Occasionally there are people that and that God takes away the desire for drinking or smoking or some sort of vice that they're dealing with. God will do that But let me tell you, folks, that God that is not God's normal way of working. God's normal way of working is different than that. He works through the truth. It is by the truth that we are sanctified. And that's for this simple reason. Do you realize that when you came to Christ, He set you apart and He already gave you the power? He already equipped you with everything you need to live under life and godliness. Paul says in John 1 Corinthians Thanks be to God which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. He's already given us the victory. Martin Lloyd Jones says this. There is no question at all but that the devil encourages us to think that our need in sanctification is power. Because the devil's object is to keep us in ignorance. He he first of all keeps the whole world in ignorance about its conditions. And its relationship to God. He blinds the eyes and the minds of them that believe not. He blinds their minds to the truth about God and about themselves and about righteousness and about judgment He tries to keep us out of the entire realm of the Christian faith. But if in spite of his efforts we become Christians He still continues with this work, and he tries to blind us to the real truth about ourselves as it is in Christ. If you are struggling with a sin, if you are struggling with protesting in your sanctification, the problem is not that you need more power. The problem is that you need to apply the truth. You need to be more rightly related to the truth. God has set it up that you are sanctified by the truth. Thirdly, and we're going to come back to that a little bit later. Thirdly. Sanctification is not just an experience. It is not merely an experience. Now, this is absolutely necessary for us to understand. Sanctification is not merely an experience. There are some people that the way that they understand sanctification is to be one exp one sort of experience after another experience after another experience. And when they don't have the experience that they had previously, they get worried about their sanctification. Or when their experience seems to be negative or somehow uh unpalatable or something different than their previous experiences that have caused them to grow, uh they get concerned about their sanctification. Sometimes emotion becomes More dependent upon our emotion than we should be. And to question whether we're truly growing based upon our emotions or our experience. And we need to understand that sanctification does play a role in our sanctification, and Christians do as well. But our sanctification can never be based on it. Sanctification is based upon truth. And the truth is that God has set you apart positionally, and God will do the work of sanctifying you. He will complete the work that he started with you at the point of redemption. Now, this is absolutely necessary for us to understand. Our sanctification is not based on our experience, and it's not Based on our emotion, our sanctification is based is essentially our position, our state, or our condition. I occasionally, actually rather frequently have people say say to me, I feel as though I am struggling and maybe I will just say, let me put it this way. More people have come to me and suggested that they're struggling with assurance of salvation than you might realize. I think when people come to me I I had somebody come to me recently and and mention that they um they w they don't move this church. Uh uh there was a phone call and they mentioned they're struggling with their salvation. And um I um uh they said you might by it be surprised by this. So I knew that they didn't think that many people struggle with with assurance of their salvation. But I will tell you that many do at one point or another. There are many people that struggle with their assurance of salvation. And many much of this struggle is based upon they are looking at their emotion or their experience. And here's what I often will tell people. I will ask them this more objective question. Do you can you measure growth over a period of time? In other words, if you look at the last five years, can you at least notice that you are You are growing spiritually, you are more spiritually mature now than you were five years ago. Now, if you can't identify that, it doesn't mean you necessarily aren't saved. There might be other factors. But a lot of times the people that are struggling with their assurance of salvation would admit that they have grown in the last five years. That's the point. Our sanctification, our growth, our understanding of sanctification, our assurance of our salvation cannot be based on experience Because experience is just it's always changing and certainly can't be a mason emotion because emotion is never emotion is never reliable. You there are people in this world that think they know Christ because their emotion is telling them that and they don't know Christ And there are other people in this world who Christ because their mo uh and think they don't because their motion is telling them that, they have a problem Don't base your sanctification on your emotion. Your experience and your emotion cannot be trusted. Why? Because God set it up that way. He set it up for your sanctification to be by the truth. The truth is what sanctifies you. It's the truth that sanctifies you. Now, with all of that in mind We then are ready to understand how our role in sanctification, would you take your Bibles and turn to 2 Timothy chapter 2? This is probably one of the most one of the clearest passages of Scripture to sort of under- we understand God's role in our sanctification here. Now, what is our role in our sanctification? We are, we have a role to play. We have a responsibility. And while you're turning there, I want to give you what I think to be a perfect illustration because the Bible identifies it as such. The i the illustration of a soldier. How many of you I just curious, how many of you have been at some point uh how many of you are veteran And just put them up a little higher. I'm just curious how many okay we have quite a few. Um how many of you have actually been overseas to war? I know we have one. He's not raising his hand. Embarrassed okay. Um sorry Jason. Um but um we have at least one. Now let me just say this when someone goes to war They put their families, it's like they put their families on hold. Somebody goes to war, they put their life on hold. When somebody goes to war and and they they they put everything on hold to be able to pursue a particular task But it was even more so back in the day, back in the first century. Back in the first century You you did you often did not have paid soldiers. Now the Roman Guard did. But there were many times where you had to put your career on hold You had to put your livelihood on hold. If you were a farmer, those are the people who are not going to be able to do that. In the f in the in the Revolutionary War in our country, they were most of them were not untrained soldiers. They left their crops, they left their families, they left their jobs, and they went to war That is the meaning of this word. That is our role. Would you notice what it says in 2 Timothy chapter 2? You therefore, my son, be strong in the grace of Christ Jesus. And that the things that you have heard from me among many witnesses commit thou the faithful men, which will be able to re teach others also. That's by the way the basically you define discipleship by those ver verses. You therefore must endure hardship as what? A good soldier of Jesus Christ. Now, let me make this connection for you. Would you just look down for a moment at verse 21? We're going to go back here, but would you look at verse 21? Therefore, if anyone cleanses himself from the latter, he will be a vessel for honor. Do you see that word? Sanctified and useful for the master, prepared for every good work. Do you remember what it said in Ephesians chapter 2? That we are his workmanship. Prepared for what? Every good work. We see the same thing here. How do we do that? He says, you've got to start viewing yourself as a soldier. Who goes to war, who separates himself from his life, who focuses on the goal and the task ahead. And he says this: he says, No one, verse four, no one engaged in warfare entangles himself in the affairs of this life. That he may please him who enlisted him as a soldier. Then he uses another illustration. He says, and also if anyone competes in athletics. Paul probably had the Olympic uh the Olympic events as his mindset when he wrote this. He is not crowned unless he competes according to the rules. The hardworking farmer, he uses another illustration, the hardworking farmer must first be to partake of the crops Consider what I say, and may the Lord give you understanding in all things. He's saying, look, you've got to separate yourself from your life. It's the same thing that Christ said when he said, He that loves his life will lose it, and he that loses his life for my sake will find it. It's the same kind of thing Why did God save you? He saved you, not so that you can have a great life He saved you so that your life could be for his service. Which by the way is a great life. Did you catch that? I'm not suggesting to you that we as Christians are to be the kind of people That say, oh, we got it so bad. We don't got it so bad. We got it so good. But God didn't save us for that. He saved us for himself. And by the way, it's a great life too. And a great life doesn't mean we always get what we want. The very best life you can live is not in a palatial mansion this side of heaven. The best life you can live is a life that's lived for Christ. We are sanctified when we're saved. We are set apart for God's service And our role in its first at first is a mindset that we are set apart. We're supposed to be different from the world. Our pursuits are not the same pursuits as the world's pursuits. Our focus is not the same focus as the world's pursuit. We are in the world, but we are not of the world. We are separate from the world, and we are to be a peculiar people for God. And we do that when we have the mindset of a soldier who says, I'm going to set aside my own life. For the life that God wants me to live. And there are many people that struggle in their sanctification. Because they're not setting themselves up that way, not thinking of themselves that way, tells us that we need to live to live as a living sacrifice Be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of our mind. We present our bodies a living sacrifice. holy, acceptable unto God. And it's just reasonable. Why is it reasonable? Because that's what God made us to do So we need to live that way. Now you say, well, does that mean I need to quit my job and I need to just, you know, no. It means that the job that you have, you do it for God. It means that the family that you're fr you have, you raise them for God. It means that the wife that you have, you lead her for God. It means that the husband that you have, you do it for God. You love him for God, you respect him and honor It is an entirely different way of living that he is saying here in this passage. And we have got to understand this. And he says here in verse 19 nevertheless, the solid foundation of God I gotta pick up in verse 15 for a minute. He says, be diligent to present yourselves approved to God, a worker who does not need to be ashamed. He says, rightly dividing what? The word of truth. That is, folks, why it's so vitally important for us to know the truth, to live in the truth, to To have our life in the truth. David Martin Lloyd-Jones said it this way. He said it so well I can't help but describe it this way. He said, the business of the Christian and the church and the gospel is to see that you and I take so much of the pure milk of the Word. and the strong meat of the word that our resistance is built up to such an extent that we can, as it were, stand in a house of infectious disease. And be absolutely immune. The germs are there, yes, but we are filled with these antibodies that destroy them with the moment they attack us. There are some people that their approach to sanctification is get the get the filth, my circumstances, get it out of get it out from around me. Fix my circumstances and I'll grow. Fix my sanctif circumstances and I'll be sanctified. And God says, no. God, you are not sanctified by fixing your circumstances. You're sanctified by the truth. Because here's what the truth does: the truth energizes the power. The gospel is the power. The gospel is in you. And when you focus on the truth and meditate on the truth and study the truth And live the truth and breathe the truth. When that happens, the power of God is going to work itself out in you, and this is what will occur. The infectious disease might be there. And it will be there until you see Christ. And you will battle it. But you will have so many antibodies in your system that you will be able to fight it every time. Why? Because you are rightly related to the truth. That is how we are sanctified. And I got through one third of my message. So we need to pray and we need to go into our communion time. But don't we have a good basis for with to go to Christ in communion? Christ came and he sacrificed for our lives, for our sanctification. He died for us, shed his blood on the cross for our sanctification. And I'd just like for us to all take a few moments before the Lord. And uh we'll we'll pray out loud first and just thank the Lord for the time uh uh uh and and introduce all that. And then there'll be a time of silent prayer before the Lord. Let's let's pray together. Our Father, we do come to you, and we are thankful for your word. We are thankful for this incredible work of sanctification that you did in our lives. And we thank you for the credible work that you continue to do in our lives because of our sanctification. And this was all possible because of Christ. Because of his death, his going to the cross, his being separated from you, his suffering and bleeding and dying Causes us to be sanctified, to be set apart for your use I pray today, Lord, that you would help us to, as we come into this time, to be just eternally grateful for your work in this process and in our sanctity. Sanctification. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Just take a few