And we'll be looking today at verses twelve through thirty, John chapter eight. John chapter 8, verses 12, and through the end of the chapter actually goes over a lot of materials that have already that has already been covered. in this book of John. And I have to tell you, as I was studying this, I did a lot of studying this week, uh many hours um this this week uh uh studying this passage. And I have to tell you that um it it's sort of at first in my own and this is probably a fleshly thing, in my own spirit I was sort of thinking to myself, we have seen all this information before. And you'll see this in the book of John. There will be repeated themes throughout the book. Um there is very little new information that we'll look at today and it causes it caused me to sort of go, you know, I like to cover something new, even though it is a new passage. And then it sort of dawned on me as I was studying it as well, thinking to myself, you know, if God has repeated themes in his word, it mean it means we really need them. And if John, by the inspiration of the Spirit of God in his one letter, chose to write on several different occasions about Christ being the light, whether it's chapter one or chapter three. Or now in chapter 8. Well then that's what we need. I don't know if you've ever noticed this before about God's Word, but as you go through God's Word from Genesis to Revelation, you have a lot of repeated themes. The more you study God's Word, the more you'll find that to be the case. Even in the New Testament, in various epistles, you'll see the same thing where themes are repeated over and over and over again. And I think that there is a valid reason for that. I think it's because we have really good forgetters. I think that we do not we do not remember things And God knows that. And so and sometimes what God will do is He will put something in a different in a different He'll word it in a different way in one passage than He will in another passage. And um and it perhaps will affect us differently as we cover it. And that's why it's so important to cover the whole council of God, isn't it? It's important to go, I don't skip passages. I don't go, I don't say, well, we've already covered all that material. Let me just go ahead and go to the next one. Why? Because I'm going to have to make the assumption that God has this for us here. And I think we will find that to be the case. I want to begin this way. I want us to think about some concepts that would be very familiar to us experientially. And I'm just going to throw some words up there for you and just sort of think about these words. Think of the word confused. Or directionless, or lost, frustrated, depressed, miserable Now let me ask you a question. Has any of those words described you this past week? And if you're honest with yourself, maybe you would say at some point or another these things have uh some of these things have described you. Maybe you're frustrated or sad or grieved or depressed or miserable. I added a couple that weren't up there. Let's use another let's see another another list. You'll like this one better. Clarity, joy, freedom, brightness. peace, satisfaction. Now folks, the reason I put these two lists up here is that the first list that I put up is really, really The result of walking in darkness. And although the world seems to always be pursuing what you have up there now, What they are really actually living in is what was up there before. And the reality is what we find in first, this is entirely talking about Uh when we're talking about following the light versus following in darkness, John Jesus here in this passage is really talking about following the light as in those who are followers of Christ, disciples of Christ versus versus those who are not, who are in darkness, who don't know Christ. But what we find in 1 John chapter 1 is that we have the potential, even as Christians of choosing to walk in the light rather than walking in darkness. And so even though this passage is is primarily dealing with s uh and and and really a call to somebody to come from darkness, from total darkness, into the light. We as Christians, if we're not careful, can can turn away from the light of Christ. And so there's going to be applications both for those who know Christ as their Savior as well as those who don't Jesus is going to say in John chapter 8 verse 12, then spake Jesus unto them, saying, I am the light of the world. He that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life. And we're going to look into what that means after we go to the Lord in prayer. Our Father, as we come to you today, we pray, Lord, that you would remind us again of the reality of Christ being the light of life. Many of the things that we'll go over today we have we have covered before, but it is obvious from your word that you desire for us to have them repeated in our thinking. They are important. It must be indelibly written on our minds and our hearts that we must walk in the light. We must follow the light of Christ in our lives. And I pray, Lord, today as we look at your word, that you would teach us how to follow it, that we would be careful to notice what spiritual blindness looks like. And to run the other direction from that kind of thing. That we would not walk in darkness, but that we would follow the light that Christ gives us in our lives. And I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, we find here in this passage Christ says, I am the light. Really to understand the significance of this passage, we're going to have to understand the background of this concept of light in the Old Testament. Because when Christ would have said this as he was standing in the midst of the temple, he was standing in the court of women, most likely, speaking to a large crowd of people. talking about the fact that he is the light of the world. This was most likely during the Feast of the Tabernacles when this is happening. And we're going to talk a little bit more about this setting of this, but as he talks to these Jewish people and he says that this is the light of the that I am the light of the world, this would have struck them. We're used to this. We're used to the idea of Christ being the light. We sing songs about him being the light. This little light of mine, I'm going to let it shine. We're used to the idea of Christ being the light. But what we're going to have to do if we're going to see the significance of this passage is we're going to have to look at it with a first-time mentality. As though we've not seen this before. As though we have not grown up singing songs like this little light of mine. We're going to have to ask the question, what does Christ really mean when he says, I am the light? Now, this is the second I am statement in the book of John. There are seven total. We have already seen that Jesus said, I am the bread of life. And this second statement, he is now going to directly say, I am the light. In fact, as we could progress through the book of John, we're going to see More of him saying, I am, I am, as he gets closer to his exaltation exaltation. And when John thinks of Christ's exaltation, it It's all Christ's exaltation to John and his thinking. And as Christ nears the exalt or uh exalt his own exaltation, he is going to say more things like, I am the light. And he's going to say, I am the door, I am the gate, I am the vine. And we're going to see more and more of this as we go through the book of John. But we see here the second phrase that he has said here, the I am statements signifying that he is God, he is saying, I am the light. So when the Jewish, when this hit the Jewish listeners' ears, what would they have thought of? Well, we see beginning back in the book of Exodus, this concept of light having to do with God's leading and God's glory. In Exodus 13, verse 21, it says, The Lord went before them by the day in a pillar of a cloud and led them the way. And the night in the pillar of fire, and to give them light, to go by day and night. He took not away the pillar of cloud by day or the pillar of fire by night from before the people. We see the same kind of thing in Exodus chapter 14, verses 19. And we find a connection between the light of God and the glory of God in those passages. We find in those passages that it is the light of God that leads the people of God. We find in Psalm 119, verse 5, it says, Thy word. is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my path. And we are taught, or the Jewish people were taught in Psalm 46 27, 1. To sing, the Lord is my light and my salvation. And so we see this concept of light in the Old Testament is something that would be very familiar to the people of God. We find it the same kind of thing in Ezra chapter 1, as he sees and he partakes of the scroll, it is said to be light. In Psalm chapter 44, verse 3, we find this. It says, For they got not the land in possession by their own word. Neither did their own arm save them, but thy right hand and thine arm, and the light of thy countenance, because thou hadst favor unto them This caused one theologian to say that light is Yahweh in action. When we think of the glory of God, we think of the presence of God. When we think of the glory of God, we think of the person of God. But when we think of the light, we think of the glory of God working in some way. It is the glory of God, but it is being manifested in a way that it actually is in action in some way, whether it's the leading of the nation of Israel or the saving of God's people as Christ is Savior. These are the kinds of things that they would have understood as they're hearing Christ saying, I am the light In Isaiah 49, verse 6, it says, It is a light thing that thou shouldest be my servant to ru uh raise up the tribes of Jacob and to restore the preserved of Israel. I will also give thee for a light to the Gentiles. That thou mayest be my salvation unto the end of the earth. And in that case it's a prophecy of Christ, who it says will be a light to the Gentiles, not just to the Jews, but also to the Gentiles, a light to the world. We actually find another passage, and I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn there for a moment. This particular passage is significant because it's very likely that this was read during the Feast of the Tabernacles. In other words, this passage was very likely read before Christ announced that he is the light. And it's found in Isaiah, uh Zechariah. Verse four or chapter fourteen. Would you take your Bibles and turn there for a moment? Now if you can just imagine as you're turning there, the B the Jewish people would not have had the ability to turn in their own Bibles. They would have had to listen to the scribes read from the law. And there are certain Old Testament passages that were read for various feast days. The Passover, there were certain verses and passages read. And we find in the Mishnah, which is a rabbinical writing, we find that this particular passage was very likely read during the Feast of the Tabernacles in the time of Christ. And you find this in Zechariah 14, verse 5, where it says, And ye shall flee to the valley of the mountains. For the valley of the mountains shall reach unto Azale. Yea, ye shall flee, like as ye fled from before the earthquake to the days of Uzziah, king of Judah. And the Lord thy my God shall come, and all the saints with thee. And it shall come to pass in that day that the light shall not be clear nor dark But it shall be one day, which shall be known to the Lord, not day nor night, but it shall come to pass that evening time it shall be light. If you can kind of imagine the nation of Israel, the Jewish people listening to Christ as He is, as this has been read, and now He says, I am the light of the world. And we find that in a very true sense, in a very real, literal sense, he is going to be the light of the world. In Revelation 21, verse 33, it says the city had no s no uh need of the sun, neither the moon. to shine in it, for the glory of God did lighten it. And the Lamb is the light thereof, and the nations thereof which are saved shall walk in the light of it And the kings of the earth do bring their glory and honor into it. We find in the book of Revelation that Christ in a literal sense becomes the light of the world to where there is no need for a sun or a moon or stars. Christ is that light It's a complete literal fulfillment of Zechariah. And so when Christ says here, I am the light, it is a very full statement what he is saying. It is something very direct and very specific. And it would have put in their minds something something to the effect of, I am revealing myself as that prophesied light in the Old Testament that has led you all the way. that has been there from the cloud to the pillar of fire to the glory of God in the temple, I am that light. It is said in uh in some rabbinical writings. It says, in fact, I'll just read it for you. I don't usually do this, but I'll just read what it says here. The extravagant claim stands just before the description of the lightning of the four huge lamps in the temple's court of women. and of the exuberant celebration that took place under their light. This is according to the Mishnah, which is a rabbinical writing. The Levitical orchestras cut loose, and some sources attest that they went on every night of the Feast of the Tabernacles. with light from the temple area area, shedding its glow all over Jerusalem in the context Jesus declares to the people, I am the light of the world. Now, we know that John has already talked about Christ being the light. In fact, in the very prologue, the very beginning verses of John's John chapter 1, we find It said that the light is coming to the world. Would you take your Bibles just to recover that truth there in John chapter 1, where he says that the incarnate word is the light? Verse 2. The same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by Him, He's Creator, and without Him was not anything made that was made. To him was what? Was life. And the life was the light of men. Now, what it says here is that Christ's life is the light. He is in this passage going to say, if you'll follow me, you'll have the light of life. In John 1, he says that he is the Creator. Now, when you think of life and you think of creator, what do you think of if you put those two things together? Genesis chapter 3, where it says that God breathed into man's nostrils the breath of what? Of life. And man became a living soul. What is Jesus saying when he is saying, I am the light of the world? He is saying, I am going to lead you to my I am the light, and I'll lead you to a place of eternal life. The problem, of course, in the fall is that it compromised that eternal life that God gave us when he gave us the breath of life, it compromised all of that. And so we needed a Redeemer. We needed Christ, who not only came to be our Savior, but to display the glory of God in light. And there is only one, folks, there is only one response to that light. Follow it. That's what he says in the passage. He says, you're going to follow the light. In John chapter 8, look back there if you would, in verse 12, he says This spake Jesus saith unto them, saying, I am the light of the world. He that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life. So he says here also, you'll not walk in darkness. What does it mean when Christ says that if you'll follow the light, you won't walk in darkness? Well, we find also that darkness is mentioned also in John chapter 1. Do you remember where it says that Jesus is that light? And it then it says the darkness comprehended it not. What is the relationship between darkness and light? That word comprehended in John chapter 1 is sort of an interesting word. The word can it means to grasp. So, so what does it mean as the darkness desires to grasp the light but can't grasp it We find that this idea of darkness is desires to grasp the light. The King James uses the word comprehend. And why the reason it uses that is probably because it's trying to indicate to us a particular possibility for what it means to grasp. Folks, what we're going to find in this passage as we continue is we're going to find some people that are in utter darkness. These Pharisees are in complete darkness. They are not accepting the light. They're not following the light. They're in complete darkness. And they are trying to understand the light before they follow it. And let me just say this about darkness. When we think of the darkness that's depicted in the New Testament, you find that the world's thinking is darkness. You find that, for example, in 1 Corinthians chapter 7, or 2 Corinthians chapter 7, where it says, what fellowship hath light with darkness? And so when we think of the world and we think of darkness, we think of our culture, and the darkness of the culture, not all culture is wrong, but the darkness of the culture would be those things within our culture that are influenced by sin. And influenced by Satan. So our responsibility, of course, to determine within our culture what things are influenced by sin and to avoid them. But when we think of this concept of darkness, we need to think in terms of people being in darkness. We don't usually think of it that way when we talk about just darkness itself. But this passage is going to now make it clear that what darkness is talking about when John is thinking about it is that people are in darkness. It means They're not following the light, they're in darkness. And we're going to see exactly what John means as we go through this passage. And we need to realize this, that we're living in a world, we know this to be true, we're living in a world that is walking in darkness. We're living in a world that does not see the light. And if we're not careful, folks, we can follow in the darkness as well. Where we don't see, we don't see the light. We don't, let's put it another way, we don't follow it. I think by way of application, it is safe to say that there are some Christians That are walking in darkness. And we know that is the possi is a possibility from 1 John chapter 1. And so we need to ask ourselves the question when we're going through this: what does spiritual blindness look like. It's interesting that in John chapter 9, we're going to find that Christ is going to heal a blind man. And then we're going to see a contrast in John chapter 9 between one who was blind and who was able to see, both physically now and spiritually, versus one who had sight physically. But they were not able to see spiritually, and that was the Pharisees. And this whole theme of Someone who walks in darkness is now going to introduce itself in verse 13. Because while the Jewish people as a whole heard these words I am the light of the world. The Pharisees heard this words, heard these words, and it offended them. You see what it says in verse 13? They begin now to question Jesus. They want, again, we've seen this before, they want to trip him up. Verse 13. The Pharisees therefore said unto him, Thou bearest record of thyself, thy record is true. Um I'm sorry, their vet their record is not true. Now what is he saying here? The Pharisees are saying, you are right now bearing record of yourself. You are claiming to be God. They're recognizing that. You're claiming to be the light. There shouldn't be any question about what Christ is claiming at this point. His claims become more and more direct as we go through the book of John, and we see that here. And the Pharisees realize what he's claiming to be, and he's there and what they're doing is they're trying to catch him in his own words. Do you remember back in John chapter 5? It actually tells us in John chapter 5, he says, if I testify about myself, my testify testimony is not true, is not valid. John chapter 5, verse 31. And of course, we know that he was citing Mosaic law from Deuteronomy 19:15 and Deuteronomy 17:6, which said that a witness A witness had to have, in order to be corroborated, there had to be two or three witnesses At this point, though, let's recall this: that in John chapter 5, how many witnesses did God offer to the world to witness of the authenticity of Christ? Does anybody remember? Well, in John chapter 5, there's a total of four. There's an additional one in Matthew chapter 12. But if you'll recall from John chapter 5, you have things like the scripture. Are a witness, and John the Baptist is a witness. If you'll go, we won't take the time to do that, but you'll go through, and there are four different witnesses in John chapter 5 that testify of the authenticity of Christ. That's why Jesus is going to later be able to say when they say, who are you, they're going to say, I'm the same person I've been saying I am from the very beginning He's already given them other witnesses to corroborate his his authenticity to them. That it's been clearly clearly uh declared. Now Christ is going to take a different approach. In other words, it's sort of like this. All the witnesses have been there, they've all declared him. Now Christ is going to declare himself. And it isn't wrong for him to declare himself when all of these witnesses have already declared him, and now he is simply saying what they've already said. And he's going to take a different a different approach now when they ask when they when they try to catch him in this. They're going to point he's going to point out why not only were the witnesses that he gave authentic witness But also his own words are valid witness to who he is. And he's going to give us three things. We see the defense in verses 14 through 18. In fact, let's go ahead. Well, we'll work through that one detail at a time here. The first defense that he gives in this passage in verse 14 is that he is really has boils down to uniqueness. He is saying that he is unique, that his knowledge about his origin and his destination are both unique knowledge. Knowledge that the Pharisees don't have. Now, let's let me put it this way, in very in a practical sense. He's saying, I know what I know, and I know you don't know what I know. It's a little bit easier to understand than that, right? He's saying the reason that my witness is true is because I know what I know, even you though you don't know what I know, and the reason you don't you don't want to know what I know is because you think I don't know what I know, but I know what I know Did you follow all that? I actually followed all that. I'm surprised. That's really what he's saying here. Okay? Now what he is basically then saying here, so that's number one, uniqueness is what he's saying. And then he says, he says, your problem, the reason, you don't know what I know. He's going to give them the reason And the reason that you can't understand what I know and you don't know what I know is because of this, verse 15. He says Ye judge after the flesh. What does he mean there? He means you can only see what you can see. He says, You know what I you don't know what I don't know what I know, because you can only see what you can see. And what is the only thing they can see? They can only see the flesh. They can only see externals. They can only see the outside of things. And folks, isn't it true that the Pharisees were very big on externals? Their focus was externals. And so they get to this this verse, he gets to this verse, he said, Look, the reason you don't know what I know, the reason that I know what I know and you don't know what I know is because you don't see it when I see And he says, when I judge, I don't judge after those appearance kinds of things. You see it? He says, I judge no man. This is not saying in this verse that Jesus never judges anyone. In the past, we have seen Jesus that he says, I have not come to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. We find that that's Jesus' approach as he comes. But in this context, he's not saying that he doesn't judge at all. He's saying, I don't judge any man by their appearance. Why does he not do that? Because he doesn't need to. Jesus judges from the from the soul, from the inside. He judges, he knows all. And he knows that which is spiritual. And he judges based upon that which is spiritual. And he is saying to these people, he's saying to these Pharisees, look, you've got to follow me because you don't know what I know, and you can't see what I can see. Now that makes sense, doesn't it? It's really necessary if you don't know what somebody else knows, and it's really necessary if you don't see what somebody else sees, it's really necessary to just follow them. Right? Doesn't that not make sense? Um I mean suppose uh you know it's kinda like uh you you you know you go into in in for eye an eye checkup and they f blow that stuff in your eyes and and and they put Yellow stuff, you know, I'm really technical here. Yellow stuff and and you walk out and you're like this and then you know, usually it's good for somebody else to drive you home. Well if you don't trust the driver, you're trying to I do this, I'm terrible about this. I mean if my wife drives me home, I'm I'm looking the whole time, trying to look through the yellow. And I'm thinking, you know, don't get so close to that vehicle and well I can't see what she can see And she does the same thing to me though, but anyway. But um whether she has yellow in her eyes or not. But anyway, um but the reality is folks You've got to follow if you can't see. Now, let's ask the question, who can't see Well the Bible says that we're all born blind. We're all born not able to see. There is none that even seeks after God, the Bible says. So then he says, number thirdly, he says, uniformity, he says He gets sort of mourn out of the heart of the issue. You've got, oh, number two, union with Christ. He says, I have an intimate union with my Father. He says, you ought to trust me because of my relation, my union, my relationship with God, my Father. Not only should you trust me because I can see what you can't see. But you should trust me, you should follow me, because I have a union with my Father. And thirdly, he says I have uniformity with my Father. The harmony of my Father and my witness is the same. The witness of my father and the witness of me is the same witness. Verses 17 and 18. Look at what it says here in verse 17. He says, It is also written in your law. That the testimony of the two men is true. I am one that bears witness of myself, and the Father sent me bear witness of me. Now it is interesting what he does here. He says in this verse, it's written in, what's the next word there? It is written in your law. Why would Christ say that? It is written in your law. Well, is it the Mosaic law he's referring to? He is. Who gave that law? God did. Who is Christ? He is God. So why would he say it's written in your law? Well, what he's going to say here is that my it's written in your law to believe two witnesses. I'm a witness. My father is a witness. But he is distant he is now distancing himself from the Mosaic Law. He's not violating the Mosaic Law. He didn't ever do that on earth. He he complete he lived out the Mosaic Law as it was intended to live out, be lived out to to ev with every detail. And in fact, we find the Bible says that he is the fulfillment of the law. But when we get into when we when we see what he does here, he says, this is your law because because for this reason, what we're going to find In the New Testament, as we go on through the New Testament, we find that the Mosaic Law is completely fulfilled by Christ. And what we follow now, we won't take the time to look at all that, but what we follow now is the law of Christ. We follow Christ's law now. And Christ, by saying, this is written in your law, is now beginning to sort of distance himself from the Mosaic Law because he is the fulfillment of the Mosaic Law. The Mosaic Law is is essentially going to be unnecessary once you have Christ. Why? Because the intention of the Mosaic Law is to bring you the Christ. We know that from the book of Romans, which says that the law is a schoolmaster, and Galatians, which says the law is a schoolmaster to bring us to Christ. Now, with that in mind, then we find here that he is going to tell them the root problem. Why can't they follow Christ? He's going to name it very clearly here in verse 19. Do you see that? Verse 19, he's going to say this. Then said they unto him, Where is thy father? Jesus answered, Ye neither know me nor my father. If ye had known me, ye shall have known my father also. So he says, my father and I are both coherent in our witness. And we're both witnesses of the fact of who I am. And they say, who's your father? Well, he said before who his father is. But now they say it again. They ask the question again, and he says, there's your problem. You don't know the Father. You don't know God. Now, let's just to illustrate this, what he's saying here, let's just think about other people that Christ appeared to where they immediately accepted him. Can you think of anybody like that? What about Simeon? Do you remember Simeon? When Simeon when Christ, even as a baby, when Mary brought Simeon, Joseph and Mary brought Simeon Christ to Simeon. He immediately saw who it was. He said, and he said this, he said, a light to lighten the Gentiles. He quoted Zechariah. Why? Why was Simeon able to do that? Because he knew the Father And so did Hannah. And so did others. Not that many, but so did others. They knew the Father already. And so when they saw the Son, they knew him. Why did the Pharisees not know, not, weren't able to follow the light? Why? Because they did not know the Father. So the issue then becomes, you don't know me. The issue is you don't know God. That's your problem. They had formed an organized religion where their practice became idolatry to them. Where their do's and don'ts was their id that was their God. Their God was their practice. Their God was their function. Their God was their activity. Their God was not God And they didn't know God. And so because they didn't know God when He came, when Christ came, they didn't recognize Christ. These are people that are living entirely in darkness. and they're skeptical of the light, and they're trying to understand the light. They're trying to comprehend the light, but they can't grasp the light. And folks, we got the same problem today, don't we? We got a whole world that that may try to understand the light. They may try to comprehend the light, but they don't get it. And you know that if you know people in the world, right? If you know people that don't know the Lord, and you try to explain Christ to them. How many times do you try to explain what our what what your what your true authentic faith is about, and it's like they don't get it? Why? Because they're living in darkness and they can't see the light. Then we find something that is going to be very helpful for us because what Christ now is going to do is he is going to indict them. He is going to say, you are walking in darkness, and here is what walking in darkness looks like. So what he's going to do here is he's going to give us four ways that people are blind four ways that people walk in darkness, which leads to death and sin. Sin and death. Death and sin and death. And we pick up here in verse um verse twenty. He says this. Then said they unto him, Where is thy father Jesus or I'm sorry, that's verse twenty verse nineteen, verse twenty. These words spake Jesus in the treasury as he taught in the temple, and no man laid hands on him, for his hour was not yet come. And Jesus then said Jesus again unto him, I go my way, and ye shall seek me, and shall die in your sins, whither I go ye cannot come Then Jesus said, Then said the Jews, Will he kill himself because he saith, Whither I go, ye cannot come? By the way, what he what they're asking there basically there was a in the rabbinical writings it was a it was very looked down upon, suicide was looked down upon, and in fact it was assumed that you would go to the worst place in Hades if you committed suicide. And they're s they're recognizing and they're sort of identifying Christ as as that's where he's gonna go, that they can't go, it's hell. So you must be about to commit suicide because that's where you're going to go where we can't go. And he says this, verse 23, and he said unto them, Ye are from beneath. I am from above. Ye are of this world, and I am not of this world. I said therefore unto you that ye shall die in your sins. For if ye believe not that I am He, ye shall die in your sins. Then said they unto him, Who art thou And Jesus saith unto them, even the same that I said unto you from the beginning, he says, I've been telling you who I am from the beginning. He now is not going to repeat himself. He's saying, I told you who I was from the very beginning. From the beginning of his ministry here is what he's talking about, by the way. Verse 26, I have many things to say and a judge of you, but he that sent me is true, and I speak to the world those things which I have heard of him. They understood not that he spake to them of of the Father Then said Jesus unto them, When ye lifted up my foot my up the son of my of man, well we'll we'll get to that in a minute. So what we have here then is four four indicators of spiritual deadness or blindness. And you'll know you know what? We can apply these in in a couple of different ways. One is you'll be able to see these when you think of unsaved people in your life. You'll see them. But you know what? There is, I think there is appropriate application for us even in our lives as Christians, because these things can crop up in our lives and they can indicate that we're in darkness too. We may not be positionally in darkness, but we can be walking in darkness. Number one. Number one, being self-righteous. He says, You are you are self righteous. And folks, do you ever find that to be the case with the unsaved world? They cla they like to say that Christians are self righteous, but the reality is their own self righteousness is what's keeping. Keeping them from Christ. Now the reality is they also can observe self-righteousness in us, which is a real problem. And that's wrong. And it's our own and in some cases it's our fault that they see it that way. But the reality is that they are self-righteous. If they were not self-righteous, they'd see their sin. And if they saw their sin, they'd see their need. If they saw their need, they would then be able to receive the light. Number two, they're earthbound. They're earthbound. Number three, they're unbelieving. We see that in the passage. They are unbelieving. And number four. Folks, this is really where it all boils down. So why are they self-righteous? Why are they earthbound? Why are they unbelieving? Why are these things the case? Why? Because they are willfully ignorant. Now, this is the the case in our this is the case when you're walking in darkness, isn't it? Jesus, it's interesting. You know, when you think of somebody walking in darkness, you often think it's not their fault. It's not somebody's fault that they're walking in darkness, they just don't have a light. So they're in darkness, so it's not their fault. Jesus says, no, no, no. You're in darkness and you are lost in your sin and you are going headed the wrong direction. He said, you're willfully ignorant You know why Jesus said that? And you know why he could say that at this point? Because he's given them everything they need to accept him. All the information they need. They've got access to it. And you know that's really true in our world today, isn't it? The problem with our world is not access to the gospel, primarily Now there may be some remote places, perhaps in the 1040 window, that don't have access to the gospel. But for the vast majority of the world They have the access to the gospel. That may not have always been the case, but it is becoming the case now. They've got access. The problem isn't access, the problem is will for ignorance Then you know where to get the information. You just don't want to get the information. And it goes back to what Christ said before. Men love darkness rather than light. Why? Because their deeds are evil. They don't want the light. It boils down again to a desire. for darkness to stay where they are. It's not that they don't have access to it. It's not that they don't have the entire Word of God to look at. It's not that they don't have the information they need. They've got access to it, but it's called willful ignorance And you know the reality is we as Christians can walk in darkness the same way. It's willful ignorance. We've got everything we need to live in light, and yet sometimes we walk in darkness. Why? Same reason, willful ignorance. And so this can be for us an application for the Christian so that we are walking in the light rather than walking in darkness. as well. Now, folks, let me boil all of this down for a very clear application. Christ gave the application for us. Let's put it this way. Which is easier to walk in darkness or to walk in the light? Well, there's no question that walking in darkness is easier. It's more comfortable to walk in darkness. It's easier to walk in darkness. There's no question about that. So, what must we do? Let's also say this That darkness is the default. Would you not agree with that? Your heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. The world, the culture in the world, is inherently in darkness. Satan is out there wanting you to stay in the darkness. And so the default is darkness. We're all born into darkness. You know what we've got to do? We've got to follow the light. Jesus said this. He said, if you will follow the light, You'll not walk in darkness, but you'll have the light of life. Now, for those of us who know Christ as our Savior, The reality is the light is always there, but sometimes we choose not to walk in the light. Sometimes we are in confusion. You remember that list I put up at the very beginning? All that confusion and the miserin misery and the difficulties and the uh not difficulties we're gonna have difficulties but the but the things that our perception of of confusion and lostness and those kinds of of of things that we go through in life Do you know what we need to do when we know what happens in our lives when we're confused? It's because we're trying to understand everything. And you know what Christ says to do? Follow the light. Whatever light is there, follow it. Follow Christ. Simplify everything and follow the light. Just have a couple of points of application. Number one, we must believe that Jesus is the only source of life. We've got to believe that. And we must accept no substitutes. You know what we do? I'll tell you what we do. We try to pursue happiness in our own strength We try to pursue clarity and joy, and we're always searching after those things. And God says those are byproducts. Joy can't be pursued. Christ has to be pursued, and joy is a byproduct of living in Christ. And you know what we've got to do? We've got to stop live we've got to stop pursuing joy and start pursuing the light And it gets real simple, doesn't it? Follow the light, and God will give us the joy and the peace and the happiness as we follow Christ. We must remember that denying the person and the power of Christ leads to darkness. This is very It's something it's sort of hard to dif difficult to describe, but when we when we stay in confusion, when we stay in darkness, when we stay in a place where we are we are frustrated and and and whatever words you want to put with that. When we stay there, we are essentially saying that whatever situation we're in Christ does not have the power to lead us out of that situation. And I'm not saying, folks, that necessarily he's going to change our circumstances. I'm talking really about a mental mindset. Because the reality is this darkness, you can be in a prison. You can be stoned. You can be whipped. You can be all kinds of things. Christians going through everything under the sun. And stayed in the light in the midst of all of that. It's not a matter of circumstances. It's a matter of walking in the light and following the light you've got. And I have. And when we choose to stay in the darkness, we are saying that Christ does not have the power, or there is something wrong with his person. That he can that that we just can't do what he wants us to do. We we can't follow that light, following that light won't work. And we need to come to the grip come to grips with that, and we need to say, you know what, really, I need to just follow the light that I've been given. Number three, we must follow the light that God gives us. We will not be able to comprehend and understand everything in life. When we try to, we will become confused and frustrated. The only thing that we can do is follow the light that God gives us. And when we do that, we will begin to walk in the light rather than walking in darkness. I'd like every head bowed. Let's all Just spend a few minutes before the Lord. We're gonna move right now in our time of communion and our time of um of celebrating the light of Christ, of remembering the sacrifice that He made for us. And I want to just give you a few minim moments to do two things. One is maybe you're walking in darkness, you're living in confusion, maybe you've never received the light at all, and you need to receive the light. But it's also possible that you've been living in confusion and there is something very clear that Christ has asked you to follow and you've chosen not to. Or you are fighting it. Or you are saying that Christ is not enough to carry you through that. And I just encourage you to purpose in your own heart before the Lord that you're going to follow the light. And then secondly, it's time we we need to prepare our hearts. to partake of the Lord's Supper. And what that means is this. We need to focus our minds, get them off of ourself and on the Christ. And we need to Just take a few moments and think about the sacrifice that Christ made when He shed His blood on the cross to pay the propitiation for us so that we could have our God's righteous demands settled in our lives. So that we could have Christ's righteousness placed on us. It is only because of Christ. And that is why we celebrate the Lord's Supper. So let's take a few moments as well and Focus our hearts and minds on that in silent prayer before the Lord, and then we can all partake together.