Chapter six John chapter six verses twenty two through fifty nine, maybe. We'll see about if we're gonna get John chapter six. Let me begin by asking you this question. If you look back on your life, have you ever felt used. Have you ever felt like somebody just wanted you, not for you, but wanted you for what they could get out of you I think probably anybody just thinking about it at some point or another has felt that way, or at least at some point or another suspected. that somebody was just wanting to relate to you just to to to see what they could get out of you Can you imagine being a millionaire? You know, I I'll be honest, uh most of them are like, no. Uh and I can I can't either, actually. But you know, I don't think it's all it's cracked up to be. Can you imagine if you suddenly, you know, struck big in the oil business or you know I know it would be impossible for anybody to win the lottery here, so I I c but if somebody did, which you shouldn't, so anyway, um Can you imagine? I mean suddenly you would have all these friends that you wouldn't know if they're your friends because you would always wonder why are they suddenly my friend? I mean, I think there's some it's the it's been suggested and and even written about in various articles that rich people are very lonely people. So, you know, I mean some of us are gonna not be lonely all our lives. And that's not so bad. But what Christ was dealing with in this passage, and I think all of us can relate to this in some way or another, what Christ was dealing with in this passage was a group of people that wanted him for his benefits. But we're really not interested in him. But let me ask you a question. Have we ever been guilty of that? Have we ever been guilty of wanting God for his benefits, but not wanting, really wanting him? Wanting Christ for what he could give us without wanting Christ. Christ is really, and really you could see this in society among unbelievers, don't you? It's amazing what happens to people when they get into a situation where they're sort of stuck or something. And so and so you really can sort of see this and all but the truth is aren't we all aren't we all susceptible to that from time to time? I think that any Christian can say at some point or another, you know, I I I wanted to do right or live for God because of I just wanted to make sure I was going to get what I could get That's a really wrong wrong motive, right? But if we're not careful, any of us could fall into that, couldn't we? And probably we have. The people in our passage that are that John that Jesus is going to be dealing with are people that are actually now they are chasing after Christ for what He can give to them. Last week we looked. at Christ who fed the the the pop probably twenty thousand people. And he he fed them till they were full, they were satisfied, they were satiated. And now And now he is gone, he is left to go to Capernaum, and they've come back to the place where they were, and in their mind they were hoping to find Christ again there, so that they could get more bread for him from him Because what it was clear in the passage is that what they were thinking about when Christ fed them was, and I'm going to put it in their terms, Moses feeding them with manna. And doing so for 40 years. And so they're look coming back and they're assuming now that Christ is going to feed them again like he fed them before. But he's nowhere to be found. So instead of making the assumption that, okay, maybe he wasn't planning on doing this, they are going to chase after him and they're going to go up to Capernaum. Apparently there's some boats around Tiberius, uh the area of Tiberius that They were, and they decided they were going to go out take those boats and go across and find Jesus, who was now in Capernaum. And that's where we find sort of the crux of our story here in this passage. We need to ask the Lord's blessing on our time together, and then we will get into the passage. Father, as we come to you, we thank you because you give us such great detail on a common problem that all of us face and that all of us have been guilty of. And we admit before you that our own sin, that sometimes we just want you for what we can get out of you instead of really wanting you. And yet Christ offers himself to us not only because not only because he just wants us to follow him, but that's the best thing for us. I pray, Lord, that you would really help us to see your plan in this passage. Help us to see the hindrances that keep us from seeing our true spiritual need. And help us, Lord, to be able to be aligned correctly so that we can see our true spiritual need as well. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Jesus in this section of John is going to begin his series of seven I am statements. He is going to call himself the bread of life in this passage. He later on in verse in chapter 8 is going to call himself the light, and then in chapter 10, the gate, followed by the shepherd, resurrection, way, and vine. All of these I am statements are demonstrating that Jesus is who he said he was, that he is God. We have seen him declare that very clearly. Now what Jesus is going to do is he is going to give some sort of some metaphor or he metaphors to give people a picture of who he is as God, various aspects, various even attributes of who God is. And the first thing that we're going to see here is that Christ proclaims, I am the bread of life. And what he means by that, as we're going to look at it and find in the passage, is that he is the satisfying provision. He's going to say he's the gate, he's going to say he's the light, he's going to say he's the shepherd. There's all other kinds of aspects, but he starts off With saying that he is the provision that will satisfy the hungry and thirsty soul. And he wants the people that he is dealing with, the Jewish people, to see this, to understand this. But there is something that's really hindering them. It is this preoccupation with material things, with in their case, food filling their bellies. And because they're so occupied with this and Really back in their mind of taking over the Roman Empire is pro probably well and setting up their own kingdom. They're not seeing Christ for who he really is And we pick up here in verse 22 where it says this: after these things Jesus went over the Sea of Galilee, which is in the Sea of Tiberias. And a great multitude followed him, because they saw his miracles which he did on them that were diseased. And Jesus went up into a mountain, and there he sat with his disciples. And the Passover, a feast of the Jewish Oh, you know what? I'm in chapter 1. I'm sorry. Let's go to verse 22. The day following, when the people which stood on the other side of the sea, saw that there were there was none other boat there. Save that one whereto his disciples were entered, and that Jesus went not with his disciples into the boat, but that his disciples were gone away alone. Howbeit there came other boats from Tiberias nigh unto the place where they did eat bread, after that the Lord had given thanks. Then the people therefore saw Jesus was not there, neither his disciples. They also took shipping and came to Capernaum seeking for Jesus And when they had found him on the other side of the sea, they said unto him, Rabbi, when camest thou hither? Jesus answered them and said, Verily, verily, I say unto you, ye seek me not because ye saw the miracles, but because ye did eat the loaves and were filled. Labor not for the meat which perisheth, but for that meat which endureth unto everlasting life, which the Son of Man shall give unto you, for him hath God the Father sealed Then said they unto him, What shall we do, that we might work the works of God? Jesus answered and said unto them, This is the work of God, that ye believe on him whom he hath sent. They said therefore unto him, What sign showest thou then that we may see and believe thee? What dost thou work Our fathers did eat the man in the desert, as the as it is written, He gave them bread from heaven to eat. Then Jesus saith unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Moses gave you not the bread from heaven. But my Father giveth you the true bread from heaven. For the bread of God is he which cometh down from the heaven and giveth life unto the world. Folks, what we see in this passage is that the nation of Israel are preoccupied with material things, and it's causing them to not be able to see their true spiritual need. And all of us can at time one time or another identify with that even as believers where we have been maybe stressed out because we can't We can't make ends meet. Or because we're looking at the at the prospect of of losing a job or something of that nature. And so we can understand, we can, you know, with it's life is practical, life is the day-to-day grind is hard, and we can understand what it would be like to be preoccupied with those kinds of things as these people were. But we have to remember, don't we, that there is something much greater than our material needs There is something that we need much greater than our physical wants and desires and needs. It is that thing that is spiritual, the desire of Christ Himself. I don't know I I most of you in fact uh have worked in a secular workplace for one at one time or another, and I have to say that I'm very thankful for the times that the Lord has allowed me to work in this in in a secular environment where I'm rubbing shoulders primarily with unsaved people And what I have noticed about them is that often they are preoccupied with the material. I mean, literally, they're thinking about how they can make the next buck How they can increase their income. How they can and in some cases it's very reasonable kinds of things. In some cases it's very unreasonable kinds of things. Where they're trying to play the lottery, for example. But in either case, what you find is that people are often very preoccupied with just with material things. It's not even necessarily that they're just they want all of the you know that that it's they're wanting opulence. Sometimes they're just preoccupied with the next thing, whatever it is. And, you know, I uh when you listen to conversations, it's clear that making ends meet is an end of itself. And doing material and making and and making material wealth and even increasing upon that material wealth is really an end of itself. It's not a means to be able to serve the Lord or glorify God or honor Him. It's like it just stops there. Solomon looked at that and he said, It's vanity. Solomon had all the wealth in the world, and in Ecclesiastes, he points out all this is just vanity and vexation of spirit, in fact, he said. It's important for us to remember this even as Christians. But it is equally important for us to understand that the world does not see their spiritual need. The world only sees what their material need is, and their pursuit is entirely physical and material. And that blinds them from seeing their true spiritual need as it would anyone. And what we're going to find here is that when even Christ now says, look, it's not Moses that gave you that manna, it's God that gave you that manna. And God will continue to give you the bread of life. They are so blinded by the need, by their desire for physical satiation, they're so blinded by this. That they that they f that that basically they are thinking that Christ is still talking about this. Notice the question they asked, verse 34. Then said they unto him, Lord, evermore, give us this bread And then Christ moves on and he begins to, with this in mind, have this statement. Now before we get there, I just want to point something out. We know from last week's message that Christ provided for these people in m even in material ways to get their attention. And that isn't at all, that was something that was a viable option for Christ to be able to do this. Sometimes we will do those kinds of things in order to be able to help people. Perhaps we would feed someone or help clothe someone or meet a physical need so that we can demonstrate love to them so that then perhaps we would have opportunity to give to To meet a spiritual need, which is far greater in anyone's life. But at some point in the process, you've got to be able to turn the conversation or turn the relationship To the point where somebody is going to understand, look, what you really need is Christ. What you really need is your spiritual need to be met. And Christ now is going to be very clear with them. He has already been clear in saying, look, you're coming to me because I can provide something for you. He's already identified their wrong motive But now he's going to be very, very clear with them, and he's going to say this, verse 35. And Jesus said unto them, I am what? The bread of life. He that cometh to me shall never hunger, and he that believeth on me shall never thirst. There's a lot in that statement, isn't there? What did Christ mean when he says, I am the bread of life? Now that immediately took it into a whole nother sphere, didn't it? Even the Jewish people at this point had to have been saying, oh, oh, we're not talking about something I'm going to eat today. This is something very different from that. This is something, this is something else. Jesus said, I'm the bread of life. If you come to me, you'll never hunger. You'll never thirst. If you believe on me, you'll never hunger and thirst. He is now going to express who he really is and what their true need is. When Christ says, I am the bread of life, what is he saying? First of all, we need to understand that he is speaking of himself as someone who is going to satisfy completely their need. In fact What you find in this passage, or what you find, is that more than likely he is referring to Isaiah 55, 1, which they would have more than likely known it says this. Ho, every one that thirsteth, come ye to the waters, and he that hath no money, come ye and eat. Yea, come buy wine and milk without money and without price. Wherefore do ye spend money for that which is bread, or your labor for that which satisfies not? Hearken diligently unto me, and eat Eat ye that which is good, and let your soul delight itself in fatness. Incline your ear and come unto me, hear, and your soul shall live, and I will make an everlasting covenant with you, even the sure mercies of David. So there were portions of the Old Testament that identified that there was in God something more to be gained than just physical needs to be met. And if you even if you have no money at all, if you are completely destitute, you can still come to Christ and have those things satisfied and delight in those things. Jesus is saying, what you really need is me. I am the bread of life. For your thirsty and your hungry soul. I am the thing that only I can satisfy. We find also that there's this there's this future idea in this passage as well. Christ is going to say four times that he is going to preserve them for the last day. And in Revelation chapter 7, this is talking about the saints that are in the tribulation period, but there is application for us as well here on just who Christ is. I think there's clear application. Verse 14, it says this, and I and I said unto him, Sir, thou knowest, this is Revelation 7. 14, thou knowest And he said unto me, These are they which come out of the great tribulation, and have washed their robes, and have made them white to the blood of the Lamb. Therefore are they before the throne of God And serve him day and night in his temple. And he that sitteth on the throne shall dwell among them. They shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more, neither shall the sun light on them, nor any heat. For the lamb which is in the midst of the throne shall feed them, and shall lead them under the living fountains of waters, and God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes These people that were in great tribulation and great great persecution comes to before the Lamb, Jesus Christ, and he satisfies their needs. Isn't it wonderful to know not only that God will, Christ, will satisfy our deepest spiritual needs now, but he will satisfy all of our needs someday. And that's what he's really saying when he is saying that he is the bread of life. The question, I'll tell you, the question is, do we really believe it? That really is the question, even for Christians. It's amazing to me how many, I mean this is very, a very evangelistic passage. There's no question about it. But it's amazing to me how many times in an evangelistic passage there is clear application for the person who knows Christ. Because we are so prone to try to pursue those things. That that are are are that ought not preoccupy us. So how is it how is it that we are truly satisfied by Christ How is it? Can we do more work for him? Will that satisfy us? Can we serve him in greater ways? Will that satisfy us? Now that's not what we find in the passage. What we find in this in this one verse, he says, what does he say here? Look at verse 35. And Jesus saith unto them, I am the bread of life, he that what? He says, You need to come. He's going to say it again in verse 36. And I said unto you, that ye also have seen me and bel and believe, or verse 37, all the Father giveth me shall what? Come to me. In fact, you find throughout the Gospels this concept of coming to Christ. It's so simple. Anybody can understand a child, if I call my child who's over there, I say come, even my young, even if they could understand any kind of anything at all in the English language, they understand come. Now they may not obey cum, but they understand it. That's a whole other subject. But folks, is it not true that sometimes we get so we our minds are so complicated, our lives are so conflicted, we're so occupied in This happens to us, and what Christ says to us is simple. He says, come. In fact, I was talking this week with two different pastors. In different areas completely. Don't try to guess where they who they are in that kind of thing. Um They're not in our church or anything. Um I wasn't talking myself, although I do it I do that from time to time. Um But um and and dealing with very, very complex situations. I mean it's the kind of things that make your head spin. And very frankly, even if you're not in the ministry, you can understand some of these things. You know, just get in the workplace sometime and notice the drama. Or even in family situations, how complex, and he said this, and she said this and they said this and we got this wrong and they misunderstand. I mean it that happens all the time because we are such in we are just such flawed human beings. And folks, sometimes the the advice that I gave, I they they said, what what would you have to say to to help with this? One particular d uh person asked asked advice and I said And I said to them, I said, this is going to be really simple. I said, just come to Christ. You know, sometimes, sometimes in life, things are so complicated and so difficult that what Christ, and nothing seems to be working right. Everything seems to be working wrong. Where we just need to stop, quiet our hearts, and come to Christ. That's why Christ said, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly in heart, and you'll find rest for your souls. Folks, we need to continually come to Christ. And sometimes when we're going through the complexities of life, we just need to simplify everything. And we just need to need to realize that Jesus, in his call to come, it is simple. It is to quiet our hearts and to realize that Christ is the one who can find rest for our souls. I found it personal. This is just a personal observation. I don't know if you can identify with this. But when my life is simple, God teaches me complex things about himself. And when my life is complex, God teaches me simple things about himself. Have any I'm just curious, how many of you all have have I would say that that's that's just an observation I've made in my own life. I'm not saying I don't know if I could find that like biblically true, but I just know personally that that seems to be the case. When life when things are just overly complicated, it's like God wants me to just think about Christ and that simple that simple calling from him to come to him And then sometimes when life is a little bit simpler, then I get to un you know I can delve into rich, deep, in-depth, complic more complex truths. of theology and just revel at the complexity of God and really come to the point where I I don't understand him. I can reach that that ceiling that I always reach and I go, I just am in awe And we need both. But sometimes we just need to come to Christ in simplicity. That takes, though, belief, doesn't it? It takes trust. It requires us to say, okay, my answer is not this, this, and this. My answer is Christ. I can be most satisfied with Christ. It's not all the other things that I think I can be satisfied with that that that tempt me and cause me to think that I'll be discontent apart from Christ. It is Christ that is the only thing that satisfies me And that's why we would be able to say with the Apostle Paul, whether I'm abased or whether I'm abound, I can be content. I have learned therewith to be content. It is only in Christ where we can find that kind of contentment in life. And we find all of this really as a simple lesson that Jesus is the bread of life. He says in verse 37, All that the Father giveth me shall come to me, and him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out. For I came down from heaven not to do mine own will, but the will of him that sent me And this is the Father's will, which has sent me, that of all which He hath given me, I shall lose nothing, but shall raise it up again in the last day. And this is the will of him that sent me, that every one which seeth the Son, and believeth on him, may have everlasting life, and I will raise him up in the last day. It's interesting that what Christ does at this point is he realizes that the nation of Israel, or these Jewish people particularly, are not going to get it. They're not going to see their true spiritual need. As a whole, they're not going to be able to receive Christ in the way that Christ wants them to. He it it becomes clear to him that that's the case. But Christ is not discouraged by this reality. In fact, Christ already knew this. Christ just pours his heart out to them as to who he is. No holes bars barred. He doesn't hold back. He's completely transparent. And yet he then is going to explain to them God's plan. His faith or his trust or Christ's encouragement is not in whether or not these these individual people or these collective group receive him. He knows that it is God's ultimate plan to give him whom he will. That there is this plan. That God will choose to give to Christ as a gift certain followers of Himself. We find this reiterated in the Lord's Prayer, the real Lord's Prayer, the Lord's intercessory prayer in John 17. Where he actually prays on behalf of the people whom the Father gifted him to receive And this becomes a reality throughout the New Testament. That the Father plays a very intrical and a very important role. In the redeeming of souls, in the decisions that are made, in the overall plan of God. And Jesus basically identifies that plan. And we have a very clear application for us, lots of applications actually. There are some people that would suggest That telling others about Christ is hindered by the idea that God has chosen whom He will. I want to say something about this. I I guess I have to say something about this. Um there has been like this thing that not in our church, you all know where I stand on this stuff. But there's like this been a th thing going around that I've had two people ask me about and ask me, am I a Calvinist? And I I'll just tell you, that is a awkward question Because if you say no, well, it depends on what you mean. And if you say yes, it depends on you what you mean. I mean it's like it's just an awkward question. Essentially, I don't want to be labeled as a Calvinist But I do want to follow the Bible. And the Bible is clear that God is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. And God is clear that we have to embrace Christ by faith. That we have to there is clear human responsibility here that we don't want to neglect. And there is a limited free will that we have. That is all the case. But the reality is what God says in his word is that there is a sovereign choice that is made, a sovereign plan. How does this all work out? I'm really not sure And I'm okay with not knowing exactly how it all works. But I am thankful that God's got a plan. And I'm thankful that the ministry that I do That the basis of my ministry is not my effectiveness or my pragmatic approach or my methodology, or if I just say something a little better or do something a little different. That I'll bring people to Christ. It's not based on that. It's based upon the gospel. It's based upon God's plan. And if people come to Christ, wonderful. And if people don't come to Christ, well God's plan is still in effect. Let me ask you a question. Are you ever a little discouraged that more people don't come to Christ? I know I am. I'll just be real transparent with you. I I sometimes think to myself, I think to myself, you know, what what what could we do? What could could we do something else to reach out more? I'm constantly thinking on it. And I think we should think about it I think we ought to think about how we can effectively reach out and and be able to get the gospel into people's minds and hearts. Only God can do the can penetrate their hearts, but at least we can present it. And I'm always thinking about how we can do that But I'm really thankful, I'll just tell you, I'm really thankful that at the end of the day, it's God's plan. I'm thankful that at the end of the day, I'm not relying upon my ability at all. It's really just God is planned. He has his plan all figured out. And his plan is clearly to use the gospel. It is the clarity of the gospel message and the power of the gospel message. that brings people to himself. We know that to be true. But you know, you could apply this to other areas in life. I was talking again, I was thinking about just the the the reality of ministry in general. And sometimes ministry seems to be particularly fruitful where you're seeing You know, good things happen and people being discipled and even people coming to Christ and you see all those things happening And there are other times where it really feels like you're not seeing anything happen that's of any value. Talk about God's plan. He just put all the pieces together. I'll be honest, I had nothing I had so little to do with that. It's like amazing that it happened. It was just a matter of uh he contact uh he contacted me just to get together because he He wanted to and I met him and I said to him just off the co cuff, I said, If you ever want to preach our church, feel free to let me know and don't d I don't have to I don't want to chase you down, just let me know 'cause I'd love to have you. And then this whole thing just came together on on April 24th that we're looking at. It's wonderful to see God work in those ways, and it's wonderful to see how what God might choose to do. according to his plan. But there are other times where it's like doesn't seem like he's anything's getting done or we're not even moving forward. Those kinds of things. Isn't it wonderful to know that you've got to that our faithfulness needs to be dependent upon God's plan? Maybe you're a mother who you have told your child 15,000 times to do something a certain way. And they're not doing it. And you feel like you are hitting your head up against a wall and you keep telling them and telling them and telling them and you're frustrated and it's like they never it's like how hard could it be to wipe that table down? I mean really See, the truth of the matter is it's God's plan that we're relying on That we just need to be faithful, whatever it is, we just need to be faithful. Maybe it's that marriage, maybe it's your workplace, whatever it is You you feel like you're not making any progress, and we all want to make progress, and you feel like you're not. Well, you're not relying on yourself. You're relying, our reliance has got to be on God's plan. And we see that as an example here in this passage The Christ is relying on God's plan. He knows God's going to give him who he will. And then at you know, toward the end of John 17, on the other end of it, he he's he's looking at him, he's saying, Lord, thank you for whom Whom you have already given me, and you're going to give me more, and I'm praying for them now, and I'm praying for them later. It's wonderful that we can depend ultimately on God's plan. Not our own plan to provide in his way the way that he wants to. And we have a whole lot more to go, but I am my time is up. So I just want to say this. I really didn't think I was going to get through the whole passage. Let me ask you this question. Are you I mean I just gonna really it's gonna be real simple. You say, well I don't think I've ever heard you be so simple. Well this this is gonna be really, really simple. Do you realize Jesus is your greatest need? And that all you need to do is come to Him. He says, if you come to him, he will in no wise cast you out. And you might be listening here, and you've actually never actually come to him. Maybe you have been aware of certain things about the Bible or certain things about Scripture, but you've never actually come to Christ. In the way that Christ is saying he wants us to in this passage, there are a lot of people in the world that want to come to Christ for what they can get out of him. But there are very very few, in fact the way is narrow, the path is narrow to people that want to come to him. In the way that he wants them to, to follow him. That's the thrust of the gospels. Christ says over and over, follow me. Follow me. It's real simple. And maybe you're saying, you know what, I've never really, I've never really just followed Christ. Well, Christ died to pay the punishment for your sin. And what you are got what you've got to receive is the person of Christ. He says, I am, I am God. And I am the satisfaction of your soul. And you've got to come to me and believe in me and trust in me and trust in the work that Christ is going to do. You've got to do that. And if you are unsure about that, would you come and talk to me? I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you have truly, you are truly a follower of Christ. But those of us who are followers of Christ, we don't always follow Christ very well, do we? And we look to every other thing in the world. Every other provision, we're looking to every other pursuit, and what God says in his word so clearly, I mean Christ could not be more clear about this. He says, I'm the bread of life. I you you come to me, you believe in me, you're never gonna hunger, you're never gonna thirst again And we need to come to Christ. Whatever it is that you're longing for, whatever it is that your soul is hurting because you don't have. Whatever it is, the deepest longing of your soul can only be filled by Christ. The tricky thing about that is you won't ever know it until you believe it. You've got to believe in order to be satisfied. And that's a day-to-day process, isn't it? Like every head bowed and every eye closed this morning, I I just think that it would be good for you to take a couple of minutes and to quiet your own for all of us to quiet our hearts before the Lord. And really, just in the quietness of this moment, with all of the possibilities and distractions and difficulties of life. Just say, Lord, I am coming to you to be satisfied by Christ alone. I want to give you just a few moments of silence before the Lord. We don't do this every week, but just sometimes I just feel that it's appropriate to do so. And I just want to give you a few moments just to quiet your hearts before the Lord. And just come to Christ and say, Lord, I know that you are my are my satisfaction. That's a good one. But I mean that we're going to be able to do that. Father, we do come to you and thank you that you have provided through your own Son to give us life abundantly. That life is not devoid of trials and struggles and difficulties. But it is a life that if we'll choose to come to Christ and believe in him, it is a life that that will find our deepest longings to be met. Our greatest desires to be fulfilled. I pray, Lord, that you would teach us, even as we continue through this book of John, that you'd teach us what that means, what that entails. But the simplicity of just coming to Christ, I pray that you'd help us not to easily forget it, though we often do. And in times where we are tempted to try to pursue other things that That can only be fulfilled by Christ. May we just remind us, Lord, of the need to just come to Christ. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. All right