John Chapter Ten Some of you most of you are probably aware the of the fact that uh I um was involved with uh doing tree work and and pruning while I was going through uh college and seminary. Uh during the during the summers and during Christmas time I would come up and and uh um work for a company in the area and would do that. One of the things that was helpful about that particular job was that it gave me a opportunity to rub shoulders with with a lot of unsafe people, a lot of people who don't know Christ. And we would actually, in some cases, have long distances to drive in a truck. which allowed opportunity to just discuss different matters, different things in certain cases with with um with co-workers. It was something sort of neat because we were on the clock, but you know, there's nothing wrong with talking while you're driving, basically. And so we I'd uh I would pray for opportunities to be able to talk with folks. And because I was sort of in and out all the time, summers and Christmas time, they began to s know why I was there and they would it'd usually come up, why are you going to school? And then I would explain to them that I'm going I'm going to to a seminary and why are you doing that? Well because I believe the Lord's called me to be a pastor. And um it's always an interesting discussion when that happens, even now when people say, What do you do? I sort of I say well I'm a pastor and they sort of there's sort of this hush, oh. And I sort I sort of go It's really doesn't have to have that hush. It's not it's really okay. But um um they'll they sort of said that and it's like, huh. Normally they s sort of say something like, huh, I never thought Meta Guy wanted to be in ministries doing tree work. That's different. And um I so so one guy particularly asked me, and I I I really always pray that the Lord would give me opportunities to respond in a way that would not would not come across as though I was I was religious, if you know what I mean by that. Um or that I was just sort of into formalized religion. I wanted them to know that I had a relationship with the Lord. And I remember one particular time a guy asked me that. He said, Why are you going into the ministry? And You know, I uh you know, to a uh an uh a believer I would explain that God had called me to that particular work. But I wanted to to to describe this in a way that I thought would be helpful. And so I paused for a moment and I said, then I said this. I said, you know, I really I'm so thankful that I have a a close relationship with God. And I really want to spend the rest of my life helping other people to have a relationship with God too. And I just sort of said it that way. I uh I mean it's really basic. But when I said that that way, he sort of paused and he said He said, wow. You know, I never he said, that's pretty special. Now this is a I mean if you know guys that do tree work You know, they're they're pretty rough around the edges, I'll just put it that way. And for they don't even use words like special very often, actually. But but when I was talking to him and he was just sort of stopped at like, well that's really special. Like boy, I never really thought of a pastor having a relationship with God and and helping other people get there basically. Uh and and it was something that that I began to say a lot because because it seemed to get across something different than the overall perspective that they sort of heard about or their their what they saw when they thought of a pastor or somebody that that's going into the ministry. And so it did sometimes open opportunities for me to be able to share my faith with them. That otherwise, had I answered in a different way, would not have given me the opportunity to do so. And what we find in this chapter in James, in John, as we look at uh John chapter 10, really picking up in verses twenty-two through forty-two is that Jesus is now when he is questioned about who he is He is overall going to respond by explaining the nature of his relationships He's going to first talk about the the nature of his actions and how it's consistent with his character. Then he's going to talk about his relationships with his sheep, and then he's going to talk about his relationship with his father. It's interesting that what he does, what he doesn't do is say overtly and very clearly who he is when they ask him. Instead, he describes these relationships. And I think I think in doing so, he is really wanting to give these folks one really last chance. to receive him. Because what we're going to come what we're coming to in the book of John is we're going to come to a crossroads. In chapter 11, we're going to see that, well, in chapter the end of chapter 8 here, we're going to see that he's going to leave Jerusalem and go to another place entirely different. We'll see that at the end of the chapter. And that sort of pro sort of is a separation mark where he now is going to start his ascent toward his exaltation. And in John's mind, the exaltation begins with his death on the cross, extends into the resurrection, and then finally into the ascension. And this this process where he goes up to Jerusalem and begins this really begins in chapter 11 with this miracle of raising Lazarus from the dead. So the end of chapter 10 here is this marking point. And what Jesus is going to do is really give them a final opportunity to turn to himself. And to do this, he is going to describe these intimate relationships that he's had. He has. First with his sheep and then with um and then with his his relationship to God, the Father. And we'll see that. Now, this, a lot of the truth, the material in this passage is repeated material from the beginning of the chapter. And you might you know when I first read through this this chapter I I was I was intrigued by the amount of things that were said that were already said previously, and I began to sort of wonder why did John account of this again? Why did he repeat basically the same kinds of truths, although they're much more in summary format? But you know, as I study this chapter and I looked at how how this this particular passage has influenced church history, I found that this is really significantly this passage is one of the one of the passages that really could be marked as a passage that began to launch the Great Awakening in this country. And you're going to see that. We're going to work through that as we'll see that as we work through this passage. So this passage has had great influence on God's people over the years, and I pray that it has the same kind of influence on us today. Let's go to the Lord in prayer and ask his blessing on our time together. Father, we come to you today and we pray that as we look at your word this morning, You would help us to be again renewed in our heart and our spirit and in our mind when it comes to this matter of Christ being our shepherd. May we understand how that concept not only influences our thinking, but influences the thinking of your people and influences the thinking of unbelievers. And how it has done that in church history and how it has it can do that in our lives today. May we be open to the truths of this of your word this morning, and I pray that you would help it to be. A clearly communicated and heartfelt received. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen Well, we pick up here in verse 22 where it says this, and it was at Jerusalem the feast of the dedication, and it was winter, and Jesus walked into the temple in Solomon's porch. We find here the setting of this passage where Jesus begins to ascend into Jerusalem again, into the temple. We find it says in the passage that it is wintertime, and it says it is during a particular feast, the feast of dedication. This particular feast was not a feast that we find in the Old Testament that is prescribed in the Old Testament. It's never authorized as a feast for the Jews to participate in. We do have other feasts like the Feast of Tabernacles and other feasts in the Old Testament that are clearly uh mandated to to practice for the nation of Israel, but we don't have this feast as one of them. And yet Christ goes up and he he participates in this feast. Now he doesn't do so much to participate in the feast itself, but to use this as an opportunity. The feast of dedication was, you would know it know it better as Hanukkah. Most of us may not be familiar with dedication, but the feast of Hanukkah or the the the the time of year of Hanukkah. In fact, it was it is during wintertime during during the what is known as the Wil winter solstice in the t in uh December twenty fifth was when this happened. And it and it commemorated a time where Antiochus Epiphanes in 167 BC went into the temple and desecrated the temple. If you recall, even sacrificed a pig in the Jewish temple Totally desecrating the temple and um and causing great great angst on the part of the nation of Israel when this happened. And they began to to practice what would we we would know today as guerrilla warfare. They began to to fight back at that point when that occurred. And a man by the name of Judas Maccabees during this time fought and uh and successfully fought in liberating the nation of Israel And so they set up a feast that was supposed to mirror the Feast of Tabernacles. In fact, it's sometimes called the Winter Feast of Tabernacles. Much debate over this feast came about by this time when Jesus was was uh was came on the scene. whether this should be a feast the Jewish people sac uh uh uh participated in or maybe they shouldn't be. It was debatable as to whether this would should be a a true feast that was that was uh included in in the Jewish feasts that they practiced. And it's interesting that how Jesus deals with this. Jesus and we can find a great example here. Jesus deals with this by using this cultural opportunity To share himself. What he doesn't do is get embroiled in a debate. He doesn't this we don't find him dealing with whether or not the Jews should participate in this particular feast feast of dedication. There's no mention of what his opinion is about this. In fact, he is so focused on displaying who he is that it becomes sort of a side issue that he doesn't even deal with at all. I think we can find find an example there for us. When we deal with some of the issues that we deal with in our culture, sometimes we get sidetracked from keeping the main thing the main thing. And what we find in this passage, when Jesus goes up to the Feast of Dedication, we clearly see that he is going to use this as a cultural opportunity to share himself with the nation of Israel one last time. It's interesting that this was noted way back in this in the first Great Awakening by none other than um Let me find get my notes here. Um by uh by none other than I am missing hit the guy's name. Oh Whitfield. George Whitfield And uh George Whitfield um said in that uh he he pointed out that in the Methodist Church, which he was a part of at the time that he was very thankful that in keeping with the example of Christ in this passage, that he did not find that they s they got sidetracked by by by side issues that they kept Christ the main thing. And I just want to say, just by way of application for us, that we so easily are drawn away by side issues in our culture when it comes to Christianity. And it is to our detriment many times. Rather, what we ought to do is we ought to stay and keep Christ the focus That Christ ought to be the central theme in our thinking, the central projection in our speaking, that he ought to be have the preeminence in our lives. And Christ was just not concerned with this side issue. He didn't even deal with it. He just focused on the revealing of himself. Because, you know, when you begin to know Christ. These side issues take care of themselves. When you know him, you know what he wants for you. And when he know when you know what he wants for you Then you know his will, and it just it just tends to work out. And so it's very important for us to understand that that that ought to be our focus as well, that Christ needs to be the central focus of our lives. And the the the ex the the living out of the gospel needs to be central in our focus uh so that we can follow the example of Christ in this passage. Well, we we continue in the passage and we find in verse uh twenty-five, Jesus answered them and told uh, I told you, and ye believe not, the works I do in my Father's name. They bear witness of me, but ye believe not, because ye are not of my sheep, as I said unto you. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me And I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. My Father which gave them me is greater than all. Neither shall any man pluck them out of my father's hand. So in verse 24, what the Jews do is they come to Jesus, they approach him, and they want him to lay it on the line. They want him to directly declare himself as the Messiah. It's interesting to note that he had never done this before in a public setting. Jesus had said in the previous that his will was consistent with his father's. We know that Jesus spoke of his deity in the I am statements But Jesus never actually said, I am the Messiah before. Not in so many terms. The only time he said this in the past was to the Samaritan woman in private. If you recall in John chapter 4 he said this. And he said this, probably we gather from a chapter in Matthew, that he said this to the disciples as a whole. But overall, he did not publicly say that he is the Messiah at this point. And the reason for that, very likely, is that they would become, they would have a presupposition in their mind when they heard this term Messiah or the Christ. They would have in their minds a political idea, a political focus, and Christ did not want them to have that focus. Christ wanted them to have a spiritual focus, a focus of who he really is, without the barrier of this political man who is going to deliver them from the tyranny of the Rome of the Roman of the Romans. And so he chose to withhold this reality of the Messiah, to put forth the reality that he is Lord and Savior. And the Good Shepherd, in fact. The other thing that we find interesting here in this passage is that now he is also going to explain that he has this very close, intimate relationship with his sheep. Now you might find it interesting that he says this. Do you notice again it says in verse 25 I told you, this is how he answers them. I told you, and ye believed not, the works that I do in my Father's name, they bear witness of me. Verse 26, but ye believe not, because ye are not my sheep. As I said unto you. Now let me ask you a question. Is was that a good way to respond Would that be a way that we would of course it's a good way to respond, Christ responding that way. But would that be a way to respond that we would think of an appropriate way to respond to people that are asking who he is? In other words, is this a good evangelistic tool? Now, consider what he said. They said to him, Who are you? Would you be direct with us? And he says, You don't believe I've shown you who I am, you don't believe who I am, because you're not my sheep How effective do you suppose that evangelistic tool, that evangelistic tool would be? Well, of course, in this passage, we don't find it to be particularly effective in that sense But Christ chose to point out here that the sheep would know him, and they are not a sheep, and therefore they don't know him. It's interesting how God has used this particular passage, however, in church history. I find it very interesting that in a particular sermon uh that was preached during the Great Great Awakening, it was pointed out that a man by the name of Stoddard, Mr. Stoddard, who was the grandfather of uh of um Jonathan Edwards Use this particular passage and preached in Northampton. There were 300 people in attendance. All of them did not know Christ. And two of them responded in some awakening fashion. Not to say necessarily that they came to Christ, but the Lord awakened their hearts. Two hundred out of the three hundred of them were awakened by this passage. And it was accounted by Jonathan Edwards himself that his grandfather preached from this passage, and he in fact said that it was a surprise to his father in that sense. Now isn't it interesting that God would use this kind of passage to bring to awaken the hearts of that many people? And you could you could arguably say that this began to spark the Great Awakening and God's amazing working in the Great Awakening during this time. You know what it tells us? It teaches us something. It teaches us that when we will simply speak truth, When we will simply say what is true, that that can have a profound impact in God's pe in people's lives and do what God wants it to do the way God wants it to work. When we speak truth, we do not have to have all of the results in place. We do not have to even have to have the intended result. We can speak truth and let God do what he wants to with his truth. And it's amazing when you look at church history how often in time that happened. In fact, when you look at church history, what you find oftentimes is that when God really was working It was just the faithfulness of truth being spoken and God choosing to use it in his time. And when God was really working, it was actually a surprise to the people, to the Christians around who saw it. They didn't know he was going to work that way. It wasn't manufactured. It was something that was just God did in his time as truth was preached. This is something that I think is very important for us to understand in our own spiritual discernment as Christians. In fact, if you think about it and consider the reality of this in the first in the Great Awakening, we know from church history that there was another awakening called the Second Great Awakening. A man by the name of Ian Murray wrote a book entitled Revival or Revival or Revivalism. And in that book, he actually contrasts what happened in the first Great Awakening in New England with what happened in the second Great Awakening in New England. And he points out that in the first Great Awakening, God's people began to simply preach God's truth, and God did what he chose to do in his time. And in the second Great Awakening, they began to use methods that were intended to manufacture the results of the First Great Awakening. And he argues that this occurred in a sense to become pragmatic. And so what happened over time is that actually harmful things happened It's interesting in Northampton, the very church that sparked the Great Awakening, is that town is one of the most liberal towns. It is it is actually noted as the most socially liberal town in America, according to the research that I did this week. It's amazing that the very town that sparked the Great Awakening is now a town that is actually adverse to the things of God morally Why is that? Because when God's people begin to try to manufacture God's work, problems occur. What we've got to do instead is simply speak the truth of the Word of God and allow God to work in His the way He wants to And what we will find sometimes is that it's even a surprise to us how he chooses to work. And it's amazing to me how oftentimes I'll even listen to the testimonies of God's people. How God will use things that you would not expect to awaken the heart of an individual to himself. Versus that me even in our minds seem to be ex obscure from the Old Testament or from other places in the Bible. That God uses why Because they're living a lie which we all are born into, and when they see the truth, it impacts them in that way, and God uses it And that's what we find in this passage. Jesus is just simply going to choose to speak the truth. He's not trying to manufacture decisions. He's not trying to manufacture results. No. Much better, he is simply speaking the truth and letting God do what he would choose to do in his time. And it's and it sets for us a great example. Even in our own personal witnessing, our own personal uh relationships with people. How much better is it to let God be God and for us to simply live out the truth as God's people and to speak the truth as we have opportunity to do so? Well, we find here then in verses 27 through 30, which we've already read, that Jesus begins to explain the security that that occurs between himself and his sheep. He says, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. Is that how you think of your relationship with God? This loving, tender, intimate relationship, where God is your shepherd. And you are his sheep. And when he speaks through the word of God, you hear his voice, and you respond by following him. Is that the kind of relationship? That's in the very introductory descriptions of the relationship that we have with Christ. This is what he says. We're going to learn later in John chapter 15 of the vine and the branches and the abiding and all of that. But before we ever get there, we have this simple illustration of the sheep who follows the voice of a shepherd. And the shepherd knows the sheep. Are you not thankful? Are we not thankful, folks, that God knows us? If you are his sheep, he knows you. He knows you, your down sitting and your uprising. He knows every thought. He knows every intent. He knows you better than you know yourself Is that not a wonderful truth? And when your heart condemns you, God says that He is greater than your heart and He knows all things. And we find in this verse this intimate relationship where the sheep know the voice of the shepherd, and the shepherd know the sheep. We find in the previous passage that that he calls them by name. This he brings up again this relationship that he has. And do you know, folks, that there are some people out there that if God would choose and you express this kind of relationship that you have with God Would they not respond to this by saying, that is really special? Now, what you find in the passage then is this. He goes a step further. This is new material from what he said in the past. And he says he points out this security that we find described perhaps no better in any other place in the Bible. He says, I give unto them eternal life, and they will never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. And my, and then he says, my father, who's greater than all, in the economic trinity, he's greater than Christ than the Son. And he says, no man plucks them out of my father's hand. Now if we could get a hold of that, it would be amazing. You have problems with the security, and frankly so do I. And if you think you don't, then just wait a couple of days. Because all of us have problems with security. And yet Christ, in this loving relationship, has offered the supreme amount of security. That we should be able to say that if Christ be with me, if his presence is with me, then I can go anywhere and I can do anything, I can follow him anywhere. Why? Because he's with me as I go. This was greatly an influence on the man George Whitfield. George Whitfield, as you know, is an evangelist during the Great Awakening, God mightily used him. But what you might not know is that before he became this mighty uh mighty preacher of the Word of God God had called him, began to work on his heart about going into full-time ministry, and this man did not want to. Do you know why George Whitfield did not want to? He said, I am inadequate to do the Lord's work. I am inadequate to do what God wants me to do. I don't know what to do. And so when he's saying speaking of these things, he's saying these things and he's saying, I'm just simply inadequate. It's interesting that he accounts of a time where he was prostrate on the ground before God, struggling over this issue of whether or not he could really be a preacher of the Word of God because of his own inadequacy. He's crying out to God. And this verse comes to mind. No man can pluck you out of Christ's hand, and no man can pluck you out of the Father's hand. And with that truth in mind, he comes to the Lord and he prays to him and he says to the Lord, Lord, if you will go with me, then I will go. George Whitfield was one of the most influential preachers of all of church history. It is estimated that he spoke, he preached to over 10 million people. And that was without any recorded recording. It was without any kind of electronic devices at all. It was said that he could preach and that his voice would be heard a mile away. This was the kind of influence that this man had on our nation and on people that came to Christ as a result of his preaching. Here's a man who said, I can't do it. But when he realized the security that he had in Christ, he was able to do what God was calling him to do. And do you know that you and I are most hindered in our lives as believers when we when we do not we're not experiencing the security that Christ offers us? God says in his word, I will never leave you nor forsake you, so that I may boldly say, The Lord is my helper. There is a direct link between the security of the believer and the help of the believer in God. Let me ask you this question. Are you able to simply say, I will do what God wants me to do? I will follow the way God wants me to follow. If you are struggling with that, it is usually, it it it most likely is because God, you have not recognized the security that God has given you. Every Christian has the security. But it must be a reality in our lives. We must have assurance about this in our lives as Christians. The security that can only come from God and Christ. So that is, then he moves into verses 31 through 40. We see that he moves into into describing In very specific terms, his relationship to his father. Now, in order to order to understand this passage, we need to sort of set something up here. One of the most crucial and important doctrines in the Old Testament that you find just by flipping through the Old Testament is the fact that there is only one God. The Bible says in Deuteronomy 6. 4 that the Lord our God is one Lord, and thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart and soul and might. It's interesting that when you uh uh read some of the the accounts of what the Jewish people did in order to to hold on to the oneness that there is only one God. They would put these these verses in phylacteries and put them on their foreheads. And carry around with them this concept of only there only being one God. And this was a very important concept that God wanted to get across the nation of Israel. Why? Because they were living in a very polytheistic world where there were many, many, many gods. And yet, God wanted to be very clear in his word. He was very clear that there is only one God. Now, it's interesting when it comes to Christ, isn't it, that Christ, in describing who he is, has to be very, very careful. For on one hand, if he does not describe things right, it may sound like he is an additional God. And of course we know that not to be true. We know that from the New Testament that clearly explains that. But realize that this was not something that was understood at all by the nation of Israel at this time. And on the other hand, he also did not want to describe that in some way that he was replacing the father. So Jesus, on one hand, did not want to say that he was an additional God, for he certainly wasn't. And on the other hand, he did not want to say that he was replacing the Father, for that is certainly heretical as well. And of course, with the precision that only Christ can have, notice how he says what he says. Verse, uh pick up here in verse 30, he says, what? I and my Father are one. What better way to say it? Of course it's the best way to say it. Christ said it, right? I and my father are one. I am not an additional God to my father. I am not replacing my father. I and my father are one. Now, if you think about the precision of language that Christ uses in this passage. It does speak to the importance of when we're speaking truth, there are certain truths that we need to be very precise about. We need to be very specific about. I was just speaking this past week with a pastor friend of mine who is uh in contact with a group of people who is who are Trying to figure out some of trying to they're they're starting to teach what looks to be like another gospel in fact where they're suggesting that the Father is eternally separate from the Son in the sense that he could co he could exist apart from the Son That although they would attest that there is one God, that the Father is superior not just economically, which we know, but he's superior in every way, like even in his essence. And this is verging on heretical doctrine. And it's something where they would still say there is only one God and there are three distinct persons, but they're going so far in the distinction of the persons to suggest that they're that the Father is is existent in existence separate from the Son. Now, I mentioned all of that simply to say this. Folks, isn't it important when it comes to the crucial doctrines of the Word of God, when it comes to the Trinity, when it comes to the gospel, when it comes to these such crucial doctrines, that we be very precise in our language That we convey the all of what is true and we are careful not to convey something that isn't true. Christ, of course, was the master of this. You can never find in anything that he ever says his him contradicting himself or contradicting the law. He was interpreting the law but he never contradicted it. This is an incredible thing. Of course, Christ is Christ and we are not. But it does set for us an example that we want to be when it comes to the most crucial things about God's Word, we want to be good students of the Word of God. We want to be precise in our language when it comes to these things. And we find the example here of Christ himself when he says, I and my Father are one. Verse 31 says, Then the Jews took up stones again to stone him. You know why? Because they knew exactly what he was saying. He was claiming to be God. And they realized that. And so they chose that they were going to do what we would know be known today as mob role. They were under the Roman Empire. They were under the Roman Empire's leadership. The Roman Empire had a very specific way of executing people They could bring their growth grievances to the Roman Empire, and probably under this kind of situation, the Roman Empire may have honored their request, but they didn't tend to do that when it came to this issue of blasphemy. And so when it comes to this particular uh this particular issue, they verse 32 it says Jesus answered uh Many uh good works have I done, uh many good works have I showed you from my father, of which whose works do ye stone me. They're going to have mob rule. They're going to be stoning, they're going to get up to stone Christ. And so he says this. Notice the wisdom that Christ uses. I mean, this is wisdom beyond us. He says to them, So let me ask you a question. What work are you going to stone me for? Well, what did Jesus do? Jesus was always consistent with the fulfillment of the law. Jesus Did miracles. He healed people. He fed the the the the the poor. He he made the blind to see. I mean what miracle, what work i are they going to do to stone him? And they respond this way in verse 33. Jesus answered him, saying, For a good work we stone thee not, but for blasphemy, and because thou, being a man, makest thyself God. Now, let me just say Jesus' reply in this passage is one of the most difficult things to explain in the entire Bible. I'm coming across a lot of difficult passages. James chapter 5 is a bit of a bit of a difficult one that we've gone over in the last couple of Wednesday nights, and now we've come to this passage. So I want to say at the outset of this that this is just a very difficult thing to explain. We'll read the passage and I'll try to make some basic basic explanations of it. But I don't want to get so bogged down in it, to be honest with you, that we lose the overall message of Christ's description of the row of the relationship. And so I want to be careful not to do that here. Jesus says this. Jesus answered them, Is it not written in your law, I said, ye are lowercase g, there, gods. If ye called them gods unto whom the word of God came, the scripture cannot be broken. Okay, so what is he saying here? Well, we know that he is quoting from an Old Testament passage in the book of Psalms. What I need you to do is go ahead and take your Bibles and turn there. Turn to Psalm 82. In Psalm 82, we have a Psalm of Asaph, and in this particular psalm, there are some people that are described as sons of God or gods. Lowercase G. These are notably people that are not, of course, gods in the sense of of the one and only true God. But in the description that is divinely inspired by God, we find it says in verse 6 this. I have said, ye are gods, and all of you are children of the most high. Now, when we have some very precise language here. When this is said, it is not claiming that we have additional gods to the one and only true God. It is saying that that that these people, because they are creations of God, should be consistent with God. They're made in the image of God, and so they are products of the one and only true God. But they do use this term, lowercase g, ye are gods. You see that in verse uh uh one here. God standeth in the congregation of the mighty, he judges among the gods. Now, the point here of the passage in Psalms is simply that these people were not, most likely these were judges who weren't judging correctly. That's what the passage is talking about. And most likely in the passage what it is saying here is that these people, though they have been delegated their authority by God, and they are children of God, And they are supposed to be acting in God's place when it comes to the judgment of the nation of Israel. They are not. The passage indicts them for doing exactly the opposite. But they use this technical term, you're gods. Now you see how difficult this is, so please don't tar and fe feather me after this. So what Jesus says is this. Jesus says, I have claimed to be the Son of God. On a technicality, you cannot say I really blasphemed because of this passage. Because of this passage, my words, you cannot indict me on this. Now, you say, well, um he obviously was claiming to be God. Well, the way that Jesus precisely worded things, Jesus did this in such a way that he claimed to be God. But he did not violate the Old Testament man the Old Testament prohibition against blasphemy. That is amazing, isn't it? Only Jesus could do this, that he would be able, on one hand, well, on one hand, to be able to profess that he is God, and on the other hand, be able to avoid Committing blasphemy according to the technicalities of the Old Testament. In other words, you can't pen him down. You know why? Because he's God. And in fact, when you go when you when you find that the the various trials That they try to try him and put him to death. Nobody can seem to agree on how to nail this guy down. How I shouldn't say this guy. How to nail Christ down. Why? Because he's God. So there is a truth in this passage for us to just marvel at. That Christ can say things in such a way with such precision that nobody can really indict him for anything, and yet he can claim to be who he really was and who is. So with that in mind, turn back to John chapter 10. And that is the best explanation I can give on this verse. Verse 36. Say ye of him whom the Father hath sanctified and sent into the world, thou blasphemest because I said, I am the Son of God. If ye do not the work so he says you can't really get me on this. Verse 37, if I do not the works of my father, believe me not. He says this. You are going to have to indict me not on what I am saying because you can't pin me down on that. You've got to indict me on my works, on what I do. Now, we know from the Old Testament that it was very clear that, for example, a false prophet was identified as a false prophet if he prophesied something that never came true. Or if he performed a miracle that never that actually didn't end up being a miracle. You could identify a false prophet that way. And what Christ is saying is You need to use that method to try to to try to to to to see whether or not I am who I say I am. And of course they can't, right? Because every miracle that Christ did was authentic. And sustainable. Everything he did was true because he is God. And so we find here in this passage what is going on here Now, you might say to yourself, why did Christ even bother defending himself here? Christ obviously is going to eventually be indicted on this charge. It's why the Jews put him to death over this issue. So why did Christ at this point, why did he defend himself in this way by sort of skirting on a technicality? And I think the answer to that is in this passage. In verse 38 it says, if I do, but if I do Though ye be believed me believe not me, believe the works that ye may know, and believe that the Father is in me, and I in him. Therefore they sought again to make him, but he escaped out of their hand, and went away again beyond Jordan into the place where John as first uh first baptized, and there he abode. And many resorted unto unto him and said, Jesus Did not mirac uh Jesus, John, I'm sorry, John did no miracles, but all things that John spake of, this man were true. And what happened in verse 42? Many believed on him there. You know why I think, this is just my opinion, but you know why I think Christ chose to defend himself there? Well, John goes to great lengths to explain that after that point, Jesus flees the scene. He goes to a place where John had heavily preached three years prior. And he he performs some miracles there and demonstrates that he is who John said he was And many people believe. Is it possible that the reason he did this was because he knew that there were people that were going to believe and he wanted to be able to demonstrate that before he before he went to the cross? I think probably that's why. In other words, he knew there were other people that were going to be receptive to his message, and so he was not done the work that God wanted him to do And so as a result, he decides that he's going to be able to get out of this as a result of this. And he and of course we've seen him do that even m even um even by his own power, just leaving the scene on his own power in the past. There is another truth that I want us to get a hold of in this passage that I think would be very encouraging for us. When it comes to presenting Christ to others, in verses 40 through 41, 42, which we just read, we find that he goes to a different place. He goes to a place that is probably in a region called Batania. And it was a place where John had done a lot of heavel heavy preaching in the past. And three years later, they remember this man's preaching, and they see the works that Christ did, and they match the two. And they come to Christ authentically and believe in him. The reason that that's significant is for this reason. Do you know that that is really often how the gospel works? It isn't, folks, it isn't usually. It is not usually just one 15-minute gospel presentation and somebody comes to Christ. If that is the case, there have been, just mark it down, there has been seed, there has been soil cultivated by somebody else. It's almost errant to say that I led somebody to Christ like I did it alone. Because there are con in the body of Christ with different people cultivating soils in different ways and all of that. It is it is God that does the work through different people. And you know that ought to encourage us as well. Have you been consistently praying for somebody? Or have you could been consistently working in the lives of people? Have you had working with people and living out the gospel on people? Have you been praying for people? Have you preached the truth to people? Maybe it's been for years that you've done that. Do you realize that's the way the gospel works? And you may not yet see the harvest. It may be years before you see the harvest. And what God wants us to do is to continue to be faithful preaching the gospel, faithful speaking the truth. And that is the testimony of the Great Awakening, in fact. Where John where where um Jonathan Edwards talks about how for years and years his grandfather uh ministered in the church at Northampton before people came to Christ. And after a lot of cultivating in the soil, they finally came to Christ. Jonathan Edwards had the same testimony in his own a couple of churches that he pastored And there are many others as well. The point that I would just simply say about all of this is this. Don't you see from this passage that what we must do is let God be God and let Him work the way He wants to. And you and I need to do two things. We need to be just enraptured with a rat with the relationship that we have with God. We need to be awed by that relationship. We need to know that our security is in Christ alone. We need to be thankful for that security. We need to recognize that security in our lives. And it ought to spill out into our relationships with others. And as that occurs in our lives, as we begin to do that in our lives, you know what we need to do? The other thing we need to do is we need to speak the truth. And we just need to be consistently speaking the truth. And we need to stay focused on Christ being the central theme. That he is the person and work of Christ is what is important. We've got to stay focused on that. And do you know that when we do that, we might be surprised. And I'd like to just ultimately ask you two questions. First of all Are you experiencing the security in Christ that God intends for you to experience? Are you experiencing that? I would encourage you to meditate on these verses if you don't. If you say, you know, I'm really struggling with just security, the kind of security that God wants me to have in Christ, these verses ought to be on just I just really encourage you, meditate on these, memorize them, meditate on them, think them over and over again. The shepherd has you in his hand, his father has you in his hand. You can't nobody can pluck you out. You can't even pluck yourself out. Are you not thankful that your security has n is based nothing on you and based entirely on Christ alone? And that ought to cause us to be able to express the nature of our relationship with others. That really is when we can. When we have this sense of security about us in our relationship with God, when that has truly occurred in our lives, it's then that we realize how special it is. Because I guarantee you you look out in the world and the last thing you've got is security. The world wants it. The world's looking for it. There's commercials on it. There's you know you know what they call stocks and bonds and stuff now? Securities. What is the what in the world? How secure is a stock? It's kind of ironic, actually, now that I'm thinking about it. The point is this. That security is found in Christ. And when we realize how secure we are in Christ, we are then ready to see how special that relationship is. And we can express that to somebody and they look at it and they go, you know, that's really special. I don't I don't have it. I've never had anything like that before. So the question I would have for you when it comes to your relationship with Christ, if you want to let me put it this way, if you want to measure your relationship with Christ Ask yourself the question. I need to ask myself this question every day. How secure are you in Christ? Now you are secure. Okay, that's not anything of you, but how how are you experiencing the security that Christ has given to you? Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Our Father, we recognize ourselves as Christ's sheep. In fact, we're thankful for it. We know that it had nothing to do with us at all It was not by any merits of our own. It was not by any merits of our own salvation. It was not by any merits of our own um somehow d working enough to gain favor with you. Dear Father, it is we know it's only by your grace c that comes through Christ. Lord, I pray that you would help us to live with this kind of security That would extend forth in this special relationship that would be able to be authentically described to others as Christ did in this passage. And Lord, we admit before you we fail to recognize the security that we have in Christ. We fail to do it, we fail to see it, we fail to feel it, we fail to experience it. And Father, we know it's there, but our desire, our prayer would be that we would experience it every day of our lives. So much of our diverted attention, so much of our distractions in life, so much of our ulterior pursuits, so much of our goals have ha have find their results or find their their their central issues in the fact that we are not experiencing the security in Christ that you want us to experience. There is a stability and a peace that passes all understanding When we have it. And I pray, Lord, that we would experience it as Christ is our good shepherd. May we be able to impact our world on that basis. Not on duty, but on delight. Not on a sense of obligation, but on love. And we love you because you first loved us. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.