Morning, John seventeen. And we are very slowly working our way through john Christ's high priestly prayer. And I hope that there is really an understanding of why we are slowing down here. There are some times when you are taking a trip somewhere and you are seeing the sights and taking in uh the various experiences and there's just some times where you need to stop and really observe certain things And that is the case when it comes to Christ's intercessory prayer in John 17. John 17, verse 17, Christ prays for the disciples' sanctification. He says, sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth. Then he says this with regard to our sanctification, verse 18. As thou hast sent me unto the world, even so have I also sent them into the world. And for their sakes, I sanctify myself, that they also might be sanctified through the truth. In verse 18, Christ explains that sanctification is for a purpose. That purpose That we find in this passage is the commissioning of his disciples that would ex that will extend to the commissioning of all disciples, all followers of Christ. He says that the same sending out that he was sent out with is the same sending out that he Desires to send out his disciples. And that is why they must be set apart. They must be set apart so that they can be sent out. And so what you have here is a prayer for the commissioning of the disciples, and really by extension, a commissioning of all of us. We would call this commissioning evangelism. And there are much there is much to say about evangelism in the New Testament, but I want to begin this way. There are some people that would go to one extreme within Chr Christianity or the other extreme when it comes to this concept of evangelism. One extreme would be to de-emphasize evangelism. Those who de-emphasize evangelism would suggest that there really is secondary, it is not primary, it is really not all that important. Uh it he they would even suggest that perhaps it is not God's primary uh role today in in saving souls, that certainly that is part of what he does, but it's sort of uh secondary rather rather than primary and that the primary way that we um bring souls to Christ is actually to raise families and that's how people are going to come to Christ as you raise uh your family in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. I would not at all diminish doing that, by the way. So those folks would tend to sort of deemphasize the value and the importance and the commissioning of our role as Christians to evangelize. There are is, however, another extreme that we often don't think of. And there are those who are preoccupied with evangelism. You say, what's wrong with being preoccupied with evangelism? Well, the problem with those who are preoccupied with evangelism is that sometimes it it occur It's emphasized to the near exclusion of everything else. Doesn't matter how I live my life. As long as I evangelize. Doesn't matter how I what my heart is like, as long as I tell other people about the gospel. Maybe they wouldn't say that, but in their actions and in their attitudes and in their approach, it seems to be that that is the case. Or perhaps the church. should compromise in its standards or in its ability to glorify God and its worship primarily for the purpose of evangeliz ev evangelization Because there is a preoccupation with evangelism to the near exclusion of everything else. And I would suggest to you that both extremes are wrong. But I would also point this out that as we look at our world, my own personal opinion as we We observe churches in America is that many are in either extreme. And evangelism seems to be suffering among churches in America to some degree. This problem has been, some have suggested a couple of different solutions. Some have said that what we need is more evangelistic training The problem is that we're not training people well enough, and so what we need is really evangelistic training. Others have suggested that what we need is a better administration. That we if we just had better administration of local truths, if we administrate things better, then evangelism would just sort of naturally occur And there are others that would suggest that what we need is more innovative programs and ministries. And if we have those, can you guys I think it's that's on the next slide. Can you guys go to the next slide? Go ahead and put all three of them up there. Okay? In a innovative more more ministries and programs. Uh but if we do that That will get us going in evangelism. So people have one program or one ministry. Or if we do this, then the church will evangelize. If we do that, then the church will evangelize. But would you notice what the Bible says here? What Christ prayed for is that people would be sanctified That his disciples, his followers, would be sanctified so that they can go out, that they can be sent out. In other words, Christ's approach might be different than what we often think. Some people think that we evangelize so that we can be sanctified. That if you're not growing in the Christian life, then what you need to go out and do is evangelize. And there might be some truth to that depending on your circumstances, but that isn't the main thrust of the New Testament. So we need to we need to understand this, and I think that this passage will really help us grasp what how evangelism How the gospel and the spread of the gospel is supposed to work through the local church, through our lives as individuals, how is this supposed to occur? And we need the Lord's help to do this. Let's go to Him in prayer. Father, we come to you and we ask, Lord, that you would help us as we look at the commissioning of the disciples and we make application to us as well. Help us to understand its context has to do with a prayer for sanctification. May we understand the real root problem if we are not evangelizing? Help us to understand what our role is and what our role is not. Would you help us to understand how we can better grow in our progressive sanctification? We are reminded in your word from last week that we are positionally set apart. But you are in the process of our practice matching our position. We do have a role to play And I pray that you'd help us to understand what that role is. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, we noted last week that sanctification was the setting apart from the world. and the setting apart for service to God. But that there are two, there are two aspects to sanctification. One is that, and the other is that we need to progress in our sanctification. You have a positional truth that once somebody comes to Christ, that they are saved to be sanctified, that they are set apart positionally. But that there is clearly in the New Testament a progressive sanctification of the internal working of God to purify those whom He has set apart. So that when we see Christ, our position our our our our our lifestyle our life matches our position. Last week we emphasized the working of God in our setting apart This week we are going to get very practical in understanding What our role is in our own progressive sanctification. Essentially, folks, we have no role when it comes to our positional sanctification. We are saved except trusting Him by faith, that's it. Then he sets us apart. It is all God's work. Actually, it's all of it's all God's work. But positional sanctification is all God's work, and he is entire it is all his role. But you and I, as Christians, do have a very important role to play in our personal progressive sanctification. And we need to understand what that role is. Would you notice a couple of things though in beginning in understanding this? Christ has said in verse 18. that he he makes the connection between the Father sending him out into the world and him sending the disciples and really eventually us into the world. John chapter 3, verse 16 is one verse that we all know, but verse 17 is one that we don't so much remember. Where it says, God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. There was a commissioning of the Son. There was ascending by the Father to the Son before the world began, that he would come into the world, and that the world through him might be saved. That salvation would be offered to all and applied to those who believe. This verse, this prayer reminds us of what Christ has already said in John chapter 13, verse 20. He said, most assuredly I say to you, he who receives whomever I send receives me. And he who receives me receives him who sent me. There is in God's divine plan this passing of the commission from God to his son, and to his son, from his son to his disciples. And really from his disciples or apostles to all of us who name the name of Christ. That is in God's divine plan. There is Embedded in this, the responsibility of all of us to pass that on to other people, that we are followers of Christ And we are to be in the we are to be fulfilling the responsibility of making disciples. Of course, Matthew chapter 28 tells us that in the Great Commission. That our role is to make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. This prayer also anticipates what Christ is going to say to them in John chapter 20, verse 21, in a couple of chapters. He's going to say Peace to you, as the Father has sent me, I also send you. So folks, what we see here is a clear Command and a clear plan of God to do that we are saved, we are sanctified for the purpose of ascending out That God in his kingdom work is sending people who will send people, who will send people. And the question that we should have on the table here is what role do we play in this whole role of sending? It's God who's done the sanctifying. It's Him that's done the sending Setting apart. But as we noted last week, we do have an important role to play. What is that role? And that is what we want to be occupied with this morning. What is our role in sanctification, and how does that result in evangelism? I want to say it very clearly that if we are if we are fulfilling our role in sanctification properly, then the result will be evangelism. Now let me mention what I mean by evangelism, so we're on the same page with that. The Bible is very clear that it is only God who can save a soul. It is only the Spirit of God that can draw a soul. It is not our responsibility to save anyone. But it is our responsibility to make disciples. That is to recognize the providential working in the life of someone and to be able to make contributions to people that are That God chooses and wants to save. Are we fulfilling that role? Are we fulfilling the simple command in Scripture to preach the gospel to all creatures Are we doing that? And if we are not doing it, why aren't we doing it? Martin Lloyd-Jones said this. There should be a kind of radiance about us and something emanating from us, which when people meet us, makes them say, What is in this man or woman What is this particular strange thing? When people are sanctified, they will act as evangelists. We ought never make a distinction or a partition between our sanctification and our evangelism. What we ought to do is realize that when we are fulfilling our role in sanctification, that evangelism is a natural fruit. It's a natural result. It will occur. And so the question that we ha- ought to have at this point is simply this. Is this happening in our lives? Now we know that it is God's role that He set us apart for His working, for His service. That's God's business. That's God's role. He did it. But we noted last week, and we're gonna look we're gonna turn there in a few moments what our role is, and we do have a role to play. But I just want us to pause for a minute and just have enough contemplation in our souls To ask the question, are we evangelizing the way that God intends for us to do it Are we sharing Christ with others? Are we living out Christ with others for others? Is God giving us opportunities and because of our sanctification, we're not recognizing them? Or maybe we're not following through on what we recognize. Are we fulfilling and if not, why not? Are we relying on some program or some organization or some other means for us to actually do what only a work of sanctification in our lives will do? The point I am simply making is this, that if we are not evangelizing, it means we are not, there's something wrong in our role of sanctification. And we need to evaluate what's happening in our sanctification that we do not evangelize, that we do not share the gospel, and we're not living out the gospel with others. The Bible even seems to presuppose that people will ask us a reason of the hope that is in us with meekness and fear. There seems to be an indication that that will happen. Is that happening? And if it's not happening, why isn't it happening And my point here is not to give us a guilt trip about that you need to go out and you need to grab the first guy that you meet and shove the gospel down his throat. That is not what I am suggesting at all, and that's not what I'm encouraging you to do Again, evangelism is a natural result. It's a byproduct of living out our sanctification. In the way that God intends. And if evangelism is not happening in our lives, we need to look and say, why not? And what we need to do is evaluate it in light of Scripture. And with that in mind, I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn to 2 Timothy 2. 2 Timothy chapter 2. We noted last week that in 2 Timothy chapter 2, we have a perfect illustration To tell us and explain to us our role in sanctification, and that is the illustration of a soldier A soldier of Jesus Christ. When we think of what our role is in sanctification, we ought to think of ourselves as a soldier in a battle for the cause of Christ. And we noted last week that if you those who are in war, they're in battle, they are very focused. They are undistracted. They are not caught up with the affairs of life. They have a mission. They have a goal. They have a purpose. And they are engaged in that purpose. They are single-minded and singularly focused. And our role in sanctification is to have that kind of mindset and that kind of thinking that will That will end up working out in our lives. That's why Paul says in the book of Philippians, chapter 2, verse 12. Therefore, my beloved brethren, as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. And I think most of you all are aware that I place high importance on the providence of God We um I believe strongly that God guides us through his providence, that he is working in the affairs of men in an intimate way. But that ought not ever get us to the place where we think that we do not have an important and practical role. He says not to work for our salvation. But there is a role for us to play in working out our salvation. The word work is there, and we actually are going to find in several places In the New Testament, where we have this idea of work. In fact, in Ephesians chapter 2, it says that we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works. And God has ordained that we should walk in them. Now With that in mind, and in that Ephesians chapter 2, it becomes it's very clear, you remember Ephesians chapter 2, verses 8 and 9, don't you? For by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works. That we should walk in them, that God foreordained that we should walk in them. Now, we need to understand That that's what God has created us for. He's created us for, let's put it this way, he has recreated us for good works. Now with that in mind, if you'll then uh look at uh 2 Timothy chapter 2, and what do you pick up here uh in um Verse 20. I want you to notice what it says here. But in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and of silver, but also of wood and of earth and of some to honor and some to dishonor. If a man therefore purge himself of these things, he shall be a vessel unto honor. What does it say there Sanctified and meet for the master's or useful for the master, meet or appropriate for the master's use. And prepared for what? Have we seen that before? Prepared for every good work. It is God's intention that He set us apart to be his workmanship, prepared for every good work. We have the same thing here. That God has made us that we are Doing our role of preparing. In other words, folks, sanctification has two sides. One side is God doing the preparatory work for our good works. We're his workmanship But our role is that we are involved in these good works. And in fact, what he says here is those who purge himself of these things. Well, what things is he talking about? Would you notice in the he uses this illustration of vessels of honor and vessels to dishonor? There are vessels, there are, let's put it this way, there are clay pots, we're all clay pots, right? It's a good way to look at ourselves. There are pots that are used for clean things in a household, and there are pots that are used for dirty things in a household. If you think of the dirtiest thing imaginable, they use a pot back then for that. If you think of the cleanest thing imaginable, like drinking water, they used a pot back then for that There are different kinds of pots. Pots are used for good things, pots are used for clean things, and pots are used for dirty things, but they're all used. Now, when we think in terms of Ephesians chapter 2, do you remember what it says in the earlier verses of Ephesians chapter 2 where it says That ye were once a certain thing, ye were the world, but now ye are So the so so what let me ask you this question. So does God use all things for his purposes? Does he use the world for his purposes? Does he use the unsaved for his purposes? Does he use the saved for his purposes? He certainly does. He uses all for his purposes But there are certain vessels of honor that have been designated for his certain kinds of purposes, and that's us folks. Those who know Christ as our Lord and Savior, those are set aside as vessels for honor. However, we have a role to play. He says, those who purge himself of filthiness. Those who purge himself of uncleanness, he is useful. The term usefulness then reminds us of what it says over in Matthew chapter 5. You remember what it says there about soul and light? It says that if in verse 16 of Matthew 5, that if salt loses its savor, wherewith shall it be salted? It is what? It is good for nothing. It is possible for salt to be salt, and yet for it to be good for nothing. There is, folks, my point is simply this. There is a role for us to play. It is is not it we cannot succumb to the idea That God is sovereign to the exclusion of our working. We have a role to play in Scripture. There's no question about it. So what is our role? And what we need to do then is we need to really ask the question what our role is in our sanctification. Do we have the mindset, the right mindset? And what we need to do then is look at the beginning stages of this in 2 Timothy 2 and ask ourselves the question. What is our role in sanctification? And I want to begin by pointing out, number one, that progressing in our sanctification means active involvement in discipleship through faithful communication of the gospel. Um if can you guys make that so they go up one at a time? Just pull the uh don't worry about them then. Just just I'll put them all up at the end. Just put them off at the end after I'm finished all four. Okay. Um active involvement in sanctification That's the role that we need, active involvement in discipleship through faithful communication of the gospel. The Bible tells us this in 2 Timothy chapter 2. He says, Thou therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. And the things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men, who shall be able to teach others also. So the first question I would simply ask is, are you actively involved in the discipleship of others? Are you actively involved? Now what he says here is this he says, what I have the message I've given to you. Among many witnesses, that message you need to take to other men who will then be able to take it to others. And folks, that message is the gospel. And it's important for us to understand that there is a it's not a passive role, it is an active role that you and I must purposefully play in the lives of others. That we ought to be making disciples. We ought to be giving the gospel and communicating the gospel, not only to those who don't know Christ, but to those who do know Christ. Because not only are we saved by the gospel, but we live by the gospel. And we have to have an active role. If we are not having that active, purposeful role, then we are not doing our role in sanctification. And we need to really question, ask ourselves that question. Number two Progressing in sanctification means faithfully enduring hardship. Faithfully enduring hardship. Would you notice what it says here in verse, uh in the next verse here, verse? 3. Thou therefore endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ No man that warreth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life, that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier. It says, and we need to endure hardness. When a soldier goes out on the field, is it not true that he is going to endure trials? He's going to endure hardness. He is not going to have an easy life, and he's not going to have an easy life. His purpose is not to have an easy life His purpose is not to have the lifestyle that he wants. His purpose is not to do what he wants to do and to be cozy and to be comfortable. He's on a mission and he is going to endure hardness. Do you and I have the same mindset? Or when we when it comes to hard times and trials and difficulties that we do not do not understand, we falter in our faith. We wonder what God is doing and why God is doing it. And we struggle and we falter. God says if we are playing our role in sanctification correctly, then we are going to endure hardness. Number three We are going to be careful about avoiding entanglements and distractions through normal affairs of life. He says, no man that warreth entangleth himself in the affairs of this life. Now, I want everybody to think for a moment here. If you look at your week last week, start with Monday. Everybody thinking about Monday? Just think about Monday. Okay, now move to Tuesday. You got your Tuesday? What was your Tuesday about? Now move to Wednesday. And Thursday and Friday. Say, this is this is what are you doing here? Just think about your week. Did you become entangled? Did you become entangled in the affairs of this life? You say, I don't know. What does that mean? I think there are two ways that we become entangled in the affairs of this life. Number one, so this is number one under number three. Number one. By pursuing things without pursuing God. If you are pursuing things without pursuing God, It's an ind indication that you are entangled in the affairs of life. In other words, God is not saying don't live normal life. But what God wants us to do is to pursue Him in that normal life, to make decisions based upon what would be for Him. To live with him in mind, to live aware of his presence. Did you last week get entangled in the affairs of this life? Number two, we when we enjoy things without enjoying them in God. So number one is when we pursue, the other is when we enjoy. Can we enjoy the normal things of life? Yes. Should we enjoy the normal things of life? Yes. But we do it with God in mind. We do it as coming from His hand, of having a grateful spirit and a thankful heart, as these things that God gives us benevolently come for Him. Can I do even non-sanctified, and I use that term in the not in the biblical sense, kinds of things and do them for God? Yes, you can. If you played basketball last week, you could do that for God, or you could do it for yourself. If you went to your job last week, if you cleaned, if you changed a diaper last week. If you did those things, you could do them for God, or you could do them for yourself. If you enjoyed a meal last week. Many of us enjoyed many of those. You could do it with enjoying what God gave you, or you could do it yourself. The question, folks, is have we become in are we entangled in the affairs of this life on a very daily basis? And the problem becomes is when we have a partition. between that which is sacred and that which is not sacred. When we have sort of our mindset that there is this there is this dis-there is no, there is like this distinction, okay, that's my compart that's my church compartment. That's my home compartment. That's my job compartment. That's my hobby compartment. When we have all of these various compartments in our lives. And they don't mix. We have a problem. Why? Because what the sanctification means, it means that I am completely set apart for God. All of it. Every part of my life is set apart for God. I'm not holding anything back. And we could say the words, but do we live the life? If you ask your wife or your husband honestly this week, what would they say you did? Would they say, yeah, he y you kinda got caught up in the affairs of this life. You got entangled. Would they say no, no, by his words and by his speech and what he did, he really did stay focused on the Lord as he did his tasks. Or how about your kids? You know, our kids are watching us. Our kids are watching as to whether or not we are really living for the furtherance of God's kingdom or we're just saying we are We can say it on Sunday, but throughout the week, are we really actually living it? No man de wareth entangleth himself in the affairs of this life. We must not have a distinction between those things. That is extremely important for us to understand. I like what was said by one camp director. There are only two choices on the shelf: pleasing God or pleasing self. What did you do this week? What did I do this week? Did I please God or did I please self? If, folks, we are pleasing ourselves on a day-to-day basis rather than pleasing God, then we are not fulfilling our role in our sanctification. Then I want us to notice number four. Progressing in sanctification means diligence. Hard work, diligence in interpreting and applying scriptural truth. He uses the illustration of a farmer. Do you see it there in verse 6? He says, the husbandman or the farmer, or the gardener, the farmer, that laboreth must be first partaker of the fruits. He is a laborer. Do you see your Christian life as labor? Maybe we need to. Maybe we need to. He says to labor. Notice what we are to labor in. We find that in verse 15. It says study or be diligent or work hard. The word study doesn't necessarily, it it works fine in this context as far as application, but the idea is be diligent. Some of your translations will say that. Be diligent or study to do what? To show thyself approved unto who? God, a workman. Have we seen that before? Ephesians chapter 2, where it were his workmanship. A workman that needeth not to be ashamed. How do we do it? We are going to what? Rightly divide With the word of truth. How did Christ say his disciples would be sanctified? By what? By the truth What is our role? Our role is to work hard, to be diligent at rightly dividing the word of truth, of understanding what God has to say, and not misunderstanding what God has to say. And applying it, of applying what God has to say, and not misapplying or choosing not to apply what God has to say. It is going, folks, it requires diligence on our part. It is like a soldier or a farmer. We've got to be diligent about this matter. That is our role. David Martin Lloyd Jones said this. This is incredible. He says, it is so plain and clear. And if only men and women would put all the energy that that that they are ready to put into organizations. and to seeking God and living in his presence and becoming truly sanctified, then revival would surely come at once. But we are willing to do anything rather than the thing that God puts first in the thing that we never mention sanctification. I'm going to read that once again and you can read along with me. It is so plain and clear And if only men and women would put all the energy that they are ready to put into organizations, into seeking God and living in his presence and becoming truly sanctified Then revival would come at once. But we are willing to do anything rather than this. The thing that God puts first is a thing we never mention. Sanctification. What would happen if all of us every day of our lives We're living out these principles, and we were fulfilling our role to God's expectation in our own sanctification. What would happen? You know what would happen? Others would come to Christ. I don't know the timing. I don't know how many. But others would come to Christ. I mean, just think about it practically. Are there people in your life that God has brought into your path? But for some reason or another Um you've you've been distracted by the affairs of life See, we have got to really do some old our own soul searching when it comes to these kinds of things. God tells us what our mindset is supposed to be. And God desires for us that his role for us, which is to be set apart for his service, That our role matches his role, and that we progress in our sanctification. And when this happens, God will use us for the discipleship of people. It will be his timing. You can't say, well, uh, you know, if this happens, then I'll have ten people that come to Christ this year. That would be wrong. Maybe you'll be ten people that come to Christ in your lifetime. But folks, the reality is it is it will there will be you will be making contributions In the discipleship of others, if you're following this passage and these four principles in your life. Now, we then come to this question. What is the motivation behind all this? And I want us to then turn back to John 17, and I want you to see this. This is absolutely incredible. John chapter seventeen and uh and would you pick up here in verse nineteen? He says, and for their sakes I sanctify, what does it say? Myself. For whose sake? For whose sake? Who is it that He sanctified us, that He sanctified Himself for? For these people, Lord Jones says this. Who are these people for whom he does it? Enemies of God And therefore enemies of Christ, self-willed creatures, people who listen to Satan rather than to God, people who deliberately believe the lies against God. People who have set themselves up and put their own wills and desires against the will of God. People who delight in evil. People who f Who are full of malice, envy, lust, and passion. You and I, as we were in sin and in evil as the result of the fall, that's who he died for. That's who he sanctified himself for. For their sakes, for people who were against him. When we were born, we were born enemies of God because of sin. And Christ set himself apart for us. To redeem us. What Christ is talking about here, this is hours before he goes on the cross, is of course, as he anticipates the death of Christ, the death of himself on the cross for us, he says, I sanctify myself. Now I want us to think about this for a few moments. Let's recall what sanctify means. Sanctify means to be set apart. Is sanctification complete or partial? It is complete. What does, think about this, what does Christ say here? He says, what? For themselves I what? I sanctify myself. For them I sanctify myself. Did you get do you think partially? Folks, let's grasp this. Before the foundation of the world, God knew within the Godhead that man would fail And that there wouldn't need to be the redemption of mankind to set apart certain ones for his service And Christ said before the foundation of the world, here am I, send me Do we understand this? Do we understand that the second person of the Trinity ever lives to make intercession for us? Do we understand this? Do we understand that Christ has set himself apart for us completely? You know, I think he has something better to do. But the second person of the Trinity, in the divine decree of God, set himself apart. to do whatever God wanted his father wanted him to do to secure the redemption of all of us so that we why so that we could be set up set apart so that we could be sanctified What wondrous love is this? What imaginable understanding is this? How can we ever grasp this? It is beyond our understanding why the second person of the Trinity would live for us. It's unimaginable. Why? I don't know Lord Jones says it this way: before the foundation of the world, the fall and the sin and shame were all foreseen. And what our Lord is really doing here is repeating, reminding God, as it were, that the eternal counsel he had turned to his father and said, Here am I, send me. I put myself entirely in your hands at your disposal. You can use me as you like for the redemption of this people. He sanctified himself. He devoted himself to this task. He leaves everything else and he executes everything, he excludes everything else. Christ did this for us. Folks, why then would it be nothing but reasonable that we would live for Him with all of ourselves And that's why in this passage we have these words, 2 Timothy 2. 11. It is a faithful saying, for if we be dead with him, we shall also live with him. When we think of what Christ of all of what Christ did in his choosing To live for us, to die for us, to intercede for us. Why? So that we could be set apart to glorify God for his purposes. It is incredible for us to think. And you know, if we would meditate on that a little bit If we would think about that the next time we want to live for ourselves, the next time we want to please ourselves, we want to do what we want to do rather than what God wants us to do, just think about the second person of the Trinity living for you. And for me, it's incredible. No wonder Paul said That we need to present our bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, and it's just reasonable that you do this. So we walk away with these things. Number one, our sanctification should result in evangelism. If not, why not? If it doesn't, why doesn't it? We we really need to do some good soul searching in our lives. going through second 2 Timothy chapter 2 and ask ourselves, what is tripping us up? Number two, we must strive for consistency because what we say are because between what we say our focuses and what it really is daily. Are we guilty of saying our focus is one thing and it's different daily? There ought to be consistency. There ought to be continuity in our lives between what we say is our focus and what really is our focus. When a soldier wakes up in the morning, he wakes up and he puts his clothes on. He wakes up and he goes and eats breakfast. He wakes up and perhaps he does his exercise morning exercises and calisthenics for the day or whatever. He does those things. And what does a civilian do? The same thing. He wakes he puts his clothes on and he eats breakfast. But they're doing it for two different reasons. The soldier is doing it to go to war. The soldier is preparing for battle. The civilian is doing it for himself. God says that you and I need to be as soldiers. Everything we do needs to be dedicated to him. It does not mean we don't enjoy life. We can enjoy the good things of life that God gives us, but we do it in Him from His benevolent hand. We must stand in profound awe that Jesus sanctified himself so that we could truly be sanctified. When we have that kind of understanding of what Christ did for us, it will propel us to fulfill our role in sanctification, which will propel us. Into service for him. A problem that we have in our sanctification results of our not understanding the awesome truth of the gospel and the person of Christ itself. Let's pray together. Our Father, we come to you and we admit before you we need you. We thank you that just two chapters prior to John 17, the command was clear to abide in Christ. For without without Christ we can do nothing I pray that you would help us to live as soldiers Help us not to be entangled with the affairs of this life. Help us to endure hardship. Help us to be diligent when it comes to your word. May we make disciples and be involved in the discipleship of others May we in our internal sanctification and our behavior match Our position so that we can be useful. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.