Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we come with grateful and thankful hearts this morning. We are so grateful for your goodness and your kindness. Father to us. We thank you for how you bless us each day, providing for our every need. And we are thankful, Lord, that you have loved us and given us your Son. that we may come before your throne and bring our praise and our worship and our request to you. And Father, this morning we're reminded of some who are not able to be here with us this morning. And Father, there are some in the hospital, some at home, some are not doing well. And we would ask God for mercy. We would ask for your blessing to be upon these folks, Lord, that they would be encouraged by your word and by your spirit. And we ask that you would be with the uh doctors and the nurses who are ministering to some and Lord all the situations that they have that Father you will give them accuracy as they diagnose and give them wisdom as they They prescribe uh some uh healing in some way, Lord. We ask that it would be your good hand upon them. We know that you are the great physician. And the healer. And so we ask, Father, that you would enable those who are not doing well to be able to withstand what they're going through, trusting you completely, Lord. And I pray that you will bless them and comfort them. And heal them, Lord. And we thank you this morning that we had the joy and the privilege to come before your throne and sing praises to your great name Father, we're so thankful and so grateful. And as we're coming up on this time when we are going to be celebrating the resurrection of Jesus Christ, our Savior. I pray you'll prepare our hearts, prepare our minds that we would be joyfully sharing with others this great love wherewith you have loved us and done what you have done at the cross on our behalf. And I pray as we hear your word this morning that you'll remove all the distractions from us, that we may be led by your Spirit, and to hear your word preached to us this morning. And Father, may we take that word and may we meditate upon it during the week and help us to think it through. Lord, and that we would desire to live our lives pleasing to you and obedient to your will. Help us to have the wisdom to apply what we learn. And we ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. We are going to be in John chapter nineteen, verses thirty-one through forty two. The Gospel of John 19, 31 through 42. Therefore, because it was the preparation day that the bodies should not remain on the cross on the Sabbath For that the Sabbath was a high day. The Jews asked Pilate that their legs might be broken. and that they might be taken away. Then the soldiers came and broke the legs of the first and of the other who was crucified with him. But when they came to Jesus and saw that he was already dead, they did not break his leg. But one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and immediately blood and water came out. And he who has seen has testified, and his testimony is true, and he knows that he is telling the truth, so that you may believe. For these things were done that the scriptures should be fulfilled. Not one of his bones shall be broken. And again, another scripture. They shall look on him on whom they have pierced. After this, Joseph of Arimathea being a disciple of Jesus, but secretly, for fear of the Jews, asked Pilate that he might be able to take away the body of Jesus. And Pilate gave him permission. So he came and took down the body of Jesus. And Nicodemus, who first came to Jesus by night, also came bringing mixtures of myrrh and aloes. About a hundred pounds Then they took the body of Jesus and bound it in strips of linen with spices as the custom of the Jews. is to bury. Now in the place where he was crucified, there was a garden, and in the garden a new tomb, in which no one had yet been laid. So there they laid Jesus because of the Jews' preparation day for the tomb was nearby. We are continuing um to look at the crucifixion, but We are on our way to the resurrection. Easter's coming up. We're on our way to the resurrection. We'll get back to Matthew on on Resurrection Sunday. Um but what I wanted to do was to look at the burial of Christ this morning. And I suspect that there have been very few people You've you've heard very few you probably heard lots of messages on the resurrection, fewer messages on the crucifixion, and even fewer messages on the burial of Christ. So when we think, when we say that we believe in the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ, are we just leaving the burial in because we want to get to the resurrection. I mean, it does it matter if if he was actually buried or not, that kind of a thing? We'll look at that this morning. John is writing here. He Uh the the burial is mentioned in all the accounts, but John details it out the most, and by burial I we're going to be looking at the after the death of Christ, directly after the death of Christ, through the time that he was that he was buried. John gives the most detail out of all of the Gospels, and John desires to signal To signal that Jesus really is the Lamb of God, the Savior who takes away the sin of the world. That's John's Desire is that as he wrote the book of John, that people would see that, that they would believe, that their their belief would be strengthened. by the signals that he's going to see in this passage. You know, signals are an interesting thing or a funny thing. In Maryland, Maryland drivers don't believe in them. Um I have you noticed that? I mean you know, like turn signals. I actually had to look it up to make sure it actually was a law. You know it is actually a law that you have to put your signal on when you change lanes. Uh people don't know that in Maryland and uh you have it all the time. In fact, usually what you get, I think some people know the law because they'll they'll they'll nose in the lane about halfway when the lane is like they're halfway through the cart, then they put their signal on Just to make sure there's you know not a cop behind 'em that's gonna pull them over or something. But of course I've never seen a cop pull over anybody because of uh uh uh uh not using their signal on a lane change. Anyway, you don't see that very often. I mean it it it's all the time. They don't know what it means. And if you put a signal on, they don't know what that means either. They're not going to let you in unless you have a big vehicle That is the answer by the way. When I got a suburban, was a big vehicle. Um I thought, boy, I'm never gonna get in anywhere. Actually with a big they're afraid of big vehic vehicles, just so you know. You put a signal on on a big vehicle and they move out of the way. So if you want to solve this problem, get a big vehicle, big black vehicle like my suburban was or my truck is now, and you put the blinker on and everybody just scatters And so anyway, says signal, they don't understand signals. Signals are something that are very, very helpful. They're very important. And John is going to give us some signals here. that really show us that Jesus is the Lamb of God that takes away the sin of the world. John is dealing with several different concerns uh based upon the time period in which he wrote toward the the the latter part of the first century. There were some heresies, for example, that came up. One heresy was sort of a pre-Gnostic heresy. uh that came up where they basically were questioning the deity of Christ. They they said uh you know they their the the Gnostic belief was that all things physical or bad and all things spiritual or good. Well what do you do with Jesus who is both physical and spiritual? Unless you say, well only the spiritual part of Jesus is God and the physical part of the is not. Um and so the deity of qu Christ or the humanity of Christ or both were qu questioned during that time. The resurrection had many witnesses, but there were some people that questioned whether Jesus really died or not. Maybe he just kind of passed out on the cross. And you read John's account, and there's no way that that happened. And we're going to see that in this. We're going to see signals of that in this account as well. John s really his desire that we're going to see as well is that he is testifying as an eyewitness. He was the only eyewitness of the apostles that was there at the cross. He had the closest, very likely the close relationship ship to Jesus. And so he was there and he witnessed the entire thing. And so he can testify in a way even that the others cannot. In fact, if you recall from last week, we learned that all the Gospels were written before John. John was the final gospel to be written. And John, there is a lot of unique material in John because John realized there were some things that really needed to be disclosed, really needed to be told that hadn't yet been told from the other Gospels. And so John is dealing with all this and wanting people to grasp what really happened, to verify the burial of Christ. so that people will to testify of what occurred so that people would truly believe. In fact, in the passage it says, so that you may believe. John's entire purpose in writing this is so that you may believe in the burial Of course, the death, the burial, and the resurrection of Christ. So how does how does this passage strengthen our belief in Christ. We're going to see three things. One, by identifying the unmistakable cleansing work of Christ. We're going to see that in verses thirty Then we're going to see by uh how's he going to do this? By connecting scriptural truth to reality. Connect historical prophecy, scriptural truth to reality, which we need to do as well. And finally, by elevating the priority of Christ in verses 38 through 40. forty two, elevating the priority of Christ. We're going to look first at at John's desire to identify the unmistakable cleansing of the work of Christ. Verse 31 says, Therefore, because it was preparation day, that the body should not remain on the cross on the Sabbath. For the Sabbath was the high day. The Jews asked Pilate that their legs might be broken, that they might be taken away. The soldiers came and broke the legs of the first, and of the other who was crucified with them with him. When they had came they came to Jesus and saw that he was already dead, they did not break his legs. But one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and immediately blood and water came out. So you have, it is the day before the Sabbath. That's Friday. Jesus has died. He has died now. You see the previous verse before, verse 30. It is finished. He has died, and he has died on a Friday. By the way, that is an interesting debate that you see from time to time on when Jesus Jesus died. Um I think it's pretty obvious here actually uh that he died on a Friday and you have the Sabbath being the next day. The High Sabbath was simply a Sabbath that it fell on a feast day, and of course we know Passover was on a feast day. So that's what the what the High Sabbath is. Seems very up uh very straightforward that that was what occurred. In fact that is Why you have um why you have them wanting to speed the process of crucifixion up by breaking the legs of these crucifix of these men that are on the cross so that they could finish this up before the Sabbath began. Now the controversy, and I'm not going to get into this, this is not the main part of the message, but I'll just sort of make mention this. There there seems to be controversy about this as far as whether he was Christ died on a Wednesday or a Thursday or a Friday. And there is debate about it. It is not a major point of doctrine for sure. Some would suggest that the reason uh that it's not Friday is because it says in Matthew, I think it's chapter 13, we went went over this back when we we studied it, um, that it says it makes an analogy to To Jonah being in the belly of the whale three days and three nights. And then it says Jesus will be resurrected then. But we noted then that it does because we're talking about an illustration or a type in the Old Testament, it doesn't have to be a one-to-one proportionate three days and three nights in that passage. We see here clearly that it is, it does very much appear to be on Friday because the Sabbath is coming on Saturday. And I think perhaps one of the so that Paul is right when he says in 1 Corinthians that Jesus rose from the grave on the third day. It was on the third day, 1 Corinthians 15. three and four. So so fry uh in in Jewish thinking you have every day is uh every part of a day is considered a whole day. So if Jesus died before dusk on Friday, that would be one day, Saturday being the second day, and he rose from the grave the third day, which is on Sunday. And so you'd have he would rise on the third day. being three partial days, which in the Jewish mind would be three three days. And that's the that is generally how church history has seen this, I think I I I think that there are some that wanted to make it a different day because the Roman Catholics say it's on a Friday. Well, I'm not Roman Catholic. In fact I'm proving that today because I'm wearing orange. You guys are wearing green. Didn't you know that that non-Roman Catholics wear orange on on uh uh some of you y like you got like all these green Green par uh Catholic people. I didn't know our church was full of a bunch of uh Catholic people on uh St. Patrick's Day. Next time you might want to wear orange. One of you is wearing both and you're just confused. Um So so all I have to say is I'm proving I'm not Roman Catholic because I've got an orange tie and uh and I don't know the rest of you, but I do think the Roman Catholics happen to get this particular thing right that Jesus Jesus died on a Friday. That doesn't make me Roman Catholic. It just means that they're right on this. And uh and I guess maybe that's part of the impulse of trying to find another day. I I don't know. But anyway, here's here's the only thing I would say that's kind of sad about this What's sad about it is we can't figure out the right day and so it's like it's just swept over and we don't really think about it much. gone over the death of Christ for several weeks now because I figured, well, we'll just do it on Sunday. Well let me just encourage you celebrate the death of Christ on Friday this year. Um it's it's even if it maybe we're gonna get to heaven and realize I'm wrong and and it and it's not on Friday, it's Thursday or something like that. Look, celebrating the death of Christ, getting together to worship Christ and thinking through what Christ did for us is such a helpful thing And so important and uh and so I would encourage you to not let to not get hung up on what day it is And just be thankful and celebrate the death of Christ, and then we can celebrate the resurrection of Christ as well. So uh we see here that the normal custom of the the uh of the Romans when they executed people on the crucifi uh during crucifixion was that th it would last days, very fran uh usually, maybe three days or more, the crucifixion would go that long. uh they had these wooden uh seats that they would that were attached to the middle of the cross that they would be able to lift themselves up on in order to gras gasp you know, get more air, which would actually lengthen their torture. It was a horrific kind of torture that this cross execution was. And but there was this Old Testament issue, law actually, in Deuteronomy 21, it says verse verse twenty three his body shall not remain overnight on the tree, but you shall surely bury him that day, so that you do not defile the land which the Lord your God is giving you as inheritance, for he who hanged is a curse of God. So the thought was among the religious leaders and why they asked Pilate to uh to speed this execu execution up um was because It would defile the land if Jesus and the others were left on the cross during the Sabbath day. And so uh the the soldiers proceeded to break the to break the the legs of these of these uh people that were up on the cross. Probably they started from the outside and worked their way in, but when they came to Christ they realized, of course, that He was already dead. There was really no reason to break his legs which caused as asphyxi uh asphyxiation uh because he was already dead and but one of the uh one of the um soldiers, they took a spear and they thrust it into his side, and it says in the passage that water and blood came out. Very likely what it's talking about there is that it um It pierced the pericardial sac. That's the there's this lining around the heart and there is liquid between the heart and that lining. and the pericardial sac was pierced, which then does imply that the heart itself was actually pierced through with this So just to make sure that he was actually dead, this occurred. And so not only blood, but also what they said is water, which was a kind, you know or the the pericardiocardial fluid came out of him. What's the point? Well one point is very clear. There's no way this that Jesus was alive after that. He absolutely was dead. There is no question about it. Of course, we don't need that to verify. Jesus said it was finished He gave up the spirit. The word of God says that, but this occurred. John as an eyewitness is seeing this, and there is no question that Jesus actually died on that cross physically. There's uh and he Mentions this at least for that reason. But are there other reasons? We just sang a hymn. Did you notice the first verse of that hymn? Let me read it to you. Rock of Ages, cleft for me Let me hide myself in thee. Let the water and the blood from thy ribbon side which flow. That's exactly what he's Definitely referring to Jesus as the water came out of his side. Be of sin a double cure. Cleanse me from its guilt and power. Did John write this in order that we would think about this what this the Rock of Ages writer mentions? Well, we do know, according to 1 Corinthians chapter 10 and verses 1 through 4, we do know that that rock in the Old Testament That Moses struck was intended to be a type of Christ. First Corinthians chapter 10 says it this way. Moreover, brethren, I do not want you to be unaware that all the fathers were under the cloud, all passed through the sea. All were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea. All ate the same spiritual fruit, and all drank the same spiritual drink, for they drank of the spiritual rock that followed them. And that rock was Jesus, was Christ. And so that was intended, that water that came out of the out of the sp of the rock that Moses uh spoke to, there's a couple times there, spoke spoke to, and then he struck it when he shouldn't have, that kind of thing, all that. That was to be a type of Christ. So is this talking about that? Well, I don't the the the text doesn't actually say that. John doesn't make that exact connection It's possible. I think it's quite possible that that's what he's talking about. Here's what I would say. What John does want to highlight is that Christ truly did die. And that his blood was shed on the cross for us. The shed blood of Christ is absolutely necessary for the cleansing of our sin. We know this is something that John emphasized because we find it in 1 John 1, verse 7. It says, But we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, Cleanses us from all sin. John wants us to understand that it is the shed blood of Christ that cleanses us from his from all sin. It's why Fanny Crosby could say, Jesus, keep me near the cross, there a precious fountain, free to all, a healing stream, flows from Calvary's mountain. I think it's appropriate as we as as we have been going through the the death of Christ to really note the the significance of the shed blood of Christ. Would you take your Bibles and turn to Hebrews chapter 9 for a few minutes? minutes. Hebrews chapter nine. As you're turning there, I want to read to you Exodus twenty four, which Notes that Moses sprinkled the blood, verse 8 of that chapter, sprinkled it on the people, and said, This is the blood of the covenant. which the Lord has made with you according to all these words. And in Isaiah, we actually have a prophecy that Jesus would sprinkle many nations, verse 15. Kings should shut their mouths at him, for what had done uh what had not been told them they shall see, and what they had not heard they shall consider. So it says that Jesus is doing it is prophesied to do the the same thing, that cleansing power. But it really is Hebrews chapter 9 that's going to really help us the significance of all this. Before we get into that passage for a few minutes here, I want to say this about it. It's really helpful to think back to, okay, why, what is the significance of the shed blood of Christ? What is the significance even of the death of Christ? What's going on here? So if we think all of the way back to Genesis, The first man and the first woman are created. They are created in the very presence of God. There's no question about that in that passage. And the presence of God is compromised because of their sin. Think of it this way: a fish is created in water. You take a fish out of water, what does it do? It dies. You take a human out of the presence of God, what does it do? It dies. It dies spiritually. Now, the presence of God becomes a major theme throughout Scripture, part of the redemptive theme of Scripture. If you think of the tabernacle later on, much later on, you have Moses and Jesus and God sets up with Moses the ceremonial system, the tabernacle. What is in that holy of holies? It is the presence of God. In the midst of Israel, in the midst of the twelve tribes of Israel You have the presence of God. What's going on there? God has made of Himself a nation, Israel, and in the midst of that nation it will be His chosen people, and the presence of God will reside in the midst. which is why you have all of these sacrifices, the blood being shed, the blood being offered, to maintain the cleansing work so that the presence of God can remain in their midst. But it was a temporary cleansing. That's all it was. So that the presence of God could remain there. Except it also did picture the eternal work that Christ would do when he came on the cross. And that's where we pick up here in verse 11 of Hebrews chapter 9. Hebrews 9, verse 11 says, But Christ came as high priest of the good things to come, with the greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands. That is not of this creation, not with the blood of goats and calves, but with his own blood he entered the holy place once for all, having obtained eternal redemption. So we have eternal redemption now claimed because of the blood of Christ. Verse 13: For if the blood of bulls and goats and ashes is of a heifer sprinkled the unclean, sanctifies for the purifying of the flesh, how much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit offered himself without spot to God, cleanse your conscience from dead works to serve the living God. So, what does the blood of Christ do? The blood of Christ offers a payment in the tabernacle, the spiritual tabernacle, not made with hands, the presence of God in heaven. So that we can then come into the presence of God. In fact, the Holy Spirit comes to live inside of us because of what Christ has done for us when we know Him, when we when we trust Him as as our Savior. Now, just to remind us of all of this, there's a lot here that I could go over, but I want you to see verse 23. Skip down to verse 23. Actually, I'm sorry. Go back to verse 15 for a minute. Notice what it says here. And for this reason, he is the mediator of the new covenant. by means of death for the redemption of the transgressions under the first covenant, that those who are called may receive the promise of the eternal inheritance. In other words, there's this physical inheritance of the with the first covenant, but you have now an eternal inheritance with Christ. Verse 23. Therefore it was necessary that the copies of the things in heavens in the heavens, should be purified with these, the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these. For Christ has not entered the holy places made with hands, which are copies of the true, but into heaven itself. Now to appear in what? In the presence of God for us. Why? So that we may one day be able to again be in the presence of God. That is the significance of the blood of Christ. In other words, the blood of Christ cleanses us from all sin, as Scripture says, it signals the payment has been made. for us to be able to have eternal life. 1 Peter 1 verse 18 says this, knowing that you were re not redeemed with corruptible things like silver and gold. from your aimless conduct received by tradition from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ as a lamb without blemish and without spot. That's why the hymn could say, He breaks the power of reigning sin, he sets the prisoner free, his blood can make the fowlest clean, his blood availed for me. Ephesians 2 verse 13 says this, but now in Christ Jesus, you once were far off, have been brought near by the blood of Christ. The blood of Christ brings us near to Christ in the presence of God because of the sacrifice that Christ has made for us. It is an eternal cleansing. It's of no merit of our own. It is entirely upon the merits of Christ alone John doesn't just want to verify to verify the cleansing work of Christ. He also wants to connect spiritual truth to reality. And we pick up in verses 35 through 37. We'll see this. It says, and he who has seen has testified. John is talking to hims uh talking about himself. He does this throughout his his gospel. He doesn't refer to himself in the first person, and he doesn't ever name himself. He'll say the disciple whom Jesus Jesus loved, or he'll just say the disciple or whatever. He's referring to himself as one who has seen, and his testimony is true. Again, he's referring to himself in the third person. That was, by the way, a common way of writing back in the first century. And he knows that he is telling the truth so that you may believe. This is John who is testifying of what has happened. John places a very high value on actually seeing and testifying and experiencing. John sees himself as that disciple, that apostle, who is able to to express an eyewitness account and is able to testify of these things. He has seen them. He has experienced them. And he desires for his audience to experience Christ as well. In John chapter 1, back at the first chapter of John, verse 14, it says, And the word became flesh and dwelt among us. And we did what? We beheld, he's talking about himself and some of the apostles, we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. Now, most directly, he is very likely referring there in John chapter 1 to the transfiguration. You'll remember that Peter, James, and John witness the transfiguration But he, John is very occupied with the exaltation of Christ being the cross and him being glorified. In fact, he quotes Christ as saying this. In John 12, 23, the hour has come that the Son of Man shall be glorified. And of course, there he is talking about his death. You remember from last week, you've got this description of Jesus in the center of two thieves that are on either side. The exaltation of Christ, the glorification of Christ, if you will, is John is seeing on the cross. Of course, not the ascension and the actual changing of the glorified body yet, but In John's mind, this is the time to glorify Jesus for what he has done as he is up on that cross. In John 21, he is going to say again, this is the disciple who testifies of these things. and wrote these things that we know that his testimony is true. He is verifying, it's like he's writing his signature. These things are true. Now why is he why is he so intent on this He's going to say, he's going to make this connection, which of course God is making here, because it's in Scripture, between the Old Testament prophecy and what he is saying here. You have In verse 36 it says, For these things were done. Why were they done? That the Scripture should be fulfilled. Not one of his bones shall be broken. Now remember we already said. John's desire is to demonstrate that Jesus is that Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. In the Old Testament, you have a uh um uh a mandate, command, that a lamb, a sacrificial lamb, could not have his legs broken. In Exodus chapter 12, verse 46, it says, In one house it shall be eaten, and you shall not carry in in the flesh about outside the house, nor shall you break one of his bones, talking one of its bones. Talking about the sacrificial lamb during the sacrificial system. In Numbers 9, 12 it says that they shall leave none of it until morning, nor break one of its bones according to the ordinances of the Passover they shall keep it. So the Old Testament, the Jewish people would have known that the Jew that the lamb, a true lamb, a true sacrificial lamb, could not have its bones broken. And so John points out that Jesus' bones were not broken. In fact, it looks like the the um Roman guards may have actually disobeyed an order in order to do this, or they just saw it as totally unnee unnecessary. But either way, God and his sovereignty Allowed these men to not break the bones of Jesus so that the prophecy could be fulfilled and he could be identified as that precious lamb. First Peter one nineteen, for the but with the precious blood of Christ as a lamb, without blemish and without spot Secondly, it says they verse 37, and again, another scripture says they shall look on him whom they pierced. So you have this piercing. And this is a prophecy that's fulfilled by uh the prophecies from uh Zechariah 1210. And I will pour on the house of David and on the inhabitants of Jerusalem the spirit of grace and supplication, then they will look on me, whom they pierced. Yes, they will mourn and for him as one mourns for his only son, and grieve for him. As one grieves for a firstborn. So the prophecy is of the Son of God, Jesus, who would be pierced, and the piercing rather than the breaking of bones fulfilled this prophecy. John's concerned about this. He wants them to understand this. That he is the sheep and the lamb as well and the shepherd as well. John 10, 11, I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd gives his life for you. And actually in Zechariah 12 talks about a shepherd as well. Now what are the what how do we apply all this? Understand that John's point is that he wants us by understanding all this and really he's ver he's making this connection between Old Testament prophecy and reality. He's connecting true reality. You've got an actual piercing of a of a spear in the side of Jesus. You actually have him not breaking bones. Why is that important? It's important because we have this tendency, human beings have this tendency To sort of compartmentalize religion from reality. To compartmentalize these things. So somehow say you've got religion on this side and that doesn't have a strong or clear connection to reality. In John's mind they're one and the same. This is why he said in 1 John chapter 1, verse 1, that which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon. And our hands have handled concerning the word of life. The life was manifested, and we have seen, and bear witness, and declare to you that eternal life which was from the Father and was manifested to us, that which we have seen and heard, we declare to you You also may have fellowship with us, and truly our fellowship is with the Father and with the Son, Jesus Christ. We've experienced it, we've seen it, we've heard it, and we want you to experience it. We want you to experience Jesus. This is not just empty religion. This is not just ritual. It's not just a set of beliefs that hopefully help me have some sort of anchored life or live a better life. This is life eternal in John's mind. Think of uh the mainline denomination churches that have gone by the wayside, many of them, because they no longer They they no longer preach the true gospel message of Christ. They got sidetracked in social causes or other things, which social causes aren't bad, but they got sidetracked in those things. And oftentimes In various mainline denomination churches, what you have is this disconnect between religion and life Can we are we guilty of that? Are we guilty of sort of saying, okay, I've got my church life over here and my other life over here and I don't want them mixing Are we guilty of saying, well, I could believe this? I mean we have politicians doing this I'm not going to name any names, but we have politicians saying, well, you know, I don't believe in abortion religiously, but I'm pro-abortion politically. There's a total disconnect. Folks, that, and I'm not trying to get off on politics. That's not the point. My point is simply this: that as true disciples of Christ, as true Christians, We experience who Jesus is. We experience fellowship with God. We experience intimacy with Him. We experience His presence. We know His Word and delight in it and desire it. We it's not that that my faith is over here and my life is over here. No, they are commingled together. And faith without reality is fantasy. Otherwise, you don't have true faith. In John's mind, faith, if you're going to experience Christ, you must truly have faith. And that is why he has written this. And what we're going to actually see is we're going to see two very unlikely converts. that are going to sudden suddenly come out of the woodwork here, and they are going to take on responsibility for burying Christ. You notice in verses 38 through 42 what occurs here. 38 through 42. But secretly For fear of the Jews, asked Pilate that he might take away the blood of Jesus. And Pilate gave him permission. For he came and took the body of Jesus And Nicodemus, who first came to Jesus by night, also came bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes about a hundred pounds. Then they took the body of Jesus and bowed it in strips of linen with the spices as the custom of the Jews is to bury Now in the place where he was crucified, there was a garden, and in the garden a new tomb, in that which no one had yet been laid. So there they laid Jesus because of the Jews' preparation day for the tomb was nearby. So you have this man, Joseph of Arimathea. Now, Joseph of Arimathea is actually mentioned in all four Gospels, but we're going to see something that's actually different about what what uh or added, I should say, about what John says about him. But let's first think about who this man is. Who is this Joseph of Arimathea? Well, he is a member of the Sanhedrin. He is a Jewish leader himself. He is a religious leader. And we see from the text in verse 38 that he is a disciple. He's a follower of Jesus. But John adds something here. The other gospels don't tell us this, but John says, but secretly for fear of the Jews. Secretly for and when it says Jews, when John says the Jews, he's really talking about the religious leaders, the Jewish leaders. secretly for fear of the Jewish leaders. In other words, he is a religious leader. He's a member of the Sanhedrin. Yet he is a secret follower of Jesus because he is afraid of the Sanhedrin and what they may do. Well, in one sense, for good reason. I mean, you have uh you have some some things going on that John actually points out in his gospel. For example In John chapter 9, verse 22, it says, His parents said these things because they feared the Jews, for the Jews, the Jewish leaders, had agreed already that if anyone confessed that he was Christ, he would be put out of the synagogue. The Jewish leaders were literally putting people out of synagogues who confessed that Jesus was the Messiah. In John 12, verse 42, it says, Nevertheless, even among the rulers, many believed in him. John says there were actually quite a few Jewish rulers who believed in him, but because of the Pharisees, they did not confess him. lest they should be put out of the synagogue. So apparently you have some that are really, they're putting, you know, they're putting two together, two and two together. Joseph being one of them, Joseph of Arimathea. And they're realizing that actually he is the fulfillment of all these Old Testament prophecies. He is the true Messiah. What he is saying is true. His miracles are authentic. We are seeing this. And that's the case when it comes to this man, Joseph Veramathea. In fact, in Mark's gospel, it says that Joseph Arimathea was a prominent council member who was himself waiting for the kingdom of God coming And taking uh and then it says he decided to take courage. So you have John on one hand saying he was secret for a while, but now he's he's gaining courage to now get involved in the situation. Luke gives us a little bit more detail as to this man, Joseph of Arimathea. It says in verse 51 of Luke 23 that this man did not consent to the decision and the deed. They when all the Sanhedrin voted to condemn Jesus to death, he did not consent. He was one of the ones who dissented to that vote. Now that's interesting So at that point, they knew that he was not with them. Joseph was not. So this man, Joseph of Arimathea, comes to Pilate. Now, understand kind of some things of what's going on here. The Romans would their they would usually, under certain executions and certain situations, they would have returned the person who died back to the family to the next of kin. But not if they were accused of treason. And that was what Jesus was formally accused of. He was accused of treason. And when that happened, they actually did nothing with the body. In fact, they would allow scavengers to come and just to deal with it, dogs and vultures. would come and deal with it as a further as a further embarrassment and a and a further example of what not to do against the Roman Empire in try and committing treason. So it's isn't amazing though that you know trying to trying to the resurrection occurring under those kinds of circumstances is hard to imagine. And so in God's sovereignty He, this man, Joseph of Arimathea, had the clout and the ability as a religious leader to go to Pilate And to appeal to Pilate that he could take responsibility of the body. In Mark 15, when he did this, it says that Pilate marveled that he was already dead. And some of the centurion he asked him if he had been dead for some time. Pilate was amazed by this. Why? Because crucifixions usually took several days, and Jesus was already dead. And then we f we have some details of the burial in Luke 2353, where it says, then he took uh he took it down, wrapped it The body wrapped it in linen and laid it in the tomb that was hewn out of the rock where no one had ever lain before That's an important point that we're going to mention it later on as well. That day was the preparation of the Sabbath, uh the Sabbath drew near, a stone against the door of the tomb. But not only Joseph, you have another man that we we know of, and and he was a religious leader as well. And he came to Jesus by night because he was afraid of religious leaders as well. And that man's name is Nicodemus. You'll remember Nicodemus. And Nicodemus in John chapter 3 goes to Jesus and asks Jesus how he can have eternal life, and Jesus explains, you must be born again. or you cannot see the kingdom of God. So he understands this. Uh uh and and and and what we then would assume is that although it's not clear in in John 3 that he turns to Christ, obviously at this point we see that he does. So Nicodemus comes out of the woodwork as well. And he uh and he brings a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about a hundred pounds. Well, the the text says 100 pounds. It was probably actually more like 70 pounds. The word pound is uh uh the the the word lit litree which is probably seventy five pounds or so. But anyway, a lot, a lot of a lot of um of spices and And that kind of thing. Why? For obvious reasons, so that the body would be preserved. This was a custom. I could go into details of that, but for like for The message we find in verse 40 of this passage, then they took the body of Jesus and bound it in strips of linen with the spices, as the custom of the Jews is to bury And then we find the burial place in verse 41. And the thing to really note, it was in a garden, but the thing to really note is that this this John also mentions that no one had yet been laid in the tomb. I think that's significant that both Matthew, or or Luke rather, Luke and John both mention that. Why? Because he doesn't there shouldn't be any confusion. The bear who was buried in that tomb? Only one person was buried in that tomb. There wasn't anybody previously buried in that tomb. Jesus was buried in that tomb. There was only one person buried, and when it was empty, there was only one it was emptied by because Jesus had left the tomb. It was clear and simple and straightforward, and they're making that point. That's why very likely why the detail is in there And it says that it was close by. Why? Because they had to get it get the the the uh uh the body buried before the Sabbath started. And so it was close by the crucifixion and uh the the the Golgotha, that area, and uh so they were able to bury him. Now, here's the question I want to ask. Why is it that Joseph and Nicodemus are in hiding for so long? And then they come out of hiding. I mean, I suspect I don't know this, but I suspect that John and the other apostles, maybe this is why John mentions it, but I suspect that they, you know, they would have conceived them as cowards, uh, anybody that was not open about their faith at that point. And truly it says they feared. So I don't think this is a good thing that Joseph and Nicodemus waited so long to actually declare their allegiance to Christ. But on the other hand, in God's sovereignty, here's what we do know. When the rubber met the road, when it came time to vote, Or when it came time to take responsibility to do something that arguably nobody else could have done. They stepped up. And Luke says they showed courage. I think there's something there for us, just by way of application. We are living in a society, folks, at this point in the United States where being a Christian is not something that is particularly viewed as favorable anymore. And we should have the courage to be able to stand with Christ. Is there Are there times where it would be wiser or prudent to be able to not be real open about our faith and in other times where it would? That's an arguable point. But here's what I will say. Throughout church history, what we have found in church history is that at some point the culture, because it is inherently sinful, because At some point, the culture does turn against Christianity. And the question is, what will we do during that time? Will we align ourselves with Christ? Or will we, or will we not? You know, we're celebrating St. Patrick's today, sort of. And you think of those during the Protestant Reformation who died for their faith, who died, the Roman Catholic Church called them heretics. And uh and the issue was salvation by gra by grace through faith alone. They were ones who stood up for what they believed. They stood up for what was right. There was no way getting around it. How about you and me? Are we willing, when the time comes that the culture turns against us, are we willing to stand with Christ or are we going to just fade into the culture. Joseph and Nicodemus were examples of people that ultimately did have the courage. to do what was right, to say what needed to be said, to take responsibility in order to see that this body of Christ was buried. was literally buried so that he could literally be rise from the grave the third day. So with all of that in mind, we have three things just to remember as we close. Number one, the undeniable shed blood of Christ guarantees Our cleansing and makes us able to stand in the presence of God. The shed blood of Christ guarantees that for us. Number two. This is a question. Do you compartmentalize your faith from reality, or is your faith reality? Do you compartmentalize your faith from reality, or is your faith reality? It actually is, you'll know by what you do. James said, Show me your faith without your works, I'll show you my faith by my works. Now works is not faith. Works though is a fruit of faith. How you live will demonstrate whether your faith, you're compartmentalizing your faith from reality, which isn't real faith. It's not saving faith. It's not faith and script, it's not scriptural faith that John is talking about. Or if your faith really is reality. Number three, have you truly been converted by Christ? Is your allegiance to further of the furtherance of God's kingdom? Where is our allegiance? It's our allegiance to the culture, to the to our own status, our own money, our own protection our own well-being, or is our allegiance also for the furtherance of the kingdom of God? Aren't you glad that Jesus died and was literally buried, and he literally rose from the grave the third day? Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and praise you because you are a great God. And Lord, I think it's possible. It certainly is possible. That there is somebody here today that they've had some semblance of faith, but they've never had saving faith because their faith has been separate from reality. Lord, I pray today you'd help them to understand their own sin, their need of a savior. And that they would today believe in Jesus so that they can have a true, present, real relationship with Christ. For those of us who know you, Lord, I pray that this would remind us and encourage us and challenge us about just how true Your word is, and the truth of the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. It is without question the foundation of our faith. Without it, we have nothing. So we thank you for the sacrifice that Christ made for us, paying the punishment for our sin and dying for us. us in our place. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.