Tonight we're going to be in the book of Joshua, and I know that we're all familiar with the book of Joshua. And when you think of Joshua, there should be something that comes to your mind right away And what comes to your mind when you think of Joshua? That was Jericho, yes. Yes What about his calling into leadership? Something come to your mind there. I've been in this verse and I know most of you probably have. Yes. Right at the end of his life, choose this day who you will serve. And as for me and my house we will serve the Lord. And uh I love it. It was one of my favorite verses. But as we think about Joshua, and uh I like I say we've all been in this book. Uh I go in it a lot because of my uh situation with uh being uh in the position I am at work and keeping myself uh where I need to be as a uh leader and uh I find myself a lot of times falling short and I always come back here Because we find out here in Joshua about the story of Joshua. One of the things that always stood out to me was God told Joshua to be strong and of a good courage. Be strong and courageous. And he could not be strong and courageous without some other things that were coming. And so we're going to be looking at that tonight. But before we get into this, Joshua's calling was to lead the nation of Israel into the promised land and conquer it and divide it amongst them. And now, I don't know about you, but when I think about two and a half million or two plus million people that you're going to lead in to a land that you've uh uh been promised by God now and you're gonna go in and you're gonna conquer this land. So that means you gotta wipe out all the other nations that are in And a lot of them had walled cities and all this. And I think in my thoughts that God used that term be strong and courageous several times to him Because the job was not going to be easy. First of all, you're leading two plus million people who grumbled with Moses, they'll probably grumble with Joshua. But not only that, but you're going in to bring judgment upon this. land. And so you gotta do it the way God says to do it. You can't just go in there and do it haphazard. And we find that uh they didn't get everybody out of the land which caused consequences But to get us into this, I want to read the uh first chapter. If you would read along in J uh Joshua chapter one. I'm gonna read the whole chapter and then we'll come back and uh Divide it up. Joshua chapter one. Now after the death of Moses, the servant of the Lord, it came to pass that the Lord spake unto Joshua the son of Nun, Moses' minister. Saying, Moses my servant is dead. Now therefore arise, go over this Jordan, thou and all this people, unto the land which I do give them. Even to the children of Israel, every place that the sole of your foot shall tread upon, that have I given unto you, as I said unto Moses. From the wilderness and the this Lebanon, even unto the great river, the river Euphrates, all the land of the Hittites, and unto the great sea toward the going down of the sun shall be your coast. There shall not any man be able to stand before thee all the days of thy life. As I was with Moses, so I will be with thee. I will not fail you Nor will I forsake you. Be strong and of a good courage, for unto this people shalt thou divide in inheritance the land. which I swear unto their fathers to give them. Only be thou strong and very courageous. that thou mayest observe to do all according to all the law, which Moses, my servant, had commanded, thee, turn not from it to the right hand or to the left, that thou mayest prosper. Whithersoever thou goest, this book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein. For then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then shalt thou have good success. Now have not I commanded thee Again, be strong and of a good courage. Be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed, for the Lord thy God is with thee, whithersoever thou goest Then Joshua commanded the officers of the people, saying, Pass through the host and command the people, saying, Prepare you victuals, for within three days we shall pass over this Jordan. Go and to possess the land, which the Lord your God giveth you to possess it. And to the Reubenites and the Gadites, and to the half tribe of Manasseh, spake Joshua, saying Remember the word which Moses, the servant of the Lord, commanded you, saying, The Lord your God hath given you rest and given you this land. Your wives, your little ones, and your cattle shall remain in the land which Moses gave you on this side of the Jordan. But ye shall pass before your brethren armed, all the mighty men of valor, and help them. Until the Lord hath given your brethren rest, as he hath given you, and they also have possessed the land which the Lord your God giveth them. Then ye shall return unto your land, to the land of your possession, and enjoy it, which Moses, the Lord's servant, gave you on the side of the Jordan toward the sun rising. And they answered Joshua, saying, All that thou commandest us, we will do, and whether thou sendest us, we will go. According as we hearkened unto Moses in all these things. So will we hearken unto thee. Only the Lord thy God be with thee, and as he has with Moses. Whosoever he that doth rebel against thy commandment And will not hearken unto thy words. In all that thou commandest him, he shall be put to death. Only be strong and uh a good courage. I love this chapter. And uh I like I say I've been in there many times and um So it's a great encouragement to us. But I want to take a look at Joshua first of all and give a little background on Joshua. We find him first mentioned. Now, one of the things that we want to look at here too is what made Joshua a great leader. He was a great leader. And so we want to look at some things that came up that show what made this man a great leader and what can make you and I a great leader. What could make a person be a great leader of our nation. We have a lot of stuff flying around out there. We want to make our nation great again. I'm going to do this. I'm going to do that. I'm going to tell you. If you're going on your own, I don't want to go with you But anyway, here we go. The first time we find Joshua mentioned is all the way back in Exodus, and we are at chapter 17. And this is the first time we find him mentioned. And uh let me get there. Chapter 17, and we're going to look at verses 9 through 14. It says here in Exodus chapter 17, 9 through 14, and Moses said unto Joshua, Choose us out men, and go out, fight with Amalek tomorrow. I will stand on the top of the hill with the rod of God In mine hand. So Joshua did as Moses had said to him, and fought with Amalek, and Moses, Aaron, and her went up to the top of the hill. And it came to pass when Moses held up his hand that Israel prevailed. And when he let down his hand, Amalek prevailed But Moses' hands were heavy, and they took a stone and put it under him, and he sat thereupon, and Aaron and Ur stayed up his hands, the one on one side and the other on the other side And his hands were steady until the going down of the sun. And Joshua discomforted or defeated Amalek and his people with the edge of the sword. And the Lord said unto Moses, Write this for a memorial in a book and rehearse it in the ears of Joshua For I will utterly put out the remembrance of Amalek from under heaven. And Moses built an altar and called the name of Jehovah Nisi. For he said, Because the Lord has sworn that the Lord will have war with Amalek from generation to generation. So we find here a first lesson about Joshua Joshua had a great mentor and a great teacher and a great leader. But one of the things we find out about Joshua, he was obedient. He listened to the man who was over him. And uh a lesson for Joshua here is if and for you and I, if we desire if we desire to be a leader of anything Then we should learn from others so that we will be prepared when the opportunity comes. God was preparing Joshua even at this time back in Exodus for the day that he would take over For Moses. And so he was gonna fate uh fight greater battles than this one with Amalek. coming into that uh new territory that was going to be their land. But here we find also what Joshua learned. The battle was not won by his clever tactics and self-power and all that. But it was God's strength and power that gave them victory. And God wanted to remind Joshua of this. If you notice in verse 14, he says, Write this for a memorial in a book and rehearse it in the ears of Joshua, talking about Amalek. And that they were going to be defeated. But back in um verse nine, where he told um Joshua that he was going to go up on the hill with the rod of God in his He was showing that the power was going to be in God. When he raised his hands, they would win the battle. When his hands came down, they'd be losing the battle. And we saw that. But yet when his got help from Aaron and her, they kept the hands up till sundown and he defeated. So he's teaching Joshua here that the power is not in himself. And you and I need to know that too. The power is not in our soul. It is in God, and we're going to find out how Joshua is learning this as he gets ready to go in to take the land too. There's some other things that go with that. It's one by God. And let's move on to the second appearance of him, which was in Exodus 24. We find him also mentioned. Exodus chapter 24, and we're going to look at verse 13. And verse thirteen says, And Moses rose up and his minister Joshua, and Moses went up into the mount. And he said unto the elders, Tarry ye here for us until we come again unto you. And behold, Aaron and her are with you, and if any man have any matters to do, let him come unto them. And Moses went up into the mountain Mount and the cloud covered in the mount. This is when Moses uh uh received the law from God. Joshua was there He was down at the base with uh the other two. Then we find in Exodus chapter 33, he's here again with Joshua, the man who is leading him and training him. In thirty-three verse eleven it says, And the Lord spake unto Moses face to face as a man speaketh unto his friend. And he turned again into the camp. But his servant, Joshua, the son of Nun, a young man, departed not out of the tabernacle. So Joshua was there at the bottom when Um Moses had gone up and uh faced God face to face. And um I thought that was kind of uh amazing because it says that he was a young man there So Joshua most likely lived through the uh seeing the um uh things come upon Egypt. and uh all the plagues. He was probably a young, young boy then. But here you see him as a young man. He's right alongside Moses. He is Moses' right hand man So he's getting a good training here. Then we find him again in Numbers chapter thirteen. And um he is mentioned again in the Bible. And a lot of times we don't think back and look back on certain people where they're brought up. But here we see of the tribe of Ishkar, Igal the son of Joseph, of the tribe of Ephraim, Hoshea the son of Nun, and of Benjamin. Then he mentions the rest of them, but Hosheah, the son of Nun, is actually Joshua. And it says in verse 16, these are the names of the men which Moses sent to spy out the land, and Moses called Osheah, the son of Nun, Jehoshua. So he's talking about Joshua there. So he called him there to be one of the uh twelve spies to go in and check out the land that they're gonna go in and conquer. Then you come to chapter fourteen of Numbers and he's mentioned again. And this is the story that we're all aware of. This is when they come back out of the land and all the people are all upset because they uh ten of the um people that went in with the twelve were so afraid and everything else that Joshua and Caleb. Caleb spoke up first. Then Joshua spoke up and tore his clothes or rend his clothes and all and saying, Don't do this against God. If God has given us the lamb we need to go in. But they chickened out and God got angry with them and uh wouldn't let 'em go in and made 'em go wander around the wilderness for forty years. So here we find uh the next appearance is uh in Numbers chapter twenty seven and um I need to get moving here or you're not gonna get to the meat of this thing. But in chapter twenty-seven And Moses did as the Lord commanded. Here we find uh God calling Joshua and he's telling Moses In chapter 27, verse 18. And the Lord said unto Moses, Take thee, Joshua, the son of Nun. a man in whom is the Spirit, and lay thine hand upon him, and set him before Eliezer the priest, and before all the congregation, and give him a charge in their sight. And thou shalt put some of thine honor upon him, that all the congregation of the children of Israel may be obedient. Then it goes down to verse twenty-two and it says, And Moses did as the Lord commanded, and he took Joshua and set him before Eliezer, the priest, and before all the congregation, and he laid his hand upon him and gave him a charge as the Lord commanded by the hand of Moses. So here we see God kind of transferring. He's slowly doing this. But we find here that it's probably the beginning of uh God actually uh making some arrangements. He had to get the people to know that uh Joshua was called by God. And they revered and respected Moses. So they when Moses did this, the people saw that it was of God. And so we find this uh going on and then we come on in To uh the seventh appearance, which is in Deuteronomy thirty-four, right before Moses dies, and in verse nine of thirty-four, and Joshua the son of nun, was full of spirit of wisdom For Moses had laid his hands upon him, and the children of Israel hearkened unto him and did as the Lord commanded Moses. So here he is, uh g um Moses getting ready to die. And uh It's reminded here what God had done through Moses putting his hands on Joshua. And then we come to the final thing, and it's uh in Joshua chapter one. So Joshua had a great mentor, and uh now this is funny too because you remember Moses when he was first called, he didn't want to go. Why didn't he want to go and be the leader of Israel? What was his excuse to God? Couldn't speak well. Yeah. And here he is, he does three great speeches. So God enable him. Most of us when we're called to do things by God, we are hesitant because we're not certain we can do it. Our first thought is I'm going to fall on my face. I'm gonna fail. And I think about that in leadership and in my work. I come up on a a job and this job is thirteen, fourteen stories high, and I'm just getting started, I'm saying I'll never get that things at the top. I'll never get it done the way it's supposed to be done. I'm gonna have mistakes, I'm gonna have language buried, I'm gonna and I'm just thinking of everything that my little old body ain't gonna be able to do. And God reminds me everything And I think I told you before about the job I did in Baltimore at John Hopkins. And I came in one morning and I was so distressed and so scared and so overwhelmed. Uh we were started already, but there were things that we have to do. going on out of my control. But I'm sitting there looking at that building in the parking lot and saying, God, I can't do this. And so God reminded me of this passage. And he also reminded me that I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. So it's not my power and my might. Now you might think, well, you know You know, that's a job. It doesn't matter what it is. If we are called into leadership and we are God's child, then we must do it God's way. And I was taking my eyes off of God thinking that I had to do all this and that. But he reminded me of be strong and courageous. I really like that. And uh the job went well. We got it done and uh We made out. But anyway, uh that's just an example. Um Joshua seeing God's good hand at work would be a future uh faith and courage for him. I mean he saw a lot in his time with Moses. He saw the parting of the Red Sea. He saw them uh win the Battle of Amalek and he was the guy leading the charge, and so on. So he can he knew God very well and he saw all that God was doing. But now that responsibility was not on Moses, but it was coming on Joshua He had a responsibility as a leader, but Joshua was changing him. So we need to think about that when uh if you are currently in a leadership role, how many of you in here are in a leadership role in your work or anywhere Most of you are in a leadership role. All of you exactly are. If you have children, if you have a job If you have anything, you are in a leadership position. And what I think about here is if you are currently in a leadership role, how are you preparing others to take your place. How am I preparing my problem where I'm at is ninety percent of our workers are Spanish and I don't speak Spanish. But I have to train men to be able to take my place when I leave. I'm gonna retire in a year or two and uh I keep saying it that said that two years ago. No. But anyway, when I leave somebody's gotta take it over. The company's gonna hopefully go on. Well we've trained some guys already and uh they're doing very well. But it is important to think about that in your own life. You know, I think about in the family, parent with children, even with grandchildren. Um well how are you preparing your children? How are you preparing your grandchildren if you have grandchildren? I have grandchildren. But how are we training them? And you know there's some things we're gonna learn from Joshua. Hopefully we'll get through it. But when I think about this, are we letting um Our children see uh that uh our strength for the battles comes from the Lord. Do they see that evident in you when you're going through stress or you're Do they see that God is leading you? Can they see God's hand in there? And do you share with them how He is faithful? And when you if you pray something, do you share it with your children that you prayed it and God answered it? Do you do that? And just um God's mercy and God's kindness, God's patience, and the fact that He's Almighty, our children need to know this God. They need to know who Jesus is. And they need to have a right view of Him. And so it's important that we instruct our children and prepare the way for them because they will be one day in leadership. And um I have one son and two daughters. I have two grandsons and four granddaughters and a bunch of other uh family. Not that's my immediate family. But uh you know, when I first uh my first two children were born, I wasn't saved. I got saved during the uh second child, third child actually, I'm sorry. And uh so it's important that we would be good instructors. because one day they are going to take over. So what about at work? What about in the neighborhood? And here's a good measure for you. This is something that I came up with with so but I thought about it and I said what's gonna be said about God because of my life when I Not what's going to be said about Harry, but what's going to be said about God. That's the good measuring tape if you've done your job well. that your kids love the Lord. They seen things. Well I remember when my mom and dad did this or said that or went through this and how God really showed himself strong and how they trusted and stayed close to God. So here we find now, we're going to move on quickly because I'm running out of time. Joshua 1 through 9, God's calling and instruction for Joshua as a leader. And the calling was that he was to take, as we read earlier in Joshua 1 through 9, he's going to take these people, Israel, into the land that God had promised them. This is important that we see this, that God is the one that's doing this work, but he's leading them in and they're going to subdue it and they're going to conquer it. Can you imagine that? Can you even think that Two plus million people. They didn't have cell phones. They didn't have GPS They didn't have what we got today, cars and jeeps we can go through. They didn't have tanks, they didn't have airplanes, they didn't have nothing. Here they are. He's leading two plus million people into a nation that is full of enemies and they're gonna have to go in and conquer them and put them all to death and take their land. That's a tall order. How would you like to be in Joshua's shoes? It's quite a challenge. But only was he going to lead these people in there to that promised land, but God was using them to bring judgment. on the Canaanites and the Hittites and all of them in that land because of their wickedness. So that means that Joshua had to do what God said, or else it's not going to be And so we need to get this mindset that whatever God is calling us to do, we need to do it wholeheartedly, first of all, and we need to do it by God's direction. And here we find God's instructions in these verses. And the first thing that we found out about Joshua's instructions from God to make him successful now This is not just instruction to do something, but it's going to be a successful thing. And he's given him the instruction. And in verses 2 and 4, he lays out the boundaries. Do you lay out boundaries for your children? Do you lay out boundaries? You know where your boundaries are, and you're not going outside of that boundary And here he's laying out the boundary to Joshua and he's telling him what land is going to be theirs, where they're going to go, what it's what the limit's going to be, the boundaries. So all we need to know are the boundaries. My children know boundaries, especially my youngest one, Hillary. I could tell you a story about her. We had boundaries for her when she was little. with the neighborhood kids. She could not go past the second house on that side. She could not go past the second house on that side. She could not go outside the backyard of the house across the street. She could not go out of our backyard Well one day, knowing little Hillary, she is a godsend to our family. We were going through some trial at the time and and she came about. And um Thanks to God. But I'll tell you just a second about what happened there. She never went off the street. She never broke that boundary. One day. One day she was playing with some of the neighborhood kids and they went four houses down to that neighbor's backyard. And we're looking. We're yelling out there for her, and we're trying to find her. Can't find her anywhere. where we're looking down the street, up the street, across the street, went in the backyard of the other neighbors and came out and we're still yelling. And so I go back in the house and uh get ready to go down the street. All of a sudden the door comes flying open and little Hillary comes in, she was probably five, six years old, grabbed me by the hand, took me back to her bedroom, right at her bed we knelt down on the floor and she wanted to To ask God to forgive her. She didn't care whether she broke my rules, but she knew she broke God's rule. And that was the key to teaching her the boundaries. It's not what always what we say or what we're doing. But we're doing it for her good and for it's what God would want us to do to keep our we have boundaries with friends that she could be with. It was neighbors that we wouldn't allow her to play with You have to have them boundaries. And so here Joshua gets boundaries from God. So God promises to Joshua. I like this, and it's very important that we learn this. God's promises are found in verse 5 and verse 9 of chapter 1. There shall not any man be able to stand before thee all the days of thy life. What a wonderful promise. As I was with Moses, I will be with thee. I will not fail thee nor forsake thee. And then you go to verse nine, and he says in verse nine For the Lord thy God is with thee withersoever thou goest. So what is the promise here to Joshua that will make him a successful leader? What is gonna make you and I a successful person or a leader? What would it be? Pardon? Exactly. God's presence. God's presence is what will make us successful. Now if we cloud him out and don't y allow him to do what he needs to do, then we're going to be not successful. It's pretty plain and simple. But if we have we have first of all, we definitely have to have the presence of God. So if we're going to be successful in God's eyes, then we have to be knowing that God is with us. cannot do it on our own. Joshua could not do that on his own, and that's why God had him into the world. And we're going to find that out here too. Joshua was responsibility We find that in verses six and nine. And it says in verse two, Moses my servant is dead, now therefore arise and go. He tells him to go. You've got to go over the Jordan into this land, you're going to take these people in. That's his responsibility. And it also says in here that you are to be strong and of a good courage. And observe to do according to all of the law which my servant Moses commanded you. These are important things for you This book of the law shall not depart from thy mouth. that is written in the law. For then you will make yourself and your way prosperous. And then you will have good success. So what's God telling? Joshua. Not only does he say that, but right at the end he says, Do not be afraid, do not be dismayed. Why? Because the Lord your God will be with you. So he has been given some clear instruction. You and I have clear instruction from God's Word. And it's important for us not only just to read God's Word and know it, but to do it And I like uh we're going to be doing the men's um Bible study on uh the pursuit of holiness. Be ye holy, because I am holy. And so we as men, we need to be reminded, we need to be steadily in God's Word, because my whole thought is that If God has commanded me to be holy, as He is holy, then that is my goal in life, to be holy. And not that I'm going to accomplish it on my own, just like Joshua is not going to accomplish it here. God's presence has to be with me. He gives me instruction. He shows me in his work what I should do, what I shouldn't be doing. And you know it comes to the point where a lot of people think, well that's legalism that and you're you're really trying to get there by work. My salvation is settled and that is not the issue here. It's not my salvation that I'm working for. I am working it out as God is working in me, what He wants me to know. So sounds simple, right? Just do these things and God will be with you and you'll have great success. How can this be applied to you and I in our life? Without verse 9, Joshua could not complete the task. Neither can you and I be successful. All the commands and all the instructions for Joshua's good success are based on one thing, and that is what Karen said: the presence of God. It's all dependent upon the presence of God. Now we do mess up and we're thankful for God's grace. But first thing we find here It's based on God's presence. Second of all, it's based on knowing God, knowing his word. And the third thing is it is based on obedience So if we want to be successful, you can't just know it. But you got to do it. And you've got to do it like God says, if you want to be successful. So just a few notes as we end up the people's response. I thought uh notice in verse 10 uh it just shows Joshua. Um in verse 10 it says um Then Joshua commanded the officers of the people, saying, Pass through the host and command the people, saying, Prepare your victuals, for within three days you shall pass over this Jordan to go in to possess the land which the Lord He's already obedient. He's starting out. And he got the people together, the leaders that were in the groups, got them together, said get your victuals together. We're going across that Jordan in to take the land in three days Two plus million people. Can you imagine that? Uh we're probably not gonna get in too much to the uh story of Joshua, but maybe I'm maybe I'll bring it back up when we get to uh two weeks from now when I Have Wednesday night again. But uh the other thing is the people's response I thought was very good. They knew that he was a godly man, they knew that he was called by God because Moses had laid his hands on him So the people made the statements they would follow him and be obedient to him, and the last thing they said was, If somebody does not obey you, they shall be put to death. And we had that happen. In one of the chapters in the story where they stole uh goodies that they weren't supposed to take. The whole family was burned and put to death. Success is not controlling others. But God told Joshua that in order to succeed, he must obey the rules for living, founding God's law. In other words, Joshua was to be controlled by God and trust solely in him. in his word. That's why God gives us his word so we can. Proverbs three, five and six, I love that. Trust in the Lord with all your heart. Lean not on your own understanding. And all of thy ways acknowledge God. This is what Joshua had to do. And it says, he shall direct that path. Isn't that wonderful? That's a beautiful verse. Many people think that prosperity and success come from having power. influential people as friends, contacts, relentless desire to get ahead, gotta do this, gotta do that. But the strategy for gaining prosperity that God caught Joshua goes against all that criteria He told Joshua that to succeed he must be strong and courageous, because the task ahead of him was not going to be easy. He was to obey God's law, his word, and to meditate upon it day and night, so it's always fresh in his mind, and constantly, daily reading and studying God's word. So by following God's instruction to Joshua You may not succeed according to the world's view of standards of success, but of how much more greater value to be a success in God's eyes. For this there is great reward. Let's pray. Father, we are grateful, so grateful for your goodness to us. Lord, we are so undeserving. If not for your mercy and for your grace, we have no hope. So we thank you for what you have already provided through your son Jesus On our behalf. And knowing that when we put our faith and our trust in you, that your spirit comes to indwell us. And it stays there until the day that you return. and take us home. So Father, we're asking tonight, well we're actually thanking you first of all for how you enlighten us through your word and how you really show us through Joshua how to be successful in your eyes And Father, it sounds so simple, but it is so hard. So I pray for each one tonight, including myself, Lord, that you would continue to enable us. us. Give us this great desire. May your spirit have complete control. May we not grieve your spirit, Lord, by doing things that are not pleasing in your sight. May you help us, Lord, to not quench your spirit as you are working in us, not to go our own way, but help us to be steadfast. And to be strong and courageous. And Lord, we ask that you remind us each day of your presence with us. And Father, may in all things you be glorified. May you be glorified lifted up. We do ask in Jesus name. Thank you, Lord. Amen.