Well, on behalf of my family, I want to personally thank everyone for coming today. Um it it certainly means a lot. uh to see the show of love from you all that have been so kind to come. My grandmother's life was a beautiful life. Was it not? She the eighty the nearly eighty-five years that she spent on this earth, uh they they were a gift from God I have personally, being her grandson, many fond memories of my time spent with her. Boy, one of my favorite times was was probably the camping trip that I took with her, my granddad and my Aunt Landon Uncle Arthur, and that was a whole week's worth of camping. I I think I I think I developed my love for campfires and uh guitar music during that week. It was a great time. She was a generous grandmother. She was generous of her time, her money, her possessions. When I wasn't living at her house as a kid, going to her home was a tremendous special treat. Eating her spaghetti Eating her candy. In fact, as many of you know, anytime anyone goes over to her house, she made sure that you ate. And then after you were finished, she made sure you had more. Even after I got married and lived in Wisconsin, thinking we would be there for a long time, God God had other plans, and he brought us under her roof once again and sheltered us and protected us. And then She let us take her roof off and build a second floor on her house. She was an amazing lady And in in that last several years, she continued to take care of us, to make sure we were okay, make sure we were taken care of. And I could certainly go on and on about my grandmother and the memories that I have of her. But that is not actually why she asked me to speak to you today. It it truly is an honor to be able to speak with you in this setting. I count it a great privilege. As I have been mowing over what to bring to you and meditating on the the options and what we could speak about. There's one word that's come up in my mind over and over again. And that word is opportunity. You might say, well, that's kind of a strange word to think of in this setting. But I think it's appropriate. I think it's appropriate because I am of the firm persuasion that God is at work in all circumstances in life. The timing of my grandmother's death is not an accident, nor is it an accident that you all are here this afternoon. So my friends, my family, herein lies the opportunity. God is at work. Do you have eyes to see him working? Do you see what he is doing in your life? Do you see what he's doing in the lives around you? I mentioned earlier that my grandmother's life was a gift from God. And that is to say that the time that she was given on this earth was a gift from him. Let me ask you, do you view your life as a gift that is given to you? That he gives you the opportunity to live in the first place And if that's the case, how are we to live this life that He has given us? Is that even an important question? Jesus, speaking to his disciples in what is known as the Sermon on the Mount, discloses an aspect of how a true follower of him is supposed to live. I will be reading from Matthew 6, chapter 6, and beginning in verse 19, if you happen to have your Bibles with you. I'm going to read several verses here from that text. It says in verse 19 of chapter 6 in Matthew. Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon the earth where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal. But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor lust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal. For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. The light of the body is the eye. If therefore thine eye be single, thy whole body shall be full of light. But if thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is in thee be darkness, how great is that darkness No man can serve two masters. Either he will hate the one or love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon. You may have heard it said multiple times, actually. At home is where the heart is. Well, according to the Bible, that's not entirely accurate. According to the Bible, what we just read, where your treasure is, is where your heart is. What you consider to be most valuable, that is where your heart is. So that means that the object of our affections need to be on the right thing. Followers of Jesus can make the mistake. We can make the mistake of believing that we can have our hearts in multiple treasures and still be adequately centered on spiritual things and what God wants. My friends, God wants our hearts. He wants our heart first and foremost So that he and what is of him will be our treasure. Our hearts cannot be fully devoted to two separate treasures. Only one will be supreme in the heart of a person at one time. According to Jesus in this passage, treasures can be summed up into two categories Earth bound treasures and heaven bound treasures. So what are these that Jesus talks about? What do they what do they look like? Well I'm sure there are several examples of earthbound treasures, but some of the things that that I thought of as I look at my own life and the lives of those around us. Earthbound treasures can be could be material possessions, could be making more money, seeking promotions, having certain expectations of any number of things. Maybe status, maybe popularity, maybe having a large bank account, maybe your physical appearance, goals or expectations that we have for our own lives or others' lives. Earthbound treasures can take on a variety of forms, but they can hook us without realizing it. It is too simple. It is too easy for us to live focused on these earthbound treasures. And little else. We can miss what God has called us to live for. But what about the second category? What about uh uh heaven-bound treasures that that Jesus talks about? Well, what does that look like? Well, it's when we value some of the examples that that I thought of, it's when we value Being part of a local church and the ministries that are involved there. That's those are heaven bound treasures It's living a life worthy of the gospel. Philippians 1. 27 talks about that. It's living that life outside of the church and in church, in school, in the workplace, in your neighborhood. It's living that way all the time. In summary, heaven-bound treasures are doing things on this earth, but they are of eternal value. They are of eternal value because moth and rust doesn't corrupt them. Maybe another one could be that We are presenting the gospel, giving us the m giving others the message that Jesus can save, and he's the only one that can save. And we we tell others that's an example another example of a heaven-bound treasure. The treasures that are bound to this earth fade away. The truth is, they give temporary satisfaction. And when we pass from this life They're gone. They aren't going with you Well maybe at this point you say that you know your pursuits in this life, maybe they haven't been where they should be But maybe you've been saying that you'd get around to it eventually. Maybe you've been putting it off. Maybe it's something that you say, well after this takes place, then I'm going to start pursuing the right stuff. Maybe I need that particular job, or maybe I need uh some kids first, or maybe, you know, whatever the the the rationale that you've been putting in there Well, if that's the case, how long have you been saying that? And if that's the case, when are you actually going to do it? How many times have you modified that plan to suit your wants, to suit your desires? My friend, you aren't guaranteed that there will be an after this or an after that. The Bible says in James 4 14, Whereas ye know that You know not what shall be on the morrow. For what is your life? It is even a vapor that appeareth for a little time, and then it vanisheth away. James says, your life is a puff of smoke. It's a poof of steam. It's there for a moment and then it's gone. Another illustration that I've heard multiple times from uh a man that I heard many times while I was in college. He gave this illustration and I will probably never forget it. He was walking through a cemetery one time. And he noticed all the tombstones and as many of you know on the tombstones you have the date, the year of when a person was born. And then when they died. And that in between those two dates is a dash. And the entire life of that individual is encompassed by that one solitary dash in between the dates. I have to ask myself, and I I ask you as well. When our dash is placed on our tombstone What of our lives is it going to represent? What is that dash going to represent? Will it represent all the treasures that we laid up for ourselves on this earth? Or will it represent how much of our time was devoted to of eternal value? Well, Jesus doesn't stop there. Not only can we end up living for all the wrong temporal treasures, we can end up living a life focused on our merely on our temporary needs. Here's what he says. Continuing in chapter six, starting at verse twenty-five, he says, Therefore I say unto you, take no thought for your life what ye shall eat or what ye shall drink. Nor yet for your body what ye shall put on it, is not the life more than meat and the body more than raiment Behold the fowls of the air, for they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns, yet your heaven heavenly Father feedeth them. Are ye not much better than they? Or in other words, are you not much of much more value than them? Which of you by taking thought can add one cubit unto his stature? And why take ye thought for raiment? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They toil not, neither do they spin. Yet and yet I say unto you that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. Wherefore if God so clothed the grass of the field Which today is and tomorrow is cast into the oven, shall he not much more clothe you of little faith Therefore, take no thought, saying, What shall we eat, what shall we drink, or wherewithal shall we be clothed? For your Father knoweth that ye have need of all these things What is Jesus saying to his followers here? Well, he is noting the tendency that we all have to be simply focused on our personal perceived needs. And little else. And did you catch what he said there? Is not the life more than food and the body more than clothing? In other words, your life was meant for more than just that. The scope of your life was never meant to be encompassed by these mere needs and temporal treasures of this earth. But how many of us would look at our lives and realize that the scope of our life doesn't really go beyond what we are concerned about or what we treasure? Our lives are supposed to be more than that The scope of our lives are is supposed to touch well beyond the barriers of what we are merely concerned about. Think of it this way. It's like a king. And imagine that this king has a kingdom. And he is ruling over this kingdom, and he is building and progressing this kingdom. And he has subjects under him that have been assigned duties to help further the progress of that kingdom. But one day, the king finds out That some of these subjects, well, they're off doing their own thing. They're they're not supporting his plan and his purposes to further the kingdom. So He calls them in to find out what's going on. Well, they inform him that they aren't going along with his purposes because they are too busy building their own kingdoms within his So they don't have time to focus outside of their own needs and wants to help the king build his kingdom. Now We may look at that story, that illustration, and think it would be ridiculous to rebel against a a su uh a supreme king and not do anything for his kingdom because they want to focus on their own little kingdoms But I ask you, how how are we any different when we can't focus beyond our temporary treasures and personal life concerns? Jesus says our lives were meant more than that. Jesus says our lives were meant for more than that. Now it it's noteworthy to say that it's not that we can't have any earthly treasures. That's not to say that we should never get worried or never have concerns. I think it would be safe to say we wouldn't be human if that was the case. But remember what Jesus said earlier. He says that where our Treasure is that's what our hearts will be devoted to. And so he's calling us to not solely be focused on these things But to broaden the scope of what we see in this world and how it touches other people besides ourselves. Well, how does that happen? Well, how do we do that? Those are nice thoughts, but what does that look like? Well, Jesus then explains exactly what that looks like in the next verse. In the next verse, verse 33 of chapter 6, he says, But seek Ye first, the kingdom of God, and his righteousness. So the answer then is that God's kingdom and his purposes are to come first. And everything else becomes secondary. He wants all of you. Did you know that? He wants all of your life, not just the bits and portions that you're willing to give up We are to live according to his standards, not our own standards. When we become a follower of Jesus, we become citizens of his kingdom. And we're to live like it. And then he says, after saying, Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Jesus says, And all these things shall be added unto you. What things? Well, the treasures, and the things that you're concerned about. They're going to take care of themselves. You don't need to be preoccupied with that. Be preoccupied with God and His kingdom. And let the rest take care of itself. Now, Focus on his kingdom first. Now, quite honestly, when we make God's kingdom first, it's not as if we make that decision and then we go forward, and it's all good It isn't a one-time thing. It is a lifelong pursuit. So that dash could represent a lifelong pursuit. Of being a servant of God in his kingdom. That's what Jesus calls us to. That's the life he calls us to live. But perhaps you're here today. And after hearing all of that, you are thinking to yourself, I don't know if I really want to live for God's kingdom. You you make it sound a little hard. You make it sound like I might have to give up things that I don't want to give up. Maybe you don't want to seek God's kingdom first, because maybe you're not sure that you really belong to his kingdom. Maybe you're not sure you belong to God. I have been mentioning through this message about being a follower of God, being a follower of Jesus. And maybe you've never really considered yourself to be a follower of Jesus. Maybe you're thinking, I'd like to hear more about that. Maybe you're thinking No, I don't think that's for me. Well, if that's the case, you have a choice to make. You have a decision to make. And it the decision Is in reference to this person we've been talking about a whole lot today, and that's Jesus Christ. You see, Jesus was born of a virgin over 2,000 years ago now. He was an actual person that lived on this planet for thirty-three years. In the last thirty three years in the last three years of his life. He went around teaching. He went around preaching. And the things that he was preaching and teaching were different than what many people had heard before. But not only that, he did miracles, he did healings, he walked on water, he calmed the seas. And all of this is verified. It's verified by those that followed him. And listened to his teaching and witnessed his life front and center. Those people that I'm referring to are more commonly known as the disciples. Those same disciples also record in their writings that Jesus was, much to their dismay, arrested. Beaten, hung on a cross like a criminal, and was murdered. One of the Jewish men Offered his family's tomb for the body of Jesus, and there Jesus' body lay for three days. And on the third day A Sunday. Those disciples record for us that he appeared to them not in spirit form. But in flesh and blood, in uh with a physical body, he had risen from the grave. Death did not hold him, he was alive, and he remained with them for many days being seen by many before ascending and returning to heaven. The result of this was those followers of Jesus began to multiply, so much so that they eventually, as recorded by Luke In Acts 11, 26 became known as Christians. Little Christs, followers of Christ, and that name spread around the world. And mention of Jesus and his followers are recorded even outside of the Scripture in the few centuries following his death. The choice is simple. Do you believe what has been recorded for all to read? About what Jesus taught. Do you believe what he lived out in his life? What will you do with Jesus? You either will choose to follow him or you will choose to redirect him. There is no in-between. You cannot, as Jesus already said in Matthew six, you cannot serve two masters. Who will be your master? Will it be Jesus? Will it be yourself? Will it be something or someone else? But maybe you ask, well, how do I make the choice to follow him? Where do I even start? How does that work? Well, at this point, I would like to show you something. This in my hand is my grandmother's Bible. And I my mom handed it to me, and I've been rummaging through the passages and the pages and She, in many places, has notes and highlighted passages, and I would like to share some of the passages. And verses that she highlighted in here that pertain to becoming a follower of Christ. She has several passages highlighted in Romans. And I'd like to turn there. I'm going to be now mostly in chapter 3 of Romans. Now I have to switch Bibles, pardon me. So Romans chapter three Beginning in verse ten, she has this one highlighted there. It says, as it is written There is none righteous, no, not one. So how do you become a follower of Christ? Where do you even start? Well, you start by recognizing who you are. We perhaps like to think of ourselves as generally good, but God's description of us in His holy Word is one of we are not righteous. We are sinful. And that there isn't a person on the planet that can measure up to God's standard of righteousness and perfection It even says later in chapter 3, verse 23, For that all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. God's standard is so high that we in our in our sinful state we can't measure up. We can't reach that far. And our sin earns us something. Another verse my grandmother highlighted is Romans 6. 23, the first part of which says that the wages of sin is death. So, what we earn because of our sin is death. Death, the word death in its most elementary sense means separation Our sin separates us from God while we are on this earth, and it separates us from Him after we die. If left to ourselves This would be the state of every human, this is the state that every human being would be in, with no hope of getting out of that state. But you say, well, I I kinda thought that I just needed to be a decent person, you know, good enough to get by so that my my good outweighed my bad and you know that would be that would be fine. Well According to the scriptures, God doesn't operate on a good enough policy. His standard is higher than that. We could never dig ourselves out of the pit of sin that we find ourselves in. You see, God is holy. He cannot tolerate sin. He cannot tolerate evil and badness at any level. God is also a just God, which means he judges rightly. And righteously every time, all the time, and sin must be judged, or else he would cease to be holy. God cannot be one thing at the expense of another thing. Now maybe you would think, well, this really seems kind of hopeless. If we can't make a way to be right with God, who can? Well, that's where the good news comes in. We can't, that's true. But where it's impossible with man, with God, all things are possible. God divinely initiated the way that we could be made right with Him. And he did it through his son, Jesus Christ. I asked you earlier, what will you do with Jesus? The answer is you want to be a follower of him. The scriptures say is to place your faith in him. Reading from verse thirty twenty-two of chapter three It says, even the righteousness of God, which is by faith in Jesus Christ, unto all and upon all that believe For there is no difference. What does that mean? It means this: if you place your faith in Jesus, the righteousness of God is placed on you And that sort of righteousness outdoes any good that you or I could muster up in an entire lifetime But the passage continues in verse 24. It says, being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. God's Son is offered to mankind as a gift for redemption That is, by placing our faith in Jesus, we have been justified. Meaning we've been declared righteous and the from by the payment that was made by Jesus. What payment did he make? What does that mean? He made it by his death on the cross that we mentioned before. Verse 25 says that God set Jesus to be a pre-propitiation for us, meaning That Jesus was the way to satisfy God's righteous demands. Righteous demands meaning that the sin that is in this world must be punished, justly punished. God is holy, so that means that sin cannot go unpunished. But instead of you and I receiving the punishment for our sins, God sent His Son to receive that punishment. On a cruel cross. When Jesus died, he was accepting the penalty. of sin that you and I deserve to pay. It's like this Jesus Christ takes our place. He is our substitute. Says this in 2 Corinthians 5 21. For he that is Jesus made of God made him, Jesus, to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. That's the exchange that takes place. Verse 26 of chapter 3 in Romans, back to our passage, it was to show his righteousness at the present time, so that he might be just. That is, God might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. In this way, what this verse is saying is that God maintains his holiness because sin is being punished through Jesus. And we receive a pardon for sin because Jesus took our place for that punishment. But notice what that verse said. It says that he might be just and the justifier of the one who what? Who has faith in Jesus It applies to the ones who have faith in Jesus. What does that mean? Well, first it means that you understand all that has been said about Jesus and what he did for you. It starts there. But it doesn't stop there. It continues with, you must agree with it. You must consider it to be reality. You must consider it to be true. But it doesn't stop there either. It must continue to the next step. And the most importantly, you understand it, you agree with it, but you depend on Jesus to be your substitute You depend on Him to be your righteousness. You depend on Him to be your Savior. And this is at the exclusion of anyone or anything else that you might be tempted to depend on. Whether it be your works, your church that you attend, your baptism, all of those things are inferior objects of dependence Jesus made this claim as he taught his disciples in John 14, 6. He says, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man comes under the Father but by me. Jesus claims to be the only exclusive way to be made right with God. Place your full faith and dependence on Him and Him alone And you too can be made right with him. What will you do with Jesus? We know what my grandmother did with him. She trusted him. She depended on him. She has a few passages. written down in the back of her Bible here. She has 1 Corinthians 13, which she has rightly labeled the love chapter. She has Hebrews 11 marked down when she labels that the faith chapter. And then she has John 17 here as well. And she labels that Jesus Prayer. I'd like to read a couple verses from John seventeen. First three verses of John 17 say this: When Jesus had spoken these words, he lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father, the hour has come. meaning the hour to be crucified. Glorify your Son that the Son may glorify you. Since you have given him authority over all flesh to give eternal life. To all whom you have given him, and this is eternal life, that they know you are the only true God. That is what Jesus came into this world to do. But he also notes later in this same prayer in verse 24, he prays this, and listen closely. Father, I desire that they also, whom you have given me, those who have placed their faith in Jesus, may be with me where I am to see my glory. That you have given me because you have loved me before the foundation of the world. His prayer was to give people eternal life. And part of that prayer means that he wants those who have eternal life to be with him when they depart. From this earth. Can't say it on any other way. My grandmother has received the answer to that prayer. She is with him. Another passage says this, 1 Thessalonians 4, 16 And verses following: For the Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And so shall we ever be with the Lord. Wherefore, comfort one another with these words. My friends I want to speak very clearly to you now. You may, in this in talking with us, you may have heard her family members, and myself included, talk about her being in a better place. Being at peace now, being at Jesus with Jesus now. Can I explain something for you? We don't say that because it makes us happy. We don't say that because it gives us comfort. We don't say that because it makes us feel better. We say that because that is the destination for everyone and anyone who depend on Christ for salvation. What will you do with Jesus? Won't you depend on Him in faith today? What about you, follower of Christ? Is your heart devoted to your King and His kingdom? Is your heart devoted to His plan? Or is it devoted to your own plan? Is your heart preoccupied with devotion to earthbound treasures and personal concerns and needs? Remember. Jesus says your life, your dash, is meant for a whole lot more than that I have heard this particular phrase I'm about to tell you multiple times this past year, and I I must say It is causing me to view things a little bit differently. And I like to share this phrase with you. It's not original with me. But it really encompasses the mentality we ought to have if we are currently not depending on Jesus for salvation or if we aren't fully devoted to him as a follower of Christ. And it's this concept here. We at times I think make a mistake in evaluating ourselves. We make the mistake of thinking that we are people who have souls. My friend, you are a soul. You have a body. You are a soul. You have a body. We have it backwards sometimes. And in that phrase There is such hope and blessing and peace beyond the grave. But it also shows that the cares and the treasures of this life isn't all there is to live for If you have been rejecting Jesus up to this point, won't you make today the day you depend on Jesus to be the payment for your sins? Fellow believer, has your heart been devoted to lesser earthly treasures? Won't you make today be the day that you begin to live for God and His kingdom and His purposes? God is at work Do you have eyes to see him working? Remember. You are a soul. You have a body. Let's pray. Father, I thank you with utmost gratitude and am humbled to be In a position of proclaiming your word on this day, at this time, at this event. And Lord, I pray that you would use the truth of your word to impact the heart and minds of all of us here today. That we would see our lives as you would have it to be lived for. And Lord, may you comfort And guide and direct our steps as we go from this place to the cemetery and beyond. And may we have in our minds The truth. The truth about your son, the truth about your kingdom, and the truth about how we are to be devoted to both. Pray this in Jesus name, Amen