Philippians three. And it's always interesting to me. We're we're doing the communion service now prior to the message, obviously, on a regular basis, and it's always interesting to me to see where we land in our text that we're going to be preaching from and how it correlates to our communion service. And by the way, there's a sense in which it always will. And the reason for that is that every passage of Scripture has gospel content. And the core of what the Lord's Supper is, is the gospel. And so you can always find a connection there. And today that there is that's definitely the case as we actually look at the fundamentals of what salvation is when it's being experienced. As a Christian, how do you experience salvation? That really is what we're going to be looking at in Philippians chapter 3, verses 9 through, it's actually through verse 12. Now, I want to begin this way. I want to point out something that's that's sort of interesting that the Bible actually illustrates Our relationship with God by using the illustration of marriage. And I think that's a helpful illustration. for us because in marriage it is not just for example it's not just the fact that you know a person intellectually but you experience a person on an intimate level when uh when you are married and it's a good marriage. And I the the the text is not really talking about marriage. Particularly, it's not necessarily what Paul has in mind. He certainly has that in mind in Philippians chapter or Ephesians chapter 5 and other places. But I do think as a picture, it's going to help us if we can think about this. And I would note this about about marriage. Are you aware that most marriage counseling Happens within the first three years or somewhere around the 15th year, maybe give or take a couple of years. And there's actually a very, very good reason for that Before the f within the first three years of marriage, usually what occurs is it's an establishing of what is going to be fundamental to the marriage. Actually that should be happening before marriage. It's going to be much more have a h much higher likelihood of success if it occurs prior to marriage. But certainly in the first three years you're establishing what what this marriage is going to look like, how it's going to be established, what it's what the trajectory of the marriage is going to look like. happen. And usually in the first three years there's going to be there often, I guess I should say, is going to need some sort of advice, some sort of outside advice to help direct in that. It's very, very common. So why 15 years? I mean now you've got uh you've got a routine, you've got sort of an established relationship. Why now 15 years is this occurring? And the reason is is as life goes on, you have usually kids come, usually your the career accelerates, usually all these kinds of things are going on, and life gets hectic. The more kids you have, the older the kids get, the more life gets interesting. And and as life gets interesting Then what can happen in the marriage is the fundamentals of the marriage get convoluted or compromised And so by the time year 15 hits, or 14 or 13 or or you know 17 or 16, somewhere in there The fundamentals of the marriage need to sort of be shored up and there needs to be some sort of usu often uh uh some counseling or advice uh to make sure that we haven't lost track of why we got married in the first place or if we got married for the wrong reason, re-establishing the right reason, and those kinds of things. And did you know that that can be the case in the Christian life as well? In the first three years of the Christian life, very frequently there is a lot of intense training. Discipleship happens, lots of interest happens. The first three years somebody comes to Christ, they're interested in all kinds of of things and they're wanting to learn about their faith. But somehow after three years or so or more, somehow after a certain time Life catches up and things get busy and things get preoccupying and family and uh vocation and all these things enter in And somewhere around the same time, usually there's sort of this awareness of the fact that my relationship with the Lord, maybe 15 years or so, my relationship with the Lord really isn't what it ought to be. I I I I I've lost my first love as it is as it as you will, and as it says in the Book of Revelation, chapter three. And sometimes it's really helpful, in fact, often probably, it's really helpful to go back and to look at what are the fundamentals of our relationship with God. And really, what we're going to see in these four verses is we're going to go back to the fundamentals and we're going to point out the most important things. In our relationship with the Lord. What does it mean on an experiential level to experience salvation? What does that look like? What does it mean And you'll find if you look at this passage, you can actually note that in verse 9, you're going to see some comments about the concept of justification. In verse 10, you'll see some comments about sanctification. And in verses 11 and 12, you'll see some comments about glorification. And the truth is those are the three the three aspects of salvation. For example, in the book of Romans, chapter one, where it says that the That we are saved and rescued by the gospel. It is the power of God unto salvation. It really has in mind all three of those aspects. And you find all three of those ba aspects in the book of Romans and all over the New Testament. So sometimes the emphasis is on justification that we're declared righteous, but sometimes it really has to do more salvation is when it says work out your own salvation, for example. And fear and trembling, it's really more talking about our sanctification. And we've seen that before in the book of Philippians. Now, with all of that in mind. I also want us to remember what the purpose of the book of Philippians is. This is vitally important for us to remember as we go through a book of the Bible. The key to understanding the book of the Bible is to understand the purpose of the book, and that becomes our guiding template for each passage of scripture. How does it relate to the overall purpose? And it helps us to understand the past, the book that we're studying. And in this case, I'd like you to remember this. In this case, the key verse that's going to point us to the to the purpose of this book is in Philippians chapter 1, particularly in verse 27. If you can remember no other verse in the entire book of Philippians Remember that verse because it will tell you the point of the book. And I just want to remind us of this. And we keep going back to this verse almost every message because everything seems to be hinging on this verse and what he has to say afterwards. So let's look at the verse for a moment. Philippians chapter 1 verse 27, it says, only let your conduct be worthy of the gospel. What is Paul's goal for the Church of Philippi? It is for our conduct to be worthy of the gospel. In other words, what is the gospel supposed to be doing in the life of the believer? And so that whether I come and see you or am absent, I may hear of your affairs, what's happening to you, that you number one, you stand fast. In one spirit, with one mind, striving together for the faith of the gospel. He wants us to stand in the gospel He wants us to progress in the gospel, and he wants us to live out the gospel. The point of the book of Philippians is a very practical book that helps us to live out the gospel. And what Paul is doing here in Philippians chapter 4 is he is he is now coming to a section of scripture in verses 9 through 12 that help us to understand. The core, the fundamentals of what it looks like to live in Christ. And with that in mind, let's go to the Lord in prayer. I'm going to walk over here. Thank you, Pat. not know I was going to need this this morning, but I do. And um then let's go to the Lord in prayer. Philippians chapter uh and then we'll get into Philippians chapter Chapter 3. Father, we thank you, Lord, for the privilege of coming today, and I pray, Lord, that you would help us to really see the things that you want us to see. to see in this passage that this would be a time of of actual of actual self-examination to look at our lives and our minds and our thinking And to see if it lines up with truth. Help us to understand this, Lord. Help us to see it. And I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. So we begin in verse nine, and Paul is going to say these words. Actually, it kind of it really kind of starts in verse 8, but we'll go ahead, we looked at verse 8 last week, so we'll look at verse 9. nine. And be found in him, not having my own righteousness, which is from the law, but that which is from faith in Christ, the righteousness which is from God by faith. Now, as I said before, he's going to now look at this concept of justification. What is the most important things that we can understand about how Christ declared us righteous? And we find here, first of all, the very first phrase it says, and be found in Him in Christ. What is the most important thing about the fact that Christ saved us? What is the most important thing about the fact that we are justified? It is that we now are to be Found in Christ. It has to do, folks, with our union with Jesus Christ. This is absolutely vitally important to understand. The word found is used in Matthew 16, verse 25, where it says, Therefore, whoever desires to save his life will lose it. But whoever loses his life for my sake shall find it. It's that same word. This is a reference to our life in Christ. In Colossians chapter 3, verse 3, it says, For you died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who has our life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. Your life Is hidden with Christ. This is absolutely essential to the Christian faith. Why did Christ save us? Why did he go to the cross? Why did he shed his blood on the cross for us? Why did he do this? He did this because he wanted to unite us with God and to be united in Christ. In Christ's high-priestly prayer to his Father, he says in John 17, verse 21, that they all may be one, as you, Father, are in me, and I in you. that they also may be one in us, that the world may believe that you sent me. Oneness in Christ That they may be one and you may be one. There is to be, folks, brothers and sisters in Christ, there is to be a oneness in Christ. Now remember that Remember that the reason that God saved you ultimately, first of all, primarily, is not to get you out of hell and into heaven. Now that's a byproduct that happens. But the primary reason that Jesus saved your soul. Was so that you would be united with God. And I think it's important for us to remember that. Why are we saved? Why did God save us? Why did we come to Christ? Because God wanted us to be united with Him. And He did so through the sacrifice that Christ made on the cross for us. And this union, we're going to look more at how to experience this union when we get into the next verse, but it's important to understand this. Now, the question then comes, what compromises our understanding and our living out experientially, what compromises our union with Christ experientially? Experientially. In other words, we are united with Christ if we genuinely know Him as our Savior. We are, that is the case, that is our position. But folks, sometimes we don't experience our union with Christ. We have it, but we don't experience it. Well, why is that? And on a practical level, folks, it is because it is often because we we misunderstand Where our righteousness is supposed to come from. The issue of the basis of our unity with Christ is God's righteousness. Notice what it says in the passage in verse 9. He says, be found not having my own righteousness, which is from the law. But that which is from faith in Christ, the righteousness which is from God by faith. So it says that the union that we have with Christ Is not by our own righteousness, which it says is by the law. What Paul is doing here then is setting up a contrast. He is contrasting Righteousness that comes by means of the law or from the law, and righteousness that comes from God Himself. And he is saying that if you are looking to righteousness from the law, you're looking to self-righteousness. Which he says is not the basis of your union in Christ. He says what you've got to look at is your Righteousness that is from God. That's what has to be applied. Now recall from last week, remember the Judaizers, what were they doing? They were trying to impose self-righteousness. They were attempting to impose a kind of righteousness. That is obedience to the law, and they believed that you could be declared righteous by following the commands of the Old Testament. And Paul says that won't get you anywhere. Now it's interesting how the Apostle Paul lays this out in the book of Romans. In Romans, it's actually all over the place. And we ought not think that the law is bad. Paul said the law is good. The law is righteousness. But the question but it has it is limited in what it can do. Paul explains in both Galatians and Romans The purpose of the righteousness of the law is to demonstrate our sin, that we cannot match up to that righteousness, that we fall short of it. That's the purpose. But he can't do more than that. In Romans chapter 9, verse 30. And then into 10. 4 it says this, what shall we say then that Gentiles who did not pursue righteousness have attained to righteousness, even righteousness of faith? He's saying, how Gentiles who didn't even pursue righteousness, how have they attained righteousness? It's the righteousness of faith, he says. But Israel, pursuing the law of righteousness, has not attained the law of righteousness Why? Because they did not seek it by faith. That's the issue. But as it were, by the works of the law, for they stumbled at the stumbling stone. As it is written, Behold, I lay in Zion a stumbling stone of a rock of offense, and whoever believes in him will not be put to shame. And it continues there as well. He picks up in Romans chapter ten verse three, and it says, For they being ignorant of God's righteousness, of God's righteousness, and seeking to establish their own righteousness, have not submitted to the righteousness of God's Paul again in Romans says that the law's righteousness, your own righteousness, Which is associated with the law, you can't have that, if you have that, it's mutually exclusive from the righteousness that comes from God. They are two different kinds of righteousness And the righteousness that will unite you with Christ is the righteousness that comes from God, that God applies to you. Not the righteousness that comes from the law. And there's a reason for this. In Galatians chapter 3, verse 21, it says, Is the law against the promises of God? Is it wrong? Is it bad? Is it evil? Certainly not. He then says this, for if there has been a law given which could have given life, truly righteousness would have been by the law. He says there's a limitation to the law. The law can't give life. The law can show you your sin. The law can show you how undone you are. The law can show you how sinful you are, but the law cannot give you spiritual life. The Bible depicts us as those who were born physically, and as soon as we were born physically, we are dead spiritually. That we are separated from God immediately upon our birth. Arguably before that, actually. And as a reality of that, we the need, the need in our lives is life. We need spiritual life. Everybody's born needing spiritual life. And what this passage is saying is that our union with Christ is only going to be attained when we have a kind of righteousness that is life-giving, and that is The righteousness that comes, that finds its source in God alone. And this is why, folks, it's so hard for people to come to Christ. Because they have to believe that they have no righteousness of themselves at all, and they have to believe that God applies to them the righteousness that he wants them to have by Christ alone. And it is clearly applied by faith alone. You get faith, you get righteousness by faith, not by the deeds of the law. And many people just have a hard time understanding this. How can it not matter what I do? How can it not matter what how I live? How can that not matter? How has how can it only be about what Christ has done to me in applying his righteousness to my account? I want to hasten to say, if Christ has truly applied righteousness to my account to your account, you are going to live rightly. And that's going to be progressive, which we're going to get to. But suffice to say, when it comes to our righteousness applied to us, It is a is nothing of us. It's in entirely applied by full dependency on Christ alone. Now, maybe the question becomes for us, how does this how are we affected that that those of us who know Christ as our Savior have been saved for a perhaps a while? How does this affect our lives? Is this a problem that we could have? And I would just suggest to you that yes, the answer is yes, we can really have this problem experientially. We may know in our minds that Christ's righteousness is applied to us and we get full favor from Him by faith alone. But in our practice, in our experience, sometimes We don't experience it that way. And I wrote down a couple of ways that this happens. And the illustration of the marriage really helps us. Can you imagine getting married to somebody and somebody says, hey, why did you get married? And you say, you know, I just realized that I want to work for the person. Uh that I'm getting married. And you know, I figure I've got this good deal going on where where where if I work for them, if I do certain things for them, then they pay me. And if I just do this, this this and this then they then they'll pay me what they want to pay me. Is that a marriage? That's not a marriage. That's an employment. But sometimes when it comes to our our walk with God, we are thinking in terms of employment. We are thinking that we're that if I'll do certain things, then I'll be blessed of God, or I'll have his favor. If I don't do certain things, then I won't be blessed of God, and I will have even uh maybe punishment or whatever. And that is the wrong kind of idea of what our relationship with God is. Another way that this happens in our lives as Christians is we get in the mentality of like a business partnership. And there are some marriages that are this way, where the reason that they stay married is because they have there it's a mutually beneficial partnership, a mutually beneficial relationship. And you know, it just seems to work, and so we'll we'll do it based upon that. Folks, that's not a marriage either. And it's not a relationship with God either. I'm trying to draw these parallels for us just to help us to understand. Folks, if we look at my real if I look at my relationship with God as this mutually beneficial partnership But I have a problem where I he gives me like, you know, I when I die, I don't I can I can go to heaven. That's my benefit. And then I just do things for him because of what I do for him, it it it just makes sense. It makes sense that I would do things for him since he's given me heaven. And if we're not careful, we can think of of our relationship with the Lord as a mutually beneficial partnership. Folks, if we do that kind of thing. We are not establishing a good foundation for our walk with the Lord, for understanding how we are to live in Christ. And then that really brings us, and you know, just to reiterate this, Hebrews chapter 11, verse 6 says, But without faith it is impossible to please him. For he who comes to God, believes that he is, that he is a reward of them that diligently seek him. You know what our relationship with the Lord is like? It's a total dependence on God to do everything in our lives, and then we do what we do for him because we love him. And understanding this concept is so vitally important. As we walk through life as a Christian, If you could identify the most important thing, what is the most important thing to make sure That you understand about growing in the Christian life and living the Christian life, what would that be? Paul is really going to answer that question in the next verse in verse 10. Notice what verse 10 tells us. We have this word that which indicates to us that there is a purpose here. He's going to give us a purpose, verse 10. That I may what? That I may know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being conformed to his death. Do you know why? You've been saved? It's because you are united with Christ. Christ saved you to be united with Him. And do you know how you are to live out your your union with Christ? It is to Know him. That folks is above everything else. To know Christ. That is above service. It's above having a good family life It's above doing good things, good deeds. It's above all of that. It is knowing Christ. That is the thing that is most important. And I would even say it this way: it is above loving Christ. You say, are you sure about that? It is because of this. The more you know him, the more you love him. Why should knowing Christ come first? Because when you know Christ, you will love Him If there is one command that you ought to heed in the whole New Testament, it is to know Christ. That's why, even in the Old Testament, this is the case. In Jeremiah chapter 9, it actually says, let not the rich man glory in his riches, nor let the mighty man glory in his might, but let him that glory glory in this, that he understands and knows me. For I am the Lord. When we know him, then we'll love him And this kind of knowledge that we find in this verse is a kind of knowledge that is an experiential knowledge. This is not just head knowledge here. That's not the word at all. The Bible actually tells us to be careful of just head knowledge. First Corinthians 8, verse 1 says, Now concerning things offered to idols. We know that we all have knowledge. Knowledge puffs up, but love edifies. And if anyone thinks that he knows anything, he knows nothing, yet as he ought to know Knowledge puffs up. This is a different kind of knowledge here, folks. It includes head knowledge. It includes a knowledge of the attributes of God and who Christ is and the truth of Scripture. But folks, this is an experiential knowledge. It goes way beyond just what's in our heads. What he is saying here is that we would experience Christ. It's the same way in marriage. In fact, it's interesting that in the Old Testament, in Genesis chapter 4, verse 1, it actually says that Adam knew his wife Eve. He knew her. Of course, you know that's talking about a physical union. There is this understanding of an experience going on when we think of this word knowledge here. There is an experience, and it is intimate, and it is experiential. That's this word. So what we're talking here about when it comes to our sanctification, the most important thing, our sanctification. is to know Christ, which means to experience the union that we have in Christ. To know him, that I may know him. That includes a practical knowledge. Job twenty eight twenty eight says To uh and to man he said, Behold, the fear of the Lord, that is wisdom, and to depart from evil is understanding when we when we have the kind of knowledge of got Christ and experience of Christ that we're supposed to have, it's going to cause us to depart from evil. This is all wrapped up in this idea of knowing Christ. It's so simple and yet it's so deep. It's so clear and yet so profound. And the question then, folks, is what will it look like when I'm really knowing Christ? I mean, these are basic things, but so important. We get so caught up in so many different areas, in so many different facets of the Christian life. What will it look like when I'm really experiencing my union with Christ? And the answer is found in this verse. It says, verse 10: And the power of the resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings being conformed to his death. The power of the resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings. So he says that when we know him, we're still on point Number two. He says that when we know him, that we will understand the power of his resurrection. The power of the resurrection. What is Paul talking about here? He is talking about the fact that when we come to Christ, and boy, do we forget this. When we come to Christ, we experience resurrection power in our lives. You recall before, Ephesians chapter 2 is very clear about this. We're spiritually dead. When we come to Christ, what happens? We are made alive. What is Paul talking about here? Paul is saying that I want to know Christ in such a way that I can experience the power of the resurrection. There is no doubt. That what Paul is referring to is back in the time in Acts chapter 9 when he is on this road to the mascot and Christ gloriously saves him He is depending on his own righteousness. He is doing what he wants to do. He is obeying the law to the nth degree. And he is spiritually dead. And the resurrected Christ, he sees, and he is changed by him. He describes this in Ephesians chapter one, verse nineteen. And what is the exceeding greatness of his power toward us who believe according to the working of his mighty power towards the tower? Which he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead, seated him at the right hand of the heavenly places. The same power that raised Jesus from the dead. Is the same power that raised you from the dead spiritually when you came to Christ. It's incredible. And folks, we forget that. We take our salvation for granted. We don't really consider what Christ did And what God did in applying his righteousness to us, we don't really consider the power of the resurrection applied to our lives, because otherwise you'd still be dead. And yet that's exactly what Christ did. But the glorious truth, folks, is that the power of the resurrection did not stop at the at our conversion. It continues. Colossians chapter 1, verse 11 and 12 make this clear. It says. strengthened with all might according to his glorious power for all patience and long-suffering with joy. Giving thanks to the Father who has glorified us to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints and light There is this strengthened with might according to his glorious power so that you can be, you can endure, and you can have long suffering in your life. You say, does it really take resurrection power for me to be patient? You bet it does. Just try being patient without it. Are you a long-suffering person? Are you a person that is endures hardship well? None of us do that. Well. And if you do it well as a Christian, you know that you are experiencing resurrection power. This resurrection power is the kind of power that we have access to throughout our whole lives that helps us to grow spiritually and live victoriously spiritually. But that requires something of us. Did you know that? Folks, in order to experience resurrection and power in our lives, there is a requirement. And the requirement is for us to die to ourselves. How can you experience resurrection if you do not first die? He points this out here, the fellowship of the suffering. And then he says, being made conformable to what? To the death of Christ. Paul explains even more clearly in 2 Corinthians 4, verse 10, where it says, always carrying about in my body the dying of the Lord Jesus. that the life of Christ also may be manifested in our body. For we who live are always delivered to death for Jesus' sake. That the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our mortal flesh, so then death is working in us, but life in you. He explains that inside that we are constantly to die to self. Paul says in 1 Corinthians 15, verse 31. I affirm by boasting in you which I live in Christ Jesus our Lord, I die daily. And it's the context of the resurrection in 1 Corinthians 15. God wants us to experience abundant resurrection power, but the only way that we do that is to die to ourselves. And folks, the only way that that really occurs in our lives is if we go through suffering. How do you go through suffering? Well, what it's not suggesting that you do is have a martyr's complex and look for suffering. Aren't you glad about that that you don't have to pursue suffering? This passage is not telling you that you should go out and you should just find some way to hurt yourself. But I will tell you this, suffering, if you live any length of time in this world, it'll come to you. And you know that to be true. We all do And in Romans chapter 8, it actually says that the whole world groans, and the suffering that comes as a result of the fallen world comes to all of us. But there is a way for a Christian to take the suffering from the world and to and to and to uh uh respond to it in such a way that we see the resurrection power in our lives. So that when the suffering comes, we die to self. And we see our response is, it's like it's otherworldly. It's not from us. Our response is spiritual rather than carnal. And we experience the resurrection, and he says here, the fellowship of the suffering of Christ. He actually says here, as he has said before, that this is part of knowing Christ. Sometimes we get the idea, you know, if I if I just get rid of all my suffering, get rid of all my problems, then I can really focus in on knowing Christ. And if you're thinking that, you have the wrong idea. It is through the suffering. It is through the trials. It is through all of these things that we experience the resurrection power of Christ and thereby know Christ. It is through the suffering. And if we attempt to escape the suffering, or to fight the suffering Instead of responding in a biblical way to the suffering through endurance and faith and wisdom and all those things in James chapter 1. If we choose to respond in the wrong way to the suffering that we are going through, we will not see the resurrection power of Christ, and thereby we will not know him the way that God wants us to know him. But on the other hand, if we will go through the things in our lives that that we are going through and respond to those things with wisdom and faith and Endurance, the things that James 1 talks about, Romans 5 talks about. Well go through the tribulations and the trials of life and count them joy. Then what will occur in our lives is that we will begin to experience the resurrection power of Christ, and we will grow in our knowledge of Him and our experience toward Him. We'll know Him like Paul knows Him in this passage. And he is focused on knowing Christ. And that, brothers and sisters in Christ, is to be the focal point of the Christian life. To know Christ. Paul then says that when we know Christ this way, And when we fellowship with in the sufferings of Christ in the way that it's talking about in this passage, and when we understand those kinds of things When we're doing, when we're experiencing this, there is something that happens to us. And we find that thing that happens to us in verse 11. Verse 11 it says, If by any means I may attain to the resurrection from the dead. Now we read this verse, and we might think to ourselves, why would Paul have to attain the resurrection? That doesn't make a lot of sense. Isn't he going to experience resurrection when he dies? Don't, you know, is he is he questioning his own eternal security here? Of course, that can't be what he's doing. He has talked many times in the New Testament about eternal security, and that's a very clear doctrine of Scripture. What he is referring to is that there is this experiential side of the resurrection. There is this preposition ek that's attached to the Greek word that is behind this word resurrection. It's actually not any other place of the New Testament. It's the only place that does that. And in this word, the idea is that there is a kind of experiencing the resurrection, that a spiritual resurrection Before the physical resurrection. In other words, we are experiencing new life in Christ, and we're seeing it happen in our lives. And he says, by any means I want this to happen. Whatever it is, whatever suffering I got to go through, whatever difficulty I got to go through, whatever problems I got to go through, whatever means this is, I am willing to go through This I want this Because I want the resurrection power in my life to show, and I want to experience new life in Christ, and I want it to be something that I attain. This side of heaven. If by any means I may attain to the resurrection from the dead. And then we see here in verse 12 it says, not that I have already attained or have already perfected, but I press on. Here's a question for you. And I need to end soon, so I won't ask that question. Instead, I'll just point this out. But some of the times, sometimes what we do, brothers and sisters in Christ in our walk with the Lord is we fall into something called sinless perfection. And sinless perfection is something that's very dangerous. When we get into a place where we think we've arrived, when we come to a place where we think that we have nothing else to work on. There's no other growth in our lives that occurs. And apparently, that was a potential problem or a problem in the Church of Philippi. And Paul is warning about that. Paul is here in prison. He is a spiritually, very spiritually mature believer. He has gone through all kinds of suffering from this by this point. Remember that Philippians is written as a later book, one of his later books. Paul has gone through all kinds of, he is a very mature Christian. And he says that he wants to continue in the suffering and the fellowship of Christ. And knowing Christ and union with Christ, he wants to continue in this way so that he can attain the resurrection, the new life in Christ. And that he can experience this, but he is careful not to say, I've already perfected. In fact, that will never happen, this side of heaven. We will never come to the place where we are spiritually arrived, this side of heaven. We are growing in our sanctification all the time. And although we ought to have the kind of attitude that Paul has, Paul points out that although he's experiencing new life in Christ, And arguably it is showing out to others that doesn't mean that he has come to a place of perfection in his life. So balanced what he's saying here. And then we end with this, he says, what is our approach to all this? We press on That I may lay hold of that, the resurrection, for which Christ Jesus has also laid hold of me. He knows that there is this guarantee of the resurrection when he dies. But until then, he is laying hold of this new life in Christ, and he is pursuing it wholeheartedly. The word press on means to pursue, to go after. We have then, folks, this perfect balance. It's perfect because it's God's word. And this perfect understanding of the fundamentals of the Christian faith and how we can grow in Christ and to know him. And I want to just end this way by pointing out a few things. Number one, what is the source of your righteousness? Is it self or is it God? Now you may know in your mind that your righteousness is not of self, it's of God. Is that the way you're living? Are you aware of the righteousness of God in your life? And that is the basis of your union with Christ. Second question is, are you consumed with knowing Christ? Is that what you are consumed with? Folks, there is one thing. In life, that we can be consumed. If you're consumed with anything else, it will become an idol. If you're consumed with knowing Christ, well, He is the one you ought to be knowing. It's okay for him to be all consuming in your life. That's exactly what he what is supposed to happen. And folks, are you consumed with knowing Christ? Well, the follow-up question to that is: are you willing to die daily to self in order to experience resurrection power? Am I willing to die daily to my own selfish ambitions? To my own wants and my own desires and my own feelings, ego, and things like that. Number three Are you living with the end in mind? When you live, are you living with the end in mind? Paul says in this last verse that he's looking forward to the day where he is going to attain the resurrection and he wants to live out practically what he is going to experientially uh understand when he sees Christ. He wants to live out his new life in Christ every day. And the way to do that is to understand that we need to live with the end in mind. Am I living that way? These are three questions that we need to understand and to really ask ourselves. And if we will do this. We can align our thinking and our behavior and our hearts to this passage and to what it says, and we can know that we are on the right track. To growing in Christ and living that kind of life in Christ, that we are genuinely, as it says in the first verse, found in Christ. Let's pray. Father, as we come to you this morning, we look at ourselves and we look at all you have given us in Christ Jesus, and we are Compelled by the reality that you have made every way possible for us to be united with Christ And then our responsibility is to utterly depend upon him and to pursue one thing. To know him that I may know him. May that be the prayer of our hearts That I may know Christ. We can get so caught up in so many other different things and problems and distractions and difficulties and And if we are consumed with those, we will never undergo the sufferings that Christ wants us to undergo and respond to them so that we can continue to know Christ more. Or would you teach us to know Christ? Help us with this. To understand on a daily basis the power of the resurrection in our lives. And I don't think there would be anybody in this room, certainly including me, that would say that I've arrived in this area. We have much, much to learn on an experiential level. And these rich truths about life in Christ. I pray that you teach us. I thank you that you will. May we know you and love you. And experience Christ in our lives in a deeper way. Thank you for the time that we could spend just remembering what Christ did for us on the cross. Incredible sacrifice that Christ made on our behalf. And we pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen.