Good morning. I'd like to uh invite you to take your Bibles and look at Luke chapter 14 this morning. Luke chapter 14. And I know that most of you I've met, but for those of you who maybe I haven't been able to meet, my name is Joel. Porsche and uh our family, the Porsche family, is working in Ghana, West Africa. In fact, we have our most recent prayer card, which has everyone but the newborn baby in it And I'm holding that right here. If you're interested in picking up a prayer card, we have some in the side here. When you walk through, you'll see that. I invite you to get that, and I hope that tonight you'll do your best to try to come out to our evening time of fellowship and study in the Word. And I plan to talk about what's going on in Ghana and to give you an idea of of what what is going on at the church there, give you an idea how you can Pray for us, our family, pray for the people there in Ghana and the things that are going on. Give you a little bit of uh an idea about perspective, I hope. And uh so you'll get to see some things, you'll get to hear some things, and I want to definitely uh have you come with questions. And I I always enjoy uh fueling questions because questions come from where people are interested and I I don't always know where you're interested what uh what things are or questions in your mind. And so I really enjoy that time. So I hope that you'll be able to come out tonight and I hope that uh you'll come with questions in mind about the ministry, about culture, about so many different things connected to Ghana. I hope you'll do that. And that'll be a really good time. I'd also ask you to uh pray for our uh daughter Adeline. She's sick, that's why you don't see her and Deanna and the baby. Uh Adeline got some immunizations this week and she's been running a fever since then. Last night it got up to 105. So that was Sort of high. We went to a doctor, had her get looked at. She's doing a little better this morning, but definitely be in prayer for her. And if you think about it You should pray for someone named Rose in Todi. Rose is a young lady who is a member of our church. And They're actually, uh Rose and Michael are living in Ireland right now because Michael's working on a PhD. Um he is uh studying to be a doctor. Actually s he's uh continuing education to be a professor at the university in Cape Coast. And so he's studying in in uh Ireland and his wife is in labor right now. Okay, in labor right now, first child, and uh she's over a week past due, so they've induced her And I'm sure that uh they would really appreciate uh your prayers. She contacted my wife this morning. So um I'd like us to take a moment and ask the Lord to bless our time and I'd like to uh uh mention arose in in prayer. So let's bow before the Lord in prayer. Our Father, thank you so much for the great joy and privilege it is. um to as a as a corporate body uh to come into your presence with singing and to come before you with praise and to sit under the ministry of your word. And I pray that as we open the scriptures this morning, our minds would be very ready to receive what is here. And I pray that you would minister to the hearts and to the needs of every individual here through your word this morning. Help me to articulate with clarity and simplicity the truths that we find here. I pray that the Holy Spirit would take the truths and really impress upon our hearts what is here, that we might understand the significance and the weight of these truths as they relate to our own lives And I pray that we would have repentance before you, that our thinking would be changed into conformity with your word, that we would truly do business with you and respond correctly to your word. And I pray that you do a work of grace in each of us. We pray for uh Rose and Todi as she is in labor right now. I I pray that you would protect her and the baby, give her grace in a time of difficulty. I pray that you would ease her pain and help the delivery to go as smoothly as possible. I pray that you would help Michael as he's going through this with her as well for the first time. I pray that you would just have your hand of blessing and protection upon them. and that a mother and baby would come through smoothly and everyone would be healthy. We pray for my daughter as well as she's been sick. Strengthen her And we do pray for those who maybe couldn't be here for various reasons, perhaps connected to health. Would you work in their situations? And we'll thank you for what you will do. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Luke chapter 14, verse 26, says this. We'll start in verse 25. There went great multitudes with him Jesus, and he turned and said unto them, If any man Come to me, and hate not his father and mother, and wife, and children, and brethren and sisters, yes, and his own life also he cannot be my disciple Whosoever doth not bear his cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. For which of you, intending to build a tower, sits not down first and counts the cost, whether he have sufficient to finish it? Thus happily, after he has laid the foundation and is not able to finish it, all that behold it begin to mock him, saying, This man began to build and was not able to finish. Or what king going to make war against another king sits not down first, consulteth whether he's able with ten thousand to meet him that comes against him with twenty thousand? Or else while the other, yet a great way off, sends an embassage and desires conditions of peace. So likewise whoever he be of you, that forsaketh not all that he hath He cannot be my disciple. You know, when we come to a passage of Scripture like this, I think it causes us, if we consider what is being said, it causes us to pause and go, what? I hope that's what it does. In fact, you know what's very interesting about the way that Christ taught? And the way that people in the East teach versus the way that people in the West teach is actually kind of different. For instance, if you go and you sit in a classroom in a Western setting, a lot of times a teacher will have an outline, teacher will have notes, they'll go point by point logically through a progression, and you're going to write down all these things, and then you go back and you work through those notes. Well in an Eastern setting it's a little bit different. The way that you teach involves a lot of storytelling a lot of times. It involves making statements that are meant to get you to think. In fact when we read the Proverbs, what I love about the Proverbs is when we read them, a lot of them are very simple and easy to understood. But others, you have to admit, when you read those Proverbs, you have no idea what they're saying. Especially if you read him in in the King James and it's in older English, you go, What in the world is he saying? And you just you don't get it. Well, did you know that that is a teaching mechanism? In other words, teachers in that setting who were older and wiser Who had proverbs that they had heard from their fathers and their fathers' fathers and those kinds of things would make statements, would give proverbs, so that younger students would just sit down and they wouldn't understand what was there And it was designed not so that they would walk away and ignore what had been stated, but so that they would sit down and they would analyze what had been stated and they would work through it in their minds And perhaps, many times, they would just have to come to the teacher and say, I don't get what you just said. Can you explain this to me? And then the teacher sits down and he tells them what the application or what the proverb or what the parable is all about. And then they go, oh. And all of a sudden, what didn't make sense makes good sense. And because they were analyzing it and thinking about it and working through this in their mind, not only do they now have an illustration But now they have firmly rooted in their minds what the teacher was trying to get accomplished. And a lot of times that is what we find in the New Testament We find this in a lot of places. You know what's very interesting. We look at a passage like this. Jesus is not trying to teach us that it's good to hate our family. Okay? He's not saying if you have a father and a mother, then just abandon them and hate them and despise them. Or if you have children, you're supposed to hate them and despise them Or you're supposed to take everything that you own and just throw it away because it's better to live in poverty and rags and to have nothing. That is not what Jesus is trying to teach here. Jesus is communicating something that's very, very important that these people needed to understand because they needed to sit down and think about it and not understand it for a while. It was going to eventually cement in their minds. what Jesus is trying to communicate. You might say, well what exactly is Jesus trying to communicate? Well that's what we're going to do today. We're going to look at that. But before we dig into some of the details of this passage, I want to bring alongside two texts That I think will be very helpful as we think about what Jesus is saying. The first text that I'd like to mention is in John chapter 1 This is in John's prologue as he talks about Jesus coming into the world. And I want you to notice what John writes about Jesus. He says, In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. Now, is that not a blunt statement about the person of Christ? He is God. That is what John is stating, and that is a stunning statement, and that is something that, if you're not a Christian, will make you very uncomfortable because you say, How can a man be God? That is clearly what John is stating here. He's God in flesh. He doesn't stop there. He says the same was in the beginning with God. And all things were made by him. And without him was nothing made that was made. You want to talk about a very startling statement about an individual in history that is very startling. It says, In him is life, and the life was the light of men, and the light shined in the darkness, and the darkness did not comprehend it. So John goes on to basically say, this individual who is God in flesh, who is eternal, who is the creator, is the giver and the sustainer of life. He is the one who reveals truth. That is what he's talking about when he says light. And he came into the world, and the world didn't comprehend who he was. He then goes on to say this. In verse 11, verse 10, he was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not. He came unto his own, and his own received him not, but as many as received him, to them he gave the right to be called the children of God, even to those who believe on his name You say, what is the point? The point is this. John states that Jesus is a unique figure in human history. There is none like him. He's God in flesh. He is eternal. He is creator. He is the sustainer and the giver of life. In him is life, and in him is light. And when he came to his own, they did not understand him, they did not recognize him, they did not receive him, but those who did receive him Those people can become the children of God through faith in this individual, through belief in his name And so basically what he says is when Jesus came, some received him and some rejected him. Very, very simple. And actually it continues To this very day in that same sense. But it was unique in those days because those who received him and those who rejected him literally saw him face to face. They literally sat under his ministry. They heard him teach. They watched him perform miracles. And they had the opportunity to analyze an individual that they were walking with in time. Do you get what I'm saying? They were able to see him and analyze him in those things. So, Jesus in this particular passage is talking to a group of people. who we could say are somewhat in the balances. They've heard Jesus speak. They've heard his teachings. They understood the Old Testament prophecies regarding an individual called the Messiah. And as they spend time with Jesus, in their minds they are coming to conclusions about him. In that multitude, there is a division, maybe not on the surface, but certainly in the hearts of the of the individuals, there are some who came to the conclusion this individual is the fulfillment of prophecy related to the Messiah. He's God in flesh. He's going to die for the sins of mankind. In him is life, and in him is light, and he is the only way that we can receive salvation and forgiveness of sins. They came to that conclusion as they watched. this individual. And others said, I don't know what to do with him. Others flatly rejected him. Now they hadn't left him yet, but in their hearts they said, he isn't who he claims to be. Simple enough. So in this multitude you have division. And ultimately the division comes down to who is this person? That's really where it all lies. So with this context, Jesus makes the following statement. If any man come to me and hate not, and he goes into this Series of statements. Question. Was Jesus desiring to discourage people from following him? I guarantee if I asked the question in a poll we'd get a divided answer, I promise you. Because in a sense it's true and in a sense it's not. The reality is he invited all of the people. He said, anybody who is here can come to me. But he wants those who come to come with something in their minds. They understand who he is, they're convinced of it in their hearts, and they're ready to follow. He wants genuine, authentic disciples. And you might ask the question, What exactly does discipleship have to do with the new birth? In other words, how does one become a child of God? Or how does one stay a child of God? Or how does one, we could say, become recognized? as a child of God. Did you know that all those little questions actually kind of to some degree have bearing on this? Did you know that nobody becomes a Christian by choosing to follow the commands of Jesus? Nobody, nobody becomes a Christian by choosing the good path, the moral path. You say, how do you know that? Because the Bible is very clear in Ephesians 2. 8. 9, it says It is by grace that we are saved through faith. This is not of ourselves. It is the gift of God. It is not of works, lest any man should boast. If we go to Romans chapter 3, 4, and 5, and we read through those three chapters and we analyze what it's saying, Paul cannot be clearer that by the deeds of the law no flesh is justified in his sight. But you know what is also interesting about the Bible? While it teaches we are never justified by our works It does certainly teach that those who are justified are identified by what they do. It's very, very interesting. Turn with me. to 1 Peter chapter 1, and you will see some very interesting statements that Peter makes in relation to these. I'm I'm I'm kind of Talking about this at the beginning because I think it's important it's going to bring up some questions in people's minds as they come to a passage like this. In 1 Peter 1, it says this. We are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation. First of all, who is we? We as believers. How did you become a believer by faith? How are you kept in that position? Interestingly, by the power of God, I don't stay a Christian because of my own power. The reality is the moment that I came to understand the gospel in my lost condition That I was unrighteous, that I was a sinner, that there was nothing that I could do to merit God's favor or to remove my sin death. The moment that in my humility I recognized my brokenness and my sinfulness and my guilt before God. And I turned in childlike faith and I trusted in Jesus and his righteousness. And his sacrifice and his resurrection. The moment that there was repentance toward God and faith in Christ, God saved me. And he keeps me by the power of God. Salvation is all of God's grace. It is not in any part built on my work or my righteousness or my faithfulness. That's very important for us to understand. The Bible teaches we are saved by faith alone. Yet the same Bible also teaches that that faith won't be alone. Very interesting. Because notice what he says later on in the verse. He says, though now for a season If need be, you are in heaviness through manifold temptations, that the trying of your faith, being more precious than gold that perishes, though it is tried with fire, might be found unto praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ. You know what's very interesting? In the same passage where Peter emphasizes that we are saved by faith, we are kept by the power of God, he also emphasizes that our faith will be tested. And the testing of that faith does two things. One, it proves or it demonstrates the genuineness of that faith And two, it matures or it purifies or it strengthens that faith. This is very interesting. When a person trusts Christ It's by faith alone. And when we look at that person, you know how we can tell it's true? We see evidences of it No, no Christian is perfect. No Christian fail or passes every single test of his faith, okay? But the reality is that a new creature in Christ walks in a different way. than he did formerly. A new nature manifests itself to degrees. Faith that is genuine is a faith that is revealed through the fires and the testings of life In many ways, this is what Jesus is actually getting at. What Jesus is getting at is within that congregation, that group of people, There are some who really are convinced that he is the Messiah, and there are some who are not. They are both content to follow him for the time. And what he's essentially doing is he's calling people to make a choice. If you truly believe that I am who you say that I am, then you're going to recognize my authority. You're going to recognize my right to rule in your life. And you will calculate it. And you will make the right decision And if in your heart you are not convinced that I am who I say that I am, you will not continue to follow me. There will come a point in a time when you walk away. You say, I can't do this. I don't want this. In other words, Jesus wants authentic disciples. He wants people who are purposed to follow him exclusively. Because of who he is. So what are the parables that are mentioned? Well he gives two. One is very interesting. He talks about someone who's going to build a building. He says, Which of you intending to build a tower sitteth not down first and counteth the cost whether he hath sufficient to finish it, lest happily after he has laid the foundation he is not able to finish it, and all that behold begin to mock him Saying this man began to build and was not able to finish it. So it gives us like a really simple illustration. So somebody wants to build a house. One guy plans well. He says, I know what kind of a house that I can afford. I know how much time I want before I get into the house. So he plans it out. And then he executes his plan, and there's no shame because the guy's able to accomplish what he set out to accomplish. He thought it through carefully. Another guy, well, he's impulsive He wants a big house. He doesn't plan well. He doesn't consider all that's involved. And so what does he do? He starts putting his money and his resources into this house, and he gives and he gives and he gives. And guess what? He comes to a place where he wastes all the money he poured into the house because he does not have the power and the time and the ability to finish what he started. It's sort of like a person who goes, Man, I'd really like to have this really expensive car. And he doesn't consider the fact that there's no way he can afford to pay those monthly payments for that car. But he just goes and he buys the car. And after three or four months He can't keep up. And eventually, you know what happens? He loses all the money he put into that car and the car. And everybody goes. Man, he should have thought through that. You know what I'm talking about? That's what we're talking about. So Jesus says, you need to think. You need to count the cost. You need to analyze before you make a decision. He's calling them to think about who he is. He gives a second illustration. This is an interesting one as well. He talks about a king going to war. He says, What king going to war against another king, sitteth not down first, and consulteth whether is able with ten thousand to meet him that cometh out with twenty thousand, or else while the other is yet a great way off, he sendeth an embassage embassage and desireth conditions. It's kind of like this. He says, you're a king and you've got 10,000 people that can go out to fight and defend your city. This group comes out against you and they have 20,000. Is it smart to send all your young men out there to die? And then the city get conquered anyway? Is that really smart? He says, of course not. It's a waste of life. So, if you realize you can't overcome your enemy, make peace with them. And by the way, these people lived under Roman oppression. They knew a lot of situations where that's what cities did. Some cities went out to fight the Romans and they were crushed, and all the men in the city were gone. And others said, you know what? We don't like Rome and they're oppressive, but we'd like to live. And so they made peace and they lived under the Roman rule And they enjoyed the benefits of it and they were frustrated with the non-benefits of it, but they lived. And so he basically says, we understand in life, if you don't want to be mocked, plan out well. If you don't want to die, plan out well. So then he comes to this issue of discipleship What are the qualities that he demands of authentic discipleship? There are four things that I want us to kind of notice that we find in this text. The first one can be found in verse 26. If any man come to me and hate not His father and mother and wife and children and sisters, he cannot be my disciple. What group of people is he talking about? It's talking about family members. It's talking about family members. You know, we live in a culture that is not nearly as tight-knit in family as the people would have experienced in those days. You know, it's so interesting in Ghana, every single weekend, there are men in our church who go back to their home village every weekend. Their wife goes back to her home village every single weekend without fail. If their great-great uncle who they never interacted with dies, they will go to that funeral. It's true. And you say, why is that? Because family is very, very important to those people. Their clan is very, very important to them. You know what's interesting, the Bible makes it very clear that husbands are to love their wives, that parents are to train their children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. That children are to honor their fathers and their mothers. Jesus is not giving some radical command where he wants all of a sudden to overthrow all those other truths that have been established in other passages of Scripture. He's getting to something very different. He's getting to the issue of loyalty. We could put it in this simple way. Family can get in the way of serving God. They can get in the way of serving God. Or we could put it in this way. There are times when we're faced with a conflict between our family and what Christ says is yes, right, and yes, wrong. Are we willing to forsake the family tie and embrace potential isolation to follow Christ? Or will we bend to the wishes of the family? You know what's interesting? There are so many potential areas where this kind of a conflict can arise You maybe have a person who believes that they're supposed to go into the ministry. And the father says, No, you're going to be a nuclear physicist. Okay? Simple little little conflict, right? How about you have a person who wants to get married and their and their little father or mother says, there's no way you're going to marry another Christian. I'm not going to let you. This is the kind of person that you need to marry. It comes down to all kinds of values issues. It might come down to the way that you raise your children, the way that you educate your children. So many different areas. How you discipline your children. There is no end to the potential conflicts that can come between family and what the Bible says is right and what is wrong. And what Jesus is saying is if or when the conflict arises, you have to. Have your allegiance with me and not with them. He's not talking about missions necessarily. It could potentially come into that realm. But he's not necessarily talking about missions and going to another culture to work with other people. He's talking about practical Christianity. The test of family. Many times And especially in a in a country where being a Christian is dangerous, this is a very big issue. There are parts of the world where it's illegal to be a Christian. There's a reason why ninety-nine point nine percent of the people aren't Christians or Muslims in these countries. It's because if you're a Muslim and you convert to Christianity, you could be killed. There are countries like that today, many of them. Many of them. We talk about the 1040 window. You know, for a person living in that kind of a context, this is a very real passage of scripture. Because they know very well what it might cost them with their family, with their community, if they Say it is true that these teachings of Christ are true and I will place my faith in him and he is truly who he says that he is. They're gonna it's gonna cost them something. We come to a second test. He mentions this. Yes, his own life also. We could call this the comfort test. You know, there can be times when we are faced with a conflict between what Jesus says is right and wrong and what is comfortable. You know, it can happen in just the simplest context as in your work environment. Okay? You know, your boss comes to you and he says, Okay, I need you to do something for me. And then they begin to present something that you know is very unethical. It's morally wrong. What your boss is telling you you need to do to get that promotion or to not get in trouble with him. It's going to cost you something if you say, no, I can't do that. You say, could that really happen? Absolutely. Some of you may even be thinking of specific situations you yourself have been in. Or even potentially are in right now. Where you have this situation. And what is comfortable and what is easy and what might seem the best to you on the surface would be to compromise and say, you know what, on this one I'm just gonna kind of slide by and not worry about it. But what does Jesus say? You must Be willing to forsake even your own life also. Comforts There are times that as Christians we have to choose what is right over what is wrong, even if it's going to cost us comfort and simplicity and ease. This is a tremendous struggle that we all face, and it is so easy to compromise in these issues, to appease our conscience on these issues. But Jesus says, if you're my disciple, you have to give me number one allegiance. We come to a third test. And this one is also very interesting. He says, whoever does not bear his cross and follow me cannot be my disciple. You know what's interesting in our culture, wearing a cross on a necklace isn't really that big a deal, is it? No, it's a piece of jewelry. But you think about what a cross meant in those days. A cross was an instrument of death. Go back a few hundred years ago in our country when capital punishment was executed with a rope, a noose. How would you feel if your pastor said, take up your noose and follow Christ? You get what I'm saying? Especially if you'd seen someone hanged right in your presence. You know, a cross was a place where the Romans took the worst of criminals, and they brought them there, and they stripped them there, and they nailed them to that cross, and as they hung in that hot, dry sun People would walk by and say, I don't want to do what they did. It was a place of shame. It was a place that was meant to instill fear in people It was meant to establish who was in authority. And when Jesus says, take up your cross, he's indicating something. You may have to give the ultimate sacrifice. Now that doesn't mean that every person's going to die as a martyr. There are many, many Christians who don't die as martyrs. And praise God for those who live to be old men and women and die in those years of life in that way. But there are others who don't. And he says you must be willing even to sacrifice your own life He then comes down to a final point that I would like to make, and that is this. Whoever does not forsake all that he has. Cannot be my disciple. He's talking about material p possessions. You know, there are times that we come to decisions in life where we can choose either To choose the material possessions or what God says is right and wrong. It can happen. You may have an opportunity In fact, this this happens so often uh in in our in our context in Ghana. Someone will have a great job opportunity, but to take the job opportunity, you know what it means? The family's gonna get split apart. The husband's gonna move to the northern part of Ghana, or he's gonna move to the UK, or he's gonna move to the United States, and the wife's gonna stay here. And how many times, because of money, a person will make that decision, I'm gonna do it. And you know what it does? It causes tremendous destruction to the family. An opportunity to go to a place and have a new job and a great career. And there's no place to worship the Lord with other believers. There's no good church. And what happens? Because of money, they pay the price. And they walk away from the things of the Lord and they suffer for years to come. How many families have split? How many youth have gone by the wayside? How many times have people's walk with God become cold and callous because they pursued money and material possessions over what God says? So Jesus gives these simple commands. He talks about comfort, he talks about family, he talks about money, he even talks about our own lives. And he says, if you're going to be my disciple, I have to be number one in all those areas. You might say, are there examples of people who have done that? Absolutely there are. I think of Moses. In Hebrews 11 it says this, by faith Moses. When he was come to years, or when he was old enough to make the decision, you could say, he refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. Esteeming the reproach of Christ's greater riches than the treasures in Egypt, because he had respect unto the recompense of the reward. By faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king, for he endured as seeing him who is invisible This is one of the greatest examples I can think of in the scripture of a man who made a decision based on principle being shaped by a worldview. That involved forsaking what everyone else wanted. How many people like power? Do you want to be the guy who everybody tells you to do, or do you want to be the guy who tells everyone that to do a job, huh? He was in line to be the Pharaoh. Do you think in that position he could have had any woman that he wanted? Forget any he could have had a harem, okay? He could have. Do you think that he was going to choose poverty or riches in that situation? He's going to be the richest man in Egypt. He could have had money, he could have had power, he could have had love in his minds, he could have had ease, he could have easily in that position said, Okay, you Jews can can now come and go and leave. He could have done that. But you know what's interesting? He said, No, I'm going to go and I'm going to be with these people instead of these people, because I believe these people are following the true gods, and these people are serving idols. It's a fascinating decision that he made. Why did he do it? Well the scriptures say it was by faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king. You know what's interesting when we read through the the life of Moses? If it wasn't stated this way in Hebrews 11, you may not have even realized that. I don't think I would have. But obviously, there were things going on in his heart that made him make those decisions. And we see the end of the story. God used him in a in just a powerful way. God took this man and used him to lead his people out of Egypt. He used him to pen the Pentateuch. Moses is a pillar to the Jewish people. God used him in a mighty way. And it came down to the simple point of worldview. He made a decision by faith because he understood who God is. And this is what Jesus is saying. If you're going to follow me, count the cost. Are you convinced of who I am? If you are, then this will be the resulting decision that flows from that worldview. You say, well, what's his point? His point is this, our worldview must be shaped by God first, not me first. Everything that we do must flow from that worldview. Our commitment to Christ must be number one over every area of our lives. You know what's so interesting. Some people say, you know, I can give God my money, but I can't give him my comfort physically Or I can give him my money and my comfort, but I could never give up the potential for family conflict. And so what we tend to do is we tend to say, you know, my life has all these rooms. I will give God eight of them, but I will keep two of them to myself. And I'll work really hard in the eight so that it compensates for the two that I'm not You get what I'm saying? We have this uncanny ability to do that kind of a thing. He says, Don't do that. Every area of your life must be submitted. To me. We can't hold anything back from his lordship. Genuine discipleship involves absolute commitment to Christ. You say, Brother Joel, how do we apply this passage? I think the first way we apply it is by asking the question, first of all, Can I be a disciple? Do I have that capacity? You say, well, why would you ask that question? I'll tell you why. You cannot follow Christ if you're not in Christ. Have you come to that point where you've seen yourself before God, that your righteousness, as Isaiah says, is but filthy rags? That we are all as an unclean thing, and our righteousness is as silty rags. Have you come to the place where you understand that there is none righteous, not even one, including you? Including me. We are not righteous people. We are sinners. We deserve God's just and holy judgment Have you come to recognize that God in His great love and grace has extended to you the ability to be saved? And it's all found in him. Jesus wore our sins, satisfying the justice of God against our sin. Jesus lives in perfect righteousness so that we can be given his righteousness to stand righteous before God when we place our faith in Christ Jesus rose from the dead, demonstrating his power over sin and death. It's all found in him. In him is life. Have you turned to Christ and trust in his finished word? You cannot follow him if you are not in Christ. It's impossible. Christian, you might say, I'm in Christ. I've trusted in his finished work, and I know that I need to follow him more carefully, more faithfully. Can I ask you, are there areas in your life that you are strategically holding back from him? Are you willing to submit to his lordship in these areas, but not these? You know it's amazing about the Pharisees. When they walked into the public square They were very careful to greet in certain ways, to dress in certain ways, to say certain things. They looked very good on the outside. They even tithe from their mint and cumin, their herbal gardens. But Jesus says internally they were full of dead men's bones. They were covetous. They're immoral. They're greedy. Yes, they even cast in their lot to have an innocent man, Jesus, killed. It's a classic example of people who took one area of life and said, look at this and the other side. You get what I'm saying? We are very good at it. Distractors. And we focus on what we're doing well and we ignore what we're not. May I challenge you, follow Christ exclusively. How is he working in your heart? The reality is we all, we all, don't follow him to the degree that we should May God give us the grace to do that. Let's put our hearts together in prayer, and then Pastor Jim will come and close it as he sees fit. Our Father, we thank you for this text, not because it makes us feel good, but because it's truly honest. It exposes What is really in all of our hearts? We are masters of deception. We are masters of compromise. We are masters of appeasement. And I pray that you'd help us to be mastered by the true Lord, Jesus Christ. Christ. I pray if there's a person here who's not yet faced the reality of his condition before the Lord. That you would help that individual to consider your righteousness and your holiness and the tremendous cost that Christ paid. so that they could be redeemed. And may you, through your providential work in their lives and through your word, draw them to a very clear understanding of the gospel. That they might turn to you in faith alone. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.