Chapter five. Galatians five. I always find it interesting when you watch the news, which is Not as advisable as uh as maybe it once was. I always find it sort of interesting that um that the world sees problems a certain way. And they they see a problem, and usually when they see a problem, there's a there's something valid about that problem, but um they don't really see the problem the way it ought to be seen. And then when they try to provide a solution to the problem, it's like it's it's you can see why they they provide that solution, but it's Not quite the right solution to their lack of understanding of the right problem. For example, um Perhaps you've heard the song, the 1965 popular song. Um the lyrics were by Hal David, and it was popularized by Jackie DeShannon and Deion Warwick, and I don't know who those people are, but some of you might. What the world needs now is love, sweet love. And some of you of that age category are going, yeah, I know that's not. I had to look it up on Wikipedia. Anyway. And so what the world needs I mean, I've heard the song before, but had to look up the the the details of it. What the world needs well, you know, I mean like that's kinda w true. I mean the world does need love. Um and and in fact Christ's love is what the world needs. And when you don't have love in your heart, there is a problem. But they really don't define love correctly. They don't really understand what true love is. The world really sees love as an motion. rather than something that is a a a decision that's carried out through uh resulting in a behavior. So you sort of have that issue How about freedom? We all we need liberty, we need freedom. And then you have compromises based upon an inaccurate misunderstanding of freedom. Freedom that just is free to do whatever you want, whatever feels good. You think of love and freedom and put yourself back in the 1970s and what that means. Everybody knows now, not everybody, but at least if you know the Lord and you think of the 1970s and what freedom and love is, you you think something very different than what Paul would think of freedom and love is. When you look at God's word, though, what is really being demonstrated here in this passage is that Christians are actually liberated to love. They have liberated love. Now that doesn't even sound right if you go back to the 1970s. You're like, no, we don't have liberty. That's not what we have around here. But biblically, what Paul is going to tell us in this passage is that we are liberated to love. And in fact, the way that we we live out our liberty is by loving. And if you don't Love as a carrying out of your liberty, you actually will end up going back into bondage And so the message today really has to do with liberating to love, being liberated in order to be able Let's go to the Lord and pray and then we'll get into the passage. Father, as we look at your word this morning, I pray that it would help us Just in this whole desire that you have for us to live out freedom in Christ. It seems to be that that is the theme of this entire book. Paul is very concerned that the Galatian church is not living out their liberty. They're not living out their freedom in Christ. They're being pulled back into a slavery that they should that is not theirs, that they have been freed, but they're not living it out. And I pray, Lord, That you would teach us through your word this morning how we can live in light of the liberty that you have given us. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, let's pick up here in chapter 5, verse 7. We're going to notice in the first few verses here. The Apostle Paul is going to teach us something about how we live out liberty, first of all, that it requires us to deal with hindrances. Verse 7. But on the contrary, or I'm sorry, I'm in chapter two, I'm going to go to chapter four here, or chapter five actually. Um verse seven. You ran well, who hindered you from obeying the truth? This persuasion does not come from him who calls you. A little leaven leavens the whole lump. I have confidence in you in the Lord that you will have no other mind, but he who troubles you shall bear his judgment. He begins in verse 7 by exposing those who are hindering the Galatian Christians from living out in the liberty that they want them that he wants them to live in. Verse 7 actually illustrates it by by someone who is running a race. He says, you ran well There was a time, Galatian Christians, where you ran free, where you ran well. Who has hindered you from obeying the truth? Now it's very interesting that he puts it this way because the very people that said that you needed to do certain things in order to obey the truth were actually the very people that were hindering them from obeying the truth. And so he says, he illustrates it this way. He says You're essentially you're not running well anymore. You did, you ran well, and now you're not. He exposes them. And the truth is In our lives as Christians, if we are going to live well, live in freedom, we need to run well, but we need to identify and expose those who are hindering us. It's interesting that in the New Testament, this is mentioned a lot, the idea of the Christian life being something that you run in Hebrews 12, verse 1 says, Therefore, we also, since we were surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight in the sin which does so easily beset us. And let us run with pa run with endurance the race that is set before us. At the end of Paul's life, he writes in 2 Timothy chapter 4: I have fought the good fight. I have finished the race. I have kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, will give will award me at that day, and not only me, but all unto all them also that love is appearing. Often people enjoy running. How many of you all have ever gotten into running? I'm curious how many people here. I there we have a few people there are run. There is sort of this I always have a hard time starting off. Like the first half a mile is like Killer. And then after that, there's sort of this freedom that you you feel. You feel a sort of sense of freedom after that. And I think that's probably why Paul uses the illustration here. But there are these people that are hindering them. The word hinder actually means they're cutting in. It's like they're cutting in line and keeping the these people from running the way that they ought to run. How many of you all have ever heard of a man by the name of Louis Zampirini? Anybody here have heard of that name, Louis Zamporini? It was my grandparents that told me about him. There's actually a movie um that uh that that is about his life and also a a book that's about his life as well. In fact I I'd like to check that book out from the library and read it sometime. This was a man who is a U. S. prisoner of war He was a survivor of World War II. He was also a Christian evangelist, but he was also an Olympic distance runner. He qualified for the 3,000 meter race for in 1938, the 1936, which was the Berlin Olympics. And in 1938, during the NCAA championship in Miss Mini Latinapolis, Louis Zamperini was the one to beat. He was far above all of his peers when it came to this long distance running. In fact, so much so that some of the coaches of the other runners were conspiring against him. He told the other coaches of the other teams told the the runners to to sharpen their spikes and to get ready to actually do some damage to this runner. So happened that they actually ganged up and boxed him in so that he couldn't he was getting ahead, but they weren't Letting him get ahead because uh they didn't want him to get ahead because obviously they couldn't beat him, so they were boxing him in. He kept trying to get out of this box, this three or four-man box that were was boxing him in, and he couldn't get out of it Then one of the uh one of the uh runners actually stomped I don't know how he did this while he was running, but stomped on his foot and impaled his foot And after that, another one shoved him with his elbows so hard in the ribs that it actually broke his ribs and punctured his lung. Louis Zamparini was one who was actually underwent a lot of persecution in his life Obviously, he was hindered in running well. And that's the kind of thing that Paul is basically saying. They're cutting in, the Judaizers are cutting in, and they're hindering these people from running well, running that race that is set before him. These people were to be w were were to be marked. They were people to that Paul was warning them about. And it is true, folks, that we need to be able to identify folks and not just people, but thinking and behavior and ideas that are going to keep us from living free in Christ. Did you know that bad thinking can keep you from living free in Christ? Bad theology can do it. Bad doctrine can do it. Living free in Christ. And sometimes the very things that we think will free us are the very things that will actually enslave us. And we must learn to identify those things that will enslave us. It's interesting that for the first century of Christians, the the Galatians, they they actually were convinced by the Judaizers that following all of these Old Testament laws And circumcision, all of that, we're actually going to give them a sense of freedom. And the Apostle Paul says, no, that slavery is the same kind of slavery that you came out of, which was paganism and idolatry. Secondly, number two, we must learn to identify the source. How do we deal with hindrances? We've got to identify the source, and we've got to realize that that source is not of God Paul does this in verse 8. He says, This persuasion does not come from him who calls you. He just very clearly and very flatly says This is not of God. It's not of the person of the one who calls you. The calling of God into liberty is something that the book of Galatian mentions on several occasions. The idea of a calling is in Galatians chapter 1, verse 6. It says, I marvel that you are turned away so soon from him who called you into the grace of Christ, to a different gospel. Chapter 1 verse 15 says, But when he it pleased God who separated me from my mother's womb and called me through his grace. Galatians 5, 1 actually says that Christ freed free freed you to make you free. Galatians chapter 5, verse 8, which is our passage here, tells us that we are called that this is not the hindrance here was not what who call from who called you. And 513 says, for you brethren have been called to liberty. Only do not use liberty as an occasion for the flesh, which we'll see later on. So Paul says, look, this thing that's hindering you is not Of God. He identified the source. Number three, we must learn to catch our the hindrances at its early movements. Notice what he says in verse 9. A little leaven leavens the whole lump. Now, some of you bake bread. And some of us had never break break baked bread. I don't think I ever done that before. I'm actually always impressed by people who do it, but I I'm I'm haven't done that much. I may have helped throw some in a bread machine at one time, but I think that's cheating, right? Right, Fred people? Is that that is that cheating? Um Well, what it sa what this is passage Paul is pointing out, you know, it only takes a little. A little leaven in the wrong uh in in bread just will eventually leaven the entire lump. And his point is that you've got to you can't you've got to the application would be we've got the you've got to catch it early before it ruins everything And the hindrances to liberty, we have to catch them early before they hinder everything. This is so important in our lives as Christians. Things of the flesh, desires that come from the flesh, which we're going to learn about later, is something that we've got to identify early and see where the source is and say, you know, that's not of God. That's not something that is biblical. It's not something that's true. It's not something that's right. And we've got to identify it early because if we don't identify it early It will become something that is much greater in our lives. The Judaizers had at by this point enveloped their life. He they started off small and started off subtle and s and start off seemingly uh not very harmful and it ended up being something that grew out of out of that. We must learn to catch hindrances At their early movements, hindrances to our liberty. And then number four, we must trust the sovereign grace and preservation of God. Have you ever noticed that in another Christian's life that perhaps they seem to be living in bondage? Have you ever actually seen that before where where it seems as though they seem to be living enslaved to sin? or living enslaved to legalism. That really is the two places we've got to watch out for. It's legalism or licentiousness. Enslavement to legalism is enslavement. Enslavement to licentiousness is enslavement where you feel like you have a license to do whatever. Both those things will lead to bondage and to enslavement. You ever seen somebody in one of those two categories? And you wanted to try to help them? I actually think we should help them. But there's also a sense in which God has to be the one to work in their lives. And it's interesting that when when God talks about these things and dealing with things and making sure that you do Fulfill your responsibility, you almost always see coupled with responsibility is also the sovereign work of God. In order to really get God's perspective, both of those things are always true. There is always a level of sovereignty. God is always at work, he's always doing what he wants to do. And even regardless of circumstances that you think are not desirable, God is still working through all of that. But there's also our responsibility That our responsibility to warn if we need to warn, our responsibility to identify error when we see it, our responsibility to To note concern if we have concern for someone who loves the Lord and seems to be going the wrong direction. We're going to see more of that in a few moments. God wants us to do that, but he wants us to understand that ultimately he is in control. And it's interesting that even though the Apostle Paul was uh led many of these people very likely to Christ and built this church, started this church, and it was like his these were his children. He still said something to them as a matter of confidence. He said, I have confidence in you. And notice the next phrase in what? I have confidence in you in in the Lord. No, it's interesting that if you wa you may see somebody And you feel like they're going the wrong direction, they're a Christian, they're going the wrong direction, and you might say to yourself, that person is headed for failure, and they may be. You know what's wonderful is to know that you can have confidence In them, in the Lord. That the Lord, if they really are the Lord's, if they really are a child of God, that God will work things out in their lives. And Paul basically said this in Philippians chapter 1 verse 6, being confident of this very thing, that he who has begun a good work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ. The confidence was not in the flesh. It was not in the person. It's not in, oh, well, I have confidence that you'll come out of this because of your great intellect or your great strength or your great ability. No, no. There's confidence in God That God, who has completed a good work in someone, will also complete it, or started a good work in someone, will complete it in the day of Christ. But notice also this. God will judge. You see that there? Sometimes we're tempted to try to think that we have to get retribution. We have to be the one it's like it's like we're we're Mighty Mouse. You ever you ever watch the show Mighty Mouse? How many of you ever seen the show Mighty Mouse? Now I'm eight oh cool. Okay. All right. That was a great show. I I saw that as a kid. Mighty Mouse is it? Mighty Mouse is on his way. Mighty Mouse will save the day. Okay. Here he comes to save the day. We'll get the lyrics right. We can have a collective meeting on what what the lyrics are. You remember Mighty Mouse? Well sometimes we want to act like Mighty here I come to save the day, you know. Well, we need to step back sometimes and say, you know what? God can do that a whole lot better than I can. God can get in there and figure out who's right and who's wrong. You ever notice sin really complicates things? Everything is complicated when sin enters into the picture. You think of a a work drama. How many of y'all have work drama or have had work drama? I guarantee you it's because you're dealing with sinful people, including yourself. And because there's work drama, things are so complicated. Trying to figure out who did what when and who actually said what it is it is not fun And sometimes it's better when when God gives you an opportunity to help then help. But sometimes it's better just to step back and say, Lord You're the only one who really knows how to work this all out. You're the only one who knows the end from the beginning and knows who's right and who's wrong. Let me step back and just pray about this. And we have to know the dif the wiz have the wisdom to know the difference between those things. But God note God will judge. We never have to worry about that, by the way. Man, that person got away with it. No way. That never happens. There will always be a day of judgment. There will be a day where God and all and and and you know really God's only one that's good at this. He is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. We're not. We can't know somebody's motives, and we're actually told biblically not to try to figure out somebody's motives. God can do that though, and we don't have to worry about whether somebody has gotten away with it. We get our sense of justice and we want to fix the problem. Well, sometimes the best thing to do is to present the truth and let God do what he's going to do. We ought to present the truth. If we see a lie, we ought to correct it. If we see a falsehood, we ought to fix we ought to we ought to correct it as much as we can or present the right thing. But then we ought to just get our hands off of it sometimes and let God do what God is going to do. And we see in this passage that Paul has this balance. He says, he says, I have confidence in the Lord that eventually you're going to come back around and you are going to follow the right way And the person that's hindering you, the Judaizers that are hindering you, God will judge them. And then he says something interesting here. He says, whoever he is. You see the passage? It says, whoever he is. Well, some interpreters have misunderstood that. They've thought that Paul was saying basically that he didn't know who was who was hindering the the um who was hindering the Galatian Christians. But that obviously was not what Paul was saying. Paul was very aware of what was going on in the Galatian church. Whoever he is was actually a reference to the fact that God is no respecter of persons. God is not judging, oh, but that guy, you know, he's got so much stature that that that he he can't be touched. God is no respecter of persons He will discern the right thing. And at the judgment, there's nobody that's going to stand based upon their stature or their position. Everyone will be judged the way God intends them to be judged. And we don't have to worry about that. So all of that, if we will handle that the right way, it will help us to live in liberty. All four of those things expose things that are hindering us, identify the source, catch the hindrance at its early movements. And then trust God's sovereign preservation in the situation. Then we find here Paul is going to deal with a particular problem. See, the Judaizers were actually accusing the Apostle Paul of doing something that he that he wasn't really doing. They accused him of being a hypocrite, being duplicitous. Notice what it says in verses 11 and 12, or verse 11. And I, brethren, if I preach circumcision, why do I still suffer persecution? The issue was they said that Paul actually believes in circumcision, but when he came to the Galatian Christians, the Galatian uh region to to bring them to Christ, he left that part out because he thought that the Galatians would actually not find that very desirable. And so out of a fear of man, he chose not to deal with that. That was the the accusation from the from the uh the these Judaizers. And part of this was because Paul on certain occasions did actually recommend circumcision. He did this with Timothy in Acts chapter 16, verse 3, where they were going into a Jewish reason region and so not to be a stumbling block to the Jews so that they could reach him for Christ, they Paul actually circumcised Timothy. Paul wasn't against circumcision, but he was against requiring circumcision for meriting favor with God. He was absolutely against that. And in fact, when that was the mantra, be circumcised so that you can be in have favor with God Or that your family can have favor with God when that was what was being spread, he wanted nothing to do with it. Now that's not duplicity, is it? That's not hypocrisy, is it? That's actually quite consistent. The grace of God must be preserved. The gospel must be preserved. You know, it is interesting that oftentimes leaders Because they're in a fishbowl will be will be accused of of hypocrisy. See, they're inconsistent. They do this one way and they do this another way. They don't And they never actually get all the facts. These Judaizers didn't get all the facts, and frankly, the Galatian Christians were believing the Judaizers and they weren't getting all the facts. Guys always check two sides of this there's always two, three usually three sides of the story actually. One person side, the other side, the right side And you have to do that. The Bible says he that heareth something before he hears it, or answer it before he hears it, it's folly unto him. And so we see that in this passage as well. And so he deals with that. He says, why if that's the case, why am I still persecuted? If I am adjusting my message based upon the people that I'm talking to, why am I still receiving persecution? And he says, furthermore, the cross, the stumbling block of the cross becomes of none effect. He says that in verse 12. He says, then the offense of the cross, that's still verse 11, then the offense of the cross has ceased. What is he talking about? The offense of the cross. How is the cross offensive? How is it how is it a stumbling block? Well he actually says this in several places in Scripture For instance, in 1 Corinthians 1 verse 23, it says, But we preach Christ crucified to the Jews a stumbling block into the Greeks' foolishness. What does it mean that Christ is a stumbling block? Well, to illustrate this, I hope that this will really help. If if if I we all like receiving gifts. We just got through Christmas time. We like to get kind of different kinds of gifts. But there are actually some gifts that would be quite offensive. If I brought to you a nice wrapped gift and you opened it and it was a stick of deodorant. That might be offensive. Or I I gave you a gift and you opened it and it was a bar of soap. That might be a little bit offensive. Why? Because what are you saying? You're saying that that person's not clean or doesn't know how to keep himself clean or smells bad. It's offensive to certain gifts are offensive. Do you know what when you present the cross of Christ to somebody, you know what you're saying to them? That you are insufficient to have your own righteousness. You need the cross of Christ. And someone, when they're really presented what Christ did on the cross, doing what we could not do for ourselves, forgiveness from sin, righteousness ascribed to us. When we really understand the cross, you have two options. You can either be offended or you can repent. You can humble yourself. I suppose you really did smell. Or suppose you really did need to be cleaned and you didn't have soap, and you realized you didn't have soap, well then that wouldn't be offensive anymore, would it If I give you a bar of soap and you've been you actually ran out of soap and you were not clean and you knew you weren't clean and and I said, Well here's a bar of soap, well that's no longer offensive. It depends on how it depends on a matter of humility And it's the same thing with Christ. That's why the only quality necessary to come to Christ, the only quality is humility. You have to humble yourself before God. You have to say, I can't be righteous enough. My righteousness is filthy rags. There isn't anything I can do to save myself. There isn't anything that I'm going to fail every time. The the offense of the cross is an offense. See, if you add circumcision to it, that you need to accept the cross and you need to follow the law. Then you've taken the offense away. You've now said, here, you this will help you, but you could do it yourself. And you've taken the offense away. And Paul says, I will not do that. I have not done that. And that's why I'm being persecuted because people don't want to admit that they are sinful and don't want to admit that they need a savior. People don't want to admit that it's a stumbling block. And so he points that that out that actually he has not been inconsistent in explaining that further to them. He is so concerned about these Galatian Christians. That they would live in freedom, that he is going to use very severe language here. You're going to be shocked by the severity of his language. He says in verse 12. He says, as many as desire to make a good showing of the flesh, these would compel you to be circumcised, those who would compel you to be circumcised only that they may suffer persecution for the cross of Christ. Oh verse eleven says, See that see what uh see with what large letters I have written. Oh, what am I doing? I'm in the wrong passage. Okay. I'm sorry, I skipped the wrong page. Okay. Let's try this again, verse twelve. I would wish that those who trouble you would even cut themselves off. Now this word is a word that really is translated usually mutilation. It's actually talking here about castration. Now kids if you don't know what that is, parents, uh you can explain it later if you want, but kids, you might your parents may say you're not ready for this, and then you need to say, okay. All right, so just let it let your parents have discernment on that. But that's what it's talking about here. And it actually Paul says something similar in Philippians chapter 3, verse 2. Beware of dogs, beware of evil workers, beware of the mutilation, for we are the circumcision who worship God in spirit, rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh. His point here is actually this, that in that day a very common practice was was castration for pagan purposes. Pagan purposes. And what he is basically saying is this circumcision is basically a pagan thing. It's no better than pagan castration. He is really being severe here, isn't he? He is being extremely um he's being very, very pointed. He wants them to understand how bad this is. These Judaizers are harmful. They've got to be stopped. They've got to get out of the situation. And he's going to make no bones about it. Now, with that kind of severity and that kind of definitiveness About the importance of liberty, it could seem as though the Apostle Paul is saying, protect your liberty at all costs. And in fact, In fact, there's no hindrances to liberty, so do whatever you want. That's not at all what Paul is saying. And he qualifies what he's saying in verse 13. For you, brethren, have been called to liberty. Only do not use liberty as the opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one another. He says, don't use your liberty as an occasion for the flesh. Don't use your liberty as an opportunity. to fulfill the desires of your flesh. It's interesting here that the context is actually in a community. He's going to talk now about the community of the church, the church's group, the community. And he's going to discuss this and this idea of using your your liberty as a case of flesh is within the context of a community. Now I think the application is very broad. What is the flesh that he's talking about here? Well, he's not talking about the skin that you would see here. He's talking about the the the sin nature, the principle of sin is that's within us. You might want to just write down a couple of passages that will help you with this and understanding this. Galatians chapter, well, we'll look at Galatians in a minute. Romans 6. 6 says, Knowing this that our old man was crucified with him. That the body of sin might be destroyed, might be done away with or destroyed, it actually means to be rendered useless. That we should no longer be slaves to sin The body of sin is the flesh. It says that when we come to Christ, we are the flesh is rendered powerless. Now we still have it there, but we don't have to follow it. Galatians 5, 16 and 17, later on in the book of Galatians. Next week we'll talk more about this. But it says this: I say then, walk in the spirit, and you will not fulfill the lusts of the flesh. For the flesh lusts against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh, and these are contrary to one another, so that you cannot do the things that you wish. Galatians 5. 24, look down at that, it says, and those who are Christ have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. Did you know that within you you have a source within you that sends you evil desires? If you know Christ as your Savior, there are two sources within you. There is the new person, the new man, and the old sin nature. And from the old sin nature, sources come, there's a source that is called the flesh that sends you bad desires, evil desires, wrong passions. And he's saying, don't use your liberty to follow those. Don't use your freedom to follow after those kinds of things. And it's interesting, there's a reason why he tells us not to not tell them not to do that. Because the flesh is actually the very thing that enslaves us. If we follow, if we use our liberty as an opportunity to follow after the flesh, We're basically falling back into slavery again, back into bondage again. Now, question for you: How do you keep from doing this? How do you stop from falling into the flesh or following the desires of the flesh? Well, first I think we need to understand what it means. Romans chapter 13 verse 14 says, but put the Lord Jesus Christ and put on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh. And there are a lot of ways that we can make provision for the flesh, but in the context of the passage, I'm going to relegate it to things that have to do with the body of Christ. Number one, we provide opportunity for the flesh when we coddle an unforgiving spirit or harbor a grudge toward another person. When we do that, we are providing an opportunity for the flesh. Hebrews chapter 12, verse 15 says, looking Carefully lest any one anyone fall short of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness springing up cause trouble, and thereby many be defiled There is a root of bitterness in our hearts that can take place, and it can make provision for the flesh, and it can defile many. Number two, we provide opportunity to flesh when we fail to overlook other people's sins toward ourselves, like trespasses against us. The Bible says in Proverbs 19, 11, the discretion of a man makes him slow to anger, and his glory is to overlook a transgression. Is there a way of something that someone that you have been harmed or hurt by someone and you're not willing to forgive? If we're not careful, we can harbor those things and it can make provision for the flesh. James chapter 4, verse 11 says, Do not speak evil of one another, brethren. He who speaks evil of a brother and judges his brother speaks evil of the law and judges the law. The third way is that we can speak evil of other people. Speak evil of other Christians. The Bible says that when we really love someone, Love thinks no evil. It's not going to assume evil. Now, if evil is demonstrated, that's something entirely different. But it's not going to assume that. It's going to assume it hopes all things. It believes all things. When we speak evil of someone else, we are making provision for the flesh. We are also making provision for the flesh. When we don't, when we fail to deal with our own personal grievances swiftly and directly. Ephesians 4, verse 26-27 says: be angry and do not sin. Do not let the sun go down upon your wrath and do not give place to the devil. God wants us to deal with grievances and problems swiftly and correctly. And when we choose not to do that, we are making provision for the flesh. And there is a great result that can occur from that. That result is in the passage, you'll notice this. Skip down for just a minute and you'll see it, verse 15. But if you bite and devour one another, beware lest you can be consumed by one another. You know the there if there is if there is a there there are problems in the church, if there are disgruntledness and there is There are uh problems that are not dealt with swiftly. They can multiply and they can get so complicated that people start biting at one another. This is a uh used in usually to describe animals who are going ravenously after each other. You think, how can that happen in a church? It can. What's the source of it? When people start making provision for the flesh and not dealing with their problems swiftly. Not speaking evil of others, not having a forgiving spirit. Now I want to say I'm just I'm thankful for our church. I'm thankful that we don't have those divisions and those those kinds of things. But you know what? Doesn't mean that we never could. If we allow our flesh to rule, if we individually make provision for the flesh, it could be a ruin for us I'm not w like worried about it. I'm actually not. By God's grace, I don't I haven't had to worry about that too much with our church. But we ought to be careful. And when we come to a passage like this, it ought to be a warning for us to make no provision for the flesh in our lives when it comes to these things. But here's the positive of this. You know how you you you do this is really, really the key. You want to live in freedom? How many of you all want to live in freedom? Okay, a few of you. How many really? How many of you want to live in freedom? Okay, good. I'm glad. All right. I want to live in freedom too. How do you live in freedom? Don't you want to be free? I mean, there's like this, isn't there the like this song Freedom? I mean, we can all shout out that No, no, we won't do that. Don't you want to be free? Notice what Paul says to be free. For you brethren have not called, are not called only do not use liberty as a opportunity for the flesh, but through love, what does it say there? Serve one another. Actually it could be translated be one another's slave. That's a little ironic. How do you be free from sin? How do you be free from the law and the demands of the law? Enslave yourself to other people. Well, that doesn't make a lot of sense. I want to be free. There's this ironic truth, folks, that you're going to be enslaved to someone. We are wired that way. And you can either choose to be enslaved to Satan and your own flesh and the and and the world. You can be either choose to be enslaved to those things. Or you could choose to be enslaved to God and enslaved to each other. Which one do you want? Both have consequences. The offense of the cross is a consequence. You and I will experience persecution and problems if we preach the cross faithfully. Faithfully, it will be an offense to some people. Some people won't like the fact that you're trying to live for Christ. But you're going to have real problems in enslavement and bondage if you go back and fall after the flesh as well. It is a choice that we have to make. But you know, there is a sense a sense of freedom that comes when we say, you know, I just want, I'm just going to choose to serve My brothers and sisters in Christ. Part of that is probably practical. When we serve our brothers and sisters in Christ and the body of Christ, we got our focus off ourselves. You know, if you take too much time and look at yourself, you're gonna be depressed. I'll just tell you right now, I've done it before. I mean, really Take take a lot of time and think about yourself self, think about your life, think about your feelings, think about who you are, look in the mirror and see how old you're getting. Think about your your situation. Think about what could have been and what should have been and before long you're gonna be very depressed. I I'm feeling old these days. I don't know what anyway. Somebody posted a face uh Facebook picture of me when I was younger and I felt really old. Take your focus off yourself. We gotta take our focus off ourselves and serve each other. And when we serve each other Then we will be free. That's the yoke that Christ was talking about that we mentioned last week. The yoke of Christ is to serve Christ, By serving others. And when you take the time, and frankly, this is in the context of the body of Christ. We ought to serve everybody around us, but there is a special freedom and liberty in the body of Christ when we choose that we are going to serve each other. God wants us to do this. In fact, this is likely what Paul was saying. Do you remember in the Old Testament when when God brought the nation of Israel out of out of Egypt, out of the bondage of slavery in Egypt? Did he pull them out of slavery just to so they could do whatever they wanted? That's not it at all. And you're we're going through Exodus in Sunday school. Exodus 19:4, for example, says You have seen that I do uh that I did the to the Egyptians and how I bore you on eagle's wings and brought you to myself. Now therefore, if you will indeed obey my voice and keep my covenant And then you shall be a special treasure to me above all people, for all the earth is mine. Same kind of thing was said in Exodus 20, verse 1, right before the Ten Commandments. I am the Lord your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. You shall have no other gods before me. You shall not make yourself a carved image. You need to follow me. I pulled you out of the land to follow me, to serve me. But serving God is so much better than serving sin. Serving others is so much better than serving our own flesh. It's better. It's a better slavery. And God wants us to understand that the only thing, the only freedom in this life that's worth being free about is when we will choose. We can't just focus on ourselves, that will never work. Number there I want to give you three basic ways that we can that we can edify each other, that we can serve each other. Number one, pray for one another. James chapter 5 verse 16. If you're feeling depressed about your situation, take some time and just pray for somebody else Serve one another by praying for one another. We all have needs. We need to be lifting each other up in the body of Christ. That's why Wednesday nights are important. I'm not saying you're sinning if you're not here on Wednesday nights and all that. That's not all I'm saying. But there is an importance to us gathering together and praying with one another. Knowing the needs of the body. That's why these home groups we do are helpful because we can gather together and hear the needs of the body, express those needs to each other and pray for one another. We ought to be praying for one another. Number two, we need to bear with one another. We need to bear with one another. Paul says, I therefore, the prisoners of the Lord, urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling with which you are called, bearing with one bearing with one another in love. Verse 2 of Ephesians 4. God wants us to bear with one another. You know what? The fact is you and all are are all sinners. We're all extremely flawed. And what God wants us to do, if we're going to love one another and if we're going to serve one another, we're going to have to bear with one another. And number three. Speak encouraging words to one another. These are just very simple. There are other things we can do. You can write a card. There's all kinds of things that you can do. I'm just being real simple here. But in our speech, are we trying to build each other up? Are we wanting to see how we can help each other spiritually? How we can encourage each other? How we can lift each other up. When we come into this assembly, there ought to be a desire not to come in and say, I get what I I'm going to try to get what I want. But I want to serve others. I want to help others. I want to edify others. And when we come into this assembly that way, actually, what will happen is we will be blessed. We are blessed to be a blessing. And when we do all of this, life becomes simple. It's not complicated anymore. Put away the flesh, don't make provision for the flesh, and serve God by serving others. It's simple. It's why Christ could say, My yoke is easy and my burden is light, and you'll find rest for your souls. Verse 14 For if all the law for all the law is fulfilled in one word, even this, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. It's all fulfilled. 613 commandments. One. Love your neighbor as yourself. You know it's interesting. Did do you see something that might that could be missing here? It's not missing. But do you see something that you might you might think is missing here? It doesn't say love the Lord your God with all your heart and love your neighbor as yourself here. It just says love your neighbor as yourself. You know why it says that? Because you can't love God without loving your neighbor as yourself. You can't say that you love God if you're not loving your neighbor as yourself. The key, because God doesn't need anything, but your neighbor does. You and I do. We need things. And so what God is saying here is that if we're going to show love to Him, we have to meet the needs of other brothers and sisters in Christ. When we do that, it's like giving a cup of cold water to Christ. And we have this clear warning here. He says, be really careful, because if you are in the body of Christ There is this possibility of biting and devouring one another. There is this possibility of fierce criticism, of hatred for one another. This was also mentioned in James chapter 4 Where it says, where do wars and fights come among you? Do they not come from your desires for pleasure that war in your members, your flesh? You lust and do not have. You murder and covet and cannot obtain. You fight and war, yet you do not have because you do not ask. See, if there are quarrels and problems and fights in the body of Christ, it is because that we are following after the flesh. We're making provision for the flesh, folks. That's the problem. And God desires for us to understand this. Be careful, he says, because you do not want to consume one another. And at that point he is simply going to leave it. What's the key to the whole thing? The key to the whole thing of knowing how to serve knowing how to live in freedom is to is to serve. It's very simple, to serve one another. The more you serve one another, the more we serve one another. the more we will be living in the freedom with wherewith Christ has made us free. I want to tell you how much I just appreciate many of you who do serve You serve you serve faithfully. Whether it's in a nursery or junior church or those kinds of things, those are services to one another if you think of it that way. If you just think, oh, this is going to do my duty. Well then you're not really serving one another. But if you think I am going into that nursery to take care of that kid so that a mother can get fed by God's word, I'm serving her Or I'm going into junior church to teach these children the truths of the gospel, I'm serving them. Or running the sound system so that everybody can actually hear what's going on. Or what whatever it is. Those, if we think of it the right way, we're serving each other. And when when you serve and you think about the fact that you are serving the body of Christ There is a sense of freedom to that. May we know that freedom. Are you living free in Christ? That's the question. How do we do that? Number one, just in conclusion, we must identify what is hindering our freedom at its first movements. We've got to enter identify them at its at its earliest movements. What's hindering my freedom? How how is it is it sin It's usually going to be bad thinking or bad doing or bad speaking. What's hindering my freedom? Number two We must hold to the truth of the cross despite its offense towards some. We must hold to the truth of the cross. Number three, we must remember that the key to freedom from the flesh is to be a servant of the body of Christ. If you're struggling, you're saying, no, I feel like I'm in bondage. I feel like I'm not free, even though God is made. Write a list of five people to serve this week. Think of five needs or three needs or whatever, there's no magic number, of things that you can do this week to serve the body of Christ, and you might feel you might be very surprised how much freedom that brings. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the freedom that we have in Christ. And we admit before you that we do not always Live as though we are free. Lord, would you help us to be attentive to each other's needs? Help us in love to serve one another. Help us not to see it just as an obligation or a duty. Help us to really envision the fact that we're helping the body of Christ. And Lord, with that comes your pleasure and our freedom. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen