This morning we're taking just a brief um diversion from our series in the book of John, but we're not diverting from our series in the in on the subject of unity. Really felt as though we had looked the last couple of weeks at the concept of unity and the Bible has so much to say about it. That as I was doing some studying and some meditating on some things, I really felt that we it would be really helpful for us to do one more message on this subject from the book that speaks of unity in the New Testament more than any other book, and that is the book of Ephesians. We um very rarely realize that our lifestyle affects others Often in our culture we we don't think in terms of what we do affecting everyone else around us. We think of what we do affecting us. We are very individualistic in our culture. And we, if we could say it this way, we tend to be sometimes very self-centered, do we not? When you think of uh Eastern cultures, I um spent a little bit of time over in uh in Hong Kong. Uh that mentality of of individual and self is not nearly as prominent. In fact, their thinking is that they are one of many, because they are, uh, and that they should be contributing to the collective health of the whole. Now they obviously on a governmental level take that entirely too far, particularly when you get up into the mainland area that I was in uh mainland area of China. But um there is something to be said for for how they approach life. And I think that we sometimes are not Really aware as a body of believers that what we do has significant impact on others in the body. It is, as a very simple illustration, and you know it well probably, it's like a stone that you throw into this pond or into a lake and it ripples. And so sometimes we think, well, what, you know, I'm just pretty n I'm I'm a pretty insignificant part of the body. But of course, you know that when you stub your toe, your whole body hurts. And the truth is, when it comes to unity, every it it it only takes one person. to to cause disunity in the body. And frankly, a lot of times what happens is it starts with one person and it ripples out. I um am burdened, frankly, by um the reality that there are some churches even this morning that are in disunity. They're not unified. I am very grateful that our church is, by God's grace, though we have growth, to do. We we we need to grow in this. God has kept us unified. I um I think we need to realize that by the way. That unity is not something where you are or you aren't. There's a sense in which it's not the case. Well, you certainly the case where you aren't. But you can be un there are there are really different levels of unity. We can continue to, as a body of believers, grow in our unity. And that is really my prayer this morning as we look at God's word. That it will help us to know how to grow in unity as a body of believers. We have noted about this subject of unity that its basis Is on the Word of God. And Christ prayed in John 17 that glory would be given to us. He said, I have given to them my glory that you have first given to me. And we said last week that that glory is the Spirit of God. And in John, in Ephesians chapter 4, of this passage that we are in. It tells us in verse three that we must endeavor. We've got to be obviously focused on this. Endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. That is, that God's desire for His church is that unity would be constantly on our minds. as our first calling toward each other. That's why he says in the first verse of this chapter, that we ought to be therefore prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that you walk worthy of the vocation. Wherewith ye are called. That ye there, by the way, is supposed to be it's a plural. You collectively are called together in this. And God says we've got to be, we have got to Endeavor to keep the unity of the Spirit. It is the Spirit of God And his living work that unifies his believers to be able to have the unity that Christ prayed for so many years ago. Our text today is primarily going to be in verses 25 through 32, where it gets real practical about how we can grow and live in unity as a body of believers. I'd like you to notice a couple of things just by looking at the context of this passage. First of all, in John, in Ephesians chapter 5, verse 1, It says, be therefore followers of God. That word literally means to be an imitator of God. Well, how are we supposed to be an imitator of God? And again, you have that word ye instead of you. That is one of the disadvantages of modern translations. There is a difference in the Greek. That word ye is a collective second person plural. It means what it says. It's like y'all. That help. So he's saying, be y'all, therefore, per followers. In other words, all of us together are to collectively imitate God. Now this is in the context of unity. Why is it so absolutely important that we are unified? Because God is a unity. He is a tri-unity. And you and I, as a church, cannot reflect God if we are not unified The only way that we can reflect God in this world is if we are unit in unity one with another. And if you recall from last week, there are two ways that we are unified together. One is unity of purpose, and the other is unity of dependency or love. And today we want to focus in on that unity of codependency or unity of love that God desires for us to have with one another, and we are definitely going to need God's help. Let's go to Him in prayer. Father, we come to you this morning and we ask that you would help us As we go through a very practical portion of Scripture, that it would teach us how to collectively Imitate you. Lord, I am really asking you. That the message that we learn today, that we hear today and learn today would be indelibly written on our minds and our hearts. We so easily forget. We so easily lose focus. We dis are so easily distracted. We can hear a message on Monday morning and forget it three days later. On Sunday morning and forget it three days later. Father, I pray, Lord, I'm just, would you, would you just cause this to really be settled in our minds and our hearts as a people of you. Because we want to grow in unity. Because that's your goal for us. And when we do, you tell us here in this passage that we'll be pleasurable to you. It will be as you a sweet smell to you. We want to be that, Lord. And I pray, Lord, that as we go through this, we it would help us. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. I want to identify something that I mentioned in my prayer. Would you notice verse 2 of Ephesians chapter 5? It tells us we need to walk in love. And when we do this, as Christ has loved us, And have given us an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet smelling savor. God wants us to love each other the same way that Christ loves us. And when Christ gave Himself for us It was a sweet smelling savor to God, and we know from the Old Testament that when we worship Him with His kind of love, it is a sweet-smelling savor to God as well. And so I am praying that God really helps us in this passage to really use this in our lives for us to grow in unity. And we pick up here in verse 25. He says, wherefore putting away verse chapter 4, verse 25. Wherefore, putting away lying, speak every man truth with his neighbor, for we are members one of another. In these verses, what we have are four different behaviors and how we respond and how we act within these categories of behavior. Will determine whether or not we promote unity or we hinder unity. In other words, every one of us as individuals has the opportunity either to promote unity by how we live. or to hinder unity by how we live. And we need to be very careful as we go through these. And I want you to notice a particular structure about each of these. You have something that we need to be careful about to put off in each case. Something we need to put on. And if we if we handle each of these behaviors right it will have either a positive or negative effect when it comes to our unity in the body. And so we're going to go through these one at a time with that in mind. He says, first of all, we've got to put away lying. We've got to put away lying and we've got to speak truth with our neighbor. And the Bible tells us why. It says that we have got to do this Because we are members one of another. John Chrysostom, uh Church Father Two thousand years ago almost said this. If an eye sees a serpent, does it not lie to the foot? If a tongue tastes something bitter, will it not lie will it lie to the stomach? And it tells us what we're saying here is that what one of the things that will disrupt unity in the body is lies versus truth. Now you say to yourself, well, you know, I don't think anybody really lies. Really? The reality is most of us have at some con at some level a conscience about lying in some way or another. But you know, if we're not careful, we can easily present a narrative that just sort of Sways things our direction. Kind of doesn't lie, but sort of emphasizes certain truths over others to cause a narrative to sort of go our way. Or we become evasive in our in one area or another, in our uh adjustment of the truth. I wrote down three ways just by way of application that we sometimes that lies can sort of uh falsehoods or things that are not true can sort of uh reach into the body. One is just poor communication. Somebody says something and they didn't communicate well enough and so the maybe it wasn't intentional, but there was a la breakdown of communication that caused uh problems. One another is jumping to conclusions, which is kind of part of Poor communication, actually. But it's usually on the listener side of things where a conclusion is jumped to instead of getting all the facts. And the Bible tells us, for instance, in Proverbs, that he that answereth a matter before he hear it, it's folly unto him. And so sometimes people jump to conclusions. Another one is wrong assumptions that we just assume the wrong thing. All of these folks, what happens is it it can infuse into the body a certain cancer that is full of tainted truth or adjustments. There's usually all nearly always an element of truth, but it's not And the emphasis is in the wrong way. There is confusion and there is corruption when it comes to what is actually true. And the Bible tells us here in this passage that we essentially need to speak truth to every man. With speak every man truth with his neighbor. We've got to constantly, let's put it this way, be crusaders for the truth. It is incredible that what is Satan? He is the father of what? He's the father of lying. What we're going to find in this passage as we look at these various ones is that these things can open up opportunities for Satan to get in. Satan loves lies. And he hates truth. And when lies are or or even when when adjustments to the truth or fabrications of certain things or uh those things are happening He'll jump in there and he'll he'll make things worse We need to be crusaders for the truth. We need to know what is true. The Bible says that we need to think on things that are good and pure and true. And if there is an untruth, maybe it's our our our end, our fault. Maybe it's somebody else's fault. But if there's an untruth, if there's something that's not accurate, it's not true. You've got to get down to the bottom of it. There's got to be a level of truth. This can happen in a family. One person says one thing, another person says another, and before you have a all kinds of disruption of who who's saying what, he said, she said what In a family. The same thing can happen in the body of believers, can't it? And Satan loves it when that happens And so we've got to be just very careful, really cautious about this, is what I am saying trying to trying to, and here's what happens. I'll just tell you practically what happens here. Our cons we like our conscience, we like to have a clear conscience. Right? We all like that, right? We want to be able to I remember a pastor of uh my the my sort of the pastor who baptized me and pastor I grew up with, he always says this: people will find a way to pillow their head at night. Even if they've done wrong, they'll find a way. What happens sometimes is our hearts are deceitful and desperately wicked. And so it's not as though we think we're lying. Sometimes what happens is we've deceived ourselves The Bible tells us that that can occur in the book of James and other places where we've deceived ourselves and the truth is not in us anymore. And so we think what's true is not true, and what we think is not true is true, and it really causes a lot of confusion. And Satan is the father of confusion. You know, y when you really think about it Sin always confuses things. Truth simplifies. Sin confuses. How many of you have ever seen that in the workplace? You get somebody that does something wrong and instead of just owning up to it and saying, you know, I did wrong, he tries to implicate other people in his wrongdoing and he tries to blame other people and tries to create confusion. If he can create confusion, he can get the blame off of himself. He can cause there to be pro all of that, folks, is has no business in the body of Christ. We need to be crusaders for the truth. But you know what? As we're crusaders for the truth, something else can happen. Would you notice what can happen? Verse 26. He says, be angry and sin not Let not the sun go down upon your wrath. Why? Neither give place or net neither give an opportunity to the devil Now, why would he put this here? Well, we need to understand what he's talking about when he says be angry. To my knowledge, this is the only time in the Bible that actually commands us to be angry. He is going to later on tell us to not be angry in the passage. Here he says to be angry. So what what gives? I mean which is it? Are we supposed to be angry? Are we supposed to not be angry? Well, that would then indicate for us that there is a certain kind of anger that is that is something that is going to that can occur, and we would call that righteous anger. There is a kind of anger that is a righteous anger where we the it's a indignation over something that is that is happening that is wrong. What does he say about this though? Don't let the sun go down your on your wrath on that. We need to be very, very cautious about righteous anger. You see, on one hand, we need to be we need to be crusaders for the truth. But the doubt but the possi there's a possibility of this that's really dangerous because as we're crusading for the truth We can begin to have righteous anger and we can sort of mount up a cause and and we end up going the wrong way on this thing. That's why he cautions the Church of Ephesus: be very careful. Yes, be angry, but don't sin in your anger. Is that hard to do? That is incredibly hard to do. It is extremely difficult to know the line between righteous anger And where you crossed over into sin. And I have to tell you, as I have observed over my time in ministry and life, I think It's possible that more problems happen in a local church because someone had something that had a element of truth And they got angry about it, and maybe there was even righteous indignation in the beginning, but they sinned. There was a wrong elements after that that got into play. They didn't realize this verse is talking, it's saying, yes, there is a possibility of righteous anger that is right. But you've got to handle it delicately. You've got to be really cautious about it. When that righteous anger kicks in, you've got to be so careful that you don't sin. I remember one time in a situation where I was feeling as though there was some level of sin that needed to be dealt with several years ago. I remember saying to somebody, you know, my only goal in this meeting is not to sin. Let God do what he wants. I just don't want to sin. We gotta be really careful about it. Now, the question is, how do we keep from sinning when we have this? The answer is in the next phrase, it says, let not the sun go down on your wrath. That means a couple of things. Actually, the word wrath there is talking about the cause of the wrath. Don't in other words, whatever is causing you to have this sort of righteous anger Number one, you must deal with it swiftly. You cannot let it linger in your heart. It can corrupt your soul. You've got to deal with it swiftly. It's got to be dealt with quickly When you in other words, there is a possibility that you could have righteous anger, but if you do, deal with it right away. Don't let the sun go down upon that cause of righteous of wrath. That is, folks, as you wake up the next morning, it not not be there one way or the other This also implies something else. It means that you bring this thing out into the light You deal with it by dealing with it. You don't just let it fester in your own soul. You go to the person that you need to go to, that is the perpetrator. And by the way, something else about this, folks, is we're talking about righteous anger where there is actually sin. There's actually some sort of trespass happening. Then I think maybe sort of kind of possibly there's a wrong something. If you have righteous anger as a result of that, the Bible calls that judgmentalism. And you have slid into some a very dangerous area with that But when you notice something that is very very clearly wrong and needs to be dealt with, the Bible says you need to dealt deal with it right. Now you say, well maybe what if it can't be dealt with right? Maybe somebody is just unwilling to deal with it Well, let's remind ourselves who God is. We're not God. God is God. And there are some times that what we need to do is we need to realize That Romans chapter 12, verse 19 tells us, he said, it says, Dearly beloved, avenge not yourself. And by the way, you know you've gone wrong when you make it personal. Avenge not yourselves, for rather give place unto the wrath, for it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord. Do you think God can't deal with that? So it doesn't tell us that we need to have inactivity. It tells us that we need to deal with it. But it's when you go as far as you can go with it, you need to just leave it to God. And you've got to know the difference. You've got to know the difference between leaving it up to up to the Lord so that you don't sin and really and really actually um really actually dealing with it in a r in a right and proper way. We know when it lingers or when it becomes personal or when we When it affects our hearts, if it's prolonged, we ca righteous and prolonged righteous anger is unacceptable in the Bible. We can't have it. And so we need to be very, very cautious about this because folks that tends to be I'll just tell you by personal experience that tends to be the the the one of the biggest areas in a church, uh, because somebody feels that they have a legitimate cause. Now The Bible is telling us here that you couldn't have a legitimate cause. Are we all sinners? We certainly are. Are we all accountable to each other? We certainly are. Should we all be willing and open to correction? We certainly should be I mean, all of those things are true. The Bible says that ye that are spiritual restore such in one with a spirit of meekness. The Bible says, instructing those that oppose themselves if God peradventure will give repentance, God tells us these things So we need to make sure on this issue that we stay right on this issue, that we do not slide into sinful anger. We have only righteous indignation that is dealt with quickly, that is brought into the light, and we don't sin in this area. Now, if you just think about those two, we've covered a lot, but there's more. You say, this is just not comfortable. I just don't like this. You know, sometimes the we have to go through the Word of God, which the Bible says is quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword and Pierces even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit into the joints of marrow, and is the discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. We need that because we've got deceitful hearts, don't we? And so this is the we're really taking sort of the scalpel of God's word here, and we're we're wanting to know in our own hearts What's right and wrong, what's what should we should be doing, how we should conduct ourselves. And these four behaviors will really help us in this area of unity if we will just use these sort of as a check in our minds Number three, stealing versus giving. Would you look at verse 28 it says Let him that stole steal no more, but rather let him labor, working with his hands the things which is good. that he may have to give to him that needeth. Now, let's remember this is in in in the context of corporate unity. This is in the context of the church. You say, Well, I'm not stealing from people in the church. Well Back in those days, what you have there was that there was really no welfare system. And there was no way of of people that didn't work up surviving. So what occurred in that day was they if you had uh you could you could legitimately have someone who is a true beggar, like destitute Because he had no family and he had no way of supplying income. Now it also their system motivated people to work, right? I mean, if you didn't work you didn't eat basically But there are some times folks where there is a real need because maybe maybe there's a loss of job or loss of vocation. And what was happening is that there was some temptation in that day to steal rather than to to to deal with it correctly because there was on the other side of that there was not a benevolence toward giving to those that were in need. There is a sense in which the body of Christ nobody should be destitute. Because if there was a if there was somebody in the body of Christ that was destitute, the rest of us would help them out. That would meet their need. We it says, let him labor working with his hand wise, so that he can give to one another give to those who have the needs. See that should be that would be different to pff I'm going to take care of my own and do my own thing and handle myself. No, no. That isn't what God is saying here about his church. He's saying that there ought to be a sense of benevolence and giving toward each other. Do you know one of the most prominent things in a church is when a church begin when people in a church begin to think in terms of getting rather than giving. I am going there to get this. I'm going there to get that. I'm going there because this church has this program for my kids. And I want them to get this. Or I'm going there because this I I just like how I feel. Or some emotional reason or some entertainment, those kind of things. Folks, the the the root problem there, I've got to tell you, the root problem is just selfishness. When we approach the body of Christ, if we're going to grow in unity, we need to always think about giving when we can. Now, are there some times where you can't? Sure. But when you can, you should. And there is a sen well I mean what is what is love? It's giving of self. What does God want us to do? He wants us to be unified in love. How do we do that? We give to others who are in need. And when we do that, there is this great unity that can occur. Number four. We need to be really careful about our communication. Look at what it says here. Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth, but that which is good to the use of edifying, that it may minister grace unto the hearers. Now, verse 29 is telling us to not allow any corrupt communication. This is an illustration that you find in it's an illustration of a building. The word edify means to build up. And corrupt communication, the illustration is clearly here, is when you have a foundation and you have you have problems of bad materials that are in the foundation. When we bought our house Years and years ago, when my dad bought the house years and years ago, there was a cistern in the backyard and it was filled to the top. You could tell there was a cistern there. It was filled to the top and we bought the house and didn't think any of it, anything of it But as as years went by we kept seeing the things sink down until there was this massive hole in the ground. We kept having to fill I I spent my whole childhood, every once in a while we would go and have to fill it with stuff. Fill it with dirt and different things. Finally I took a bobcat to it and and I destroyed the whole yard, but I did fix that problem in the process. Um what happened? Well the reason was there must have they must have put like wood and things in there that were not that would that would disintegrate Instead of putting stone in there and putting dirt and stone and those things that wouldn't disintegrate, they put stuff in there that would eventually cause the whole thing to collapse. That's the idea of this word. It's like having a building and you've put you've built the whole thing with cinder block, but you've got materials in there that are going to cause the whole thing to be corrupted and and collapse over time. You've got to you've got to be careful about the materials in your communication. You can have 90% of what you say to be good and solid, but if there's 10% that it's corrupted, folks, it can be damaging and can tear down the body. And he is saying to us, he's exhorting us, let no corrupt communication come out of your mouth. Sometimes we just need to shut it. Now obviously if we can't the Bible says the tongue can no man tame. What we need what do we need to do? The problem is our heart. The Bible says, out of the heart, the mouth speaks. And if there is a problem with our speech, the problem is that's in our hearts. Let no corrupt communication but that which is good to the use of edifying, that it may minister grace unto the hear. Did you see that? Did you catch that? It doesn't say, well, man, I just need to shut up and not talk anymore. That's not an option. It's not saying that, well, I just need to be quiet so I don't hurt anybody. No, actually it says that the way that you keep from having corrupt communication is that you have a mindset that I want to build each other up. I want to encourage people. I want to to to to strengthen people spiritually. I want to build them up. And that's the word here. Notice what it says. It says that if you do that, you can minister something. What does it say you can minister to the hearers? Grace. What is grace? God's unmerited favor. It's saying that when we have edifying communication with each other, see, this is getting a little more positive now. We can all lighten up a little bit, right? Edifying communication with each other, that we get to minister God's favor to each other. Do you need grace in your life? No, no gra I I'm I'm all full of grace. I need no more grace. Nobody's saying that, right? We all need God's grace in our lives. We desperately need God's grace in our lives. We look at our lives and we go, Lord, I just want to live by your grace. We can be ministers of God's grace to each other. My edifying words can somebody could say, boy, God is favorable toward me because of the words that you you say to somebody. You can be a minister of God's grace to somebody by the words that you say. You can either tear down or you can build up. Are we building each other up? with our words. We need to ask those these questions. So folks, all four of these areas. Now let me ask you a question at this point. Do you suppose if you go through all four of these areas and everybody in a church, and every church, and everybody in every church are going through these areas and they're the right side of these issues. Do you suppose there would ever be disunity? There wouldn't. I mean it covers everything. As long as there's the gospel in agreement, as long as Christ is in agreement, as long as you believe and you're truly saved, you're not gonna have problems in these air I mean there's there's nothing where would be problems. But folks, these are the issues These are the the the markers between whether or not you are a church is unified or a church is not unified. And we need to see them that way. It would be healthy for us like every month to just Go through these in our minds, in our personal devotions, or whatever, to say, okay, where am I on these? And you know, here's the main problem. I want you to notice this. The real problem is this. Verse 30, it says this, and grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, where ye are sealed unto the day of redemption. You know the problem is? If we are not on the right side of these issues, we're going to grieve God's spirit. And the reason that's such a problem is because who who is the who is who is it that gives us our unity? Well, it's the Spirit of God. It's the unity of the Spirit. And when his people are grieving him, they're quenching the Spirit, as Thessalonians says. Then they're not going to be able to be unified because the basis of their unity is the Spirit of God. There's something else that's quite profound about this. That we need to really stop and think about, pause and really consider. Did you know that you have the ability to affect God's emotions? Let it sink in for a moment. This passage indicates that by your behavior behavior You have the ability to actually affect the emotions of God's Spirit We see we can be a sweet-smelling saver in Ephesians 5. 2. Or we can grieve the Spirit of God in this verse. Folks, when we are not unified with each other, when we're when there is when there is falsehoods or where there is uh corrupt communication, when there is uh un untamed anger, when there are things like that in the body, it grieves the Spirit of God. He looks at this and he's grieved. He is saddened by this. Do you know the word grieve in different places in the New Testament means uh it is the idea of a like mourning over somebody's death, for example in 1 Thessalonians 4 it's used that way. And actually, several other places, it's used like the mourning over the death of someone, grieving in that way. Now, many of you have lost loved ones. You grieved. When we behave that way, it's like God, the Spirit of God, is grieved in the way that you and I are grieved through the loss of something. He looks at us and he looks at h his church and he goes and he and he's grieved by it That's why it's so crucial that we remember these things and we follow them because we are going to grieve the Spirit of God. We're going to affect him emotionally in the wrong way. If we are not, if we're not following these behaviors in the right way. You remember in Acts chapter 5 The the church was just started. It had just begun. And the first thing that happened in the church was there were needs in the body and there were people that were giving different things and An the fire gave a portion of what they gave, and that wasn't wrong for them to give a portion of it, but then they lied about it. And it says in that passage in Acts chapter 5 That they lied it didn't say lie against the people of God, though they did that. It said they lied against the Spirit of God, the Holy Spirit. He said, You have lied against the Spirit of God. It indicates that the Spirit of God is moving, it is working, and it wants to work in the midst of God's people. But there is going to be hindrance when we are grieving his spirit. Now, then we move now to verse 31, and we're going to ask the question: what is the root problems here? If there is lying instead of truth, if there is corrupt communication instead of edifying communication, if there is uh not not ch unchecked anger. If there if there are those kinds of things in the body of Christ What's the root problem? Why does that occur? And he is going to tell us here in verse 31. He says, let all what? Bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and evil speaking be put away with you with all malice. You know the answer to that is bitterness. The Bible tells us in Hebrews that we need to look diligently lest any man fail of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness spring up, trouble you, whereby many be defiled. We need to be vigilant and diligent about this matter of bitterness in our hearts Toward other people, toward our own families, toward others in the body of Christ. God tells us that we've got to be diligent about it. It seemed to be in the book of Hebrews a very, very significant sin that was causing actually unbelief in the people. The sin of unbelief was the major sin. And when it comes to this passage, the apostle, well, probably Paul, maybe somebody else, was saying, watch bitterness here. Be careful. Be diligent about that. Search your heart. Make sure there's no bitterness there. Because if there is bitterness, it will defile many gone unchecked. And we see two ways in this passage that it defiles. Number one, it could defile in a term of outburst We see the next word wrath. We have wrath and anger here that are that are two terms and because they're put they could be synonymous, but because they're put together here One has one emphasis and the other has an uh another emphasis. And when our hearts are bitter, one possibility is that we burst out in And that, of course, is a wrong thing. 2 Corinthians chapter 12, verse 20 says, For I fear lest when I come I shall not find you such as I would. And that I should find should be found unto you such as you would not, lest there be debates, envyings, wraths, strifes, backbitings, whisperings, swellings, tumults Colossians 3. 8, but now ye also put off these anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy communication out of your mouth. It is that outburst that occurs from the heart Of bitterness. Number two, though, and this one may be more convicting. This one is a sustained anger. This is something that sort of seeps into our soul and we just we just uh it just tears us apart and we uh we just have this constant sustained anger in our hearts towards someone. It starts off with a root of bitterness that defiles many, and if we're not careful, it will spring out and we'll hold it in, and it will destroy us from the inside out. By the way, I think some of these go together. Sometimes sometimes we hold it in until we it's like we can't anymore and we let it out in an outburst of anger. The whole problem is this root problem of bitterness. He says, you've got to put that away from you. You've got to get rid of it. Get it out of your life. It will destroy you from the inside out. Because if you don't, here are the results, verse 31. It says, number one, there is a confrontational result, and there's a non-confrontational result. You see, some people have bitterness in their hearts And they say, well I'm non-confrontational. I don't fight with anybody. I'm not a fighter. You ever heard that before? Some of you are that way, right? I mean, you know, some of you are just like I I'm not a c I don't want to confront. Some of you are like, let's fight it out, man, let's duke it out. And you know both of those are wrong. See what it says here, first of all, it says clamor, clamor and quarreling. That's confrontational out uh expression of bitterness. There's some people that they gotta let it out, and so they're gonna talk to other people. They're gonna deal they're gonna clamor and they're gonna quarrel, they're gonna have all kinds of corrupt communication because there's bitterness in their heart and it's an outward kind of a thing that occurs. And God warns us of this over and over and over again. But there is another possibility of non-confrontational uh uh communication that comes for bitterness. And that's this other idea of slandering, where it says evil speaking, that's Quiet. I'm not going to confront the person. I'm not going to quarrel with the person. I'm going to go around the person and talk to everybody else. Look, if you've got bitterness in your heart and you don't deal with it right, it's going to come out eventually somewhere. And what happens sometimes is It it comes out in slander where you're unwilling to deal with it with uh w head on with a person. And you talk to other people about it. Folks, both are big problems, aren't they? And God says how you make sure you deal if there are problems like that, the problems are with bitterness. Now then it tells us this as a as a final This is helpful. He says instead positively three things. He says, be kind. Be tender-hearted and be proactively forgiving. It says, be kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another. You know, God just knows what to say, doesn't he? He says, number one, be kind. Say, but I'm a man's man, and I'm not, I'm just not that way. I don't have the gift of mercy. You you want me to say it like it is? That's me. But I don't have this this spiritual gift of mercy. You gotta go for somebody else for that. Go to a pansy for that. Okay. You know, s we laugh at that, but sometimes that's the way we think. And you know what? I'm sometimes I'm not as kind as I ought to be. You you want to come to me for the truth, I'll give you the truth. But you know, sometimes I just need to be more kind. I need to think in terms of kindness, of benevolence toward others, of just being kind. I hear something that doesn't sound quite right, and I want to go Let's nail this. And if I'm not careful, I'll let the sun go down upon my wrath. And I'll give place an opportunity to the devil There are other people that they're all kind, they're all sugar and cream. I thank God for those people. Okay. I need to hang around those kind of people more. But they're the kind of people that may be a little fudging the truth a lot. You know. It's not really all that bad. It's not really that big a deal. Well, it's s sin is sin. Lies are lies. Truth is truth. And he says, but he says here, you've got to be kind. Now what is interesting about these three things are these are proactive things. And I want you to notice he says, tender hearted. Do you know what happens with bitterness? What happens with bitterness is if it resides in our hearts, we're the exact opposite of tender hearted. We get hardened in our hearts. It's like we we've got to protect our bitterness. We don't really say it that way, but we sort of we become wounded and we sort of We got calluses over our wounded. We just want to we want to protect. We're like and we get hardened. I don't want to deal I don't want to deal with being any more hurt, so I'm gonna just put a shell over myself So I don't have to deal with any more hurt. I'm already hurt, I'm bothered, I'm bitter, and there's this callous or shell that comes over us, and we're no longer tender-hearted. God tells us we need to be tender-hearted. And then it says forgiving one another. And you know this word is a different word. than when it's all usually translated forgiveness. The typical word is aphiemi in the Greek. This is a different word. This word is a proactive kind of forgiveness. It's where you go out and you do something for that person that you've been bitter against. You say, Well, I forgive, I'm alright, you know, but I'm not gonna really, you know, I'm gonna avoid them. Uh you know, I I forgive, I'm not a big deal, but I'm uh I'm uh you know uh I don't really like 'em very much. I love 'em, but I just don't like 'em. I don't think that cuts it in the body of Christ. Maybe it cuts it with an unble unbeliever. Maybe, maybe. But I don't think you can say, well, I don't I love them, but I just don't like them, and you know that's I just stick with people I like. You know, it's sort of interesting in a really, really large church You can kinda do that, but it's a bad idea. If you have a church of four hundred, five hundred people, you know you can have your own little group. I like I got my my group over here and I like them and they like me and we you know we we click. It's cool man But the problem with that is that's not unity, is it? Then you if everybody has little clicks everywhere, that's a problem, isn't it? A smaller church like ours, you know, you bump into everybody. Like everybody, you could talk to everybody in one Sunday. And if and you don't have a choice. You know that's a there's there's good bad that's good and bad about that. You it it's a good exercise in love, isn't it? Because you know what? I might be annoying to some people. You might be annoying too. And and and that might cause us to have to love each other a bit, doesn't it? That's a good thing. And when we love each other, when we get past this, when we are kind toward each other, when we're tender hearted, we don't get our we don't we don't get uh upset and get all Angry and offended, no, we are kind, we're tender hards to each other, we forgive, we proactively forgive Sometimes what you need to do to get over your bitterness is you need to go and just love somebody. Like get go give something to them If you get a hundred for uh dollars from somebody today, they were bitter against you. Anyway. Now, all of these kinds of things need to we need to just s summarize all of this. Number one And you say, you know, some of you m some of you might be saying, well, is there some well we got problems in our church or something? No, I don't think we have a lot of problems in our church at all as churches go. I really don't. I think by God's grace and I don't take that lightly. I'm thankful that we don't. But I just really felt as I looked at these other two passages or as we had these other two messages on unity, I just said to myself, you know, I we Ephesians really deals with this. Let's get really down and dirty and practical on this so that we really understand what we're dealing with. And that we keep these very prominently in our mind. It's kind of fun to say, oh, the Christ has prayed for unity and the Holy Spirit gives us unity and we need to love each other, but until you get into the nitty-gritty practical kind of things It's all not really reality in a body of believers. And so I think this is absolutely important. Number one, Distortions of truth, unchecked anger, selfishness, and corrupt communication will compromise unity and grieve God's spirit. Number two, transparent authenticity, caution when sensing injustice. I mean we gotta be cautious about that A giving spirit and edifying communication will promote unity and please God's spirit. And number three, replacing bitterness with kindness, tenderheartedness, and forgiveness will result in our truly loving others. I gotta tell you, I am excited about what God is doing at Bethel Baptist Church and what God wants to do. And that I I don't know what God has for us exactly, but as we move forward I know that he'll use us if we will continue to endeavor to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. And I'll tell you why this is so important. When there is forgiveness in the body of Christ, and there's got to be forgiveness because there's going to be sin, right? When there is forgiveness in the body of Christ, that's it exemplifies the gospel so well. Because the gospel is all about forgiveness. If I want if people come in here that don't know the Lord, They ought to see that there's something really different. Like we're forgiving people. And then ought to, why, why, why can we be forgiving people? Because we've been forgiven. That's why. And when you've experienced the kind of forgiveness of Christ, then you can forgive. And we when we come into this time today and unifying around the blood and broken body of Christ, it affords us the forgiveness that allows us to be able to forgive others. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you and we realize our need for unity and that we have a very important role to play. There is a sense in which this this message may have had a little bit more negative tone than usual. But I really pray, Lord, that you would take the truths in your word this morning and really mark them in our minds and our hearts Help us to learn from them, not just today or tomorrow or the next day, but may they be sustainable attributes in our lives. And may you help us to grow in unity in the body. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.