And then we will look at first Peter. Let's pray together. Father, as we come to you this evening and we thank you for your word. And we l as we look into First Peter tonight, I pray that it would be really helpful and in where it needs to be convicting and that we would have the right a uh approach as we live life uh in accordance with your will, Lord, and we just pray that as we look through this uh text that you would help us to understand what you have for us tonight. And uh as we bring our pre prayer requests before you and various things, I pray that you would just bless this service and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. All right, first Peter and chapter one, and we're going to be looking at verses seventeen through twenty-one. First Peter chapter one and then let's go ahead and read our text this evening and we'll pick up in verse 17 here Verse 17 says, And if you call on the Father who without partiality judges according to each one's work, conduct yourselves throughout the time of your stay here in fear. Knowing that you were not redeemed with corruptible things as like silver and gold from your aimless conduct received by tradition from your fathers But with the precious blood of Christ, as a lamb without blemish and without spot, he indeed has foreordained before the foundation of the world, but was manifest in these last times for you. Who through him believe in God, who raised him from the dead, and gave him glory, so that your faith and hope are in God. I'm going to begin by asking and maybe an interesting question for you. What makes a good driver? I'm talking about driving a car. What makes a good driver? Well, there are two things, okay? There are two things that make a good driver. Well, let me let me tell you tell you uh one one is I'll start with one. One is confidence. You really do need confidence to be a good driver, right? If you have somebody that's nervous behind the wheel and can't make a decision behind the wheel, uh is that going to be a good driver He's not. But what if you had a person who was overconfident? Is it possible to be over-confident as a driver, and that would actually make you a bad driver? Well, it certainly would. We have another name for that called reckless. You become a reckless driver if you are overconfident, but you do need confidence. On the other hand, you know what else you need? You actually do need fear as a driver. You need to be confident, but you also have to have some fear. I remember when I first got behind the wheel, my I think it was my mother that told me, you are driving a lethal weapon Is that not true? It certainly is. You can kill somebody with this. It's something to take take, it's there's something there. There's a reference to it, there's a fear to it, there's something to be careful about it Somebody who has fear, you need fear to be a good driver. You get too casual behind the wheel and you don't care and you're overconfident you're going to be a bad driver. But what if you only have fear Can you be overly fearful? Yes. If you don't have confidence and you are be you are overly fearful, then as I said already You're not going to be able to make a good decision, or you're going to make a bad decision, or you're going to react wrongly too fast, or you're going to oversteer. All kinds of problems can happen because you're overly fearful Is it possible as a driver to have both confidence and fear at the same time? And the answer is yes, it is. It is possible to have both, confidence and fear as a driver. And did you know it's the same in the Christian life? In the Christian life, God desires for us to be confident. That's what hope is. Hope, which we've already learned, is a confident expectation in future things But God is going to tell us now he also wants us to have the right kind of fear. This is the third of three commandments so far that He has given us. In verses 3 through 12, he told us, Peter said, describe this guaranteed inheritance that we have in Christ. That's the hope of the believer. And so that as we go through this life, we know that our future is secure, that our hope is guaranteed, that it is set in stone, and that we don't have to worry about it. And there's a confidence that we can have. But God then says, the first command we learned in verse 13, he said, gird up the loins of your mind and set your hope. In other words, focus your mind on the right things and set your hope. There's a command as a response to putting your hope in an inheritance And then secondly, be holy as he is holy. We learned that last week. That's in verse 15. He says: first of all, set your hope Now he's going to say, well, how do you do that? How do you both set your hope And also be holy. Well, he's now going to say in verse 17, look at it, look at it again. And if you call on the Father without part who without partiality judges According to each one's work, conduct yourselves through the time of your stay here in what? In fear. He is now going to say that the way that you are to conduct yourself, Christian, in this life, is in fear. And that's going to be an interesting. We don't think of it that way. We often think, well, we shouldn't fear. And there's a sense in which we shouldn't fear, but there is also a sense in which we ought to fear. And that's what we're going to learn about today. God commands us to live in a reverent manner in the world, in a fearful manner. Why should we live in a reverent manner? Why should we live in a fearful manner? Number one, because God is going to evaluate believers. Because we believers must remember that God does evaluate. He is a judge. Now, notice again the passage, this is really interesting. Look at verse 17 again, and it says, and if you and if you call on the Father who without partiality judges. Now I had a hard time with that when I first read that. If you call on the Father, who without partiality judges, what does the two things have to do with each other? Why did he say it that way? Why does Peter say, if you call on the Father, Then also realize he's a judge. Why would he say that? Well, let's just explore that for a minute. What he this is, is a condition. He is saying that if you are one who identifies God as your father, if you are one who recognizes God as your father, in other words, are you his child? In other words, if you know Christ as your Savior, what are you? You're a child of God. And what he is saying here is that you need to, you need, there's two things going on here. implied here. One is you need you need to recognize that you are God's child and you need to realize that you he is your father He is your loving Heavenly Father. He is your Father who genuinely cares about you. And that is absolutely foundational. You must understand that as a Christian, that he cares about you, he deeply cares about you, you can cry out to him. He is Abba Father, and he is loving. And then it's actually saying something else. He's actually saying That it is actually necessary for you to realize that before you also realize something else about God. He is also your judge. He's your loving, caring, Heavenly Father, but he is also your evaluator. It's like you go get a driver's test and you have the guy sitting in the right side, you know, sitting in the passenger seat, and he's evaluating you. There is going to be a day where God evaluates you and I as Christians. The right concept of God is not one where, okay, God is my loving Heavenly Father and He just, no matter what I do, he's just happy with me all the time. And I might do bad things, and it's okay because he's my loving Heavenly Father. If you think that, then you do not have a right understanding of who God is. On the other hand, if you see God as a judge as merely an impersonal evaluator of your pr of your work and your life. You also don't have a an accurate view of who God is. See, it requires both. In other words, we have to be confident in the right way and be fearful in the right way. Well, in order to be confident in the right way and to be fearful in the right way, we have to view God in the right way. How do you view God in the right way? He is both your caring, loving, heavenly Father, who is also your evaluator. That there will be a day, one day, and you can look ahead to that day and realize that there is going to be a judgment. There is going to be an evaluation of what you do on this earth for Him. And so he says, look at it again. If you call on the Father, if you identify God as your Father, wonderful, you need to do that. It's actually necessary for you to do that. But don't stop there. Realize he's your father, but he is also, without partiality, your judge. According, he says, to each one's work. That's what he's evaluating. And so he says this, because of that, because there's going to be a day of reckoning as a Christian. Conduct yourselves throughout the time of your stay here in fear. Throughout the time of your stay here, what's he talking about? Are they like in some hotel or something? No. They're not in a hotel, they're not living. It almost sounds like that. Like he's he's like take like you could almost imagine Peter saying, you know, while you're here at my house, this is how I want you to conduct myself. You're visiting You're stopping by, and while you're stopping by, I want you to conduct yourself this way. But when he says throughout the time of your stay here, do you know what he's talking about? Yeah, your time on earth. You see, God actually says that we are sojourners and pilgrims. First Peter one says Peter and Apostle Jesus Christ to the pilgrims of the dispersion in Pontius Pil Pontius Galatia Cappadocia Asia Bithynia And then later on in chapter 2, verse 11, it says, Beloved, I beg you as sojourners and pilgrims, he wants us to see this world. Peter says, This world's not your home This world is a place where you are passing through, you're visiting, and while you're staying in this temporary place, you need to conduct yourself in fear We don't see the world that way, I don't think, as Christians. We see this as a final destination instead of the passing-through place to the final destination For the unsaved person, they see this as the final destination. Actually, it's not their final destination either. But for us as Christians, we shouldn't want to see this as our final destination. Now, the question that does come up when we read through this, that God is our judge, I mean, the Bible tells us, for example, in Romans chapter 8, there is therefore no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus I mean, what kind of judge is God to his children? We know that he is going to judge the world. Okay? And sin and righteousness and judgment, Scripture says we know that one day he is going to send the ungodly to hell, those who choose to reject who have rejected him as Savior. But what about what about the Christian? What kind of judge is he? I just want you for a minute. I want you to take your take your Bibles and turn to Matthew 25 for a minute. And I've mentioned this on many, many occasions, but I think it's just really helpful for us to remind ourselves of an illustration that Jesus gave to us In the beginning of his ministry, or really more toward the middle or end of his ministry, but he he gave this to us during his ministry on earth. It's it's the it's the it's the the p the parable of the talents, you remember it? And the parable of t of the talents is where he gave one one talent and one ten and one you know that that that story. Look at verse 13, he says, Watch therefore, for you know neither the day nor the hour which the Son of Man is coming. It's talking about the same event. that Peter is talking about. But there is going to be a day where Christ returns and there's going to be something that happens. Verse 14, Matthew 25. For the kingdom of heaven is like a man traveling to a far country who called his own servants and delivered them to his goods. And after and look at verse 19. And after a long time, so he gives them he gives them their their grace. actually. He gives them what he wants them to take and use for his purposes. In verse 19, it says, after a long time the Lord of the servant comes back. And notice what it says: the Lord of the Servants came, and what does he do? He settles their accounts. That is a really good way to understand what's going to happen in the judgment for believers. The judgment seat of Christ. There's going to be a settling of accounts It's not as though God is going to be ready to pounce on us, certainly not to send us to hell. Folks, we need to remember as Christians that there is going to be one day a judgment where he is going to settle. accounts with us. I wonder what it would do in our lives if we really thought about that every single day. That every single morning we woke up and realized that that day is going to be a day where one day we are going God is going to settle our account. See, I think that's what Peter is saying here. He's saying that we are to live with an awareness. The fear is an awareness of the presence of God. We are to live in awareness that there's going to be an account that is settled. Just note something else about this passage. In verse 24 it says then he had received the one talent, came and said that remember the guy who received the one talent, didn't do anything with it, he buried it Lord, I knew you to be a hard man, reaping where you have not sown, and gathering where you have not scattered seed. What was the man's problem? Interestingly enough, he had fear with no confidence. He said, I knew, Lord, I saw you as a hard man. He didn't see God as a loving heavenly father. He only saw him as one who was ready to just pounce on him. It is so important that we have a balance when it comes to our perception of who God is. That is the only way that we're going to be able to live both in freedom, but with reverence as well as we serve God here on earth. So the command here is that through the time of your stay you need to fear. Now it's interesting that Peter uses this word fear several different ways in Peter. For example, if you're back in 1 Peter, you could flip over to chapter 2, verse 18, and you'll see this. It says, Servants, be submissive to your masters, and he says this with all fear Not only to the good and gentle, but also to the harsh. He says to the servant, You need to serve your master with fear. What is he talking about there? Is he talking about trembling? No, he's talking about reverence. But I remember I read a commentary and I really appreciated what this commentary said. It was by by Schreiner as the it is the guy's name, very solid uh he any commentary written by Schreiner is excellent. Um but he he he mentioned that by using the term reverence we need to be careful that we don't water it down too much. That's my words, not his. But sometimes people s see this word fear in the Bible, like the fear of the Lord is the beginning of the wisdom. And if we're not careful, we we sort of water it down We sort of go, oh well that's just reverence. So that just means you just you just you know he's there. It's more than that. It's more than just this sort of feeling that he's there. There is an there is a a weight a weight about it, about this idea. There is a, I'm weighed, there's a weight, there's a responsibility that Peter is talking about here. Look at chapter 3, verse 2. And it says, when they observe your chaste conduct accompanied by fear, actually talking about the wife whose husband is unsaved. How can she win him? It says to do so with her chaste conduct accompanied by fear, uh a reverence. And then look at chapter 3, verse 13. It says, And who is he who will harm you if you become followers of that is good? But even if you should suffer right for righteousness' sake, you are blessed, and do not be afraid of their threats, nor be troubled, but sanctify the Lord God in your heart. Be ready always to give an answer of everyone who asks you a reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and what? And fear Then it says this verse 16, having a good conscience. Well, how do you have fear in a good way? Having a good conscience. That when they defame you as evildoers, though who uh those who revile your good conduct in Christ may be ashamed, for it is better that the will of God that you suffer for doing good than for doing evil. that your conscience is clear, that you're walking in a way where you have a good conscience in Christ before others. That's what he's talking about here. It's a weight, it's an awareness, it's it's it's an understanding that one day there's going to be a reconciling of accounts before God, and we're going to live that way while we're here on earth. That's what God is commanding us to do here. He says Have your conduct yourselves that your conduct yourselves uh conduct yourselves rather uh throughout the time of your stay here in fear Now then he's going to say, why? Why is it that we should do this? Why is living in fear so important? Well, because believers are called to meaningful purpose, versus eighteen and nineteen. Because believers are called to meaningful purpose. Look at what it says in the passage, verse 18. Knowing that you were not redeemed with corruptible things like silver and gold from your aimless conduct received by tradition from your fathers. He's going to contrast now, and he's going to say: there's a way to live in which you are living in reverence before God, and there's also a way to live In which you you are living pointlessly, aimlessly The Bible calls an Ecclesiastes vanity. There is a way to live aimlessly where you waste your life. Where you waste your blessings, you waste the grace of God that He's given to you. There is that possibility that we waste the opportunities that God gives us in this life. And Peter is warning, he's saying, the way to keep from getting coming to a life of aimlessness Is that you live in reverence to God's presence and understanding that there's one day going to be an evaluation? Now, how is it that a Christian would live aimlessly? Well, Peter is actually talking to believers, and he says, look back at your old life before you're saved. And use that as a reminder of what it looks like to live aimlessly. So, what does the world live for? What does the world live for? Well, look at the passage, it actually tells us what the world lives for. It says silver and gold. Right? Does the world live for silver and gold? Yeah, the world chases money. He says don't chase money. He says, don't live for silver and gold. It is perishing. You were not redeemed for that. You are not redeemed by corruptible things like silver and gold. He says also from your aimless conduct received by tradition from your fathers. He's talking there about empty religion. There are people in the world that they just go through the motions of some empty religion. It's aimless. Some people live for Being a good person and doing good things, they live for empty religion, and there's other people they're living for themselves, for money, or for fame, and all of it, God says, Peter says, it's aimless. And the quicker we understand that it's aimless, the closer we are to living in meaningful purpose. He reminds us here, he says, you're not redeemed by that. It's not silver and gold that redeems you. In other words, getting more wealth. Or there are like there very likely is a reference to idolatry here. Silver and gold in the Old Testament was very, very accompanied with idolatry, and it might be a reference to that as well But those kinds of things are all things that God says that those things are aimless. Don't live for those things. He says, verse 19, but with the precious blood of Christ, as a lamb without blemish and without spot. He says, you were purchased not with corruptible gold and silver. You were purchased with the blood of Christ. He says the precious blood of Christ. Do you know why he says the precious blood of Christ? He's contrasting that with gold and silver. I don't know that we really think of it this way that often. That the blood of Christ was priceless. That it was far, it's not even a con it's not even comparable to silver and gold of any kind. When you think of the value of the blood of the Son of God. That is the payment that purchased your redemption and my redemption It was the death of Christ and the blood that was shed on the cross for us. It was something that was absolutely priceless, that you couldn't put a price on it. It's something that is not temporal, it's something that is term that is eternal, it's something that's not corruptible, it's something that is bl without spot, without blemish, it was completely pure What is the argument that Peter is making here? Here's the argument. Don't waste Christ's blood. That's the argument. Don't waste the blood of Christ. That there is a way to be fear, to live in the reverence, in reverence and fear. Why? Because we were redeemed with the blood of Christ. The precious blood of Christ, and it just makes sense for us to live for Him because He bought us with His own life. This is a gift of grace, and it was purchased with the precious blood of Christ. It's an opportunity, and we ought not waste it. And then he says this. With all this discussion, you might be feeling a little heavy right now. I mean, it's pretty weighty what we've been talking about, right? In some cases, you might be on this sort of fearful end. Oh no, the judgment's coming. Well, he's gonna, Peter's gonna come around and he's gonna remind you again in verse 20. Look at verse 20. For he indeed was foreordained before the foundation of the world, but was manifest in these last times for you, talking about Jesus, but was manifest in these last times for you Who through him believe in God, who raised him from the dead, and gave him glory, so that your faith and hope are in God. He says, remember where your hope is. Remember where your faith is. It's in God. And he says, for indeed, he was foreordained before the foundation of the world. But was manifest in these last times for you. Here's what he's saying. He's saying that this is incredible, that Jesus And what Jesus planned to do in dying on the cross for you, it was planned before the world was ever created. Christ planned to redeem us. But I just want us to think about this. Think back Old Testament. Think back to Genesis. Adam and Eve the first first human beings. Go back even farther to the beginning of creation. Go back beyond go back even farther before creation ever began. Go back before the angels Now fast forward, how much did Adam and Eve understand of what was going to happen? I mean, it was already planned. Like it was already set in motion. It's it's it's but God's mind it was done You go back to Adam and Eve, how much was revealed? Very, very little. Genesis 3:15, the head of the serpent is going to be bruised by the heel of uh by the heel of Eve Very little. As you go through the Old Testament, there's a little more revealed, a little more revealed, a little bit more revealed, a little bit more revealed. And by the time you get to like the Maya prophets, they're like, what's going on here? What's going to happen? They start searching. They searching their own prophecies. They can't wait for this going to happen. And what's what's going to take place here? They're anticipating what's going to happen And actually, that's why we celebrate Great Christmas. Because it happened. And we have the privilege of actually looking and seeing what took place. What the prophets foretold of and didn't even understand completely and wanted to know more of and wanted to get. And we are the privileged people of God who can look back and see it all fulfilled. That's what he's saying. Look at it again. For he indeed was fordained before the foundation of the world, ordained before the foundation of the world, but was manifest, was shown in these last times For you. Why? Verse twenty-one who through him believe in God Who raised him from the dead and gave him glory? Why? So that your faith and hope are in God. Brothers and sisters in Christ, we are completely equipped to trust in hope. We are divinely equipped to do that. In the Old Testament, you can kind of understand why there would be people doubting. Well, you have people that would struggle in their faith. I mean it was it was it was Christ that was slowly being revealed, but it was very much concealed. Folks, Peter is basically saying, look, you're going to go through hard times, you're going to go through suffering, you need to be able to stand. What's going to equip you to be able to stand? You have given everything you need to be able to stand. Why? Because it's been manifested, it's been shown, it's like it's all been unfolded. This book is complete, it's all done. And the reason that we struggle in our faith, the reason that we falter sometimes, the reason that we're not standing is because we're not studying. We're not seeing the fulfillment, the fulfillment after fulfillment, after fulfillment of Old Testament prophecies. We're not, it all has come to pass And God has created this book in such a way that when you read it and you understand the fulfillment of the Old Testament prophecies, you understand how literally and precisely God did what he said he would do. In Bethlehem, Micah 5. 2, there was going to be born the Savior, and it's fulfilled hundreds of years later. Isaiah, unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulders. And it's completed. We see it in Matthew 1 and 2. Oh, you constantly see this. And it's so precisely and so specifically, I hope you're seeing this on Sundays as we're going through this. so precisely and so specif specifically fulfilled that when you look ahead to the pro are there unfulfilled prophecies still? Sure there are The second coming of Christ is an unfulfilled prophecy. Why can we know that Christ will come for us? Why? Because we watched it be fulfilled already before. The prophecies of the Old Testament were fulfilled. We have no reason to believe whatsoever that the prophecies of the New Testament won't be fulfilled. And that's the confidence that we have in our hope. That's what he's saying here. And so he says, because of this, we are completely equipped. Your faith and hope are in God. Okay, just wrapping all this up, number one. We must live in the presence of God and the future evaluation. We must live in the presence of God and remembering that there will be a future evaluation. There's going to be a judgment. It's a loving Heavenly Father judging us. A just judge, a judge who is impartial. We don't have to worry. Other people judge us and they're partial and they they get half a story, don't understand everything going on. God's not like that. He knows all of it. But he is going to fairly judge us someday. Number two, living in the fear of the Lord will keep us from wasting our lives and God's grace. God purchased our grace with his own blood. Number three, faithfulness results wholeheartedly trusting, results from wholeheartedly trusting. in the hope of Christ. Faithfulness results whole from wholeheartedly trusting in the hope of Christ. Let's pray together. Father, we pray that you would help us as we we saw your word this evening. All of this is written so that we would be able to stand And I pray, Lord, that as we just grow in our lives as Christians and our discipleship, that what would be included in that is this idea of reverence. That we love you, and we know you're our loving, caring, benevolent, gracious Heavenly Father, but you are also a God who will reconcile things. Lord, help us not to take the grace that you've so benevolently given us and waste it. May we rather take the opportunities that you give us to serve you. May we be aware of your presence in our lives. And we look forward to the hope of Christ. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.