All right, take your Bibles and turn to Ecclesiastes, if you would. We are now in Ecclesiastes chapter 11. We are getting close. We're start start beginning to see the end of Ecclesiastes now and uh should be wrapping up in the next few weeks. And I want to begin this way. I want to remind us about something before we look at this. The Bible as a whole is not primarily in its first purpose an instruction manual for life. The Bible is not, in its first purpose, an instruction manual for life. The Bible, in its first purpose, is to reveal God. That's the purpose of the vi of the Bible, to show us God. Is God's word, and we are to he He has given it to us to reveal Himself to us exactly what he wants us to know about himself. Now, having said that though, there are certain passages that certain books of the Bible even and certain passages that really lend themselves to practical wisdom The book of Proverbs, for example, does that. And also here today, Ecclesiastes chapter 11, verses 1 through 8 is extremely practical wisdom and the emphasis here is really this is how you should live life considering what life is like Now I want to point something out of some of the value of this before we go into it. Just think about this. You know, I think there is some value in what we're going to learn tonight because it will it will connect with s some conventional wisdom of people that have lived life through experience, even unsaved people. For example, it's going to tell us in this passage to that that when we invest that we ought to diversify. Now do you need to be saved to know that? Are there is that not conventional wisdom among investors? That investors, you know, that's what a mutual a gross stock mutual fund is basically of m multiple different funds that are diversified so that hopefully if one's up the other's down and or the up the other one's down, the other one's up and that kind of thing. They're not good investments. That's called gambling. Because there's no diversification. If that I mean if you want to try that a little bit, that I don't know if there's anything wrong with it, but um be really careful. Um So that's kind of one example. It actually essentially says the first part of this, don't put all your eggs in one basket. Doesn't actually say that that phrase, but it gives that principle Now here's the value of this. The value is number one, it it's going to teach us how to live. And we need to listen to it. Teenagers, this is really helpful. Some of these things, if you can grasp them now, you it is so it would be so much better for you than um some of the old users here that learn how to learn this the hard way in life. I mean really some of this is just good practical wisdom and the whole book of Ecclesiastes, in fact gives good practical wisdom for living life. And we're going to see that here this morning this evening. So we'll pick up here. First of all, there's a couple of things that we need to factor into what reality is. And really this is living out a biblical life plan while anchored to reality. You know, it's How many of you have heard in the last six months something about chasing your dream You ever hear that on the radio? You need it or on the on television? You need to trace your dream dream. Go after your dream. You gotta go pursue your dreams. Well, I I'm not saying that you shouldn't pursue things that you shouldn't have gold. I'm not saying that at all. But there is a necess need to anchor your life plan in reality. It's important to do that, to know what is real. Now here are three things that Solomon has already said is real. Three things are real. My subject verb remote is problem. Okay. I I've been helping Caitlin with grammar lately. Anyway, I was diagramming sentences there today a little bit. Um three three things. One, life is unpredictable. Right? Now, Solomon says it, and experience shows us that. Number two, life will have both good times and bad times. And number three, we are limited both by our ability and by our knowledge. Do we have a limited ability? Yes, you can't do everything. Do you have limited knowledge? Yes, you can't know everything. Now, with those realities of life which he has already expressed in previous chapters. How are we then supposed to live? If you can't know everything and you got both good times and bad times and life is unpredictable and you can't control and there's this other thing like you can't control nearly as much as you think you can. If that's all true, how then do we live? How do we set out to go through life when we're really not in control, when we really can't predict things? And when and when good and when uh and when we know we're so limited by our ability and by our knowledge. So this is very, very practical advice here that he's going to give us. And the first thing he says is in this passage, he says That we need to have careful careful preparation, careful planning in life. Did you know that if you don't plan and don't prepare in life, that you'll end up just kind of being kind of shooting that direction, going another direction. You'll lack biblical priority in your life. Biblical priority is carried out, is behaved through biblical careful planning and preparation. For example, I'll give you an example this way by illustration. I remember as a pastor, there's a lot of things I can do. Some things I should have to do, other things I should do, and some things I can do, but maybe I shouldn't do them. And what I have to do with all the possibilities of what I can do, I've got to set my priorities not just for the moment. But look at the my whole week is what I usually do. Sometimes month, sometimes year, and then vary what you what needs to take place within the year and in the week and in the day. And then All that making sure that my priorities are right with my w that I'm I'm spent spending enough time with my wife and my kids and spending enough time do it uh being attentive to the word of God which is primary and preaching of the word of God which is absolutely primary but then also making sure that I'm n praying for I mean all of that The only way to do it is to have a plan, is to have a schedule, to think through everything. Okay, Lord, what is my responsibilities? And how am I supposed to carry out those responsibilities? It doesn't happen by accident. We must have a plan. And that's a very that's very important for us to understand And he says there are a couple of things that you need to factor into this plan. He's going to give us very practical wisdom here. He says, verse 1. Cast thy bread upon the waters, for thou shalt find it after many days. Cast thou bread upon upon the waters, for thou shalt. find it after many days. What is he talking about there? He said I mean what's he talking about feeding ducks or something? Is that what it's talking? It's not talking about that at all. You guys ever done that before? You fed ducks with Yeah. No, he's not talking about that at all. Bread here is, of course, the product of grain. Grain was a staple of of everybody needed it w of society and casting your bread on the waters is basically sending grain overseas. That's what he's talking about. He is actually talking about exporting goods overseas. Now, in order to really understand what he's getting at here, ver verse one, we need to put our minds back in the back, you know, before Christ. in ancient times. And what do you suppose might be the potential problems or difficulties of exporting goods overseas? Let's say you're exporting them over the Sea of Galilee or something. What what might you think would be the the the the difficulty of that? Any ideas? Okay, so it's just risky. Was it it it's not nearly as risky a day as it was back then, but it was risky. I mean we even know first century Paul was shipwrecked. I mean uh so th so it was. It was it was known in ancient times as a very risky thing, much more risky than being on land. What else? Okay, you have you have initial overhead costs that you wouldn't have if you're just selling to somebody down the street. And then there's something else. It's gonna if you're exporting goods, I mean consider the fact that there's no, you know, there's no direct deposit back then. There's no even mail that's gonna get how how quickly are you going to get paid? It could be Months, maybe even years, when you're exporting something to be able to actually receive payment. I mean the the amount of time that it takes to export it is going to be at least the amount of time it's going to take to receive payment. And it may be months or years before you actually get payment. So what's his point? His point here is invest in long term, not just short term. Okay, that's really what he's saying. He's saying pay attention to what is the long game, not just the immediate thing. Now that's pretty good advice, isn't it? Are we good at that in this in our culture? No, we want instant gratification. We want it right now, and if we have to look ahead and plan It doesn't make sense to us. Solomon says, look ahead and plan ahead and don't just look at the short Uh don't don't look at the immediate future, but look at the distant future and and and invest for not just short gains But for the future as well. And I I think we can apply this more than just money or grain. I mean I think really probably that what this is con tuck contextually the main thing he's talking about is is goods But I mean anything in life, you have to real I mean wisdom says it takes time, it takes planning, you don't get an immediate return. And understanding that is important when it comes to careful preparation, wise planning. Then it says in verse 2 It says, For thou shalt find it after many days. Eventually it'll come back to you. You'll eventually receive after many days it will happen. Verse 2. Give a portion to seven, also to eight, for thou knowest not what evils shall be upon the earth. Now we already are in the context of grain being per being sold. And now we see he says give a portion to seven or to eight. What do you think he's talking about here? He is talking about diversifying here. That's what he's talking about. He is saying that in your efforts and in your and in your investments and what you're doing Don't just put all your eggs in one basket. Diversify in multiple different areas. And again, you could certainly apply this to financial investing. It is wise investing to diversify. Not to just put all your eggs in one basket. But just in life in general, um there's just good wisdom and understanding that God may give us multiple opportunities. And we need to pursue those opportunities, not just say, okay, well, God only wants me to do this. That's it. So we need to diversify our efforts. And he gives us a reason. He says, For thou knowest not what evil will be upon the earth. This word evil is not talking about sin, it's talking about calamity. You don't know what calamities are going to fall on the earth. You don't know what bad things are going to happen. So if you have invested in multiple different areas, then if two or three go bad, you're still afloat. Now let me ask you a question. Besides finances, and this is actually a really open-ended question, what other things might we apply this to in life? I'm just curious, what other things might we apply this to in life? I actually am not implying that but that's a good button. Okay, I can only work in the nursery world. Or enough enough words for GAD. Alright, good. I hadn't thought of that, but that's a good that's that's a good thought. Yes. if you have if you only provide one service and suddenly that service is no longer needed or it's we need it less Well you're kind of sunk, but if you're able to do many different things to provide multiple services, that's a variety and you're you're you're putting yourself in a better position to succeed and and thrive. Okay, good. Yes, Stefan? Um I was thinking about um just Jacob his kids, his 12 kids, how he um not sure if it directly applies, but how he favored um one as opposed to another and then in the sense of he deposited all his affection into his one where he should have reversed iron all of them. Well, you know, I mean I that uh th by way of application, even with our kids, we can do that if we if we're just focused on one or two or th I mean, if God's given us in my case three kids, then I need to really k really work with all three of them. That's okay. That's an interesting interesting application. I like if there's a farmer Yeah. Only growing more. One crop, yeah. Okay. Sure. Yeah, I think I think uh application here is look at all of what God has given you, what opportunities you have, and really what responsibilities you have. And make sure that you are setting proper priorities in the various things that God wants you to be involved in. I think that would be a good a good application. Now clearly he that he's he's said that you don't he he he's gonna now build on this idea of you don't know what calamity will fall upon the earth. You don't know what's going to happen in life. And so he's now going to to we're going to look at this reality of uncontrollable circumstances. You know the truth is we don't control nearly as much as we think we control in life. I think the quicker we learn that, the better we are off we are. This is a particular problem in 21st century Western culture. In Eastern culture they don't see it that way. They actually have another problem. If you go to Hong Kong, which is my where I went, if you go to the e to eastern culture and and They have the exact opposite problem. They think they're not in control of anything, and everything occurs through sort of superstition. So they all have, like, for example, they've got these these goldfish ponds in their back patio that take up the whole patio. I mean they don't want to be out the uh you know it's it'd be nice to be outside. They sit on back on pal No, they have these goldfish because the goldfish are going to help them give them good fortune in life. Their mentality there is that I have no control over life and actually it's some sort of other force. Um, you know, their their gods Uh Buddha, I guess, if they're Buddhist, that give that that the well, that of course is false as well. That's a su the super s that's the superstitious end of life that's wrong. But the other side is to think that you control everything. And that is uh absolutely wrong. It doesn't take us long in life to realize that we don't control everything. And so he's now going to deal with the reality of uncontrollable circumstances. We pick up here in verse 3. If the clouds be full of rain, and they empty themselves upon the earth, And if a tree fall toward the south or the north, in the place where the tree falleth, there it shall be. What's he saying there? Well, if it's saying the full clouds be full rain be full of clouds, I mean other way around, clouds be full of rain, and it comes on the earth, fills Tree that by the way, that's how you get fallen trees usually. They fill up with rain, they fill up with water, they get waterlogged, and then they fall Nearly all damaged da you know, I used to go I'd go out and do emergency m work where I worked for the tree service and and that's and it's almost always after a s during a storm or after a storm and it isn't always You know, lightning related. Most of the time it's not lightning related. It's rain waterlogging the top of the leaves of the tree and then causing the tree to topple. And you know what? I have never seen somebody go and try to catch the tree. Right? Oh man that thing's falling. Let me go catch it and hope it's gonna and and and I I can control this thing. I could swing this another way. That does not happen. There's no mechanism to call there's no there's no machine that ca allows that to happen. Nobody even says I'll take a big crane and does No, you let the thing fall where it's gonna fall. Evacuate the building. I remember one time I was working I we were doing emergency tree work down in DC and there was this tree on power lines that the only thing was o was holding them was a bunch of power lines and it was leaning toward a building, a apartment complex, like this. And all these power lines, of course the power was shut out shut off by that point, was the only thing holding the tree up. That was by far the most precarious tree I ever took down I've already I've ever been involved in taking down. And we had to have a crane to pull it pull to to to move it. The bottom line is you can't if a tree falls, you can't stop it from and you can't just you can't do anything about it. It's an illustration of life. There are things that happen in life and you do not have the ability You don't have the power. Your power, your ability is absolutely limited. And so you've got to understand in life. You know, by the way, When you're young, you think you can do everything you can't do. When you're old, you there's things you can do that you think you can't do It's usually the way it works. So so I I was reading an article one time about um delusional positivity. That the people between the ages of twenty and twenty-five have are delusionally positive. Like they just think they can't be hurt and they can't fail and they can't you know, those kinds of things. And then, you know, eventually that that doesn't you know, you r you get you get you get beat up if it doesn't kill 'em you get beat up enough times you realize it's not not accurate. Our power is extremely limited, right? But not only is our power limited, what else is limited? What else is limited is our knowledge. Would you notice in verse 4? He that observeth the wind shall not sow, and he that regardeth the clouds shall not weep, or not shall not reap. As thou knowest not what is the way of the Spirit, or how the bones do grow in the womb of her of her that is with child, even so thou knowest not the works of God, the works of God who maketh all. The point, you don't know a lot, neither do I, right? We we have extremely limited knowledge. And we see that from verse five. I'm going to come back to verse four because these two verses go together. But verse five makes that very clear. He says, You don't know the way of the spirit. Probably the better way to translate it like that is wind. You don't know the way of the wind. Do you know can you control the way the wind goes? Can't ha can't happen, Dave, right? I mean you know that from being on a sailboat. You you go where there's no way to control it. And you don't even know when it will turn. You know, you know, you can put your you can figure out where it's going, but you don't know when it will change. You have no knowledge of that. You can't predict it. And so and so he says that here, same thing. Now we have ultrasounds and all kinds of things, but back then before that before they certainly didn't, they had no idea What would what would come out when the baby was actually born? Would there be deformities? Would there be missing limbs or things like that? They had no clue whatsoever. The point is there are real limitations to what we know. Now, he says this in verse 4. He that observeth the wind, what did we already here learn about the wind in verse 5? You can't know everything about the wind, right? It's impossible. He that observeth the wind shall not sow. What's he talking about sowing? Talking about taking a needle and sewing it so he's done No, sowing seeds, he's not going to sow. And he that regardeth the clouds shall not reap. He that's looketh up for the clouds all the time and analyzing his situation Will not reap. What's the problem here? Yes. This is someone who is trying to gain all of the knowledge possible on a particular area and looking for the exact right opportunity with no hitches and no hurdles And he never gets it. He and so we have this this danger of being overly cautious. There is this possibility that you're trying did you know that you could take any given subject or any given situation and you'll never exhaust all of the knowledge of that given given subject. I remember lately when we tried to uh uh for some reason all of our appliances keep breaking down. Over the last two years we've replaced ridiculous amount of appliances. Well, when we're do when we're when we're researching appliances and we do research and we try to figure things out, but there comes a point where you go You keep learning new and new, more and more and more stuff, right? As you as you learn about different things. There comes a point where you go, okay, you know what? I think I've kind of got a good idea of this and I'm going to take the best shot I can and buy something. Right? At some point, you gotta stop analyzing. At some point, you gotta stop looking for the perfect thing. Right? Because there's no perfection this side of heaven. And you can constant there isn't you're not going to exhaust the amount of dollat. So he's pointing, he's giving you sort of this This caution, be aware of the danger of being overly cautious. Because, and the reason is there is a limit to your knowledge, and you find that in verse 5. So then he says, then we come to this this question. If all of this is true, If life is uncontrollable, and you never know when, and you're there you have no ability to control what happens. And you have no knowledge of what is going to happen. Well, how do you live life then? That sounds pretty tenuous, doesn't it? Sounds pretty dangerous. And you know what? Life is that way, isn't it? Life is pretty tenuous. But there but he's going to give us some extremely helpful advice here. He says this, beginning in verse six, we find here the solution is really one of continued diligence. Notice what he says in verse 6. He says, In the morning sow thy seed, and in the evening withhold not thine hand. Did you get that? So how how much should we be diligent? Well, if it's cover what's the morning and the evening, how much is that? That's All the time. We should always be diligent. We should always be working hard. There is this constant Oh w you know, and by the way, you say, Well, does that mean I I can't be still and know that God is God? No, actually you need to work hard at that too You need to work hard at being still. You say that doesn't make any sense at all. Try being somebody who doesn't like to be still. And then you'll realize that being still takes work. All of it takes work, and we need to be diligent at what God gives us to do. We need to be diligent Morning and evening. This is so important for us to understand. Hard work and diligence is something that God wants us to be, that is his solution. to the calamity the the problem of unpredictability and the potential of calamity in life. Now let me ask you this question. If you work hard, does that mean bad things aren't going to happen to you? No. Anybody who's lived any length of time knows that. You can work really hard at something and it end up Not working. Is that isn't that possible? Have you ever felt like you're working hard and you're spinning your wheels? You're like a lab rat who's running on a m on a you know one of those belt things and you're just going nowhere fast. Well, sometimes life is like that. And you know what you suppose you should be doing? Keep working. God wants us to be those who are diligent in our work. And so he says here in this passage in verse 6. We see the right behavior. In the morning, sow thy seed, and the evening withhold not thine hand. For thou knowest not whether whether shall prosper. So he said, here's what he says, here's what he says, here's why we need to keep working. You don't know what you're doing that will really prosper. Either this or that. One thing that you're doing, remember we're already diversifying our efforts. Maybe that thing will prosper and that won't. Maybe that will and that and you don't know which ones will. So the answer is work hard at everything. This is a great lesson for you guys going to college. There are going to be some subjects that you're going to like better than the others. There's going to be some classes that you're going to you're going to you're going to be real successful at. But you've got to be diligent in all of them. You can't say, well, I just I like that class, so I'm going to focus on that class. You've got to be diligent on all your classes and work hard at all of them. Does it mean that you will get the best grade possible in all the classes? Perhaps, but not necessarily. You still got to work hard at all of them. And whatever you're doing, you've got to work hard at what you're doing. The right behavior is to be diligent all of the time. Because you don't know but that's the thing. We don't know what's really gonna be pro profitable and what's not. We don't know what we will really prosper at and what what we won't. So That's why earlier Solomon already said this, whatever thy hand findeth to do, do it with all thy might. Then we see here it says And this is the attitude. So that's the behavior. Diligence. Work hard. Stay focused. That's the behavior. But then notice verse 7. Truly the light is sweet, and a pleasant thing is for the eyes to behold the sun. What is he talking about there? That's a little that threw me a curveball when I first read it, right? It says, truly the light is sweet. We know we're talking about something good then, right? Sweetness is usually something good. Unless it goes to your waistline and it's bad, but that's not what we're talking about here. Sweet is something good. And pleasant thing is for the uh thing it is for the eyes, so that we're talking about something that's pleasant, to behold the sun. Um how many of you all like sunny days? Most people like sunny days. And if you don't like sunny days, and if you don't really like sunny days, you might be weird. But if you don't like sunny days Just understand that the general consensus among people is that we would rather have a sunny day. Now I actually like rain days too. I I like it both. I like it I like rain and sun. But you the general association with a bright, sunny day is what? A good day, an enjoyable day. And we see the contrast here in verse 8. But a man lie uh but a man but if a man live many years and rejoice in them all, yet let him remember the days of darkness. So there there are bad days too, the days of darkness For they shall be many, all that cometh is vanity. Verse 8, first part, tells us what to do with these good days. What should we do with them? Rejoice in them. You have a good day, enjoy the good day. Don't make a good day a bad day by worrying about whether or not it's going to be a good day or a bad day. Right? Sometimes we have what might be a good day turning into a bad day because we keep wondering whether it's a good day or a bad day. If you've got a good day, enjoy the day. Enjoy, I mean, just in general, wake up enjoying life, enjoying what God has given you. And realize there is going to be a bad day along the way every once in a while. Maybe there will be a whole section of bad days. Maybe there's going to be a whole year that's bad or two years. But whatever it is, we should enjoy what God's given us in the good days. We should rejoice in them. But we also understand we've got to endure during the bad days. There's going to be dark days. There's going to be days where the clouds come, where the where it's just a rainy, dreary day. And we need to and and there's going to be darkness. We need to remember that that's going to happen. Don't be surprised when you're going through one or two or three good days. And a bad day comes, you go, what in the world happened? Why is this don't be surprised by that. It's gonna happen. You're gonna have bad days. This is good practical advice, isn't it? Is this not true? Aren't there some days that you just look and say that you you're gonna have a bad day? But then notice this as well, finally, he says, all that cometh is vanity. Now the word vanity here, the way he's using is this. He's saying that time is limited. Now is that not true? I let me tell you, time I am old enough to realize that time is not immeasurable. It is limited. I I I can't I c I'm looking at a lot of teens today. And I can remember when I was your age. And I can remember like yesterday. I mean it's not like I'm looking into the distant future here. Some of you or distant past, I should say. I'm not looking at the distant past and going Oh, way back I'm not thinking I mean it was like yesterday. And uh I it's not uh and I can't believe I'm saying that. I must I must be really old to s even say that. Okay. 'Cause I remember when my people used to say that to me, I think, yeah, they're yeah, you're old. Um so I guess I'm old. But that's okay. But I would just say this Just realize we've got one life. It is limited. It is there's going to be an end to it. And we ought to live every day with diligence. Enjoying what God gives us, enduring what's not what God gives us or uh uh God gives us, but enduring what's what's difficult. And we ought to realize that there's a limit to what we what we have. So conclusion application to all this. This should be our whatever however you plan your life, make sure that these are these things are included. Number one, wisdom invests not only in short-term gains, but in long term opportunities. You gotta look at the long game in life. You've got to look ahead and say, okay, how is what I'm doing now going to help me far into the future so far I can't even see? You know, that's very difficult for My five year old understand, right? If I try to tell my five year old, listen, you need to obey me Because you're going to need to learn to obey all other authorities in your life and you're going to need to obey God. If I sit down and try to reason with my five-year-old, does that work real well? No, you know what pretty much is at five? Obey me or I'm going to spank you. I mean, that's the bottom line. Obey me or you're not going to like it. Now, what am I teaching her? Immediately bad consequence for disobedience. But as time goes on, there needs to be an understanding that you don't always experience the consequence of wrongdoing right away. Is that is that not true? Sometimes the consequence comes way later. Or you may not always experience the reward of what you're doing now. The reward comes way later. Learn to live diligently Looking toward future the future and saying, okay, I want to invest in long-term opportunities. That's really what education is all about, is it not? You're investing in long you're you're investing for the future. Wisdom invests not only in short-term gains, but in long-term opportunities. Wisdom understands the limitations of ability and knowledge and moves forward despite these l those limitations. Did you get that? You gotta move forward. You gotta move forward. Yes, you have you are limited in your ability. Surprise, surprise, and you're limited in your knowledge. We're limited in both of those things. But we've got to keep moving forward. There's a cart there's a movie. Yeah, I mean that's like my favorite movie. My kids I I every time my kids want to watch a movie I say let's watch meet the meet the Robinson's Why do you why do you like that, Daddy? 'Cause he keeps meet the Robinsons. You watch that you remember that you watched that movie on the way back from a men's retreat in my back of my my suburban Anyway. They did. Back back from Ren Mensa Street. Dave and somebody uh you were with somebody else. Uh they they said, Hey you They're looking into my kids' movies and I said, Hey do do meet the Robinson, that's a good one. Anyway. Uh what happens at men's retreats. Anyway. Um number t next one. Wisdom always works hard. Despite unawareness of what will ultimately be profitable. You don't know. You have seven or eight different things you're working at. You don't really know what will be profitable. So you work hard at all of them. You're diligent at all of them. Whatever thy hand finds to do, do with all I might. Finally, wisdom enjoys the good times. endures the bad times and understands that time is fleeting. Bottom line is don't waste your time Don't waste your life. There are people that are wasting their life. They're wasting their time. They're just Kind of getting by. Don't do that. Be diligent in what God has for you. Focus on those things. This is a life plan that's rooted in reality, is it not? It's a whole lot better than follow your dreams I I'm sorry. It just is. It is a whole lot more realistic. It is it could bring great, whatever God wants it to bring, it'll bring in your life, but it's rooted to reality. And that's what God wants the way that God wants us to live. And when we do, we'll be living the life of course, I I guess I should say this. All of this has got to be for God, for his glory, for his purposes. If we do this for ourselves, I mean that's not in the passage, but It if we do this for ourselves, it will not give it will not have any eternal consequences. We work hard for God's purposes in our lives. And really, are we not trusting God for his supply? We're really trusting the Lord. God's work done God's way will not lack God's supply. And we are trusting in him for that. Let's pray together Father, we do pray, Lord, that we've had a very practical lesson here that has come about as we've been working through Ecclesiastes. And we pray, Lord, that you would help us. I pray that this has been an encouragement for us to just stay working hard, to be diligent in our work, to stay focused on what you want for us. to use practical planning and diverse diversifying in various things. Lord, would you help us to live this kind of life But not to do it for ourselves, surely that would be futile, but to do it for you. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.