Galatians chapter five. Take your Bibles, turn to Galatians chapter five, and we'll begin in verse twenty-five, and then we will be working our way through chapter six, verse five. I am on. Okay. Um you know it's interesting that this is a passage that deals with Christian community. What is it how is a church supposed to relate to each other? The concept of Christian community is something that has been kind of a hot topic in ministerial circles for a little bit for a little while now. And in fact, Jerry Bridges says in his book on the subject, he says, many Christians, leaders, and pastors have begun to emphasize the importance of community among believers. There's a much needed corrective to our tendency toward an individualistic approach to the Christian life. And certainly the need for Christian community in our culture is something that we need to be concerned about. We live in a very the the universal problem in our culture is that we live in a very individualistic society that is becoming more isolated from each other. You know, it used to be that when you need had a problem, you would take it to a few friends that you could talk with, sit back on a on the on the back porch and drink a cup of iced tea or a glass of iced tea and just figure things out. Or you might have a problem with your uh vehicle or have a problem with your house and then you talk with people and try to figure things out. Now you Google it. Or you go on YouTube and you figure it out. I do it too. There's nothing wrong with doing this, but in fact, the other day I was um We had an oxygen sensor out on my um on my suburban. You know that thing has four oxygen sensors? Four. Anyway. Um And so uh I called a mechanic and he said, Well, we really should replace all four of them because um, you know, in case they're all gonna go bad or you know and he said I I said, Well I don't want to replace all four, I wanna replace one And he said they said, Well we have to charge you to test out. We have to to to test which one's bad. I said, Okay. So I went and I got my dad's OBD two sensor. Hooked it up to the phone and I figured out exactly bank two, oxygen sensor two, and then I you tu I Googled it or I f I I I basically in in ten minutes I figured out which oxygen sensor sensor was. I called another mechanic. I said, look, I want you to replace oxygen sensor two, bank two. That's all I want you to do. How much will that cost? No testing. Just replace it. And he said, How do you know what it is? I said I I said, I just know. I didn't try to explain. Because I know you'd tell me my testing equipment was not not sophisticated enough and everything. Anyway, um and he replaced it and it's working fine. So now you all can bring your cars to me, I know. Anyway So but the truth is we have so much technology at our disposal we don't really hardly ever have to talk to anybody. In fact if you want to vent, just go on Facebook or whatever. I mean y there's all kind you want a community of people just Find a chat room. I mean, there is this sense in which in our culture there's this isolation that we are all we're all a bit isolated. Now there are, you would not believe how many books are written on this subject of community, and various solutions are offered. How to have community in a local church. Well, you've got to decide what your identity is. Maybe you need to be a cowboy church. Or you need to be a motorcycle church. Or an arts church or some other kind of church Some some people suggest some books suggest that you need to have different uh different groups within your church that have all like commonalities that that will be able to fellowship together. That's how you should do it. So folks, when is it when since when has it been that that's what our commonality is, different interests Folks, when it comes to community, I f it's very s it's very much like happiness. It's not very pursuable. It's actually a fruit of something else. And community is that way as well, according to the text that we're going to see from Scripture. As the text is going to tell us, as we walk in the Spirit of God. Then we will produce the the fruit of the Spirit. Love, joy, peace, long-suffering, goodness, patience, meekness, all those things. And when we are producing those fruits of the Spirit, Then what do you think it will do to our community of believers? We're all practicing those things to each other. Then there is going to then be, as a result, a certain kind of community that God desires and is pleased with and really reflects his character, which is the whole point. Our desire should be, as we discover in Scripture this morning, How is it that we can best reflect the character of God in our church? How is it that we can have the have this I almost use a different word than community because it's kind of overused now. But how can we have this Christian community that God wants us to have that's singular goal is to reflect the glory of God? And that's what we're going to learn this morning. And it's going to be very helpful for us as we go through this. But I want us to remember what we're find- what we're discovering in the book of Galatians. The entire purpose of the book of Galatians is to help us to understand how we are to live in accordance with the gospel, to live out the gospel in an appropriate manner. The gospel cannot be lived out in legalism as the Church of Galatians was doing. We cannot have a performance mentality when it comes to the gospel. Trying to merit God's grace on ourselves. Even after we've come to Christ, sometimes we get into that mode where we're trying to do that through various practices. No, we are accepted by God through Jesus Christ alone. We have his grace because of Christ and what he has done, and we live in light of that. Not to try to gain what God has already given us through His Son. And as we look into His Word today, into God's Word today, we're going to discover some things that are going to be very helpful for us. The emphasis that we have found so far in Galatians chapter 5 has to do with the walking in the Spirit that results in love. In 522, it says that the fruit of the Spirit is love. Go back even further. Galatians chapter 5, verse 13, it says, For brethren, ye have been called unto liberty, only use not liberty as the fornication to the flesh, but by love serve one another. For all the law is fulfilled in one word, even this: thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. It contrasts following after the Mosaic law with fulfilling the law of Christ, which is to love God by loving others And in this context, it really is implying that you cannot say you really love God if you do not love others. And we're going to then see in this passage this morning how practically that carries out in the local church. It's going to say things like, we've got to bear one another Burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ. How it's easy on one hand to say, I love God and love others. On the other hand, as I've been reminded in my own life, with all the things going on that we're dealing with, sometimes it's harder to do it on a practical level, isn't it? You could say you love people. Until they kick in a shinse. And then you find out whether you really love them or not. And whether they love you or not. So let's look at God's Word today and see what it has to say about this subject. Let's go, Lord, first, in prayer. Father, we come to you. And we need you for this. To be the kind of Christian community that you want us to be, we desperately need to learn to walk in your spirit. to learn what it means to dwell, let the word of Christ dwell in us richly. To understand what it means to identify the desires of the Spirit of God that are in us and to starve the desires of the flesh that are in us, so that we can learn to walk in step with your spirit. And in turn produce the fruit of the Spirit, which in turn results in a kind of community of believers in a local church that truly demonstrates your character. And Lord, we we we approach this subject knowing that we need you. Without you, we can do nothing. Of any spiritual or eternal consequence according to John chapter 15. So teach us these things today, Father, and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. We begin in chapter five, verse twenty five, and it says, If we live, or since we live in the Spirit, let us also walk and step with the Spirit. That's important to understand that that's where this whole concept of Christian community must begin. As I said before, it cannot be something where we see Community as the pursuit, it's the Spirit of God that is the pursuit, and Christian community is a result And so as we follow after the Spirit of God in our lives, as we cultivate the desires, as we've learned before, as we cultivate the desires that are within our hearts, That the Spirit of God has given us, and we follow after those, then there are certain things in the body that are going to happen. And it's interesting that in this passage you have commands. But they are also results. For instance, it'll say, ye which are spiritual, ye which are in the spirit. Restore such a one in the spirit of meekness. So there's a command, but it's also a result of living in the spirit. And by the way, that's exactly God's economy, isn't it? That God commands us to do things, but then God gives us the need to depend upon Him in order to carry them out. And that's what we're going to see here in this passage. And we're with that in mind, we're going to begin in verse 26 with first understanding a clear warning. And that warning is let us not Become conceited. That is a or have vain glory. That is well taken, isn't it? How can you dwell in a Christian community of believers if there is conceit? If there is vainglory. Well, we need to understand what this is. What is vainglory? It's interesting that the word is a word that's only used here in the New Testament. It's a word that has the idea of in connection with selfish ambition. Its closest cognate is in Philippians chapter 2, verse 3, where it says, let nothing be done through selfish ambition. Or conceit, or strife, or vainglory, but in lowliness of mind, let each esteem other better than themselves. So there is this warning for us that we've got to be very careful about, let's put it this way. Hungering honor. Do we hunger honor? Do we thirst, if you will, praise or honor? If that is the case, then we can never be the kind of community that God wants us to be because the honor needs to go to Him. We want to honor God. And if we are preoccupied with our own honor, We will never be able to honor the Lord in the way that He wants us to. And so Paul gives this warning, at the very outset, he says, do not have this vain glory. This empty glory. Don't hunger for honor. You say, well, you know, I I don't think I really do that. I don't really have pride. I know Proverbs sixteen, verse eighteen says, pride goeth before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall. I I I I don't I don't think I really have that. Good warning, but First of all, as soon as you start saying that you start going, should I really say I don't have pride? It's a little bit of a uh a an issue there. But he's going to explain what this looks like, and there are two possibilities that he could explain. That is what it says in the text. Provoking one another, envying one another. And these two things are two very different things. One is external and one is internal. The one external is provoking one another. It's the idea of feeling superior to others. It's used in the context of a challenge to combat, a competitive spirit, a comparing with others, a one-upmanship over someone else. And Paul is saying that really has no place in the body of Christ. That has no place in the body of Christ universally as well. We we we want to be very careful about that as a church. That we don't have the spirit of one upmanship or or competition. Well, I didn't know when I when we when we moved and moved well we only moved one point eight miles away I think it was from where we were. But I have a pastor friend that's really close to us here. And I contacted him and I just I didn't have I wanted to meet for him for lunch. I've not had time for that. I think he understands that, but I just contacted him. He's actually on he was actually on my ordination council and I just contacted him and I said, Hey, I hope that we can be a blessing to each other And he replied the same way that he wanted to be a blessing to us. We're not in competition. Now we would do things pretty differently. But we're not in competition. We should not be in competition with those who name the name of Christ. We should not be in competition with those who preach the gospel. Even if they do things a little differently, we should not be in competition. Folks, that is even equally, if not more important, within the body of Christ. We ought not be in competition with each other. And when we have a tendency toward thinking that our opinion is superior to the opinion of someone else, if that is our tendency, we must be very careful. And you say, well, you know what? I think I'm I think I'm out of the out of the um I'm in the clear here. I don't really I I actually think I'm I'm inferior to everyone. Did you know that that can be a conceit as well? It says envying one another. Don't envy. Don't provoke. Don't compete. Don't try to one-up on somebody. But it also says Don't envy. Envy comes from an internal motivation of not see n not thinking you have enough or are enough or something like that and seeing others that are pro prospering. and and having an envious spirit about you because you feel inferior but you still want the honor that somebody else is getting And usually we either have one, all of us have one of or one of these tendencies in our lives Sometimes we go back and forth between these, don't we? So sometimes it's not one or the other, but sometimes it is And I I was looking this up and and uh one man uh commentator mentioned this. He just had some questions for us to to decide to to help us understand which are we? Are we the provoker? Are we the one, the conceited s superiority or the conceited inferiority? Do I have a tendency to blow up or do I have a tendency to clam up? Do I tend to pick arguments with people, or do I completely avoid confrontation? By the way, neither one of these are good. Do I tend to get very down on individuals and groups of people, or am I more often embarrassed and intimidated around certain classes or kinds of people? When sir criticized, do I get very angry and very judgmental and simply attack right back? Or do I get very discouraged and very defensive? See, those kinds of questions help us to understand, are we the ones that provoke, which are external things, or are we the ones that internally have a tendency toward envy. And folks, those are areas that are fleshly, they're carnal Those are desires that come from desires of the flesh, and he warns us specifically about these things. And he says They cannot be in the body of Christ if we are going to be have the kind of community that God wants us to have. Do not be conceited. And the reason that he says this in these passages, and it's so clear about this, is that this is absolutely opposed to the truth of the gospel. And it will not allow us really to help other brothers and sisters in Christ. If you feel If you have conceited superiority, when you see, let's say you have you see somebody that's stumbling, and later on you're going to find in the passage that's exactly the case, it's going to say those are spiritual restore such a one in a spirit of meakeness Well, let's suppose you're having a spirit of superiority and you see that. What is your tendency going to be? To look down on them, to say to them, I don't know how I could ever they could I they could ever do that I could never be do something like that. Yes, you could. We all have in Paul says, in my flesh dwells no good thing. Be very careful about looking at the sin or the problem of somebody else and saying, I could never do something like that. You that is actually believing a lie. We all could, because we have that flesh. But also if you're feeling inferior, if you're having that problem, the conceited inferiority, it will cause you s to want to not be able to to lose that person's approval. You wouldn't be able to go to that person and and help them with a sin problem that they're having because then you might lose their approval. And if you lose their approval, well that would be horrible. See, the gospel is actually the remedy to this. The gospel says you and I deserve nothing. We deserve nothing. That everything we have is by the grace of God. But the gospel also says that we are approved and accepted by God. We're accepted in the beloved of Ephesians 1. It frees us to be able to help one another. frees us to be able to deal with problems because we're not so worried about gaining people's approval because we have God's approval And on the other hand, we're not so smug to think we can't get into something that we could otherwise get into because we could, because we know our own flesh. And so he so the gospel is the key to this. Matthew chapter 7 it explains That we, before we're going to help a brother or sister in Christ, we've got to take that moat out of our own eye. And do you remember why that was that's so important? Because you've got to be able to take it out of your eye to see clearly to help someone else. And so before he ever gets into helping others. He first warns us and he says, please do not be conceited about these things. Now with that in mind, we then can move to chapter 6 verse 1. In chapter 6, verse 1, we begin he he he he hits us, you know, he he he just goes right for the jugular here. He says, Brethren, if a man is overtaken in a trespass, in any trespass, you who are spiritual, restore such a one in a spirit of meekness or gentleness. Considering yourself lest you also be tempted. He now says: those who are spiritual are going to restore those who are in sin. This is interesting the way it says. It says, if you are overtaken, the idea of overtaken in a fault. The concept is the idea of being tripped up, being trapped by. It's the idea of being caught in a pattern. Galatians chapter one, verse four says, Who gave himself for our sins, that he might deliver us from the present evil age according to the will of our God and Father. And so Paul probably has in mind the fact that we're living in the world, and even as Christians, we have the possibility of getting tripped up. Of not seeing what we need to see, of getting caught in some problem or some sin that is going to be a spiritual detriment to us. And Paul says, if you are spiritual, then you will confront. Now that's interesting, isn't it? Because some of us, probably most of us, if not all of us, do not like to confront. That's the last thing we want to do. And can I tell you, can I just be honest with you? I I hate confronting people. There have been times where I see something that has to happen in a minus in ministry and I have to confront them. And it is it is hard to do that. But can I just tell you, there are some t some ti and and when we go, we go in a spirit of meekness, which we're gonna see. Can I just tell you so that sometimes I am I am totally expecting that they're gonna receive it right, uh receive it receive it wrong And there are times where I've had to confront, and there are times where I have prayed and prayed and then gone and to watch people receive it right. You know it's God when that happens, right? We know the Lord is working in their life when that happens. And there is something very war rewarding when you can see the Spirit of God work in a person's life to to be open to making adjustments that otherwise they wouldn't maybe be willing to make because God's working. In their lives. And this ought to be happening in the body of Christ. The idea here is of a blind spot. Now I need to be clear about this. The idea is that we are walking in the Spirit. And those, it says those who are spiritual, that doesn't mean those who are mature spiritually elite. It's not what it's talking about here. It's talking about those who are spiritual. Those who are walking in the Spirit, whether they're mature Christians or not, when they're walking in the Spirit, there is an approach that God wants us to take in helping others. But let me be very clear about this. This command is not telling us that we need to attempt to deal with every sin we see. Give you a little relief there, right? The Bible actually says in 1 Peter 4, verse 8, and above all things, have fervent love for one another, for love will cover a multitude of sins. First Corinthians chapter thirteen five and seven tells us that love bears all things and believes all things And hopes all things and is not easily provoked, endures all things. And so there is a sense in which sometimes when we are when we are um when we see others sin in the body of Christ, when we see that they're having a hard time It's not always right to just, hey, you're wrong and deal with it right away. That's not what this passage is talking about. This passage is saying when you see a brother or sister in Christ that is really tripping up, They are really struggling. They are really have a blind spot. You who are spiritual, you're commanded. We're commanded To restore such a one. But there's a very important key here. It says to do so in the spirit of what? The spirit of meekness. Why? Well it says it right in the text. This word meekness means gentleness. It says it right in the text. The spirit of meekness less what? Lest you yourself be tempted. You know, it's interesting in the book of Proverbs. In Proverbs it actually says that uh it says in Proverbs That we should answer not a fool according to his folly, lest we be like him. And then it says, answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own conceit. There is a warning there for us, isn't there? It almost sounds contradictory. So what are we supposed to do? Are we supposed to answer a fool according to his folly, or are we not supposed to answer a fool according to his folly? Well, if you really love someone, you're going to answer them, you're going to deal with their folly. But folks, be very careful. Realizing that you could be like them if you don't handle it correctly. There is this warning here. Answer Proverbs 26, 4, answer not a fool according to his folly, lest thou be like him. Answer a full according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own conceit. There is great we we ought to be very careful. And the spirit of meekness is a carefulness about dealing with these kinds of things. There ought to be a carefulness about this. But it does tell us we need to do it. You know it's interesting, the word restore. You know what the word restore means? It's the idea of resetting a bone. Back when I was um and uh I was a uh preteen, actually. I was working for a ministry in the summertime and um and we were driving around to different five day clubs. I was in the backseat of the car. It was my first year working with them and the driver was a 16 year old driver and he got distracted and he went head on in broad dot daylight hit a tree in the middle of Columbia. And um and I I think I must have passed out or something in the back because when I came to I lifted my had great pain in my wrist and I lifted up and my hand was over here. I mean it it was literally S shaped. And I thought to my s I'd I had never had a broken bone before actually, let alone something of that something that significant and I was like I was scared it was like stuck that way or something. thing. I didn't I really I mean I was pretty young and I thought it's deformed. It's not I was I was I think my fear was worse than how bad it hurt. It w I was just really ups really fearful about that. Well, they had to take me to the hospital and what do you think they did to that thing? They had to reset it. They had to go And put it back in place. And can I tell you something? It was extremely painful. It was more painful than if they would have just left it. Except that you would have had sustained pain forever and my hand wouldn't have worked right. But they had to reset and you know what? They reset the thing and wrapped it tight with a cast and they didn't do it right. They had to go they had to go and do that again. They had to Several weeks later we went to a hand specialist down in um Washington DC and uh he had to um he said this is not done right, the it's not correct, it's gonna have we're gonna have problems. And I had to go into surgery and I had to re break the thing again to set it correctly again. So that it would be right. And I have a every every time it rains I can feel it in my in my I don't have any arthritis anywhere else but I every time And and and uh I have a pen to show it. I mean I have a scar from the pen and everything. You know, it's painful sometimes to confront. It's not easy to confront. By the way, we need to remember that if somebody cu has the courage to come to us to confront. We need to remember how hard that is. And I can tell you that there are people in this church that from time to time they have confronted me on something and it may not necessarily be sin, but just some concern that they have had. And sometimes it's easy to sort of bristle at it And sort of go, why are you questioning that? Instead, we need to realize how hard this is to confront our brothers and sisters in Christ. God says this is going to happen in the local church if you are spiritual. And it's commanded that we are to do it. And if you see a brother or sister that is stumbling and it's a pattern And it's not changing, then you are commanded as a Christian who's trying to walk who is walking in the Spirit, you are commanded to help with this. And it may be the most painful thing you ever tried to do. But if the person is repentant, there is great benefit. There is great, there is just great spiritual results that can happen. In a body of believers where this is happening and this is going on. You know, if you're thinking in those kind of terms, you're not going to be all that isolated, right? It implies we've got to be close enough to each other to be able to see when something is happening, doesn't it? And God desires for this to happen in the local body of the of believers. But He not only wants us to do this, He wants us to do something else, He wants us to care for one another. Would you notice what it says there in verse 2? Bear one another's burdens and so fulfill the law of Christ. God wants us to bear each other's burdens. The idea here is not to share someone else's burden. It's not to take the burden from them. It's to share the load of a burden. We're not really accustomed to this now. We have cars, we throw things in the back of our trunk, and we go where we want to go. But back in the day where this is written, people would walk the streets and they would often carry loads on their backs in order to be able to take things to the market, perhaps if they're farmers or whatever. And what he is saying here, the picture he wants us to see, is someone coming alongside and taking part of that load over himself. And so you're walking together to lessen the load. It implies you've got to get close to that person. It implies you've got to walk in step with that person. There is this implication here, folks, that if you're going to be the kind of community of believers, if we're going to be that way the way that God wants us to be There is a closeness that has to happen where we are bearing one another's burdens. And can I tell you from sort of a pastor's perspective, it is a it is always a joy. Sometimes I get to see a little more than others. It is always a joy to watch when one brother is helping or sister is helping another in the body of Christ. There's just something, just a blessing to watch that when I see that. And and sometimes people will be sick or things like that and I'll see things go up on Facebook. And that's great. I mean that's wonderful. You're praying for each other and we're we're doing that. That's that's a great I mean, you know what? Listen, if we're living that far away, fine, let's figure out another way to do it. You know, go on Facebook or go on go on uh email or whatever and and and and and stay connected one way or the other so we can bear each other's burdens. There is a sense in which God did not intend the Christian to bear his burden alone. That we need to bear one another's burdens. And when we do that, then we fulfill what? The law of Christ. He is contrasting with that old Levitical Mosaic law, and he says, if we're going to fulfill the law of Christ, you y you could say you love God and love others all you want, but until you're bearing their burdens. That is how you fulfill the law of Christ. And that requires, folks, for us to know each other's burdens. We're going to know each other's burdens. It's one of the reasons why just by application of this, it's one of the reasons why we have home groups. So that you have the opportunity on a smaller level to be able to share your burden. And for others to be able to bear burdens with each other. Because God says, until we do that We're not able to fulfill the law of Christ the way that He intends for us to do it. Bear one another's burdens and so fulfill the law of Christ. Galatians chapter 5, verse 13 says, For brethren, you have not you have uh you have been called in liberty. Only do not use liberty as the opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one another. John chapter 3 verse 34 says, A new commandment I give unto you, that you love one another as I have loved you. Ephesians chapter 4, verse 32 says, and be kind one another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, just as God in Christ forgave you. Paul is so concerned that this happens that he sees a possible problem in the way of this happening. And the problem that he's going to address, we find in chapter 6, verses 3 through 5. He says For if anyone thinks himself to be something, when he is nothing, he deceives himself But let each one examine his own work, and then he will have rejoicing in himself alone, and not in another, for each one shall bear his own load. For if he thinks himself to be something when he is nothing, he deceives himself. What Paul is talking about here is the tendency to compare ourselves with each other. This was a problem that was rampant in the Church of Corinth. They were comparing themselves one with another. This is something that we do today. And it says, let not a man think he is something when he's nothing because he's going to deceive himself in the process. Of course, some of you know this past week I was I went down to Bob Jones for a very quick trip, just a couple of days. And uh prior to going Uh there the I have a there's somebody in our in our church and I won't mention his name but I uh um but I that said to me he's been doing a lot of traveling, hasn't you're gonna most of you gonna know who he is. Um says uh doing a lot of traveling and um has a lot of points for for hotels. He said, if you need the traveling wear, let me know and I can get you a hotel. And uh so he did that and uh for Elizabeth and I to be able to go down there and it saved the church money and and um as far as conference costs and things like that. So we so we went down there and um and we went to the hotel room and Or we went to the to the elevator. It was a really, really nice elevator. It was in a Hilton. And we tried to push the button on the ninth floor and it didn't work. I thought, what's wrong with this elevator? I mean, it's not go it's not working right. It's not pushing on the ninth floor. Well, you actually had to have w the the the the room we were on, you actually had a uh a special uh card which they gave us to scan to get into the executive level of this hotel. I've never been on an executive level of a hotel before, I'll just let you know. I stay at the Ecano Lodge or something. I it's gotta be clean. I'll pay big bucks to have it let it be clean. I mean Uh it's gotta be clean. Okay. But I don't usually stay at executive floors of the Hilton. I'll just let you know when I'm it's just not usually what happens. So anyway, so we were up on the executive floor and looking around and things like that and it was it was pretty nice And um and then we we got kind of settled and we went over to the conference for for one of the sessions. And at the end of the session, I realized we had three hours in between and I said to Elizabeth, I said, hey, let's Our hotel is close by, so why don't we go back and and spend, you know, we can get some rest before the evening sessions. And and a lady next to my wife heard me talking and said, Hey, what hotel are you staying in? And I said to Hilton. Executive Suite. She said, Oh, I've been staying at the Sleep Inn In uh uh she said, and I really I'm really having trouble at this hotel. I said, Oh yes? No, I I didn't do that. She said, I d I need a l night light. I I I'm I need a light next to my bed. I like to read at night and they don't only have a light for me. And I said to her, I I I said to myself, Well, only the best for me. I I only stay at the Hul Hilton's. That's what I do. No. If I had done that and acted as though I was a man of great means and was able to stay at Executive Hilton's And and if I would have put that on like I had all this money in the world, and by the way, the person that gave gave me this stuff, he doesn't deserve it either. Anyway, but um and and so i if that was the case What would I be doing? I'd be lying to myself and to the person next to me. You know what I said to her? I said to her, I stayed the sleep in last time, which is what I did. I did stay the sleep in before. She said the only thing you could do there is sleep. I said, Yeah, that's pretty much true. It is clean though. It's not it's that it was clean. But but uh And uh I so so so so you see the problem? See look if if I would have acted as though I was able to do all this, I would have been deceiving The person and I could have even ended up deceiving myself. Because I don't have the money for an executive hotel, I guarantee you. Here's the point. I say I don't have the money. I should not responsibly do that, to be more accurate. Okay, so here's the point. Folks, we've got to be very careful that when we think of our own resources Or our own talents, or what God has given us, deceiving ourselves into thinking that somehow we are better than somebody else. That's the point he is making here. The point he is making here in this passage is be very careful that if God has given you particular giftedness, or particular resources that God does not want you to think that you are somehow better than anybody else. In fact, there is a sense in which, folks, we have the what got God gives us, we have a responsibility to use for His purposes and for His glory to be faithful to Him. Do you remember, and we've got to get this economy right. Do you remember in the New Testament, Christ teaches, and he says to the disciples one time, he was in a temple. And there was this little widow who gave two mites. And Jesus said to the disciple, and he all and there was also all these religious rulers and other people of means, and they gave of what they had. And you don't remember what Jesus said to the disciples? She has given more than those others, because she gave all she had. See, that's God's economy. You think think of think of the talents of the Christ when He when the parable of the talents, and you have different people given different talents. What was God what was the master expecting these people to do? To be faithful with whatever God gave them And that's exactly what God wants us to do. To as much has been given, much shall be required. Because, folks, if you are gifted, it comes from God. And if you have resources, it comes from God. And we've got to get it right when it comes to this kind of stuff. Suddenly you're thinking to yourself, well, I'm glad I'm not that talented and I'm glad I don't have resources. No, all of us do, frankly. All of us have giftedness. All of us have resources. The whole issue here is, folks, don't compare yourself to somebody else. Here is the antidote to that issue. Here is how we keep from doing that. Verse 4, but let each one examine his own work. And then he will have rejoicing in himself alone, and not in another, for each one should bear his own load. See, that's God's antidote. God says, be focused on your responsibility. Now it almost looks like a contradiction. He earlier said, bear one another's burdens. Now he's saying, stay focused on your responsibility. That's the key though. The key is these are two different words and two different ideas. The one idea is a burden The other idea is a responsibility. It doesn't say take somebody else's responsibility on yourself. It says bear their burden or bear with them their burden is the idea. God wants us instead to, how do we, how what's the antidote to comparing ourselves among ourselves and thinking that we're better or worse? Or anything else. What's the antidote to that? You take what God has given you and you use it to the best of your ability, realizing that there's going to be a day where you will stand before the Lord and be accountable for what God has given you and what you did with it The judgment seat of Christ is the great equalizer. The judgment seat of Christ and the focus on that is going to help us to understand our responsibility and to stay focused on what God wants us to. to stay focused on. And if you're struggling with comparing yourself to one another, if you're struggling with this envy in your heart Valuing what somebody else has, or you're struggling with provoking one another, thinking that you're better with another. You're struggling with that. The antidote to all of it is to go and say, before the Lord, Lord, you have given me what you have given me Lord, how can I be the most responsible and the most faithful I can be with what you have given me? How can I give back to you what you have given to me for your purposes? And when we stay focused on that, and that one day we look forward to the day where Christ says, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Then we will be able to have the kind of community that God wants us to have as a body of believers All of us responsibly giving of ourselves to God's service. All of us responsibly watching out for one another in those who are trying who might be tripping up and having struggles. Responsibly caring for one another. And this is God's way of there being a kind of church community that can be a great, powerful witness to the world. By this shall all men know that they are my disciples when they have love one for another. Let me ask you this question. Just three things just to to to to really consider here. Number one, do not hunger for honor. Brothers and sisters in Christ, be very careful about that. Do not hunger for honor. Number two, care enough to restore and carry burdens for brothers and sisters in Christ. You care enough. Love God enough. Love others enough to bear one another's burdens. and to fulfill the law of Christ. And number three, take your own responsibility before the Lord seriously. Don't worry about somebody else's responsibility, or what you've given gifted them to do, or what they have to offer. Focus on what God has given you. Fulfill your responsibility before the Lord. We don't want to come to the end of our lives and come before the Lord, the judgment seat of Christ, and all we have to offer is wood and hay and stubble. First Corinthians chapter three. We want to be able to offer the Lord gold, silver, and precious stones. And as we have studied many times before, the answer to that, the result is uh of that the way we get there is by faithfulness to the responsibilities that God has given us. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you how it teaches us exactly what we need to know. And Father, I pray, Lord, for Bethel Baptist Church. I pray for every individual in this room that you would help us to fulfill these both commands and results as we walk in your spirit. I want to take a few moments just and ever every once in a while we do it. It's been a while since we've done this. I'd like just to have a a s some silence before the Lord just for a few minutes here. Just to give you time to reflect on the message. And it's been a little while since we've done this, but I'd just like to just between you and the Lord, no no instruments. Or anything. Just take a few moments in silence before the Lord and ask the Lord how He might have you to respond to this passage in your own life. And I'm gonna be silent as well for in just a moment, and then uh we will pray together again and then we'll we'll uh we'll sing together. Our Father, we again come to you, and perhaps there's some that are just in even in repentance. I know in my own life I had to do some own some personal reflection and some things that you pointed out in my life and Lord, I pray that you would grow us in these areas, as only you can do, and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.