And I'll I want to express the dilemma by asking a couple of questions. So the first question is this. Is there a behavior in life, are there behaviors in life that are morally neutral? Okay, so let me give an example. You go to a restaurant and you sit down and you have a decision to make whether you order steak or chicken. Is that a morally neutral decision? Okay? Why would anybody choose chicken when you can have steak, Sam says back there? Okay, so maybe that is a moral but for most of us that's not a moral decision, right? I'm making that's a that's a morally neutral decision. So are there are there decisions in life and behaviors in life That are that are moral they're amoral or they're morally neutral. Yes or no? Okay, the answer would be yes to that Okay? There are things and there are things that are clearly moral, and there are an it's a matter of morality versus immorality, and there are other things that are just they're morally neutral. So with that, let me ask you this question. Does God care about those morally neutral things? Does God care about them? Okay. So how many of you say, yes, God cares about those morally neutral things? Alright, and I would agree with most of you. Okay, some of you are going, I'm not reasonable. I don't know if this is like a trick question. So far we're going in a little deeper here. I'm not sure I'm comfortable with it. Okay. Next question. You ready with the here's the next question Does God use okay no, actually I'm gonna add a question, so he does care. Does he care about everything? Now what did we learn from it? Before you answer that, Ecclesiastes chapter 3, let's just look at it for a minute. Okay, songs for Ecclesiastes. Uh okay. Um Ecclesiastes chapter three verse one what's it say? To everything there is a season, a time for every purpose under heaven. So does God care about everything? He does. Okay, next question. Does God use these things for his glory? Okay, even if they're morally neutral. He does, right? Okay. So does that present a bit of a dilemma? If you if God cares about your decision to eat steak or chicken Is there any dilemma there? Okay, maybe not that particular thing. That's really really pretty trite. It's pretty trivial. Okay, but there are other things in life, whether or not you should homeschool or go to Christian school. or public school. Okay? Alright. Could any of those be viable options? Is there any let me put it this way. Biblically, is there any reason that those might not that none of them are perfect. Okay? Can't frankly homeschooling is not perfect for those of you who think it is. Just try it. Okay? All right. So any of those may be viable options. But does that does God care which one we choose for our kids? He does care, doesn't he? Okay. Alright, so how do you know what to do? When God cares, and yet it might be morally neutral. Now, somebody might argue school choice is morally neutral, but biblically there is no definable thing that tells us where to send our kids to school. Okay. That's just one example of many. It's a very important one. Okay, that's why I'm using that. It's a lot more important than steak and chicken. Okay. So so there is this dilemma here for this reason. But God uses everything in his time, his way. But you finish the butt. What's the but there? We don't know how. Right? We don't know how he's going to use things. We don't know how it's supposed to work. That's the dilemma that you find in verse. In chapter 3 verse 9, which is really a a conclusion of all of this, a time to be born, a time to die, time to plant, all of this, basically everything here is included in these different descriptions. descriptions. Verse 9 says, what profit has the worker from that which he labors? He's basically, it's a rhetorical question here, he's basically saying What's the point? I can't there is a per a good time for everything. I can't know what it is, so I feel a little bit useless here. It's it's I don't know what to do. There is this sort of dilemma in life because God cares about everything and yet some things are not m not like bip spelled out biblically and morally. So how do you how do you deal with this? How do you work through all of this? And I could tell you that I I those of us some people sort of don't some people sort of We're all different like in our personalities and how we're made up. Some people don't think a lot about a lot of things. Other people think about everything. I'm one of those things person people that I don't know if I think about everything because you know that would be a conceit because how would you know if you think about everything? But I do think about a lot of things. And I I tend to be I tend to have uh uh a a little bit more Overly sensitive conscious. I remember when I was in school, I wondered whether it would be okay to have fun. Now you some of you go, what in the world? What you were one weird kid. I was. Okay. Um but I would I you know I thought all these you know, is it Just frivolous to go on Friday night and play volleyball with a bunch of people when I could be reading my Bible. Right? And I struggled with those kinds of things. If I just always studied and read my Bible and fully I I almost felt like, okay, well if I did those things, I knew those were right. But I struggled personally as a as a college student with things that were morally neutral. There's nothing wrong with going with your friends and playing volleyball. For those of you who don't know volleyball is, it's volleyball and uh with walls. Okay, anyway, uh just in case. So so I you and I struggled with you know I s But was I think it was okay that I played volleyball on Friday nights? Okay. You're all going with uh duh. Okay. All right. What what's your problem? All right, so I tell you, I wish somebody would have preached this to me at that point. Okay? Let me just tell you, it would have been a big help if somebody would have helped me understand what we're going to understand tonight from this passage. And so anyway, I think it'll be a help for all of us. He says here, okay then, so beginning in verse 10 He then says, well let me I do need you to see the flow of thought here. 226, would you notice this? 226 he says, for God gives wisdom and knowledge and joy to man who is, what does he say? Good in his sight. He gives his wisdom, his knowledge, his joy to him who is good in his sight. He then goes into this description of everything being good in its time. And the problem that he basically runs in runs into is how do what God determines who what is good based upon what is good in his time. In other words, he determines who is good based upon what they do, and what they do is good based upon his timing, not ours, and he is left with this dilemma, and so he says in verse 10 I have seen the God-given task with which the sons of men are occupied. This is every decision we make. Are you not occupied with the decisions of life? Do you not wake up every day and, okay, what do I do here? What do I do there? What do I do here? What do I do there? What do I do next week? What do I do a month from now? W Why do a year from now? Why do two years from now? Why do six months from now? Why do You know, five years from now. Will I do when I retire when I retire? Will I do when I'm dead? I mean this this just you're just constant maybe not that, but but the rest the rest of it you're constantly thinking about what do I do? We're occupied with the with those things Now, are you ready for some relief? Here's the relief. He has made everything beautiful in its time. God, it says, has made everything beautiful in its time. In his time. Well actually in the New King James says it in i it's time. Okay. Yeah, we can do I can I'm using New King James tonight. Okay. I haven't got any I I have not seen lightning strike yet. It really is okay. Alright. Okay. Um Okay? So he's made everything beautiful in its time, and I think that's probably correct because it's talking about the things. Okay? Now, when he says that, he's made everything beautiful in its time. Are you not glad about that? Is that not a bit of a relief? So whatever we do of these non-moral things God says, this passage says, God will make them beautiful in his time. Then he says this. Also, he has put eternity in their hearts, except no one can find out the work that God does from beginning to end. He's put can eternity in their hearts. Now, what this means, now in the King James, I think it says world in his heart. New King James says eternity in its heart. It's kind of interesting. If you look at all various English translations, you have a diff a huge variety of what this word is supposed to mean. Another translation says darkness. You go from world, which I I don't I that's a hard one to figure out why it is translated that way. You have eternity, which is the most common way to translate it. You have darkness. You have all of these varied ways of translating this particular word. In fact, it is some would suggest this is the most difficult word. to translate and the most difficult phrase to interpret in the entire Bible. I don't know if you realize that or not. God has put eternity in their hearts. So I'm going to suggest this about this word. I think what we're talking about here when it says God has put eternity in their hearts is number one, we're talking about the fact that God is that God made man in his image. It starts there. It starts with God has made man different than the animals. He's made us in his image. There is a knowledge of some kind that we have. But this word does have in its idea that there's this mystery and there is this also time element. And the word means forever. Sometimes it's translated forever. Sometimes it's translated eternity. It's translated in these different ways. So what is he talking about? Here's what he's saying. He is saying that God has put in in man the The instinct of knowing that there is eternity. That life goes beyond what we know of physically. And man knows that innately This would be corroborated by Romans chapter 2, which tells us that there is a moral law and a conscience put in man that helps them to know that right from wrong and to know that the they look around the world, they see the glory of God because of the world. There is this innate sense that man knows this. Now you think about that if you just think about life, look at all the different religions. Nearly every religion is trying to answer what? What happens After death. There's like this at least knowledge that there is a life after death. I mean you do have annihilationism. You have some people that believe that, but the majority of people do believe that there is something going on after life. It's actually written into our hearts that way. Or the word heart could mean mind. Okay, so what does that have to do with with anything? Well, if you think of it this way, would you look at any of the rest of the phase has put eternity in their hearts Without that understanding, no one can find out the work that God does from beginning to end. In other words, an animal cannot know the work that God does from beginning to end No animal looks at history and says, Well, I see the god the working of God in in in history. A man can do that, but but A man animal doesn't have the the ability to do that. And God's put something in our hearts to be able to have the perception of knowing on some level that God is working in some way. But it's very mysterious. And that's why you have this word darkness also, it's used in a translated different way in a different context. So this it's it's a very mysterious thing. It's not something that can be fully known. You just know enough to know that there is eternity. Now the Word of God tells us very clear things about eternity. But apart from the Word of God, we just have a sense of knowing there is an eternity. And he says, with that, that gives us the capacity to at least know just by observable just by observing things, that there is some sort of design. There is some sort of purpose. There's some sort of plan. And if you think of this, if somebody that doesn't doesn't need doesn't know the God of the Bible, have you ever heard of something like karma? Or these other ways of tr of noticing patterns or designs. They're all wrong, because they don't follow the biblical text. But there is this. You know, sort of knowledge of something out there that's that of some pattern. In other words, life seems to be intentional on some level. And that's what he's saying here by this, but let's make sure we understand that there is a real mystery to this as well. Verse 12 then he says this He says, I know that nothing is better for them. Now, with all of this in mind, Okay, we've got we know God works things in his way in his time. We know he makes them beautiful. We know we have the perception of knowing that all things will do this. But we don't know how it ever happens. We don't know how specifically those things will work in his time. We don't know that. How then should we live? Now this is so this is so encouraging. For me anyway. This is it's like it's it's like it's rest for my soul. It's like, okay, I can settle down. I could just settle down. And he says this, number one, I know nothing is better than for them to what? What's it say? To rejoice, number one, and number two, to do good in their lives. God says we've got two goals. He says, number one, rejoice and do good. Your whole life, you need to do two things Rejoice and do good. This is very, very basic, right? Well we tell our kids, be happy and do good. Okay, it's not hard. Why are you sad? Stop being sad, be happy. Why are you bad? Stop being bad, be good. Okay. Be happy or rejoice and be And then he gives us an example of what to rejoice in. He says, and also that every man should eat and drink and enjoy the good of all the labor, it is a gift of God. Now what causes us to be able to rejoice is a lot here. He says eat and drink. Why would he, let me ask you, why would he give this example? Why would he give this example of eating and drinking? Any ideas? We can discuss things. There's like ten of us in here. It's okay. Okay, it's basic. Okay, it is morally neutral. Good. So it it follows our good. What else? Okay, okay, they're okay. You know, we do we not, you know, some we are so spoiled. We don't see our food and drink as gifts from God, do we? But back in those days, you know, whether or not you had a good crop meant your family ate or not. It was largely an agrarian society. So when you ate something or drank it, you saw that on a more direct level, that this is God's provision. It is a provision of God. What does God say to do about that? We have to enjoy it. If God has provided for you Enjoy what God gives to you. Enjoy God's provision. Realize it is a gift of God. You see, in the past everything that Solomon has done has been a pursuit of this or pursuit of that or pursuit of this or good. Now he's saying and it's man's way of pursuing what he wants Now, it's all God focused. God's in control. He's going to make things beautiful in his time. He's going to handle things the way. What is our job? It's real simple. Rejoice in what he provides for us. Just enjoy it. And then he says, obviously, do good, do right, do good and do right. This is really, really simple. And he says to do those two things. You see, these two things really do go together. Because if we will enjoy what God provides, We are doing good. We do bad. We sin when we are enjoying what? What God has not provided. When we enjoy what God has not provided, when God has not supplied it, we're pursuing something God didn't supply. We're going after something that God did not provide. When we pursue that, we even beyond a moral direct statement in Scripture, when we pursue what God has clearly provided, then we We're not doing good anymore. But when we just look at what God has done in providing and we joy over it, we're rejoicing over it, we're saying it's a gift of God. Boy, that is the life that God wants us to live. This is encouraging after a lot of very depressing passages, isn't it, as we've gone through Ecclesiastes. We've been week week after week, and he has brought us down very, very low. And now he's bringing us up to seeing things from God's perspective, and we need to see it as God's provision. We live in God's provision. And we rejoice over it. Then he says this, verse 14, I know that whatever, so really the next part of this is to understand God's perfect sovereignty in all this. He says, I know that whatever God does, it shall be what? It shall be forever. What he's speaking of here is the permanency of what God does. It's not fleeting, it's not empty, it's not vanity as we have seen over. When God does it, it's not vanity He talked about the uh the accumulation of his own riches and the accumulation of his own wealth and pleasure and all those kinds of things, as particularly his riches. And what did he say about his riches? I'm going to give it over to somebody who's not going to be responsible with it after I die. Which is exactly what happened. What did then? Rehaboam. And so he that that's vanity. But when God does something his way, it's permanent. It's forever. There's this permanency to what God does. And he says, nothing can be added to it, nothing can be taken from it. God does it. And men should fear and be before him. What he's talking about here is that when you when you see the hand of God do things in your life in situations And I'm gonna I've I use this as an example on somebody, I'll use it again today. When you see God's hand working in Roberta Kilkup's life, to help her to heal way faster than anybody could have. Now, frankly, is God working if it would have taken longer? Sure, God's still working. God's working in different ways the way he wants to. But when you see, when you just have this assurance of knowing that God is doing what he wants to do, that he's working, what is your response? When you know God is working, what's your response? Okay, that's one. But what is, I would say even deeper than that. Do we good awe. That's what he says here. Do you see what he says here? He says that men should what? Fear before me. Now the word fear sometimes means like trepidation, like you're you're scared of what God might do. That's I don't think that's the way he's using it here. What he's using it here is this awe. I am reverent, I am revering who God is, and I am in awe of what he is doing. Now, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of the wisdom. Why is that? Because fear of the Lord includes the awareness of what God is doing. And it it includes the idea that I I want to stay consistent with what God is doing. I want to go the direction God is going. I want to go that way. I don't want to go against it. I don't want to go opposed to it. I want to go the way God's going. So the fear of the Lord is to go the direction God is going. But also the fear of the Lord is to stand in awe of what God is doing, to look and see how God is working all things out. Now, do we always see what God is doing? We don't. We don't always see it And sometimes we maybe till we get to heaven before we really understand what he's doing. But there's this overall trust that we need to have that God will make all things beautiful in his time, even though we don't really understand what he's doing. Sometimes. That which has already been, he says verse 15. This is God's perspective. That which has already been, and what is to be, has already been. That sounds like double talk. It's not. Look at what he says again. That which is has already been. What's he saying there? Okay, grammarians ready. That which is, what tense is, is Present tense. Okay? That which is has already been. What has been? Past tense. Okay? Then and what is to be, now that's actually Yeah, techni uh practically it's future. It's actually a different tense technically. But what for this purpose, what is to be future, has what? Same thing. Already been, what has already been? Past. He said, whatever, what is present is already to God, what is present has already been. And what is future has already been too. And God requires an account of what is past. He says this. God's outside of time. He's not subject to time. He knows the end from the beginning. He's got it all figured out. And he in his mind everything is already passed. So that what he can determine how it is supposed to be He then it says, and God requires an account of what is past. So God, as things are going on, he can already make a judgment on the results. Why? Because in his mind it's already Is that already is that confusing? Do you guys get that? Okay, it is very deep. Okay? Let me let me try again. Okay Okay, in God's mind, everything's already passed. He's not linear, we're linear. In our mind, we're going through life. When we're going through life, God's perspective is that he can make a judgment call as to whether what is happening is going to be good or bad. Why? The point is simply let me put it b very simply. God knows all things and he is the only one who can judge how things will all fit together. Because in his mind, it's like let me put it ill let me illustrate it this way. How many of you all have done puzzles before? Big puzzles, you know, tho five thousand piece puzzles. Okay? Well, it's like he's got the picture already. How many of you ever tried to do one without a picture? Forget it. I pfft I okay, but he's got the picture already there. We don't, we're the puzzle pieces all and he's moving everything all around and it also looks like a big mess. But does life not look like a big mess sometimes? Okay, am I the only one that looks at life and says it's a big m okay no I don't think so. Okay. Life looks like a big mess. It looks like a big pile of puzzle pieces that we're trying to fit everything together. And God has the whole picture ahead of time and he's putting it all together. This is the best there's probably a breakdown in this illustration, but it's the best I can do for now. Okay, we we understand that. Right. We can look back and say, Man, I blew that. I should have handled that better. I should have done better. Okay, with that. Well God, He can already look back and see everything. And so let me ask you this question. There is an implication to this. Since we can't, should we try? Should we try to put the puzzle pieces together ourselves? No. That's when we run into trouble. We run into trouble when we try to control things and make things fit our way. Right? That's where we were in. God's in control. He's got the puzzle pieces. He's got the board. He's got us. I mean he sees it all. In fact, he designed it. And if we try to fit it our way, we try to make it work our way, then we're going to mess it up. So what should we do? Number one, what do we do? We rejoice. We rejoice in God's provision. Number two, we do good with what God gives us. And number three, We stand in awe of what God is doing as He do does things in our lives. And so we'll put it this way Conclusion. God is concerned, number one, not just with moral adherence, but with divine purpose. Everything's got a purpose. Doesn't look like it always has a purpose, but everything's got a purpose according to Ecclesiastes. Number two, God has given us the ability to observe and appropriate His sovereign work. We can observe it. And we can even appropriate it to some degree, but not to know how it would all will all fit beautifully together until the time of God's choosing. We won't know how it all fits together until God says it's time to look at it. We can look back at some things and we can see how it all fits together, and we can just rejoice in that and awe, stand in awe of that. That's what will happen But we don't get to choose when that happens. So how what is our responsibility? Number one It is to not attempt to control our lives and make everything fit together the way we want. This will end in disaster. That's not our role. Our role is not to try to control it and make it all fit the together the way we want to. If you're making decisions Because you've got a plan for your whole life out ahead of you and you want to make everything fit into that plan. Those of you all who have been living a while, how's that working out for you? You're the hammer in the food that's in the dead. Yeah, really. I mean when you really think about it, you look back at your life, you go, Man, this is n you know, I've never I gotta be honest with you, I never thought I would be back in Elkridge You know, living in the house that I grew up in with my dad. That was not my vision of what would happen when I got a seminary. I never thought I'd be buying that house. Okay, we loathed that house growing up. Now it's a lot nicer house now. My dad did a lot of work to it. Um I didn't have I didn't know that was not my plan. That was God's plan. And so our job is not to try to control everything. Number two, we need to rejoice in what God gives us from his benevolent hand, trusting him to fit everything together. Rejoice in what God gives us from His hand and trust Him to fit everything together in His time. And number three. Do good and right each step of the way. So so as we go, it's not like I when I make decisions in life, it's not i I just need to do right and do good each step of the way, knowing that he's gonna work it all out. Um you guys won't mind the I I I don't usually so my wife's had a had a really stressful two days. Um and I don't think anybody's gonna be like saying what a horrible person is she has stressful two days. So I I think we're okay with her. I'm on safe ground so far. Uh this morning I was leaving uh to come here and she was just n a little unsettled about things and and I said, why and so like she was like I got a lot of information. Okay Um and I you know what I said? I said, honey, just do the next thing Just just do the next thing. Don't worry about, you know, if they're going to graduate from college. Just do the next thing. Get through the day. And you know, sometimes that is a really good that's just good practical advice. Just do the next thing. And do right and do good. Observe the ways God, the ways of God, and stand in awe when he chooses to make things fit beautifully in his time. Don't forget to number one trust him on the on the on the beginning stages of things, trust him that he's going to make everything fit together. And on the other end of it, look and stand in awe of how God does make things fit together in his time. And just follow him one step at a time and see how God does all that. And that's the life that God wants us to live. It's not a life of are there struggles and trials? Sure there are. There's no question. But I do think sometimes that we bring a few trials on ourselves because we don't look at at things in life as God's provision and we don't rejoice on them enough. And uh there's a lot more I could say here, but that this this really is, if we will just get a hold of this, our lives I think will be a little simpler. We won't get as much trouble, and we will ultimately be able to live the life that God intended for us to live. And a life that God, at the end of it, we look back and we can see all the puzzle pieces pieces how they're all put together and he makes the whole thing beautiful. Aren't you looking forward to one day when you stand before Christ and He says, Well done, our good good and faithful servant, if we have been And he looks back, he says, see what I made? See what see what it is? You see it all now? See it all fit together. It's a beautiful thing that I did with your life. And we can look forward to that day. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you, Lord, just for the time that we could spend together in your word today. And uh I pray, Lord, that you would help remind us of these truths. Um this is the kind of life philosophy that you want us to have. If you give us good things to do. Uh if we can see even those non-moral things as things that are from your hand, then we can enjoy them. And if we can see and if we can learn to just do good and let you fit together in your time what you want to work out And trust that you're in control, and look back in your sovereign, beautiful hand ways. Lord, it is a life that we're going to come to the end, and it's not going to be empty, and it's not going to be vanity. It's going to be a life that we look back and we could say that you made it beautiful in your way. And we thank you for that. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen