And so these are these we as Christians have the answer in God's word, and we really need to be prepared to share the answer that we have. I want to begin this way. I want to begin just some with some preliminary concerns. How should we deal with someone who is hurting and has gone through either gone through tragedy Or they're empathizing with someone who has gone through tragedy. There's a sense, I don't know if you've noticed this, but there's a sense of national empathy for what's happened in Las Vegas. If you were on the scene, you would have had you would have experienced the tragedy yourself. And of course, throughout history, men have had to endure and witness all kinds of great, horrific kinds of tragedy. And the question we need to ask ourselves is how do we make sense of this? Now I appreciate the pastor friend. I actually watched him as he streamed um a prayer visual online a couple of days ago. And I appreciate his spirit in not flooding them with information for the people that were right there at the scene in Las Vegas. He did not try to give them a theological diatribe of everything he knows about God and try to get them to be able to understand all the intricacies of why God does what he does and all of that. He basically said, look, we know God is good. He is always good. In time I will share with you from God's Word. And he kept it really very simple in the very beginning stages of what was happening. on the, you know, right there in the middle of Las Vegas. So I think we must be sensitive to timing. When we're dealing with tragedy or we're dealing with somebody who has some sort of loss, um the truth is The answer to whatever they're dealing with is actually the same answer, and we're going to get to that answer in a few moments. But we need to be sensitive. We need to think about the fact that sometimes the right thing at the wrong time is the wrong thing. And so when someone is experiencing trauma or tragedy or loss, we need to think about is this the right saying. What should I say right now? Or maybe what should I hold back from saying? And sometimes we're not really sensitive enough because we're not really empathetic. to the situation that these that the person is going through. We're not really thinking in terms of what are they going through. And of course if we haven't been through it, we really can't, but we can on some level use our imaginations to to some degree empathize with them to to to at least think about where where they are so that we know what to say and in some cases in the initial stages what not to say. Listening is a very important thing and that we're going to get to that in a moment. Sometimes meeting physical and felt needs must come before meeting spiritual needs. That's what they really are trying to do in Las Vegas, the churches that are there. They're trying to meet physical needs and felt needs first, just trying to get people in in a place where they can really meet those spiritual needs that are actually the root of the problem or the root of their struggle, I should say. We must learn to listen and read people in these kinds of situations. We usually say the wrong thing when we're not reading people before we say anything I think it's really important. We usually say the wrong thing when we're not reading people before we say anything. Read the per did you know people are like a book and you can read them? I mean they're not they you peep people have facial expressions and mannerisms that give you in some cases an indication of where they're at and what their receptors are like, what they can actually, what kind of information they can actually receive. And I think we need to really be sensitive to this. What we're going to look at tonight is going to be a good amount of information to help people to understand. But we've got to know when that right time is to be able to give them that kind of information. The information here is not for the skeptic. Or for the antagonist, the person who just says, Well, I'm just going to be scared. This is a person who has been humbled through tragedy either experienced or empathized. They've looked at the tragedy in Las Vegas or they looked at the the terrible things that are happening down in Florida or in Texas or in Puerto Rico. and they're empathizing, or they're down there in those places and they're experiencing it. And this kind of tragedy, all of us at some time in life Maybe not to the horrific extent of Las Vegas, but to sometime uh sometime in life we go through these kinds of tragic events and we wonder where is God in all this? What is God doing? Why is God doing what he is doing? And so this though, the information we're going to look at has a lot more to do with someone who's experienced these things, but it's humbled them and they sort of realize they're sort of, I don't know what to think. I don't know where to go with this. I'm not sure what to do with what's happening. Those people have some very good answers from Scripture. Finally, this is not the only approach you can take. This is an approach that you can take. Now, there's some truth in here that is the only approach, actually. But the initial approach that I'm going to suggest to you is just one of the approaches that we can take in helping people to go through these kinds of tragedy. So let's begin this way. I want to suggest, and I want to tell you that my weakness, my strength probably is the fact that I can assimilate and analyze a lot of information and boil it down. My my s my weakness is I'm not very good with alliteration and coming up with pissy things that we can remember that and stuff. I'm not good with that. I wish somebody I I if I if anybody of you are really talented at that, let me know and I'll send you my sermons. You can figure them out and then I'll And then uh and then I can I can come back. I've just never been very good with that. But um we need to start off this way. It is perfectly okay to ask why We need to tell people it's perfectly okay to ask why. Sometimes you'll find somebody who says, I've had, have you ever heard somebody say this to you? I know it's wrong to ask why. I know I can't ask God why. Have you ever asked somebody say that before? I've had people say that before. A lot And I actually have to say to them, you know, actually, that's not true. You can ask why. In fact, it's perfectly okay to ask why. I'll give you an example, Habakkuk 1-2 O Lord, how long shall I cry and you will not hear? Even cry out to you violence and you will not save. This is the prophet Habakkuk who is asking a question about why the nation of Israel is allowed to continue to to get plunged further into idolatry and now into violence and into all kinds of uh all kinds of things like that And even after the Lord gives him his initial response later on in the passage, he asks another question, why? And the Lord never says to him, you know what, you just shouldn't ask why. You know what the Lord does in Habakkuk? He goes through several chapters to explain why. And he in great detail explains why the nation of Israel is going through what's going through, what God is going to do about it in time, why God is going to do it the way he's going to do it. God takes time to to explain things to Abacuck, and frankly, you and I should take time to explain things to those who ask these kinds of questions. It's not wrong to ask why. Now we know that it's wrong to a to shake your fist up at the Lord and ask why. That's wrong But to ask the question why is not wrong. And in fact, it's actually normal and the way God created us to be. And I would actually encourage you to explain to people that the Bible actually says that we're made in God's image. That means we were made separate from the animals, which is not what's being taught today. Now that's important for this reason. Animals do not have the same kind of reasoning faculties that human beings do. They're not going to answer qu ask questions like, why is God doing this? But a human being is going to ask that kind of question. A human being is made in God's image with the ability to be able to reason and think through things and question things. That is innate in the ability of a human being because he's made in God's image. He's not like the animals just Just basically operating off of instinct, he has much more ability to relate to God, most importantly, and also an ability to be able to reason things out. He has the ability to actually have God's moral attributes. Those are things that are true of him because he's made in the image of God. And according to God's word, he's made different. than the animals. And so to explain somebody, look, God created you to a to ask questions. He created you to ask those kinds of things. And to explain to somebody that I think is it will uh it might relieve them. It's sort of like, oh, okay, because I think some people I think some people asked the question in their mind when something happened to them But they thought to themselves, well, I'm not really supposed to ask that question, and they never got the question answered. And they sort of just real and so they just sort of were left with a dull non-answer to their question. And we need to begin that way. Number two, then, we need to begin after that to explain God's original plan. And this is how I would suggest explaining it. I would suggest that we, it would be very wise for us to just say, hey, can I share with you some things that I think will help you make sense of this? Ask the qu ask permission. So we're saying, would it be alright if I share some things with you that that'll help you with this? And if they say, yes, I would really appreciate that, then begin this way. Let's begin in the beginning of the Bible. Why not, right? This is where it all starts. And so begin by just saying, what is God was God's original plan? And we need to understand that God's original plan was full of abundant, perfect life. It says in uh Genesis 2. 9, for example, and out of the ground made the Lord uh God to grow every tree that is pleasant. to the sight and good for food. The tree of life also is in the midst of the garden. God created all kinds of things that were life and good and peace The God's creation was full of abundant life in the beginning. That was his plan. We need them to understand. Can you advance that for me? I'm having trouble here. Okay. That God anticipated ma man's every need. So man was lonely. Adam was lonely God recognized Adam's loneliness and gave him a wife to comfort him and to be a companion for him. And God, and there is absolutely no indication in the beginning of any kind of suffering. Sadness, disease, certainly not death. None of that happened. That was not part of God's original plan. Now, there are some folks that probably have never really thought about it that way. That God did not create Death and disease, he created the elements of disease, but it was actually something else that we're going to get to in a minute that distorted these elements to make them into a disease. Death is not was not in God's original plan. I want to then I think it's why it would be a good idea to suggest this is to help them To begin with a helpful illustration. So the question in people's minds are, how can a good God allow 59 people to be shot? In Las Vegas on Sunday night. How can a good God allow that kind of thing to happen? And at this point, I'd like to suggest an illustration. The illustration would go something like this. And by the way, if you don't get- I'm going to email all this to you all, so don't feel like you have to take out every every every bit of this. Okay. Some of you are some of you are just reading. I'll email all the whole thing to everybody and so you'll have that. I want to begin this way. So suppose a father He uh he offers to give his son, or doesn't just offer, he gives his son forty thousand dollars to go buy a car. With one One condition, he says, don't buy a yugo. How many of y'all know what a yugo is? Okay, oh good. I've used illustration before. And some people don't have any clue what a Yugo is. A Yugo is rated by many different magazines as the worst car ever made. Okay. My dad's a mechanic, he says yeah, that's right. Okay. Well that's actually where I learned about the car as a Yugo. Okay But a yugo, we're going to say in this illustration, is not just a lousy car. It's really unsafe as well. And so the father says: look, you can buy any car you want. Look, just don't buy a Yugo. Don't do it. So this really slick salesman comes out and sells him for forty thousand dollars a Hugo. So the son buys this car against his dad's one condition. But he goes to his dad and says, Look, Dad, what I got? Dad goes, um, I told you not to do that. But you it's your choice. You're 25 years old, you're an adult son, so I'm you uh you you chose to do it. So this guy takes a drive out west, and while he's on the Golden Gate Bridge, the whole thing, the the the car breaks down And causes, I mean literally causes an accident where forty-five people forty-five cars are in a f it's in a forty-five car pile up. Now, here's the question. Was that the father's fault? Is it the father's fault that this son was in a 45 uh car pile up because of a yugo that his father said, do not buy. Is there any fault of the father at all with this? I think the vast majority of people in our world are going to say, no, there's no fault on the Father's part. So why do we blame God for all of these things that happen? So here's the next question. The next question is going to be immediately, well God knew that that was going to happen, right? Is that not the next question? Kim? something like that was and the guy was intelligent enough, he says, Well I know what you're saying, but we can guys put that tree to go with my tree about cause Okay. Just like just like this guy just like the father gave him a y gave him forty five or gave him oh so created the temptation. Alright. And folks, the simple answer of that created the Hugo. Okay, well let's put it like he built the Hugo. Don't buy my car. Okay, so so So if he told them, don't buy the Yugo that I built, okay, and he went out and bought it anyway, whose fault is it? Okay. So it's so the other s thing that we have to go back to, and we've already covered that we're made in the image of God, is I would immediately say this. Because we're made in the image of God We are not like animals. That means God gives us a choice. That tree of the knowledge of good and evil was a choice. It was a legitimate choice that he created. Why? Because if you have no choice to do wrong, you don't really have a choice. And if you don't have a choice to do wrong, then you're really not able to make a choice. And so, yes, God has created us that way. Because there is a certain sense in which you can't have a close relationship with someone who doesn't choose to have that relationship if he just has to have it. God created us to be in relationship with him. That's why he created us. Okay, so that's kind of the answer to that question. Let's let's hold off on questions for a minute and we can ask we can we can we can continue afterward afterwards. So was the father at fault in any way? Did the father owe him did the father owe him anything? The father oh okay well I owe you a new car. No. Alright, so Man's sinful fall, let's then look and see, okay, so what happened that all of this carnage and death and destruction and tragedy and everything takes place? What happened? Well, it says, if you look at Genesis chapter 2, verse 16 and 17, we will see exactly there what happened. It says And the Lord God commanded man, saying, Of every tree of the garden you may freely eat, but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat it, you shall surely die. And the Lord God said, it is not good that man should be alone. So he says, if you eat this, you will surely die. Well, we know what happened. Well, Adam and Eve at ate the fruit. We are all aware of that. And so she saw that it was good for food. She gave it she ate it, gave it to her husband, and And we know that they that that the fall occurred after that. So we find this as a result of the fall. And this is important for people to understand. According to Genesis chapter 3, verses 8 through 24, we have three results of the fall. One is that they would eventually die, and there was eventual physical death for every man afterwards, every man and woman afterwards. So there's eventual physical death. There was immediate spiritual death. As soon as there was sin, there was immediate spiritual death. That is, they were separated from God because of their sin. Wherefore as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin, therefore death passed upon all men, for all have sinned. So there's immediate spiritual death. And then There also is this issue, this matter of sorrow and suffering. In fact, the Bible actually says that the whole world groans Because of the fall and because of the s because of what happened when Adam and Eve sinned. God did not God's original plan was not physical death, was not spiritual death, and was not sorrow and suffering. So we look at, in fact, go ahead and take your Bibles and turn there, Romans 8, 18 through 23 And I would actually encourage you to take somebody who's gone through tragedy to look at this passage because, or who is asking questions about what's happened in in Florida, in Texas, and all these kinds of things. Take them to this and actually show them the passage. I would encourage you to do that. Because when you read what's here, I would imagine that even somebody who really doesn't know the Lord would look at this passage and would say Wow, that's exactly what our world's like. So notice what it says, pick up here in verse 18. He says, For I consider that the sufferings of this present time, so the whole thing's talking about suffering, of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. Now we'll get more into what that means later. For the earnest expectation of the creation eagerly waits for the revealing of the sons of God, for the creation is subjected to futility. Not willingly, but because of him who subjected in hope. Because the creation itself also Will be delivered from the bondage of the corruption into the glorious liberty of the children of God. There is this bondage of corruption. Does that sound like our world? He says, then, for we know that the whole creation creation groans and labors with birth pangs together until now. He says it's so painful in this earth. There are so many tragedies. And so many trials. The Bible says there are so many of those kinds of things, it's like the world is having a baby. There are there are great there is just great birth pains associated with our fallen world Can you imagine somebody going through a trial and realizing, you know what, the Bible's right? I I I look at this verse comes to my mind almost every time I watch the news and see the horrific things happening I say, yeah, there's more birth pains. It says, not only that, but we also have the first fruits of the Spirit, even We ourselves groan within ourselves. We groan within ourselves, eagerly waiting for the adoption, the redemption of our body. So there is this outward groaning going on because of the fall, because of sin, because of what has happened in the world. And there's this inward growing groaning in our hearts because of what we're seeing in the world and the effects of all of this. And if you've gone just gone through trial That's really real. There is this groaning as a result of the fall and of sin. Now, let's return to the illustration. See, I'm not done with the illustration. Somebody thought I was done. I'm not done. So the father, with no obligation to do anything, says to the young man, I can't change what happened, but I will replace the car of anyone who will call me. Does he have to do that? Did the father have to do that? Was he obligated to do it? Why would the father of the son who went against his command And went out and bought an unsafe Hugo and traveled across the wet into the West and gotten a 40-c-car pile-up that he caused. Why would the father do that? Because of mercy. He's not obligated to. It wasn't his fault that it happened. It was simply out of great mercy. You see, actually, God is a very merciful God. Because he actually is has provided in every case physical death, spiritual death, and suffering. And we're gonna sh- I'm gonna show you all three of these in a minute, but he has in every one of these cases he has an answer that deals that that doesn't w we all still die And we all still suffer. And we are born spiritually separated from God. But God has an answer that if we'll call on him or if we'll believe in him or trust in him, if we'll do that, then we're going to be able to get that Dealt with the way God has intended for it to be dealt with, only by His mercy. So what has God done to respond to the horrific problems in our world. What has God done to respond to it? Because of God's justice, he did not remove the consequences of the sin. God has set up a world consistent with his character so he didn't doesn't remove those consequences. Physical death and disease still occur. Men are still born sinners and die eternally separated from God. And sorrow and suffering are still a part of everyday life. But here's what God did. Jesus doesn't remove death, but he removes death's sting. Do you get that? He he doesn't remove death, but he removes the sting of death And we find that in 1 Corinthians 15, 53 through 57. He says this. This is how God's, this is God's answer. To the problem of calamity and tragic problems and all that. This is God's answer. For this perishable body must put on imperishable And this mortal body must put on immortality. Now that's pretty complicated, but basically it's this way. We have a physical body that's dying. God has created another way for us to continue to live without a physical body once we die, so that our immortality puts on It replaces the mortality. And our perishable, our imperishable self, our spirit, replaces our perishable spirit. God says it this way. When the perishable will put on imperishable, and the mortal puts on immortality, then shall come to pass the thing the saying is written, death is swallowed up in victory. He doesn't remove death, he swallows it up in victory. So then Paul says this, O death, where is your sting? Or where is your victory? O death, where is your sting? The sting of death, what's the sting of death, folks? It's sin. And the power of sin is the law. But thanks be to God, which gives us the victory according to our Lord Jesus Christ. Okay, so He doesn't take death away, but He takes the sting of death away. He takes the sin away. So that we can have a right relationship with God, so that we can then go live forever and go to be with God. But that's not the only thing. Jesus also does something with our suffering. He doesn't remove our suffering, but he does make good things out of bad things. Romans chapter 8, verse 18. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. Now, when he talks about the present time, he's talking about our lives now. And all of us go through sufferings now. He says that whatever suffering we're going through now, the glory that we will have if we will accept him, And if we will be rightly related to him, the glory that we will have on the other side of death that no that has no sting The glory that we'll be have will be proportionately greater than the suffering that we're going through in this life. I mean, I can just imagine, just think about the suffering that you have been through. There's nobody here that hadn't been through suffering of some kind or another. Various degrees, various difficulties, but there's nobody that's been that's not gone that's gone through that everybody's gone through some suffering And God says that he doesn't take the suffering away, but what he does do is on the other side of heaven, he gives glory that is proportionately more than whatever suffering you're going through in this life. Now there is only one answer that you get to these things. God How does he we get to this? We get to this by receiving Jesus. And in Romans chapter 8 it says that, or 5, it says that. Through him also we have access by faith in this grace in which we stand and rejoice in the what? In the hope. Do you know what people need? People need hope. Do you know what they don't have right now? People don't have hope. Christ is hope. Do you know what hope is? Hope is the confident expectation of future things. This world is is done as far as it it's its its demise is one day it's all going to get destroyed. But I'll tell you what, we have hope. And the hope is in the next life. The hope is in the life to come with God. And not only that, but we also glory in tribulations, knowing that tribulation produces perseverance, perseverance character, and character hope. Now, hope does not disappoint because the love of God has poured out in our hearts by the Holy Spirit who was given to us. Now, the whole key is this. Remember said we said that the father of the son, that all of the the car, people in the cars had to call the only thing he had to do is just call him and let him know, and then he would he would take care of it. And God, it's really simple. In order for this to all uh for re-creation, if you will, to take place in the life of an individual, There's it's very simple. The Bible actually says, verse 8, but God demonstrates his love toward us. How did he do that? He didn't do that by reversing the consequences of sin because he would not be he can't do that because he would go against his justice. But God demonstrates his love toward us and that while we were yet sinners, Christ He put His own Son on the cross to die for us To replace that, to pay the punishment for our sin. So what we need to do is simply this: but as many as received him To them gave he the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. And I would probably recap this way with someone. I would probably say to them. That God should be looked at as a God who chose when he could have just wiped us out because of our sin and just started over. A lot of people just want to wipe this lake clean. Instead, God went to massive lengths. Most importantly, he sent his own son to die for us. So that we could have all of the effects of the fall eventually reversed. So that we could, when we die, go to live with Him, have a relationship with Him now on earth. And have all of our sufferings be be compensated, if you will, or not really compensated, but really gone much more abundantly overflowing attitude. In other words, God is, and we don't, this is a part this all of this is going to take faith, right? So faith is the key to all this. We have to just trust that that's going to happen. And that's why the Bible actually does say that faith is necessary. The Bible says faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. And so I would just explain to somebody, look, you need to receive Christ. Because Christ is the only way that can reverse the fact ref the effects of the fall. That can reverse make something good out of something bad. We need to receive Christ. Now, with all that in mind, do you have any questions? I'm just curious. Had some answers, questions, answers, that kind of thing. Objections, any thoughts? Okay. Yes, Lisa. So your and your first or second slide and the seven tasks are original plan. Maybe the if like I don't know Maybe something rather than original because this was this was all part of this plan. You know, as it's been carried out. What we would consider a starting point, you know, so I'm not you use the word original as an origins of things for R like a human. Okay. On the human end of things, it makes sense. Okay. Okay. Well, we are thinking in terms of human end of things here, I think. Right? Yes, uh but I think it I guess they have a problem with that because this is all part of this plan. So maybe it can save us the beginning. Kathy, I think you know, go back to the idea of where the Lord himself said, you know, that this was from the foundation of the world. In other words, he already had the plan of salvation before any of this had happened to man and death with original that indicates that you had to change something. Let me let me put it this way, and maybe there is a better way to word it. God's plan is and always will be creation. So so now it's recreation in Christ because of the fall So to say that his original plan, you're you're saying that because we're going to understand that sin and death and all those things are result of man's choice, a result of the fall. Does that make sense? Okay. So when we're talking to somebody that that doesn't know the Lord, we want them to understand That that that man that God uh if you're gonna put it in more complicated language, God is not culpable for death and suffering and destruction. Because he made, he's not culpable because he made, first of all, he created us in his image So that we have a choice to set to sin or not to sin. So for us, the key there, I think, is the whole, here's the point. The point is that we want to make sure that people's view of God is is accurate and they're not and God is not culpable for something that he shouldn't be culpable for in their minds. As much as we can. Does that make sense? So I don't know how I mean I don't know how else you would word that besides that way. Yeah, Kim, do you have a Intention? Okay. Oh my intention, soal? Okay. Okay. Brad, you think some something like that? Okay. Go ahead, Brad. Um could you just elaborate on the idea of the justice of God while Why um if necessary for a holding guy to require um Yeah. Um why is it necessary for a holy God to acquire a consequence for sin? I think I think it is I think the answer is kind of in the question, but um it is because he is just that he that consequences have to happen. In other words, okay, let me put it this maybe this helps. Creation is consistent with the Creator. Does that make sense? So God is not going to create something that's not consistent with. With him, with his create, with the creator. Creation, then, God is entirely holy. Now, it's impossible for God to sin. God has a free choice, but he also can't go against his own nature because he's just. Creation Creation did not have that built into it, apparently. However, justice is uh has to be In order for it the creation to continue to be consistent with God's justice, there needs to be there has to be a consequence. I I don't know if that's helpful, but Rose? I just well, I had a thought recently, it was probably a few months ago, that what I was thinking was the stuff between his mercy and his love. And it just hit me. This a doctor is poisoned He wants to take that out. He wants to heal him. It's not that he he wants to heal him because he loves him. It's not like His his justice is uh uh mercy our opposite. Yeah. He has because he's he's a loving doctor and he's perfectly healthy and whole himself wants to give that patient. And it's not something like, oh, just just pretend the poison is not there. It's there and take it out. Someone has denied. Someone has to You know, it says without the shedding of blood. So we shed his own blood. Which is so I mean so amazing. So the desire for the doctor to make the patient well is Hold again and completely in line with his love and his own holding. Yeah, I mean that's the best the best answer is that through all of this God is um demon showing himself even more of who he is by by being able solve the problem. In other words, okay, so in the beginning God has a cre there's a creation. God created everything. Then man messes it messes up essentially by sinning and corrupting what God has created. The fact that God then has a remedy for that demonstrates even more of the greatness of who God is, his justice and his mercy combined, uh than otherwise would have been. Does that make sense? Does that think you would have to see mercy or any of that? Yeah, we wouldn't have seen his merit point. We wouldn't see his mercy or his grace. Good point. Yeah, I think that's a good point. Yes. And I think the average person you deal with. It's not going to lead to things we're leaving to right now. Yeah, I tend to agree with that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Is a gift from God. Right. You say no to him you you'll ever ever get Yeah, at the beginning I said that we are not trying to answer the skeptics. Uh I think I said that. So um nothing wrong with thinking through these things. But um this is not I I have not I'll just tell you from personal experience um this last one here Uh or the second to last one. Um I uh my personal experience is that when p when people are in the midst of tragedy They're not thinking half as deeply as you all are, okay? Honestly. But um anyway, I I I think it's very good for us to discuss this and kind of think through this and figure this out. But as a whole, the tra the the answer to the tragedy being Christ is something that that is can be apparent if the Lord is working. So I think we have to sort of sort of consider that. I think the question is how do we get into this? How do we help people go from I don't get why God's doing what he's doing to actually God has a solution to what has happened. Does that make sense? We're sort of getting into Now we're sort of getting into the background material of why God allowed it to happen. And that's sometimes important to get there is a point at which all of this is faith. You have to just trust what God says in his word. This is all a matter of what God's Word says. But yeah, that's a good point. All right. Um anyway, I I really encourage you all to to again, my point in doing this was to To help us to rem to really think through these things enough that when somebody asks us about this, or we go to somebody else, that we're able, we're not We're able to give them some some biblical answers. I don't think we're ever gonna come up with an answer with an answer that says, well, you don't really have to believe. Okay? There's that's always gonna ultimately be the answer But the but what we believe in is is a rational bel it's it's it's a reasonable belief. It's not it's not crazy, it's it's reasonable. At the end of the day, it is belief. No getting around it But I think we I think to explain these kinds of things um I would think would be helpful