John chapter five. John chapter five. The title of the message has actually changed from what I originally gave to the sound people and all the different people that need the title of the message. Um the message is really now where is the message? Oh no, don't change it. I'd want it like it is. The title of the message is this morning is Man's Repeated Rejection of Christ's Relentless Pursuit. Man's repeated rejection of Christ's relentless pursuit. I know what Toby was trying to do. That makes sense, actually. What he's trying to do is I um anyway, I know what he's trying to do. All right. And as I went through this passage of Scripture and studied it, it sort of dawned on me, and this is just in my own imagination, but I wonder how often God gives opportunities to those who don't know the Lord as their Savior. He gives them opportunities to accept Him. through circumstances and through planted seeds of other believers and through just knowing and seeing creation and seeing the creation that God has made. How often does the unbeliever receive opportunities to be able to at least be directed toward God, and yet they choose to turn the other direction? First Peter tells us that the Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness, but is long-suffering to usward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. But as I looked at this as well, I began to think about the believer. How many times does our heart turn away from God? And God prompts us, and through various circumstances and promptings, and other believers, and his word. Prompt us to turn back to Him in one way or another. How often does that occur, and we choose not to listen? Until God has to bring some sort of chastening in our lives to the point where then we will listen to Him. What we find according to God's character in this passage Is that Christ goes to, and really God the Father, the whole Godhead, goes to great means, the Spirit of God as well, goes to incredible means. to make sure that the authenticity of Christ was clearly communicated to the nation of Israel when Christ came that first time. Really to understand what's going on in this passage. And I'm not gonna I uh be honest with you, this is kind of an in-depth passage of scripture. But you'll see that there is some extremely important application for us if you'll just stay with me with this. But what you're going to find in this passage is that that is what God is trying to do. He gives every opportunity for the nation of Israel to see who Christ really is through various means, and yet they still reject him. To really understand what this passage in John 5 is saying, what I'd like you to do is turn your Bibles to Malachi chapter 4. So place a marker in John chapter 5. Turn your Bibles to Malachi chapter 4. This is the very last chapter written in the Old Testament. And what I want you to see here is What God chooses to leave to the nation of Israel as its last scripture, as its last divine scripture, before Christ comes 400 years later. And it's going to help us as we unpack this passage. Malachi chapter 4, verse 1 says this For behold, the day cometh that shall burn as an oven, and all the proud, yea, all that do wickedly shall be sub uh shall be stubble. And the day that cometh they shall burn up, saith the Lord of hosts. It shall leave them neither root nor branch. But unto you that fear my name. Shall the son of righteousness arise with, would you notice that next word? What is the next word? Healing in his wings. And ye shall go forth, and grow up as calves of the stall, and ye shall tread down the wicked, and they shall be ashes under the soles of your feet in the day that I shall do this, saith the Lord of hosts. Remember ye the law of Moses, my servant, which I commanded unto him and Horeb for all Israel, with the statutes and judgments. Behold, I will send you Elijah, the prophet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord, and he shall turn the heart of the fathers to his children. And the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse. Now what we find in Malachi chapter 4 is a foretelling. Of the time when Christ would come and set up his kingdom on earth. And he was going to offer the kingdom to the nation of Israel, and he did that in his first coming. He offered the nation, and you're going to see this clearly today, that he gave a legitimate offer to the nation of Israel that he would set up his kingdom then. And yet the nation of Israel rejected Christ as king, rejected him as the deliverer, the Messiah. There were many people in that day that claimed to be the Messiah. There were people that that tried to create an uprising For the nation of Israel to go against the Roman Empire and to overthrow the Roman Empire, but in each instance it failed miserably. And people would follow, but it would fail. But when Christ came, people largely did not follow And you're going to see this as we go through this, and yet Christ gave every opportunity. He gave irrefutable evidence of his authenticity, and yet they chose to reject him. And the question that we need to ask ourselves is why? Why would the nation of Israel as a whole reject Christ as the Messiah? Because when we ask that question, we're going to find this question. Why do men reject him today? And furthermore, why do we even reject him, even as believers? Why do we turn our hearts away from him? Why do we choose not to trust him? We're going to find that today in this passage as we go through this. We need the Lord's help as we go through this and ask his blessing on our time together. Father, as we look at your word this morning, I pray that you would teach us. Teach us of these truths that we find in your word. Teach us of your character. Teach us of our propensity toward being turned away from you. Lord, would you teach us what you want us to know and convict us Help us to see Christ and help us to see what keeps us from seeing Christ. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. We pick up here in John chapter 5, verse 31, as and as you've already perhaps noted Previously, Christ has told the nation of Israel that he is God. He really claimed to be God. He claimed to be God in the sense that he and his father are one, that he does not work against his father, but in complete uh in complete conjunction with his with the will of his father. And now we come to this passage where he is going to begin to direct very speak very directly to the leaders of the nation of Israel as he identifies all of how they ought to be able to recognize him as the Messiah. And we pick it up here in verse 31 with that in mind. He says this. If I bear witness of myself, my witness is not true. There is another that beareth witness of me. I know that witness which he witnesseth of me is true. Jesus begins this section of his teaching to these people by explaining. That he understands that there needed to be more than self-authentication in order for people to recognize him as the Messiah. And we find this in the Old Testament to be the case. Deuteronomy 17, verse 8 says this: that at the mouths of two witnesses or three witnesses shall he that is worthy of death be put to death. And we find in Deuteronomy 19, 15 the same kind of thing is needed, that you need at least one, if not more, two or three witnesses to verify certain things. And so there was this overall understanding among the nation of Israel is that just because somebody claims they can do something doesn't mean they really can do it. Just because somebody says they are someone doesn't mean they really are, that there needs to be witnesses to identify this person as being authentically who they say they really are. And Christ knew this. The Father knew this. The Holy Spirit knew this. So when Christ came, he sent before him, and really in conjunction with his ministry, he sent witnesses to him. And what we find in this passage is that there are four witnesses total. There are three witnesses of a certain nature, and then there's a final witness that we'll talk about later on in the message. The first witness that we see in this passage, in verse 32, and verse 33, is John the Baptist himself. Verse 33 says this. Ye sent unto John, and he bare witness unto the truth. But I receive not testimony from man, but these things I say that ye might be saved He was a burning and a shining light, and ye were willing for a season to rejoice in his light. So you see, first of all, we have witness number one, John the Baptist. Of course, we have had a couple of different messages on the on the ministry of John the Baptist. Christ said that he was really the greatest of all men up to that point that that was That was birth of women, is actually what it says in Matthew chapter 11. And so what we find is that John had a great ministry of foretelling the coming of Christ, of being that human witness for identifying who Christ is. We could go into a lot of detail about the work of John the Baptist and what he did But it's just important it's just really necessary to note that he was a shining bright light. He spoke with great authority. He spoke with the power of the Spirit of God. And there were some who for a time wanted to or did believe in the words of John the Baptist, but it was a temporary kind of belief as a whole. Now, I want to be careful here, and I want us to understand that there were some Jewish people that did follow Christ. There were some that were genuinely disciples of Christ. But as a whole, the nation of Israel did reject him. And so when I talk about the Jewish people rejecting him, it's not as though every individual did. There were some that followed Christ, but it really was relatively very few. So we find here, number one, that Christ sent John the Baptist ahead of himself, or the Father sent John the Baptist. Then we see a second witness in this passage here, verse 36. I have a greater witness than that of John. Now let me pause and ask the question: why would there be a greater witness? than John the Baptist. Well, John the Baptist was limited by his words. John the Baptist did no miracles. He didn't by actions authenticate the work of Christ. He only by his speech and by his words and by his message authenticated Christ. But now to go one step farther, a greater witness was the works of Christ Himself, the miracles of Christ. Would you notice in verse 36? For the works Which the Father hath given me to finish, the same works that I do, bear witness of me, that the Father hath sent me. And so you find this even greater witness than John the Baptist, all of the miracles that Christ did, all of the works that Christ did. We've only seen a handful of them in John. But there if you read all throughout all the gospels, and in fact John tells us at the very end of his gospel that like not even half of it has been told of all of the miracles that Christ did in the nation of Israel And the purpose of those miracles was not let me just say this, the purpose of the miracles was not just to be kind to people. Sometimes I I heard on in fact I heard uh recently on a um talk show, a Christian talk show, that um on on a on the radio, um, that this person was explaining that what what the church needs to be doing is they need to be they need that we need to be reaching out to poor people. I'm not saying that's not true by the way. But the reason they said we ought to be doing that was because Christ Christ performed miracles. And that was that was their reasoning behind why we should do that. But do you know, folks, that the purpose that Christ performed miracles primarily was not just to be kind to people or even to provide for people? You do see that. It's not like God can have more than one reason for doing something. He certainly does. But the primary purpose that Christ performed these miracles was to demonstrate as a sign to these Jewish people who he really was, that he is the Messiah, that he is God. That's why he did what he did. And that's clear in this passage. That's why he did what he did. He wanted the nation of Israel to clearly see, not just by words, but by behavior and action. that this is someone other than just a mere man. This is not just a human being, not only a human being, this is God. And this is the deliverer. This is the Messiah. And the Old Testament actually prophesied of healing. that the that the Messiah that would come would do. In fact, I'd like you to see this. If you would take your Bibles and turn to Isaiah 35 for just a moment. This has actually become very, very important. I'm going to have you do a do a few a little bit of turning tonight this morning. But you're going to see why this is so important in a few moments. Isaiah 35. And we find here A prophecy of this coming Messiah, and I want you to see very specifically the kind of miracles that are foretold. Isaiah 35, verse 1 says this The wilderness and the solitary place shall be glad for them, and the desert shall rejoice in the blossom as the rose. It shall blossom abundantly and rejoice even with joy and singing. The glory of Lebanon shall be given unto it. The excellency of Carmel and Sharon, they shall see the glory of the Lord and the excellency of our God Strengthen ye the weak hands, and comfort the feeble knees. Say to them that are of fearful heart, Be strong, fear not. Behold, your God will come with vengeance Even God with a recompense, he will come and save you. Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened. Alright, there's a miracle. What kind of miracle is it? What is it? The eyes of the blind will be opened. And the ears of the deaf shall be unstopped. In other words, those who are deaf will hear. Okay, this is this should be taken literally. There's no reason not to take this literally. And you're going to find why it's so important to take this literally in a few moments as we look We turn to Matthew. Be very careful, be very careful folks, in the Old Testament, be very careful about figuratively taking something when it could be taken literally. And you're going to find here the importance of this in a few moments. Then the lame man leap as a heart, and the tongue of the dumb sing. For the righteous for the wilderness shall waters break out and streams in a desert, and the parched ground shall become a pool and thirsty land springs of water, and the habitation of the de of the dragons where each lay shall be grass and reeds and rushes. Okay, so you find that blind are seeing and those who are hearing, or those who are not hearing, are being are unable to hear. Deaf are hearing Keep that in mind now. And what I want you then to do is turn to back to John chapter 5. Now, just keep all of that in your mind when it comes to the mint the miracles That Christ did to authenticate himself. And I'm just going to mention this one more thing about the miracles, and then we're going to move on to the next sign. The miracles we're going to find, and I'm going to prove this to you in a few moments, but the miracles that we find in this passage Are by the power of the Spirit of God. It is the Holy Spirit that is the power behind the miracles that Christ did. In other words, the Father had the plan. He gave the works for Christ to do Christ executed the plan of the Father, and it was the Holy Spirit that applied this particular works to individuals. So all parts of the Trinity were involved in the miracles that Christ did. And you're going to see the Holy Spirit's work in just a few moments. But it wasn't just John the Baptist, and it wasn't just the miracles that Christ did. There was yet another sign. Another sign. And this sign was God the Father Himself. Would you see in verse 37? And the Father Himself, which hath sent me, hath borne witness of me. Ye have neither heard his voice at any time, nor seen his shape And ye have not hurt and ye have not his word abiding in you, for whom he has sent, him ye believe not. Now How is it that the Father was actually a witness to the nation of Israel? Well, if you think back to the Old Testament, the majority of the nation of Israel never heard the Father's voice. They would hear the scribes reading from the text of Scripture. They would hear prophets prophesying based upon the working of God in the lives of these prophets, in the working of these prophets. But as a whole, it wasn't as though the nation of Israel heard voices from heaven or a voice from heaven. But we find in the life of Christ twice where that happened, don't we? Do you recall when we heard a when the nation of Israel heard a voice from heaven? Well, once was early in Christ's ministry, in fact, inaugurated, starting beginning, was part of inaugurating Christ's ministry when Christ was baptized by John the Baptist. Do you remember that? And John said, or the father said, This is my beloved son in whom I am well pleased. You have a very clear reference to the Father speaking from heaven on behalf of his son as a witness to his son. Later on you find in in Matthew chapter 17 is one place and there's other places, the Mount Transfiguration. You have at least you have the inner circle there, the three disciples that were with him And he says again, this is my beloved son in whom I am well pleased. You have twice, one of which was with the whole nation of Israel could have potentially heard. The witness of the Father as a voice from heaven. And folks, this didn't happen every day. And so Christ says, you don't hear the voice of the Father all the time. And get you heard from the Father Himself of who I am. So you have the Holy Spirit, you have John the Baptist You've got these miracles, and you've got the Father Himself involved in this witness, this authentication of who Christ is. Now, with all of that in mind, you say, well, what does this make a hillabeans difference? I mean, I'm really not sure I understand the point of all this. Would you take your Bibles and turn to Matthew 12? Matthew chapter 12. And what I want you to do here in Matthew 12 is I want us to pay careful attention. We what we're not going to be able to do is do a full exposition of Matthew 12, because some of you want to eat at the potluck. And so we would not be able to do that. But what I do want us to do in Matthew chapter 12 is point out a few things to you that are really going to see the weight of all of these witnesses and where we are going with all of this. And it's going to reveal to you a very confusing passage of Scripture and what it actually means. How many of you all have ever heard of the unpardonable sin? Okay, on nearly everybody here at one point. How many of you all have ever been confused about that? Alright, many have. And what we're going to find here, hopefully, is some clarity about this issue when it comes to the unpardonable sin. Now everybody's listening. Now we can go get into the text again. Picking up here, I want you to see, actually what I want you to see here is a There's several things, but I want you to see really the interpretive key of the pat in the passage here. Would you notice in Matthew, we're going to back up in a minute, but in Matthew 12, 24, what it says Okay, Matthew twelve twenty-four says, but when the Pharisees heard it and said This fellow doth not cast out devils, but by Beelzebub, the prince of the devils. And Jesus knew the thoughts and said unto them Every kingdom dividet itself against itself is brought to desolation, and every city or house divideth against itself shall not stand. And if Satan cast out Satan and divided against itself, how shall that then his kingdom stand And if I by Beelzebub cast out devils, by whom do your do you do your children cast them out? Therefore they shall be your judges. But if I cast out devils by the what? By the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God is come unto you. Alright, so how is it that Christ did the miracles he did? He did them by whom? By the Spirit of God. Now, with that in mind, we're going to back up. I just want you to identify this. I want you to identify that that point, and I want to back up here, and I want you to look here at verse 22 We could even gain more context, but we just for sake of time we'll pick up there. Then was brought unto him, Christ referring to Christ here, one possessed with a devil. But notice something else about this guy. He's what? He's blind and what else? He's dumb In other words, he's deaf. Dumb is definitely not a political politically correct way to say this, but uh he's deaf. Not that we're trying to be politically correct here either, but Okay, so you've got this man in this context that he is he is he is possessed by devils, uh by demons, but he's also blind and he can't hear. Do you remember what Isaiah 35 said? That the person that comes, the Messiah that comes, the deliverer, he's going to make people see, and he's going to be able to make people that can't hear hear. And you have this man here that does this. And he healed him insomuch that the blind and dumb both spake and saw. Okay? And he had and this text emphasizes not just that the demons were left, but he spoke and he saw Verse 23. And all the people were amazed, and look at their response. Maybe Isaiah 35 triggered in their minds. Because notice what they do. And all the people were amazed and said, Is not this the son of David? Now that son of David is a very important term. If we will not take the time to do this, but if you look in the Old Testament, when you see this term Son of David used, it is used as a foretelling of Christ in many occasions And what you find here in this passage, and it's also a clear identifier of the Messiah. They're asking, they're saying, is this not the Messiah? This man who did this We know the prophecies in the Old Testament. And the Jewish people are saying this. They're saying this maybe this is the Messiah. But the Jewish leaders don't agree. Would you notice what the Jewish leaders do, the Pharisees do? Verse 24. But when the Pharisees heard it, they said The fellow cast out devils by Beelzebub and princes of the devils What did they do? Well, they attributed the works of Christ and the works of the Spirit of God in authenticating Christ, they attributed them to Satan himself. And Christ gives three arguments. We won't get into all of those, but Christ gives three arguments as to why that cannot be the case. And in fact, because it was done by the Spirit of God, it demonstrates that he is more powerful than any of these devils, these demons. And then what you find is Christ's uh and you find you find this sort of refutation of this, this extended discussion of this, which Christ doesn't usually do. He usually gives them very short answers. But then what you find is that he's going to pronounce judgment on them. And you find here, let's pick up in verse 31. Wherefore I say unto you, all manner of sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven unto men. But the blasphemy against what? Against the Holy Ghost shall not be forgiven unto men. Whosoever speaketh a word against the Son of Man, it shall be forgiven him Okay, so it's not who the who speaks against Christ, it's who speaks against the Spirit of God. But whosoever speaketh against the Holy Ghost, it shall not be forgiven to him. Neither in this world, neither in the world to come, either make the tree good and his fruit good, or else make the tree corrupt and his fruit corrupt, for the tree is known by his fruit. O generation of vipers, how can ye, being evil, speak good things? For out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaks, and begins basically to indict the nation of Israel. Okay folks, so what is what is the impardable sin? It was the nation of Israel, particularly the leaders of the nation of Israel, and Israel, as you find in the rest of the Gospels, follow this and follow the nation follow the leaders of the nation of Israel. They reject all of these witnesses. They reject John the Baptist's witness. They reject uh the miracles. They reject the Father's witness. And they also reject the Spirit of God working through those miracles. They reject his witness as well. They reject all of these witnesses. And Christ says, you've rejected all of this and you're done. And you're going to be under judgment And you find a fulfillment of this in A. D. 70 where the temple is decimated by the Roman Empire. And there is further judgments to come for the nation of Israel in the tribulation period. Now, the question that should be lingering in our minds with all of this, the question is Why would Israel choose, why would they reject all of these signs? In fact, after all of this, after the Holy Spirit Christ does this with the Holy Spirit, all this. You find that the Pharisees asked for another sign. And Jesus says, no more. You're done. There is a limit to God's working where he says, okay, enough is enough. We find that in Romans for the unsaved person, he gives them over to a reprobate mind to destroy themselves, essentially. Now The question though is why? Why does this happen? Now turn back to John chapter 5. And it might surprise you. John chapter 5, and we're going to look at this fourth witness in John 5. There's essentially now five witnesses total, including the Holy Spirit, but in this passage in John 5, you have four. And we find here in John chapter 5 the final witness picking up here then in verse 39. Here's what he says. Search the scriptures, for in them ye think ye have eternal life. And they are they which testify of me, and ye will not come to me that ye might have life. The final witness is the scriptures themselves. Now, let me ask you a question. He says here to these Pharisees, these religious leaders, he says, search the scriptures. And I have two questions for you. Number one, did the Pharisees search the scriptures? And the answer is yes. In fact, they were meticulous about searching the scriptures. They were meticulous about every detail, about every they were very precise in searching the scriptures. There's no question about that. The scribes and the Pharisees would put any of us to shame when it comes to searching the scriptures. And yet Christ says, search the scriptures. So is searching the scriptures positive or negative? Well, it's positive we find in the book of Acts, verse Acts, that the Bereans searched the scriptures to see the apostles, what the apostles said was so. What scriptures did they search? The Old Testament scriptures is what they searched. So when Christ says, search the scriptures, what particularly is he asking them or is he saying that they ought to be looking for? Look at it again. He says, you think you have eternal life, but there's something you ought to be looking for. He says, these scriptures, they do what? They testify of me. The the mistake, it's more than a mistake, but the the the the failure on the part of the of these people, of the leaders of Jew of the Jews is that they were meticulous in finding the script in searching the scriptures, but they did not look for Christ. They didn't see Christ in the Old Testament. They didn't see Christ in the scriptures. He is going to say, Jesus is going to say, Moses showed you that I'm here. He showed, he foretold of Christ. He testified of me. And Moses is going to be the one that's going to indict you. They failed to see Christ in the scriptures. Is that a warning to us? Or could we apply it that way? We certainly could, couldn't we? We gotta be careful that we do not look at the Word of God as simply a self-help book. Or a Word of God that if I get my 15-minute dose in the morning then I can just go on my way like I'm taking a vitamin. Sometimes, if we're not careful, we look at the Word of God that way. And we've got to be careful of doing so. The Word of God is living. The Word of God is something that demonstrates and shows Christ to us. Now I'm not going to sit What I'm going to say here is this. When you look at the Old Testament, it will do it in various ways. Sometimes people see Christ where in the the text doesn't seem to demonstrate Specifically a picture of Christ. However, in one way or another, it demonstrates Christ. I mean, Moses, when he gives the law, what was that for? To demonstrate we can't keep it. What should that cause us to do? Realize we need Christ. So every part of the Old Testament, in one way or another, ought to point us to Christ. And the Pharisees and the leaders of the Jewish Israel who were meticulous in the Old Testament failed to allow the Word of God, though they were meticulous, to point them to Christ. It's like Jesus said, go back and look at the scriptures again, and you'll find me. Don't think you're going to have eternal life without me. And he says later on in verse, the final the other verse, he says, You won't come to me for eternal life, even though I'm clearly in the scriptures in the Old Testament. But let's go a little deeper. Why, why, folks, why would they not see Christ in the Old Testament? Was it because they lacked intelligence? Was it because they lacked education? This is not why they didn't see Christ in the Old Testament. Would you notice what it says here in the passage? Verse 42. Well, actually, verse 41, I receive not honor from men. Let me just say let me just pause and point this out. Hey, hold off on putting those up there, okay? It's okay to put that but uh I'll I'll get at the end, okay? Let me just point this out to you So Christ here in this passage is saying, I'm not seeking honor of men. He tells them, you couldn't recognize me because you were looking for someone, later on the pastor is going to say this even more. You were looking for someone who is seeking honor from men. I don't seek honor from men. Now, I am not meaning to, you know, we're in the middle of a political season, and um that's I did not align this message, you know, I'm preaching through the through the X but y you know you have to admit if you look at every single political candidate, everyone, they're seeking honor from men. Everyone. I'm not endorsing any political candidate here Seems like some are seeking honor from men more than others. That's as far as I'll go. But it really, but they are seeking honor from men. All of them are We almost expect that. If somebody doesn't do that, we think that something is wrong. The nation I mean I mean I mean who will vote for somebody that says don't, you know, I'm not going to be all that good? But when Christ came, he did not come to seek honor from men. Christ came meekly and in a gentle manner. He did not come, he came to deflect honor to his father. And he says, you do not have discernment and the perception to see Because you're looking for someone who is seeking honor from men. And he says later on the passage, why do you believe people who are seeking honor from other people other than the Father? They were they were they would run to other zealots that were going to try to overthrow the nation of Israel. I mean over overthrow the Roman Empire. And he says to them, he says, You're seeking honor from men, and I don't do that. And that's why you didn't recognize Lee. But furthermore, furthermore, would you notice what it says here in the passage? But I know you That you have not what? You have not the love of God in you. He is now going to indict them. He says, you know why you can't see me in the Old Testament? You know why you haven't seen any of these witnesses? You know why you haven't identified me as who for who I am? You know why? Because you don't have the love of God in you. There is an internal heart problem. You know that really tells us something, doesn't it? You can have your I's dotted and your T's crossed. You can have every form and function in your life correct. You can have a clear interpretive amount ability to interpret God's word and to study it. You can have the precision of everything that you have. You can keep every every every guideline and every rule like the Pharisees did. But if you don't have the love of God in your heart, you're not going to see Christ. You ever find as you read God's Word and you study God's Word, you sort of go, What's the point? The answer is Christ, but we don't always see Him. We don't always honor him because we don't see him. And folks, in order to be able to honor Christ in the way that he deserves, we've got to see who he is. And then finally, what you find in the passage is that he says in verse forty-five He says the devils are I'm sorry, he says that Moses is going to accuse you. He says, I will not accuse you, I don't have to. The very fact that you read the Old Testament law And you read of Moses' writings, it was enough for you to be able to believe. As Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so the Son of Man must be lifted up, we find, right? And because you did not believe Moses, that is enough to indict you. Do you remember what it you remember the the the uh story that Christ told? Of the rich man and Lazarus. And of course Lazarus went to Paradise and the rich man went And you remember the rich man said to uh Lazarus, would you please send someone to tell my brethren, to tell my family? And do you remember what the reply was? They have the Old Testament. They've got the scriptures. They have the law and the prophets. It is enough. You know, the truth of the matter is, God's word is always enough. We have the sufficiency of what God has to say in his word. It is enough to demonstrate to us Christ. It is enough for us to be able to honor Christ. The reason we don't honor Christ is not because there's something in God's word that's not So we need something more than God's word. The reason we don't honor Christ is because the love of God is not in us. So let's put it this way in these terms. Why did the Jews fail to recognize and believe in the authentic Christ? Number one They failed to see Christ in the scriptures. Number one. Number two, why? They were looking for someone who was seeking honor from them. Number three, they did not have the love of God in them. But number four, folks, and you'll see this in the passage if you re if you go through it, number four, they were preoccupied with receiving their own honor. What is the root of all this? Why didn't they have the love of God in them? What was the real bottom line? The real bottom line was that they were preoccupied with receiving their own honor. Are we ever guilty of that? Are we ever guilty of wanting honor for ourselves? Are we ever guilty of of acting and behaving so that we are honored? If you think about it, just think about it, just the pursuits of the average American. Let's take, for instance, I've seen this in I thought of three ways immediately off the top of my head. of where you begin to you can see this. None of the no ne none of these three things are wrong. But you can they can easily, if we pursue them in the wrong way, it really is a matter of us pursuing our own honor. Number one, education. Some people just like to stack up degrees. And very frankly, I have a few stacked, but it's not on purpose. It just happened by accident. I was really just pursuing the Lord's will. But when somebody is doing it to receive honor, if they are in education and they want to educate, more educate, more educate, because they just want to receive honor, it is a danger. That that we become preoccupied with honoring ourselves. John the Baptist, the greatest preacher apparently ever lived prior to at least at that point when Christ said it, he had no education. Number two, you say, well I'm that's not my problem, I'm not very educated. Number two, vocation. Sometimes our primary focus in moving up the ladder or getting a particular vocation is we want we want to receive honor. It's not just a matter of providing. It's not just a matter of doing what God wants us to do and using it for service to Him. We we are we're really we're really our primary concern is is honoring ourselves. And number three, location. Sometimes we are tr just trying in our in what house we choose and what all that kind of thing. We are we are preoccupied with honoring ourselves. It's like n enough is never enough. I have to be careful of this. I'm looking into buying a house for the first time in a while. I bought a house up in Pennsylvania. It's been a while since I've done that and I I'm fixing it all up. I can come preoccupied with it. Suddenly I'm seeing all the things that that could be fixed up. Although it's in good shape, I'm not saying that, but I You know, it's you know, it's y you can become preoccupied with these things. You know, the bottom line, the root problem, the root problem is, is if we live for our own honor, we will not see Christ honored. It will keep us from seeing Christ honored. And there is not a soul in this room that does not have that tendency, that direction. We have in our hearts this direct this this this sort of innate desire to try to honor ourselves. And that essentially at its very core was the pitfall That cause these people, the Pharisees and the religious leaders, to not have the love of God in them. You can't have the love of God in you and be preoccupied with honoring yourself. We can't have it. And I'm really speaking to myself as much as anybody else, and the question really is: are we guilty of living for our own honor so that we fail to seek Christ's honor? And that is a question that only we ourselves can answer. And frankly, it I think it needs to be answered on a daily basis, doesn't it? I mean you can have the right motive for something, you know, right reason to do what you're doing. Educationally, vocationally, locationally, locationally, I think that's a word. You can really do that, and it switches the next day. Because why, folks? Because our hearts are what? Our hearts are deceitful and desperately wicked. What we've got to do is we've got to say that in my heart before the Lord, I just want to honor Christ. With everything, with all of it. Honor Christ. That's gotta be our goal. And if we have that as our desire, and the love of God is in us, when we look at the Word of God, we're gonna see Christ. And he's going to be honored. When we worship him, he's going to be honored. When we live for him, he's going to be honored. Why? Because we can see who he is and how he can be honored. It's all intended so that we really can see Christ. There is a great application for us here. Who are we living for? Are we living for honor to Christ or honor to ourselves? We must live to honor Christ. Let's pray. Father, we come to you and thank you. That you and your character clearly demonstrate just how relentless you are in pursuing us, in giving us every available means to be able to give evidence of who you are through your word and through creation. We see the extent to which in your plan you gave to the nation of Israel of all these various witnesses so that they would be able to recognize Christ, and yet because their hearts are so deceitful, they weren't able to. And we admit before you, dear Father, that our hearts are deceitful as well. And one day we can have the right motive and doing the right thing, and the next day we can turn the other direction. Father, I pray that each day you would help us to see Christ. That each day you would help us to honor Christ. And that we would live Everything else needs to come underneath this, everything else needs to contribute to this. We just need to honor Christ May that cause us to have your love in our hearts and to be able to see the richness of your word. May you guard us from the pitfall that the nation of Israel came into, Lord. And Lord, as we go into this time of communion together I pray, Lord, that Christ would certainly be honored. I pray that this would be a time where we can set aside all the distractions. That we can honor Christ. I pray, Lord, that it would just cause us to see how how great you are in in in the death and resurrect and really the death of Christ and his suffering. And we thank you for this time and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.