And him answered and said, Rabbi, is it I? And he said to him, You have said it. And as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and he blessed and broke it. And he gave it to the disciples and said, Take it, eat. This is my bottle Then he took the cup and gave thanks and gave it to them, saying, Drink from it, all of you, for this is my blood. Of the new covenant, which is shed for many for the remission of sin. But I say to you, I will not drink of this fruit of the vine from now on. Until that day when I drink it new with you and my father's kingdom I think the older I get, the more I realize how most things on this earth will ultimately be forgotten. Think of a person's life, they will if they live, uh they Go through life, they die. And maybe some of the things about their life will last one iteration, maybe two, but after that, they're it goes they're they're There's not much left after that. Ecclesiastes chapter 12, verse 7 says, then dust will return to the earth as it was. It's the reality of life that there are very few things in life that are going to be passed one generation to another to another. And yet there are some things that are important to us, some things that families want to pass down. I think of my family, I I my mother was an excellent cooked my grandmother was an excellent cook. Three of the beef the the three of the meals that my mom made that I loved the most when I was growing up was Uh she made um uh gumbo and she got it from my grandmother who got it from her mother. Uh And my my my mother was born in Slydale, Louisiana. So this is real gumbo. Some people have real gumbo. I went to uh in Elkers, there's a place that has gumbo And I went there and wine some gumbo and I tasted I said, This is not even called that. It's not even I mean it tasted fine, but it's but And um another thing that I used to I I used to like my my mom made that my mom made was um chicken fries steak, all the healthy stuff. Chicken fried I used to she she she asked me what do you what do you want me to make for your birthday and chicken fried steak or beef ragu. Now she didn't call it that. I don't even know what she called it, I don't remember. But I I had to ask my my my sister where when I were Texting about particular foods to sleep in and she found this the recipe for it. It's called beef rag goo, it's chuck roast in a kind of a tomato sauce. It's it's really, really good. You guys get hungry already? Um but it if I really wanted to pass these down to my kids and then to my kids to have them to my grand What would I need to do? I need to make these dishes for them. I think to experience This down. And they did experience them fairly frequently. And then they would have to pass the panel down to experience it. It's one thing to say, here's a recipe, or yeah, my mom made this and I liked it. It's something else entirely to actually experience it. When we experience things, we remember them. And they stick with us, and they can go from one generation to another to another And that is exactly the reason that the Lord instituted both the Passover and the Lord's Supper. Because the message within the Passover and the message within the Lord's Supper is so critical. To be passed down, that it isn't just enough to describe it. We need to experience it. And that's why you have in this text Jesus as the gatherers of his disciples. And they are during this Passover week, in fact, looking ahead to preparing this Passover meal. And then Jesus, as we see in the text, that we already saw as Harry read, is going to institute the communion within the Passover. And there's a lot of significance there. The Lord's stuff, and I just by the way, I think it's really cool how this all came together. I did not plan this this way. This is the next message in my series in Matthew. It's the first Sunday of the year. We're going to have a communion right after a message on communion. And frankly, the Lord set that all up. I didn't put all that together. Which is kind of neat. I I love how that happens when it's father preaching when you just go from one passage to the next to the next. There are so many times where it's just exactly what our church needs. It's amazing how the Lord does that. He's doing that thing today. The Lord's Supper symbolizes his fulfilling work. The Passover remembers the deliverance of God and looks ahead to the redemption of God through Christ. And then the communion table, which we're going to see, helps us to understand and it symbolizes the fulfillment of Christ in the sacrifice that he made on the planet. We're going to see this in three different ways here. We're going to see the backdrop of the Passover, which is actually really important to understanding the community. service. We're going to see the need for unity examples, and then we're going to see the elements symbolized. Let's look first at this backdrop Of the Passover. We pick up at verse 17. It says, Now on the first day of the feast of unleavened bread, the disciples came to Jesus saying, Where do you want us to prepare for you? To keep the Passover. So Things About Red lasted one week. It was instituted in the Book of Deuteronomy, and it really began to It was by this time was sometimes called the feast of the Passover. In fact, over in the book of John it's some it's just called the Pastorism, but it's actually referring to the entire week. But this this was the Passover uh that uh this was the Passover week or the Feast of Unleavened Bread Week, and within that week there was a particular day where the Passover would take place. The night of the Passover would take place. And it's very bold, as you're going to see the And so the disciples are asking Jesus, where should we prepare for this? We need to find a place to prepare for this Passover. I'd like to take your Bibles for a minute. I want you to turn to the original Passover. passage where the Passover was instituted. I think it's going to be helpful for us. When you turn to Exodus chapter 12. Exodus chapter 12, I'm going to be looking at verses 11 through 30. We won't look at all of the verses And I'm going to point some things out for you in these verses. And I think it'll be helpful for you to have that in front of you. Exodus chapter 12, verses 11 through 12 through 13. And we begin in verse 11 that says, And thus shall you feed it, with a bell in your waist, or sandals under your feet, your staff in your hand, you shall keep it It is the Lord's Passover. Now, this Passover from the book of Exodus commemorates and the time where Jesus where God delivered Israel out of the bondage of Egypt. Remember the Island flag, the angel of death, as it came and took the firstborn son of every person that was in that area, except if that if the blood was put on the lintel of the doorpost, it was sacrificed for the lamb, then that angel of death would pass over that house. It symbolized the deliverance of Israel and it symbolized many other things as well. We're to see that in the passage. This was, this Passover feast was something that God desired for Israel to experience from one generation to the next. You see that in verse 14. It says, For this day shall be to you a memorial, and you shall keep it as a feast to the Lord throughout your generation. One generation to the next. So next. Verse 16 says, On the first day there shall be a holy convocation, and the seventh day there shall be a holy convocation. And then if you look at if you look, it says in verse 17, So you shall observe the feast of the unloaded bread, for on this same day I will uh I brought your armies out of the land of Eden. Egypt. Therefore you shall observe this day throughout the generations as an everlasting ordinance. This was intended to be a memorial, a experience And an ordinance that would be ever lasted. That's going to be important, obviously. We pick up then here, how's it going to be ever lasted? Well we'll see here as we go through the In verse 21, you'll notice it says, then Moses called for all the elders of Israel and said to them, pick out the lakes that and take lambs for yourselves according to your family. And kill the Passover lamb. That was the first step before evening, during the afternoon on Thursday if we go and lunch bread is when they would do that. for, and you shall observe this thing as an ordinance for you and your sons forever. And it will come to pass when you come to the land which the Lord will give you, just as you promised, that you shall Keep this service. And it shall be when your children say to you, what do you mean by this service? That you shall say, It is the Passover sacrifice of the Lord, who passed over the house of the children of Israel in Egypt when he struck the Egyptians and delivered our hostels. So the people bowed their heads and they worshiped the Lord. There's a lot more that can be said about that. But that helps us to understand how important this particular feast that they are going to be picking up together, this Passover feast And it isn't something that Jesus said, Well, we're just gonna do away with that. We're not gonna do that as Him and His disciples. No, they practice the Passover feast And they wanted to prepare for this feast, and so that's why the disciples are coming to Jesus to ask him about this. And Jesus says, Well, go, go and uh to A particular person, he described the person for them, and he said, Tell them my time is at hand. I will keep the Passover at your house with my disciples Um another some apparel passed to say there's a particular guest room in your house. Now it's uns we're unsure from reading the text as to whether Jesus was doing this by divine power, he's basically making all this happen through some through a through by his own divine ability, and he had the ability to do that, or whether he had pre-arranged this with person beforehand. Either way, it was deliberate. He had it planned, he had it figured out, and it was something that was very deliberate for he and his disciples to partake of In the Mark and the Luke passages of this passage, it says that as this They were talking on the first day of unleavened bread when they killed the Passover lamb. And that really was a very important The Passover. The sacrificing of the Passover lamb. Each household would bring a lamb to the priest and they would sacrifice this Example that this happened actually in 2012. A little lamb was sacrificed up on the Temple Mount in 2012 And there's an example of a lamb being sacrificed. But of course, this is actually after the priests did the initial uh slitting of the throat and all the blood and everything. It was a very, very bloody kind of experience with many many lambs being slaughtered the Levites, the priests, they would they would uh they would then sprinkle uh uh the the blood in in certain sp uh They were springing the blood around the altar. They poured it on the foot of the altar. They would burn the lamb's fat during that time. And all while they were singing the phal, which was which is Psalms 113. through eighteen. We read a song from the Hillel this morning of opening our service. This all happened as they slaughtered animals and they would roast them and then And and as a sacrifice, and they would bring them home for this Passover feast. Now, the importance of this is the fact that Jesus comes on the scene And John the Baptist says of Jesus, for example, that he is the Lamb of God. John the Baptist says this In chapter 1, verse 29, and chapter 1 of John, verse 1 at verse 36, it says, and the next day John saw Jesus Jesus he walked and he said, Behold the Lamb of God. Paul would continue this thought in 1 Corinthians chapter 5, verse 7, where it says, Therefore purge out your own leaven that you may be a doodalone. you truly are unleavened. For indeed Christ, our Passover, was sacrificed for us. Christ is our Passover. Corinthians chapter 5, verse 7. Peter says the same thing in his epistle, but with the precious blood of Christ as a lamb without blemish and without spot. That was, by the way, the requirement for the passage of the lamb. And John reiterates this in Revelation chapter 5, verse 12. Worthy is the land who was slain through seeing power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory. Blessing. Now what I want to do is make some connections here. We've already made clear connections between with Passover and Jesus. Jesus, in fact, is named as the Passover. He is the Passover Lamb. And Jesus in a few moments is going to institute the Lord's Supper, the first communion service if you will of at this meal. Now I want to make these these connections between the Passover and Communion. They're both intended to do very similar things. Number one, both the Passover and Communion pictures deliverance. They both picture deliverance. Number two, they both intend to help God's people relive their experience. Both are intended to help God's people relive the experience. For the communion service, it is to relive the foot being at the foot of the cross, as it were. Pilgrim's progress and Christian coming to the foot of the cross and the weight of sin being being dropped from his shoulders That kind of experience that it's intended to help us not to not to somehow not to have any kind of salvation merit or anything like that, but to experience again the the truth of what God Christ did for us on the cross. Number three, both the Passover and communion were were uh is a corporate is corporate in nature and unifying. Israel did this together. The church does this together. It is corporate in nature and Unify. Both the Passover intervening remind uh God's people of Christ's redemptive work. They remind God's people of Christ's redemptive work. So there is, well we said we said already that that there is a very strong corporate element, a unification That occurs through both the Passover and through communion. And we're going to see sort of something that's important for us to note here in verses 19 through 25. We're going to see To see unity example in a way that you may not expect. You pick up here in verse 19. So the disciples did as Jesus had directed them, and they repaired the Passover. When the evening had come, he sat down with the twelve. Now as they were eating, he said, Assuredly I say to you, one of you will betray me And they were exceedingly sorrowful, and each of them began to say to him, Lord, is it mine? He answered and said, He who dipped his hand with me in a dish will betrain me. The Son of Man indeed goes just as it as is written of him. But woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed, it would have been good for that man if he had not been bullying Judas, who was betrayed, betrayed him, answered and said, Rabbi is thy, he said, You have said it. The disciples come, they do as they're directed, they're preparing, they prepare the Passover, and they're sitting down to partake of the Passover together. I want to give you a picture of what this looked like. It says that according to the law, they couldn't do this until twilight. The sun had to be down in order for this to approach And the Roman the Roman dining room, if you will, very likely included something called a triconium. I have a picture of that for you. This was a um or maybe a book on a picture. That's okay. Um this was a table um that has it was a U-shaped table. There it is. a U-shaped table that they the disciples very likely would have actually reclined at as they partook of the food that was at the the middle of a table uh during the Passover feast. Um this was a relaxing time. Usually the host would hit sit at the head and the The guests would sit on either side, the most important guest would sit on that on either side of them, and then you would have the rest of the party that was there, the rest of the household, if you will Jesus was really treating them as a household. They are together, as a household together, partaking of this Passover together. I actually look at this and think it's uncommon. Looks uncomfortable to me. You guys look back and go, man, I would not know I do that. I would be like like let me see two thousand eight. And then Relax or something, you know. I'm I'm good with refiners, I got one myself, but and I like couches and beds and all that, but you put it together on a t I don't think But they did it and they liked it and it was relaxing and they enjoyed it and all that. And uh and that was just to kind of give you a picture of what this was like. So they're at this triplet, very likely, this U-shaped table They're all together. They're able to be able to they're in close close fellowship being with one another. And Jesus says in the middle of this that assuredly I say one of you will betray me. Now he has said before that he will be betrayed. He's mentioned that on several occasions. look at those. They certain certainly has mentioned that. But this time, he's now going to point to them and he's going to say, what if you were going to do it? The John passage tells us John chapter 13 verse 21 and when Jesus said these things he was troubled in spirit. Jesus was troubled in spirit and testified of this. So understand the thing They're fellowshipping together, they're around the table, they're enjoying one another's company, and Jesus becomes very troubled in spirit at some point, and he says to them He says, one of you will betray me. Now, we don't see the reaction in other passages that we do here. Upon hearing this, they are troubled. They are exceedingly, the Bible says they are exceedingly. sorrowful. They can't believe that one of them in their midst, in their household, if you will, their family that they've sort of, that Christ has put together, if you will That one of them would actually betray him. And it says, exceedingly sorrowfully. They are extremely grieved by This. And they ask the question, Lord, is it a money? That's an interesting question. It is interesting that they ask that. They're so convinced, they're so you know taken back by this that any of them would actually betray Jesus that they are wondering if it even could be them They had been with him for three and a half years. They've become very close to him. And so they're all asking this question, is it I? And Jesus then says to them, he says, He who dips his hand with me in the dish will betray me. Now some have suggested that what that is saying is that Jesus was right next to them and they were sharing a dish. I don't think that's really it at all. I think that there was part of the meal was very likely a puree that uh that um uh was dipped that bread was dipped in which also doesn't sound good to me. But anyway, um as I was studying this and learning there's something that sound really good. Lance Sounds good. Rosed Lane, that sounds good. So you know about that, I'm sure. Uh there's a very common thing, Baba Nesha something. I could go into that Clearly my family likes too. Anyway, but um but um so so they did dip different things but apparently from what I've read that it's a few fruit in this case. But that isn't the point. The point was Jesus was not saying this to to at this point point out who it was. It's one to be later. Jesus was saying is to point out that the very people that were suffering with him, the very people that were fellowshipping with him, the very people that were dipping the same bread in the same dip with him. One of the Was going to betray him. It was a very sobering time for them. And then he is going to issue this morning He is going to he's going to issue this morning. He's going to say, um, picking up in verse 24 of this passage, he's going to say, um Actually, the verse, yeah, verse 24. The Son of Man indeed goes just as it is written of him. But woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is Betrayed. It would have been good for that man if he had not been born. He issues a warning here, Jesus does. He knows who it is, and Judas knows who it is. Without pulling him out overtly, he's issuing this warning and he is saying, Whoa, this person, it's better for him not to have even been born. Now, you might think to yourself, well, isn't wasn't this all in God's plan? And indeed it was. In fact, in Acts chapter 1, verse 17, it says, For he was numbered with us and obtained a part in this ministry. He was numbered with them, he obtained a part in this ministry. In Acts 4, describing the situation, it says that it was to do whatever your hand and your purpose determined before to be done. What was determined? What was purposed was of God. God determined this and purposed this. And yet it doesn't solve Judas of responsibility. You have an example here of the sovereignty of God and responsibility, that man is responsible. And this man, Judas, is going to be responsible for what he is about to do. He has been warned. That's a loving act of Christ to warn him. And yet at the same time, he is going to continue. We've talked about that decline in the past in previous passages, and we're seeing it again here. Then Judas sort of finally says, he himself says, Rabbi, is it I? And Jesus says, you have settled. You have said it. Jesus says it the way he says this is sort of a bit it's kind of tactful. It's sort of um not again it's not overt you are the man and that kind of thing He doesn't do the same thing Nathan does, for example, David. He is much more terrible than that. He says, in your words, you've said it. He actually caused Judas to realize who he was and to, in a sense In a sense, uh make have Judas confess himself. However, according to the John passage, the disciples did not pick up on this Jesus has this conversation with Jesus. They're all there. But it was so veiled in the way Jesus said it that the disciples didn't pick on it. And they're still wondering, who is this? Apparently, Peter asks John, who is John sitting right next to Jesus, and Peter asks John, hey, could you ask Jesus who this actually is? And in the John passage, John chapter 13 We pick up there, and it says this, and the disciples looked at one another, perplexed about whom he spoke. Now there was leaning on Jesus' bosom one of his disciples, whom Jesus loved. Simon Peter therefore motioned to him To ask who it was of whom he spoke. Then leaning back on Jesus' breast, he said to him, Lord, is it I? In other words, he got very close to Jesus. He said, Is it I? Jesus answered It is he whom I shall give a piece of bread when I have dipped it. Having dipped bread, he gave to Judas Iscariot So now he very clearly gives it to Iscariot, the son of Simon. Now after that piece of bread, the Bible says Satan entered again. Then Jesus said to him, What you do, do quickly. And no one was at the table knew for what reason he said this to him. For some thought because Jesus had the mind That Jesus had said to him, Buy those things we need for the feast, or that he should give some something to the poor. Having received the piece of bread, he then went out immediately and it was a Night. So Judas leaves the scene. Now, this is deliberate on the part of Jesus. Jesus is doing this before he with the eleven disciples now. is going to enter into a unified time together into the first communion service, if you will, the first introduction to communion. that we're going to see in a few moments. And I think it's significant to realize as we see this scene, the unity that Jesus in the very first Lord's Supper, the unity that Jesus example here for us. This kind of unity is continued according to 1 Corinthians chapters 10 and 11 In first Corinthians chapter eleven, verses twenty through twenty-two it says, Therefore, when you come together in one place, it is not to evil it is not to evil the Lord's suffer. This is something that they from the first century they came together all together in one place. In first Corinthians chapter ten Verses 14 through 17. It says at the end of that passage, verse 17, for we, though many, are one bread and one body, for we all partake of that one bread. There is a unity Around the Lord's table. This is absolutely important to understand. That what is happening at the Lord's table is that we are all together saying that we believe. Together in what Christ has done for us in the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. We're affirming that. That is what we find our unity in You you know we're living in a world where there's lots of all kinds of different different uh different tastes, different backgrounds, uh different ethnicity And all of those differences are things that should be included in the body of Christ as long as they're not simple. But the thing that univies us The thing that you advise us is Christ and what he did for us on the cross. And we're going to see that more in a minute. And in keeping with that, in Hebrews chapter 10, verse 25, we said, not forsaking these assembling yourselves together as the man or some ways, absorting one another as so much the more that you see the day approaching. And that was the practice in Acts two forty two where they did the breaking of bread together as they assembled together. This was something that was absolutely In fact, in the first century, uh you became a church by essentially partaking of the Lord's Supper together. That was that was m even today. What's the difference between Bible study and a church A Bible study, instead of the Bible together, that's fine. If you start practicing the ordinances together, you have just become a church together. And so that's important. And so that's important to understand as well. The unity of of this is very important. And so Judas flapped the scene. Jesus orchestrated things so that that would be the case We move on then, and we we see Jesus symbolizing the first Lord's Supper by showing us these elements. If you pick up in verse 26, it says this, and as they were eating Jesus took bread, blessed and broke it, and gave it to the disciples and said, Take eat, this is my body. And he took the cup of the thanks and gave it, gave it to them, and said, Drink from it all the food. For this is my blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many for the remission of sins. But I say to you, I will not drink of its fruit Of this fruit of the vine, from now on until the day when I drink it uh drink it new with you in my Father's kingdom. Now we need to understand some background about this to really understand what's going on here in this passage. They are partakers of this Passover meal. Central to the meal were free foods. And there was what was called during this time a order of services, if you will, called a seder Integral in this were three foods: unleavened bread, bitter herbs, and the Passover offerings. Those were all required according to the Old Testament. To be included. There were other foods that were included as well. But those three were always included in the Passover. One other that's important to note is also that there were four cups of wine, four times of drinking wine throughout this Passover as well, and we're going to see those as we work through this as well. And they actually become very, very important. uh in symbolism. If we so the first album that he picks up that as they were eating, he took the bread and blessed it and wrote it. So what is the significance Of the bread. This was unleavened bread that he picked up in order to eat. Now, he says, this is my body. Why would Jesus say that? Why would he say, this is my body? Wouldn't the lamb be the thing that he would pick up? Wouldn't the lamb be the thing that you would pick up and say, this is this is who I am? This is this is this is because it's already said, and John the Baptist already said this is the Lamb of God. Jesus attested I mean, is it wouldn't that be a better picture? And I think the answer is fairly obvious. What Jesus is going to do in in inaugurating the First Lord Supper is that the Passover is going to is going to go by the wayside in in this sense there will be no more need for sacrifices. You're not going to need to sacrifice the lamb. Jesus wanted this ordinance that he is creating here to continue. And so he didn't use lamb because lamb was no longer needed for sacrifice. Instead, he used the bread. There's a sense in which the bread was a Symbol of life, actually. In fact, in John chapter 6, which we have kind of touched on in previous passages recently, in John chapter 6, verses 46 through 40, 50-59, we have an extended passage. On Jesus saying that he is the bread of life. Verse 47. Most assuredly I say to you, he who believes in me has everlasting life, I am the bread of life. And he says later on, if you don't eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink the blood, you have no life in you. He was speaking, of course, he was saying that you needed to re to receive me. Speaking metaphorically, you need to receive And that is important to understand. Verse 56 of the passage says this he who eats my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me and I in him. So this bread is very significant because it is a symbol of the body of Christ, it's a symbol of the suffering of Christ, the sacrifice that Christ made It's the same, it's this just as the lamb sacrifice was a sacrifice, Jesus is a sacrifice for us, and this bread symbolizes that And then we move to the cup. Verse 27. It says, then he took the cup. I don't understand the significance of the cup. I think it's going to become a whole for us to go to Exodus chapter 6. If you take a positive turn there, Exodus chapter 6, and we're going to look at verses 5 through 7 of that passage. Exodus chapter 6. I mentioned before that there are four different cups or four different cups of wine that were drunk throughout the process. Drink drink have drunk. Word drawn? Word crap in somewhere. Anyway, I don't know. Are they drink from? Um in the process. So um so first uh so I want to read this passage and according to what I've studied this actually becomes a passage and that represents the the the four of these times of of drinking this wine that represents the four promises in this passage. So look at what it says in verse 5, Exodus chapter 1 six. And I have also heard the groaning of the children of Israel, whom the Egyptians keep in bondage, and I remembered my covenant. Therefore, say to the children of Israel, I am the Lord, I will bring You out from under the b burdens of the Egyptians. I will uh rescue you from their bondage. I will redeem you with the outstretched arm and with judgments. I will take you as my people and I will be your God. Then you shall know that I am the Lord your God. who brings you out from under the burdens of Egypt. Alright, cup. What we're gonna do is we're gonna go to these different cups. Cup number one is the cup of benediction. That was the first cup that they would partake of together. There would be a small amount of wine. It was very likely actually watered down Because wine was expensive back then. And the head of the household would begin by the meal by with a prayer of Thanksgiving for the feast, and they would then partake of this cup of Benediction. And this cup correlates with the promise that we just read: therefore say the children, For I am the Lord, I will bring you out from under the burdens of Egypt. It it or it it it commemorates that promise. Cup number two is the second cup which introduced the main course The main course with cup number two symbolizes the promise, I will rescue you from their bondage. Right? So I'll bring you out from their burdens, I'll rescue you from their bondage. And then they would eat the main course, which would include the the lamb and the other parts of the main course And then in cup number three, the third cup would be the cup of blessing, or sometimes called the cup of redemption. The cup of blessing or the cup of redemption. That corresponds with this phrase, I will redeem you with an outstretched arm of a great judgment. Folks, this is the cup that Jesus, after they had sucked, he takes this cup and he says, this cup is a new cup. Covenant my blood. It's this cup. It's the cup of redemption. It symbolized the redemption of Christ. And Jesus is very clear about what this cup does. He says, it is the new cup of my blood. He says to you, drink. All of you need to drink this. All of you, community together, need to drink this cup. Then we pick up in verse 28 and 29, it says that it was shed for many, or it was poured out. That is a pretty clear connection to the pouring out of the blood in Leviticus 1, 10 through 13. And so you have a connection between the Passover and the communion service here in this context. And he says, for this is the blood of the new covenant. So what is this new covenant that he's talking about? Well in the Old Testament you have various covenants. You have, for example, the Acamic Covenant, the Moeb covenant, but then you have the Abrahamic covenant The Abrahamic covenant made promises to Abraham that God would make of Abraham a great nation. And he says so in that indeed all of the families, all of the families, believe that all the families of the earth will be blessed. In other words, because there is a spiritual component, even of the Abrahamic covenant That applies or can apply anyway to all people. And we see the same thing with the new covenant. The new covenant is in Jeremiah chapter 3 and Ezekiel 36 as well. And in that passage, you have that passage you have things about the land and Certain things that are promised to Israel that will be restored in the new covenant, but you and that's yet to come. But you also have spiritual blessings of the new covenant that we find here just Genesis 45, Jeremiah 31. I'll read this to you. It says, Behold the days are coming, says the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah, not according to the covenant that I have made with their fathers in the day that I took them by the hand to lead them out of the Lord, I will put my law in their minds, I will write up their hearts, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. No more shall every man teach His neighbor, and every man his brothers, saying, know the Lord, for they all shall know me, from the least of them to the greatest of them saying Says the Lord, for I will forgive their iniquity and their sin, and I will remember no more. And that's exactly what God does for us, doesn't he in Christ? He forgives our sin, our iniquity, and he remembers no more lose it no more. So uh we have for and we have this shedding the symbolizing of the shedding of the blood. This was also an e an excess chart 24, verse 8, it says this. And Moses took the blood, sprinkled it on the people, and said, This is the blood of the covenant. Same wording, very similar wording to what Jesus said. says this is the blood of the covenant which the Lord has made with you according to all the words. What was Jesus doing here? It's also mentioned in Hebrews chapter 9 and in Hebrews chapter 8. I don't have the time. But basically what Jesus was doing here was he was first of all replacing the Mosaic cover He was saying this is the the sprinkling of my blood is going to be a new covenant. This is a a new covenant. This replaces the Mosaic covenant. things that he was doing. And he was saying here as well that it was it was it was the picture of the redemption of Christ. Now, he then says this. He says, I will not drink of this fruit of the vine from now on until that day when I drink it, the new Drink anew with you in my father's kingdom. What is he referring to? What I think what he's referring to then is that fourth cup. It is sometimes called the cup of consummation. What is this cup? That fourth cup that would end the meal was the final cup. That fourth cup, sometimes called the cup of coffee. He says, until we all come together, it's it's looking ahead now to us all coming together one day in God's, in my Father's It says, in my father's kingdom. And I believe this is fulfilled in Revelation chapter 19 with the marriage supper of the Lamb. Verse 7 says, Let us be glad, rejoice, and give him glory, for the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his wife has made herself Ready. So Jesus withholds from partaking of that final cup, that fourth cup, because it's still yet to come. There's a sense in which Jesus is continuing the tradition or the ordinance of the Passover. With a new covenant, with new rules, if you will, and one day, what we're doing here in communion as the Lord's Supper Will be is kind of an appetizer for the day where we will all of all of God's people will be together at the Marriage Supper of the Lamb, where Jesus and all of us will drink of that final cup, the fourth cup of consummation. So that was a lot to take in. But let me just mention four or three things that we need to gather from this. Number one, we must unify around the Lord's Supper. It was something that was intended to be matter of unity. We must unify around the Lord's Supper. Number two, we must remember the sacrifice that Christ made. This is such an important ordinance because it helps us to pass The gospel on from one generation to another to another because there's an experience associated with it. And we must realize the covenantal relationship that we have in Christ. Now, we have an opportunity now to partake of the Lord's Supper together. And this is a wonderful time where we're able to remember exactly what Christ did. For us. This is a time where if you know Christ as your Savior, you've been spiritually baptized, then I would encourage you to partake together with us in unity. And so we're gonna pray together and then we'll sing a song, um, or the first three verses of a song, and then we'll be here. to partake. Let's pray. Father, we come to you and we thank you for the wonderful gift that you gave us and this ordinance that Christ established and that will throughout churches uh from that time until now. We we thank you, Lord, that you was um And that you have done this, you have died for us to shed your blood, to pay the punishment for our sin, so that we can have our sins forgiven, so that we could have a relationship with you. Father, as we enter into this time now, we we pray that you would help us to experience afresh the cost of Christ. That we would truly appreciate and celebrate the forgiveness of our sin, that we would truly celebrate and appreciate and remember the sacrifice that Christ made our behalf. And that we have, if we know Christ as Savior, have entered into a new covenant where we have a relationship with Christ. A binding relationship where Christ fully and completely fulfills it. We do nothing to fulfill it, and He does everything. thank you for that. We pray these things in Christ's name as well. I do want to mention before we sing our first three verses of our psalm, I do want to mention that the That we don't see any kind of saving merit at all in the Lord's Supper. This is all, as I've said throughout this, this is a symbol of the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. There is no we cannot work to be saved. We cannot the Bible says not by works of righteousness we have done, but the word of His mercy He saved us us. So in partaking of these elements, it's not as though we receive more of Jesus. It's not as though we We um we are we are doing something in order to have some sort of uh um uh merit God's favor in some way. This is really for us to be able to unify together and to remember what Christ did for us. And if you have truly received Christ as your Savior and Scripturally Baptized, I encourage you to partake with us. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you. For streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. You. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.