Let's pray together. Father, when we think of the words of David, who said that your law is within his heart. And we think of the words of Christ who said that he was here to fulfill the law. righteousness. And then the fact that we are because of what Christ has done for us, He has given us, He's imputed to us His righteousness. And then he wants us to live righteously, soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world. We praise you that you have allowed us, as those of us who know Christ as our Savior, to be part of your plan of redemption. And we praise you for that this morning. We praise you for who you are, that you are an all-wise God, a holy God, a righteous God. And we think about your righteousness. And also your love and how they all work together. And we anticipate this morning as we look at your word and begin to see fleshed out what true righteousness looks like. It is Uh uh you are concerned about our hearts. You're not prime you're you're not first concerned our about our behavior, you're first concerned about our hearts because every wrong behavior and every right behavior stems from our heart. And Lord, I pray that you'd help us to see that today. Help us out of everything that we learn today Everything that we look at today, I pray that our response would be how much we need Christ. Everyone in this room desperately needs Christ. Some need Christ for salvation. Some have accepted Christ for salvation, but we need you for our sanctification. And so I pray, Lord, this morning that you'd help us as we worship you together to do so in spirit and in truth. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer together. Father, as uh we consider this day that you have made We come to you with grateful and full hearts, knowing that, as we just sung about, that we have been bought by the blood of the Lamb. That we that our eternal destiny is sure. And all because you have given us what we do not deserve in salvation We did not deserve for Christ to take our place. Nothing in our own selves merited such a sacrifice. And yet because you loved us so, with a love that we can barely comprehend, that we really can't comprehend. You took our place on the cross and paid the punishment for our sins. And in that, you have withheld from us what we do deserve. Which is eternal punishment and separation from you forever. Such a cost, such a love. There is no way that we can repay fully. But we do see from the pages of your word. That it spawns in us and compels us to live a life that loves you completely And fully. And that love that swells in us grows and turns into action as we follow your commands And live the path that you have set before us to walk. We thank you, Lord, and praise your name for providing for us the exactly what we needed. Without you or we are without hope We have no hope. But through Christ you give hope to the hopeless. And we thank you, Lord, for that. We pray now as we As we are about to look at your word and see some of the commands, the commands of Christ, that you would provide for us an open heart. And hearts that are receptive to your truth, we ask and pray that you would provide for us a mind that can Listen without distraction. Help us to be attentive to your word. We ask all these things in Jesus' name Amen. Alright, today's text that I'll be reading from is Matthew five, verses twenty-one through twenty-six. Please uh read along with me if you will You have heard that it was said to those of old, You shall not murder, and whoever murders will be in danger of the judgment. But I say to you, that whoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment. And whoever says to his brother Raka shall be in danger of the council. But whoever says you fool shall be in danger of hellfire. Therefore, if you bring your alt gift to the altar, and there remember that your brother has something against you Leave your gift there before the altar and go your way. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come and offer your gift. Agree with your adversary quickly while you are on the way with him, lest your adversary deliver you to the judge. The judge hand you over to the officer and you be thrown into prison. Assuredly, I say to you, you will by no means get out of there until you have paid the last penny. So imagine that the United States has come up with a way to read your mind. And not only have they come up with a way to read your mind, but they actually have div come up with laws are Congress has come up with laws to regulate your mind. In other words, there are certain things that you think uh that you're thinking that actually would ca that that actually would be breaking the law. Now, here's the question. Actually if we were reading your mind right now you'd probably be thinking to yourself, that is ridiculous. Um but uh but here's the question. Would that be easier or harder than the way things are now? Now all of us would say it would be harder. I mean just think about it for a minute. How difficult would it be if you literally could break a law by what you think? Now the reason that I point the I bring this up is because what Jesus is doing here is he is not by bringing he's going to be bringing up in the in the course of this section of his sermon, he's going to and bringing up six different things, which we're only going to address the the the first one today. Six different uh commands. And he brings these up not because he wants to relieve people of responsibility, but he actually wants to show See what the Pharisees have done And the scribes have done is that they have taken the commands of the Old Testament and they have formulated them in such a way that people, that they can be attainable. They have made them and put them in such a way that that that in their minds, and I don't think anybody did it perfectly, but in their minds, they could they could create in a a a way to be obedient completely to the laws. And what Christ is going to do is he is going to explain as we go through these that they are you cannot fulfill the demands of the law. Now that's going to be very important for us to understand. But the other thing that Jesus is going to do in this passage is he is actually going to help us to understand That for the believer, for the kingdom citizen, for the follower of Christ, because God has given us his spirit and because he's given us his righteousness, This is supposed to have an effect on our lives so that it plays out. We learned first the first part of Matthew 5, we learned about the Beatitudes. and that these were particular internal qualities that are demonstrated in the follower of Christ. Things like blesser are those who are poor in spirit, and those who mourn, and those who are merciful, and those and blessed are the peacemakers. All of these internal characteristics. In the next section, we began to understand that Christ Actually, there's a section on light and being light to the world. And in the next section after that, Christ explains that he has not come to destroy the law or to abolish the law. He has come to fulfill the law. And it says particularly in verse 19, he says, Whoever therefore breaks one of the least of the of these commandments And teaches men so, shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven. But whoever does and teaches them, he shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven. So Jesus not only says that he has come to fulfill the law, but that those who are his followers have a role to play in fulfilling the law. Now, let me make something clear about this. When he came to fulfill the law, Jesus literally came to fulfill all 611 commandments. Many of the commandments, the sacrificial system commandments, he by himself sacrificed his own life on the cross. and fulfilled all those sacrificial system commandments of the Old Testament. They were in that sense picture, prophetic pictures of what Jesus would do on the cross, and many of them he already fulfilled. Some of them he's going to fulfill in the future. And then there are some that are still that that his followers are to fulfill. And what's interesting is that in this section of Scripture, at the end of this section, the very last command that he's going to talk about is the command of loving. You'll see that in verse 43. Jesus is going to have a discussion about the importance of love. And most would understand as we think of the rest of the New Testament That loving God and loving your neighbor as yourself, the Bible says is how the commandments, the law, is fulfilled in us. For example, it says in Romans 13, 10, love does no harm to its neighbor. Therefore, love is the fulfillment of the law. In other words, how are we as Christians to be fulfilling the law now? The answer is we fulfill God we will fulfill the the law of love. Loving God with all of our heart and loving our neighbor ourselves. However, and and and by the way, most Christians when they read the New Testament would agree with that. You could agree with a lot of a lot of people are going to agree that okay our role as New Testament Christians are to fulfill the love of God, love for God, and love for others. That's our role. But here's where the rub comes. What is love? The rub comes, how is love defined? And how what is does love include? And how is it described? And what What does it look like for the Christian? And if we define love as just tolerance or passivity or benevolence with no holiness and those kinds of things, we are not defining the kind of love that God, Christ, is now going to describe for us here. So this passage becomes incredibly valuable for us because there are six things that he's going to address on this passage. And all six of these commands are actually commands that the the Pharisees and the scribes took and and construed in such a way where there was only a uh a a behavioral uh a behavioral breaking of the command and Jesus is going to say in every one of those things, no, there is a heart issue here. And really all of them have to do with fulfilling this law of love. For example, the first command that we're going to look at this morning is is the the severity of anger. Well just think about this just very practically for a minute. Can you be angry at someone and love them at the same time? God says no. Unless it's righteous anger. But God says essentially no. And and all of these other commands are you can't in other words, you can't fulfill this law of loving God. and loving others if you don't follow what's going to be here in this text. So the first command that we're going to look at then Is this command of murder slash anger? And what we're going to find here is that God takes the sin of anger very seriously. So why is this anger, why is anger such a serious matter? Well, we're going to see three different three reasons in the passage. First, we're going to see that anger will be judged severely. Then we're going to see it is because the spiritual relationships, spiritual relationships are more important than sacrificial service. Spiritual relationships are more important than sacrificial service. And number three, because adversarial relationships carry great potential danger Because adversarial relationships can carry great potential dangers. So three reasons. It's going to be judged. Number two, relationships are more important than service. And number three, adversarial relationships have great danger. So let's first then look at uh why is this so why is anger such an important issue? Because it will be judged severely. Now, what Jesus then does, picking up in 21 of Matthew 5, it says this, you have heard that it was said to those of old, you shall not murder. And whoever murders will be in danger of the judgment. Now, he's going to say that phrase, you have heard, all six of these other times as we go through the passage. What does it mean when he says you have heard? Well remember that the Jewish people that he well he was speaking particularly to the discipl to his disciples, which were all at that point Jews, and what they had heard, they they didn't they weren't able to pick up scripture themselves and read it for themselves at this point. What they did rather was they heard the word spoken in the synagogues. You know, scribes would go and they would read the word and and exp and what they did, Pharisees and scribes would expound on the word. But they were beginning to do something, I don't know, beginning, they were probably done something for a long time. They were mixing the the actual tr the actual words of Scripture with their interpretations of Scripture and also mixing their applications of Scripture. So that it all became kind of one thing. Your observations of the text Their interpretations of the text and their applications of the text were not distinct. They were kind of all together. And what Jesus is going to do is he's going to say, you've heard this, but let me flesh this out as to what it means first, and then what how it is applied. And I want to say at the very outset of that, of this, that by Jesus' example, this is a exactly how all of us ought to study the Bible. All of us ought to study the Bible by first looking at what the Bible is actually saying. You can't miss that point. You've got to see the words. You've got to see how they're written on the page. You've got to see the subjects and the verbs. You've got to understand And you don't have to know grammar exactly, but you've got to be able to look at what the Bible is actually saying. And then say, okay, here's what the Bible's saying, and make it distinct from, okay, now I can move to what the Bible means. Because if I do not know what the Bible is saying, I will not know what the Bible means. And then from there be able to understand how to apply the Bible. And those three distinct steps Jesus is going to do here, and you and I would do well to always do that in our study of the Bible, to first observe what the Bible says, then to Interpret what the Bible is saying, means by what it says, and then also to apply it. And Jesus is going to do that here. He first says, you have heard that it was said to those of old. You shall not murder, and whoever murders will be in danger of the judgment. Now, that is essentially what the Bible says. Exodus 20, verse 13, you shall not murder. And of course, as you go through the first five books of the Old Testament, you're going to find that judgment was set up for those who did things like murder. In Deuteronomy sixteen verse eighteen it says, You shall appoint judges over and officers in all your gates, which the Lord God gives you according to your tribes, and they shall judge the people with just judgment. Same thing happens in 2 Chronicles 19 verse 5. So these these judgments, the judges were set up to judge Israel, and when there was an infraction, like you know, murder Uh and many other things as well, actually. They would go to the judge and there would be a judgment. And this is not foreign to us. We understand this in our own judicial system as well. Uh we we are set up somewhat similarly to how they were set up in the In the Old Testament that way. So Jesus says, you've heard and understand it to be that murder will be, you'll be in danger of the judgment. Now, Jesus is not saying that's not true, but what he in this case is saying is that is not complete. There is more to it than that. And now he is going to move to verse 22, where he says, But I say to you, whoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment. Whoever says to his brother Rakha shall be in danger of the council. But whoever says you fool shall be shall be in danger of hellfire So he now moves from the the from murder, and by the way, the concept of murder in scripture, I should say this, murder does not include a couple of things. It didn't it didn't include involuntary manslaughter. um uh you know accidental death. Didn't include that. That wouldn't be considered murder by by the command. It didn't include murder in times of war in certain circumstances. Now there's a whole theology of of biblical ethics of war, but in certain circumstances when uh when war was a was biblically permissible, then the killing in that war uh would not have been. considered murder. By the way, I'll just say by I'll just say in my opinion that the war going on right now is murder. What's happening now from Russia going into Ukraine, that is not an ethical war. It violates many of the of ethics, not just biblically, but what we understand in our world to be an ethical war. war. That's for that's I and I I bring that up simply because it it correlates here. But what I'm saying here in this in this text is simply that there are all killing was not considered murder scripturally, uh, but much of it, I mean of course mu much of it is it was Uh and and really what Jesus does is he gets to the attitude. And the attitude, the attitude behind or the motive behind murder is anger. And so he says, he points out that if you are angry, you too will be in danger of the judgment. Now, when he says that, he's not speaking of the courts of judgment. He's not speaking of the of of man-made courts or even God ordained man-made courts. He's not talking about that. Now he is referencing the judgment. He's referencing the judgment where Christ will judge, where he will judge later. He's not saying all that. But that's what he has in mind. He mu has my in his mind the last judgment. He's move this is what he's doing. He's moving people from understanding the physical judgment that you can have in this earth to causing people to realize, hey, there is an ultimate spiritual judgment that you ought to be more concerned about. So he moves us to this. And he talks then about this concept of anger. Did you know that in the New Testament the term hatred and anger are used interchangeably? They're the same thing. And most people, when they think of the term hatred, they think of wanting to kill and anger of, well, it's not quite that to that level. The Bible doesn't make that distinction. If you have animosity and anger towards someone, that is the seeds for the sin of ultimate murder if it's carried out. in in fruition. Now, the question then becomes, what is anger? Well let's first let me a let me mention a couple things about what anger is not. Anger is not just wanting to kill someone. Some people would read this text and they'd say, well, I don't want to kill anybody, so I'm I'm good, right? No, that's not anger is not just, includes that, but not just wanting to kill someone. Anger is not something that should be managed or controlled. It's something that must be eliminated. The exception to that would be righteous anger, which we're really just not going to deal with primarily today. But uh other than that, man it's not to be managed or controlled, it's to be eliminated. And anger is is not the same thing as stress. There is a difference. So you can be you can have stress and not anger. But I will point this out as well, just by way of wisdom. When you are stressed, it's a good environment, it's a good, your the circumstances are right for anger. So understand, be careful when you are under high stress situations, anger can be a stronger temptation. But you can be stressed without sinning in anger. And that's why I'm making this distinction here. So what is anger? Well anger, as I already mentioned, is is also uh you the translated hatred, it's the same word It means to bear a or bear a grudge, and it is the opposite of love. In the Old Testament, you actually have a command against anger. Leviticus nineteen, seventeen through eighteen says, You shall not hate your brother in your heart. You shall surely rebuke your neighbor and not bear sin because of him. So it says, Don't hate your brother in your heart. You shall not take vengeance You shall nor bear any grudge against the children of your people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself. I am the Lord. When we come to the New Testament, 1 John 2, verses 7 through 11 are going to tell us that hatred and anger brings us into a place of darkness. Verse 7 of that passage says, Brethren, I write no new commandment to you, but an old commandment which you have heard from the beginning. The old commandment is the word which you have heard from the beginning. Again, a new commandment I write to you, which thing is true in him and in you, because the darkness is passing And the true light is always shine, is already shining. He who says he is in the light and hates his brother. Same word. He who says he is in the light and hates his brother is in darkness until now. If you are angry at your brother or sister in Christ, the Bible says you're not in the light. Don't think you're in the light. You're not in the light. You are in darkness. If you have anger or animosity toward your brother or sister. He who loves his brother abides in the light, and there is no cause for stumbling in him. But he who hates his brother is in darkness and walks in darkness and does not know where he is going because darkness has blinded his eyes. This is the fullness of the New Testament begins to really bear out the importance of being really, really careful when it comes to this matter of anger, particularly for brothers and sisters in Christ. Ephesians 4 verses 30 through 32 tell us that anger grieves God. In that passage it says, and grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby you're sealed in the day of redemption. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice. Be kind one to another, tender hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you The perfect illustration of the importance of not having anger in your heart toward a brother or sister in Christ is found in Genesis chapter 4. Would you take your Bibles and turn there for a few moments? I want you to see in Genesis chapter 4 the very first sin uh um that that's recorded in Scripture, except for Adam and Eve's sin, of course. But after Adam and Eve sinned, this is the very first sin that's recorded in Scripture. And it's not by coincidence, I think, that Jesus mentions this as the very first commandment that he is clarifying. And you'll notice in this passage as we look at Genesis chapter 4, picking up in verse 1, it says, Now Adam knew Eve, his wife, and she conceived and bore Cain. And said, I have acquired a man from the Lord. Then she bore again and uh this time his brother his brother Abel. Now Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground. In the process of time it came to pass that Cain brought an offering of the fur fruit of the ground to the Lord And Abel also brought the firstborn of his flock to their of their fat. And the Lord respected Abel and his offering. But he did not respect Cain and his offering Now, let me pause there just for a minute. This is sort of a comment, editorial comment. Was it because of the the content of their offerings? It was not. You go over the book of Hebrews and you'll find that it was because Abel gave it in faith. It was his attitude. He gave his offering in faith It was not a matter of the content of the offering that was that that was there. It was a matter of who he was depending on as he gave it. But either way, what happens? Well, Cain, it says what? Was very what? He was very angry. It says, and his countenance fell. Well we learned a little bit about a count what a countenance is a couple of Sunday nights ago. Countenance is when your face changes. And when you see when someone is angry, you're going to see it in their face. And his face changed. His his countenance fell. He became angry So far, by the way, we already know the story, but so far, it doesn't look like it's all that bad. Okay, he got angry at his brother, his countenance fell. But continue, and you're gonna see that this anger grows. It becomes more severe. So the Lord said to Cain and Cain, Why are you angry and why has your countenance fallen? If you do well, will you not be accepted? If you do not do well, sin lies at the door, and its desire is for you, but you shall rule over it. Now Cain talked with Abel and his brother, and it came to pass when he When they were in the field, that Cain rose up against Abel, his brother, and killed him. So the very four, in the fourth chapter of the Bible, we find that the motive for murder is anger. And Jesus points out that this is the standard. The standard is not just your actions, your stand The standard is what's in your heart. Are you angry? And Jesus says that that is going to be judged as murder. Now the expression of uh that then he moves then to this how uh anger and hatred are sometimes expressed. You'll notice in the text back in Matthew chapter 5. that there are two words that are used here, raka and fool. Both of these words were words that were very, very derogatory terms. Name calling was particularly offensive for the Jewish people. They really regarded the name as something that was um part of their identity. Uh when parents named their children, it was they really thought about the person's identity and their heritage and their family. Usually it was So it's not so much now where we're our name uh naming of our kids is almost arbitrary. Back then there has there has a there's a lot of meaning uh uh to them And and when you when you uh name when when you do that, uh when when you name call, when you call somebody's name, uh that was something that was extremely offensive to the person. And the word rakah is basically our translation of that would be like blockhead or imbecile. It's pretty bad, pretty severe. You're literally calling someone a blockhead. Or fool, uh fool, we actually get our Greek word from for moron From this word fool. So if you call someone a blockhead or a moron, those kinds of things, there is real severity that Jesus says here. Jesus says, you're in danger of hellfire. Does that sound severe? Why is Jesus saying this? The Pharisees said, you know you're angry if you kill someone. And Jesus said, you know you're angry if you call someone a moron. Both of them, he says, you're in danger of hellfire. Why? Because the Bible tells us that the wages of sin, any sin, is death. But the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. He is pointing out to these people that you cannot say I'm angry and be blameless. You cannot say you cannot be angry even in your own heart, even a little bit and think that you are sinless. And that was the what they were guilty of, the Pharisees and the Sanhedrin home, they were guilty of this kind of mentality. The word uh hellfire uh is the word Gehenna. It actually finds its root from the valley of Hinnem and it was a ravine in Jerusalem that was associated with the pagan god Molech and his disciples and and and all kinds of disgusting rites that you can read about in the Old Testament. What's interesting is that when Josiah abolished all these practices He defiled this very valley by making a dumping ground of the corpses of criminals. Now, the picture basically here of this word gehenna is to picture that this is where sinners go. Now, so so Jesus is pointing out, maybe for the first time in the ears of his of these listeners, or or they may maybe they hadn't understood this entirely, who knows Jesus is pointing out that if you have been angry, if you not murder, if you've been angry, then you are guilty of hell. Why is Jesus doing this? He's doing this because he needs, he wants people to realize that all are guilty. Is there anyone who has not been angry? No one. In fact, I would even suggest to you that even a young baby shows anger. Moms, you have you you you know the difference between a cry for food and an angry cry. Even at the youngest stages of development, you begin to see anger coming out in a child. Because we are born in sin. There's no way around it to think that we are, look, our world is totally wrong on this Our world says that you're born right, you're born clean, and then it's society that places its behavioral uh influence on you, and that is what becomes That is what makes you bad and evil. If you can just go back to how you really were from the very beginning and realize what society has done to you, then you will return to a place of purity. That is So against what the Bible says. The Bible says that you are born a sinner on your way to hell. That's what the Bible says. But I won't leave it there. The Bible also says in this passage that your righteousness has got to exceed the righteousness of the Pharisees. There is this internal righteousness that Jesus came. He lived out a perfect life and died and took our place on the cross so that he could give us his righteousness. We need the righteousness of Jesus. We can't do it ourselves. And what God wants us, it's so important for us to come to this place where we understand we cannot live righteously ourselves. If you offend the Bible says in one point you're guilty of all. And he wants us to understand this. Now, with that in mind, we then move to some applications for brethren. It's interesting what he does here. He then moves in verse twenty-three he says this Therefore, you understand the how the severity of anger, you understand how terrible it is, how you're in danger of hellfire if you do it. how you means you need Christ and there's no way around it. But then he moves to verse 23 and he says in verse 23, therefore if you bring your gift to the altar And there remember your brother has something against you. Leave your gift there before the altar and go your way. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come and offer your gift. So now he is moving his his direction and he's talking about someone who is a brother. Now the other this is interesting When he says brother here, what is he talking about? Well, you could say that maybe what he's talking about is he's speaking of a Jewish person. speaking of Jewish people, like you know, there's distant there's distant family relationships, he's a calling them all brothers. The difficulty with that is that he actually is narrowing down it's just his disciples, just his true followers that he's talking to. We remember from previous messages. He's talking on the mount to his his his true followers here. And I'd actually like to suggest to you that when he says brother here, he has something else in mind. In Matthew 12 and in the book of Mark as well, there's a discussion about who is truly the brethren of Jesus? And actually who is his mother and all that. In Matthew 12, verse 48, it says this, and he answered and said it said to them one uh said the one who told him, Who is my mother and who is who are my brothers? He stretched out his hand toward his disciples. Did you catch that? He the he's asked, who are your mother and your brothers? And it's not that he didn't have a physical mother, and he that wasn't he was denying the fact that he had a physical mother. He did have a physical mother and Mary and he had physical brothers, unlike the Catholic Church tells you. No, he had physical half-brothers as well. Alright. But what he's saying here is this. He turns to his disciples And in a spiritual sense, he says this, for whoever does the will, here are my mother and brothers. Now we know he's not literal here. He's talking to his disciples and saying, here's my mother. Okay, this is a metaphorical or a spiritual way that he's talking here. He says, Here are my mother and my brothers, for whoever does the will of my father in heaven is my brother and sister and mother. What's his point? Jesus is the very first person to identify that what is going to be created by his followers, by his disciples, by those who do his will, is the family of God. And so Jesus is anticipating, he's looking ahead, and he's realizing that there is going to be a family of God's people. And here he is referencing the very essence of the church. It's not there. The church isn't there yet. He's going to talk about the church later in Matthew chapter 16 and 18. He's actually going to mention Ecclesia, but he's going to mention the church. But here, he's not mentioned the church yet, but he is laying the foundation for kingdom citizens that are followers and disciples of Christ. that are to be light to the world. And now he is saying to them, let me help you understand something about this concept of anger. And he goes so far as to talk about this situation. Now, let me say this. He has talked about anger and the importance of how you cannot be angry and how it's sinful to be angry. Here is what you would think he would say next. Make sure that if you go to the all if you go to sacrifice something on the altar, make sure that you're not angry with anybody when you go and do that. Is that what he says? That's not what he says. Look at the text again. I want you to see what the actual text is saying here. Look at it again. Look at verse 23. It says this. Therefore, if you bring your gift to the altar, and there remember that your brother has something against you. It doesn't say that you have something against your brother. It says that your brother has something against you. Leave your gift there before the altar and go your way. And this word something is not the word offense. It's not the word sin. It is a extremely general. It's just a very, very general word. If you go and you do something and you are sacrificing for the Lord. Now the Bible, and I'll just mention this, the Bible says later on in Romans chapter 12 that what we are doing, that we are present our whole bodies as a living sacrifice to God. . . holy and acceptable unto God. And by way of application, folks, what it's telling us as believers is for us to offer ourselves to God, for us to offer our service to the Lord And to think that we can do that when we know that someone has someth uh a brother, particularly a brother in Christ. He's going to talk about adversaries later, there are brothers in Christ. But a brother or sister in Christ has something Against us when we know that. The Bible says, look, leave it on the altar. Don't go just leave and go make it right. Go deal with that. Do you see the priority that he is placing here? Now there's a couple of reasons that reasons that he does this First of all, he's identifying the importance of love. See, it's actually easier to sacrifice and serve than it is to actually love people. It's easier. The Bible says this in 1 Corinthians twelve thirteen one through three Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels and have not love, I have become a sounding brass or a clanging cymbal. And though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains and have not love, I am nothing. And listen to this. And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned and have not love, it profits me nothing. Is it possible to sacrifice your life But to not love and for it to end up profiting nothing. The Bible says it's possible. And what Jesus is saying here is that sacrificial service is less important than relationships in the body of Christ. That is very interesting when it says that. We do not think that way. In fact, what we often think of, frankly, is that if I just serve the Lord faithfully, oh that person's not uh that person you know he's he's upset at me. I'm just serving the Lord, I'm just foc- I'm gonna I'm gonna be faithful, I'm just gonna serve the Lord, oh that person's not too happy with me, ah, it's alright. My pastor growing up, he said this to me one time. He said this, he said, Jim, be careful of people who are willing to leave people in the wake They want to serve the Lord, but they'll leave people in the wake in the in their wake in the process. Be careful of those people. But I've s I have I have that has really helped me a lot in in ministry, in in navigating ministry. And there are some people folks that they are so intent on what they believe to be serving the Lord that they ha they just have no care. for their brothers and sisters in Christ. And I have I can tell you very practically that there have been times where I have tried to get people together and get people to uh to reconcile, brothers and sisters in Christ to reconcile. And I'll tell you one of the things I hear most often, and it is many, many times I've heard it. Well, I don't have a problem with him. I don't have a problem with her. That's not what this passage says. This passage doesn't say I don't okay, well if you have a problem, go to her. It's not what it says. It says if now you should, by the way, if you have a problem, you should go to them But that's not what this passage is saying. This passage is saying is if they if you know they've got a problem with you, you need to go to them And don't think that your sacrificial service is enough to sort of stay serving the Lord and don't worry about everybody else. Now, there are other passages, thankfully, that help us with this a little bit. Because the truth of the matter is, is it possible that you have done all that you possibly can to make things right with a brother or sister in Christ, and they still have something against you? against you. Is that possible? It is, because the Bible says this, as much as lies within you, live peaceably with all men. And so what hap what this is a matter that that you in your conscience where you begin to say, okay, have I done everything I possibly can to live peaceably? It was interesting. And this was not an exception. Every time I read this passage, nearly every time I read this passage, or preach on it, or teach it, or study it, or whatever, somebody will come to mind. I don't like preaching on this passage. I literally this happened yesterday when I was going over this passage and somebody came to my mind and I thought, I wonder if that person has something has something That's uh th th there's something I don't really know, but I'm wondering. And now I'm gonna have to go this week and make sure that they don't have something because I'm like it came to my mind as I'm reading this passage. I would venture to guess that there are many of you that somebody's coming to mind. And if they are a brother or sister in Christ, and you have not done all you can do, as much as lies within you, To live peaceably with them. To as much as lie within you, to get things right with them. Stop serving God and go get it right. And then come back to the altar and start serving again That's what the passage is saying. Very important for us to understand this. It means, folks, it means this, that we are actually going to have to be quite sensitive To the feelings of others. We are actually going to have to be concerned about how others perceive Now what I don't mean by this is how other like I I don't mean that w you know my self-worth is determined by how other people see me. That's what happens when you're like a teenager. Sorry teenagers. You do. I remember being a teenager. And like I always you know, we all want that. We want our peer group to approve of us, and if our peer group will approve of us then then we we we we so we that's why we care so much about what our friends think. And frankly that that moves into adulthood, into your twin into your you know twenties, maybe even thirties. When you hit forty you don't care anymore. It's true. Like like I I gotta be honest with you. I actually have to read this verse. I probably should really, really meditate on this verse a lot because there's a certain point in your age where it's like You just don't you you just don't care what people think in your flesh. You feel that? Men uh men are worse about this than women, I think. This is my opinion. Maybe not, but that's my that's been my experience. And we actually have to get back to this passage and see what it says. It means we're going to have to be concerned about what brothers and sisters in Christ think about. Not because we're worried about our our level you know our we're basing our importance on them, no, because we love them. And God says relationships in the family of God are extremely important to him. And there's a lot of reasons for that. In fact, the Bible tells us that people will know we are truly his followers by what? Our love one for another. John 13. And so no wonder Jesus is at the very outset of his discussion on all of these things, he's now saying we've got to really, really focus, we've got to really understand just how important important our relationships within our bot the body of Christ are. They're more important than sacrificial service. Philippians 2 verse 4 says, Let each of you look not only on his own interests, but also on the interests of others. Neutrality, as uh here's something else that that's implied here. Uh Jesus is not, he moves from the concept of hatred. Over the concept of making sh being careful that you are concerned about the concerns of others Do you know what is not in Christ's view here? The possibility that a brother or sister in Christ could just be indifferent toward another brother and sister in Christ. The possibility that a brother and sister in Christ could just sort of be level about it. Like doesn't really, you know, okay, I don't I don't hate him, but I don't really love him. I I'm just sort of neutral. That is not in the thinking of Jesus. It's not an option for Jesus' thinking, the way that he places this. And that's important for us to remember. We then move to the next reason why this portion of this anger is so this issue of anger is so important. to Jesus. He's now going to move to the to the relationship of the adversary, someone who is adver adversarial toward you. In chapter 5, verses 25 through 26, it says this, agree with your adversary quickly while you are on the way with him. Lest your adversary deliver you to the judge, the judge hand you over to the officer, and you be thrown into prison. Assuredly, I say to you, you will by no means get out of there till you have paid the last penny. The scenario that we find here is of someone who owes a debt to someone else. That's why it's paid last penny. Someone who owes a debt to someone else. And the lender is on his way to collect by using the judicial system of the day. And this passage is saying, rather than going, rather than allowing that to happen, you need to work things out with your adversary. Do you know why a lot of times we can't work things out with our adversary? Not always. But you know why sometimes we can't work things out with our adversary? Because we've got anger involved. Because we have we have we have incited their anger or we are angry. Look, we ought to expect God we ought to expect unbelievers to act like unbelievers. When you cross an unbeliever with anger, don't expect you're going to get a mild reply. Now, we should have a mild reply when we're crossed. The Bible says a soft answer turns away wrath. But when we're talking about interacting with unsaved people, the Bible teaches us here that we ought to make sure that anger is not in the equation. It's not we're not factoring that in at all. Instead, we ought to have our our we ought to pay our debts We ought to do how uh live in such a way where there is integrity, where there is where there is um that kind of a thing here. And it's important for us to do that. The Bible says this in Ephesians chapter 25, Ephesians 4, 25-27. Therefore, putting away lying speak every man truth with his neighbor, for we are members one of another. Be ye angry and sin not Let not the Son go down upon your wrath, neither give place to the devil. He's saying here, Deal with things quickly. Both of these illustrations show that. Whether it's your brother in Christ, you've got a sacrifice you're going to make, go fix it, go get it, deal with it quickly. Same thing with if you owe a debt or if you are in a business relationship or something like that and you're working, deal with it quickly. Deal with it on a personal level. Try to he's the application is try to make your adversary your friend. So that he doesn't take you to court and then you end up in a situation where what he's talking about here in prison is debtor's prison. Now Israel didn't have debtor's prison. They actually had a way of making sure that lenders didn't lend too much money out. Okay, and debtors didn't go didn't overextend themselves because the year of Jubilee everything got set right And so they had a way of and there were certain there were certain laws was every ten years and other laws every seventy years where was where land was involved. But basically had everything set right every once in a while so that lenders were careful with how much they lent And debtors were careful with how much they went into debt and you didn't you didn't have debtor debtors' prison. It's a really good idea, actually But but in this text, that is in Rom the Roman culture, in the Roman culture, apparently they had debtors prison. And actually that's that that's I mean that wasn't in the United I don't think we've had it in the United States. It was in in in Great Britain years ago. The problem with debtor's prison is a debt a debtor gets into prison and then he can't work to pay off the debt, he's stuck. It's not a very good system. But what the point that Jesus is making is don't get into a place with an adversary where there's no getting out. You're trapped. Instead, deal with your adversary in such a way where you are not having anger involved and you are trying to work things out with them. as much as you can relationally. The Bible says, do not let the sun go down upon your wrath. Don't stay angry with somebody, but neither give place to the devil. So with all of that in mind, let's conclude with these three truths. Number one. Anger will be judged by God. So if you've been angry, you are a sinner in need of God's grace. And everyone's been angry. I mean if you if you have not been angry, if you literally in any time in your life you've never been angry before And you say, I've never been angry before, then you probably need to just go to the Ten Commandments and find the one that talks about bearing false witness and realize you've lied. Because everybody's been angry before. Which means you can't save yourself. And you don't have the right kind of righteousness. No matter how righteous you are, you don't have the right kind of righteousness to save yourself. Instead, you need Jesus' righteousness placed on your account. So Jesus died on the cross, took your sin on himself, so that he is able then to place his righteousness on you. And how does that transaction occur? Well, if it's a bank account and somebody wants to give you money, what do you need to do? Well, maybe in the old days you write a check. Now you got Venmo and Zell and all kinds of stuff. But anyway, back to the old days you write a check. And you write a check, you can still do that too. You write a check and then you've got to deposit it Well, for there to be a transaction where you receive Jesus, your sin is removed, and Jesus is taking your righteousness, Jesus gives you his righteousness, that transaction is called faith. For by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should both. You need to fully and completely depend upon Jesus to save you from your sin and to give you his righteousness so that you can truly be a child of God, a follower of God by faith. But you've got, look, this is the most important thing, you've got to realize you are a sinner. You've got to be poor in spirit. You've got to realize that your sin, your sin, is an offense against a holy God. That your sin drove Jesus to the cross or was the reason Jesus went to the cross. Realize that you are a sinner in need of a savior. Number two, Christian, are you concerned and sensitive to the potential that other believers may have a problem with you Are you concerned about it? Are you sensitive to it? What would happen to us? What would happen to our relationships if we always applied this? What would happen to a marriage if in the marriage the husband always thought to himself, I wonder if my wife has something against me. me and I need to I know I gotta clear that up. Or if my wife, or if the wife said, I wonder if my husband has something against me, I need to clear that up. Not, well, I got something against them. No. Do they have something against you? What would happen to a marriage where you are putting the thoughts and concerns of the other above yourselves? What would happen with your relationships with your kids? What would happen with your relationships with your, with, with, within the body of Christ, with the church? Even your work relationships as an extension of this application, it's not directly directed to those work relationships, but even in work relationships, what would happen If you thought to yourself, hmm, that coworker, he's got I'm there might not be something he I think he's got something he's concerned about. What would happen, folks, to us if we were m really concerned and sensitive about when someone had something against us. And notice, I'm not being specific for a reason. The Bible's not specific I'm not saying what it is because the Bible doesn't. It could be anything. Are we concerned about it? Are we sensitive to it? Our relationships, particularly in the body of Christ in the church, if you know Christ as your Lord and Savior and you have a brother or sister in Christ, you need to care. And so do I. Number three, are you a peacemaker in your interactions with those who are adversarial toward you? Really, this is an outfleshing of the Beatitudes. This is what a peacemaker looks like. Someone who is dealing with his adversary before they get to the judge. That's a peacemaker. This is a the kind of person who is who is poor in spirit, who is who who uh is merciful. He's the person that is concerned about the person that his brother or sister in Christ. These are really all kind of applications fleshed out from the beatitudes that we've already discussed. Are you a peacemaker when it comes with your it comes to your interactions with those who are adversarial toward you? God wants us to be that way. You know what's going to require? A couple of things. It's going to require humility, number one. Because we need we we might have to give up our rights. We might have to give up something that we feel uh we have a right to. It might require trust that we're just going to have to trust the Lord in certain situations to deal with certain things. Folks, it's not worth getting angry over. There isn't anything really outside of you know outside of a of a righteous anger which we use that way too much. And I don't think we have we're here and I'll say this. We are never to be the executioner. We are never to be the one that executes justice Never. God is the one that does that. We might identify wrongdoing. We we ought to be really concerned, not just concerned, we ought to we you know being a little angry at Putin is not a bad thing Or that's a really extreme example, obviously, but being angry at sin is not a bad thing. But folks, in our relationships with others, in our relationships, folks, anger really doesn't have any place. It's not worth it. Trust the Lord. Do right. Be merciful. Be humble. Give up your rights and let God do what God can do. Are you a peacemaker in your interactions with those who are adversarial toward you? Let's pray together. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you for your word. It's convicting. This goes against the grain of our flesh. We don't like this. We would much rather stick to our rights. We would much rather think that we have a cause. We would much rather think that we can serve you and not give real consideration to the feelings and concerns of others. Lord, may we not be the kind of people that are ended up in end up being claying brass and tingling cymbals. Lord, we pray that you would help us to realize the priority that you give to relationships and the severity that you view anger. And Lord, there is all of us here are guilty. If there is somebody here today that they previously They've seen themselves as a good person, a righteous person. But this shows them that they're not. I pray, Lord, that you would help them to trust you by faith because we need Christ. righteousness. We pray all of these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Bethel Baptist Church is a family made up of people from very different backgrounds and from every age group. But we all have one thing in common. We have found a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. We also understand that looking for a church to attend can be unsettling. Before you even drive into our parking lot, we'd like to give you an idea of what to expect on your first visit to Bethel Baptist Church. After arriving at Bethel, feel free to park at one of our guest parking spaces, close to the front doors. It is our privilege to have you visit us, and we want you to feel at home while you're here. We are ready to assist you in understanding your needs and locating facilities such as the nursery, coffee area, and the specific ministries and classes available for you and your family. When a person discovers how to have a genuine relationship with God, they are given a sense of purpose and meaning in life. When that same person belongs to a loving community where God's word is taught, they will grow in their relationship with the Lord, and their life grows in purpose and meaning. Since I uh started coming to Bethel, I noticed that my walk with the Lord became more serious. More faithful. The church has impacted my walk with the Lord. In terms that my faith became real I I'd had some some spiritual struggles in my own life that have sort of turned around night and day, just just having come here here. The the church family here is just so uh great in terms of their unity and their activeness and involvement in the church. When I first came to Bethel I was a babe in Christ. I was Spiritually immature through hearing God's word, preached, studying God's word, and continuing You know, reading in the Bible is helping me to grow spiritually. Bethel is a place for someone If they want to grow spiritually, if they're ready to take the the next steps in their spiritual walk with God in their Christian life Ah, this this is a place for them. We sincerely desire to help people grow in the relationship with the Lord, with their families, and with one another. Our focus is on making and building disciples for God's glory. We accomplish this through corporate worship on Sunday mornings, through adult Bible studies where we learn God's Word and how to effectively apply it to our lives, and through our discipleship home groups that meet in various locations throughout the region. Additionally, there are one-on-one and couple-to-couple counseling and discipleship opportunities. We genuinely desire to help you grow spiritually any way you possibly can. Our children's ministries are extremely important to us. We have a lot of young families with children, and we believe in the importance of teaching truth to the next generation. Teachers and nursery workers will be available to introduce themselves and assist you in signing your children in and out of their classrooms. My family is involved in the church. My children are growing in the church. And the ministry and the love of the people of the church is helping my children and my family to stay faithful to the Lord. As a young mom I have two small kids and so I am very much looking forward to seeing them grow up in this church where I know there are gonna be people who care about them and love them and want what is best for them. It's a body of believers that is striving together to serve the Lord. Uh genuinely we have a real unity in the faith because we believe in that objective truth in the scriptures and um it just draws us together as a faith. family. So being new members here, I'm most looking forward to uh continuing to deepen my walk with Christ. and and grow in my relationship with him. And even getting involved in the ministry, I'm looking forward to uh being able to help out and And to help build up others in the faith the way that they've helped build me up. Bethel Baptist Church is a growing loving family community. We hope that we've been able to show you a small glimpse of what Bethel is like. But we love to meet you personally. Join us for a worship service, a small group for Bible study. Let us be a blessing to you and your family.