Very fitting, having just sung those verses in that song, to now go to the Lord in prayer. Pray with me if you will, please. Father, we do acknowledge the fact that We have no greater friend than the friend Jesus. Your word states that for scarcely A righteous man will one die. And rarely will we see someone die for a good man. But while we were yet sinners, Christ die. We thank you, Lord, for the love that passes understanding. That you would see us who By our sin, we're far from you, and because of our sin nature, we are, the Bible calls us your enemies. You reached out and loved your enemies so much so that you could save our souls and bring us into a relationship. relationship with you, accepted in the ability in the beloved. And we see in your word how you do call us your friends. These truths are staggering, Father. And Lord, we we come to you recognizing that we often don't we don't even view you as that That close of a friend. We often value other things, put other things before you. But Lord, I pray that you would help us to treasure Jesus above all That no one would be able to compete for his place in our heart. That he would be at the center of all things. May we, Lord, as we consider your word coming up, may we put aside those other things to see this great Savior that we have. And as we look at this text and Pastor Jim preaches, may you impact our hearts through it. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. So we're looking at Matthew 27. Verses eleven through twenty-eight. Matthew twenty-seven, eleven through twenty-eight. I encourage you to read along with me as we go through this text Beginning in verse 11. Now Jesus stood before the governor, and the governor asked him, saying, Are you the king of the Jews? Jesus said, Said to him, It is as you say. And while he was being accused by the chief priests and elders, he answered nothing. Then Pilate said to him, Do you not hear how many things they testify against you? But he answered him not a word, so that the governor marvelled greatly. And at that time they had no uh had a notorious prisoner called Barn of Barabbas. Therefore, when they had gathered together, Pilate said to them, Whom do you want me to release to you, Barabbas or Jesus, who is called Christ? While he was sitting on the judgment seat, his wife sent to him, saying, Have nothing to do with That just man, for I have suffered many things today in a dream because of him. But the chief priests and elders persuaded the multitudes that they should ask for Barabbas and destroy Jesus. The governor answered and said to them, Which of the two do you want me to release to you? And they said, Barabbas. Pilate said to them, What then shall I do with Jesus? Jesus who is called Christ. They all said to him, Let him be crucified. Then the governor said, Why, what evil has he done? But they cried out all the more, saying, Let him be crucified. When Pilate saw that he could not prevail at all, but rather that a tumult was rising, he took water and washed his hands before the multitude, saying, I am innocent of the blood of this just person. You see to it. And all the people answered and said, His blood be on us and on our children. Then he released Barabbas to them. When he had scourged Jesus, he delivered him to be crucified. Then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the Praetorium and gathered the whole garrison around him, and they stripped him and put a scarlet robe on him. So this passage has is a can really a continuation of the attitude of Jesus and his desire to do the will of his Father. And we're going to see that in this passage. There are times not every net not every hill is worth dying on. In fact, somebody said once, if you die on every hill, you're going to live a short life. But the reality is there are some hills worth dying on. There was a man, uh you know you you'll know who he was, John McCain, who was U. S. U. S. Senator, passed away a couple of years ago. Um you know, he his his politics toward the end, his political uh views you may or may not agree with, but one thing you could say about him back when uh with back when he was in the military and uh was he was really an interesting story that we'll go down in history. He was uh he spent seven horrific years in the North Vietnamese uh After about a year he was offered the possibility of release, and um one of uh English speaking Vietnamese offer officer. But and he was given three days to think about it. Now what he didn't know was that his father had become commander. of the Pacific Armies for the United States. And his captors were was off they were offering this in order to actually demoralize the other prisoners They would be able to taunt the other prisoners and say, see, you're uh your dad's not a cap not a captain of the armies, and so you won't be able to be um you won't be able to be released. And you'll die here. The young man at that time, John McCain, decided that he would not accept the release, and he stayed six more years. years in this prison camp camp. Whatever you think about his politics, and it was a little hard sometimes to pin down his politics when he was alive You can't help but look at what he did as one uh of great bravery and character and courage. In the face of the possibility of compromising his position, he chose to stay with his men. You're not going to see that in the story from this man Pilate. Pilate is other than Christ, who is obviously in center stage. Pilate's going to take center stage as well in this story and Pilate though he knows certain things to be true he is going to compromise He is going to deal with Jesus based upon wrong motives, and we'll see that in this passage. But you're going to want to see Christ on the other hand who is going to stand he is going to stand for his convictions he is going to say what needs to To be said, but he is not going to say what doesn't need to be said, and his entire goal, Jesus' entire goal in this passage, is to do the will of the Father. And we're going to see that as we go through the passage. The fact is, what we're going to see in this passage is that the people of Israel, the Sanhedrin, along with Pilate, are all going to mistreat Christ. And in a very real sense, that is the ultimate the ultimate destiny of the world and the practice of the world is to mistreat Mistreat Christ as well. How did they mistreat Christ in this passage? Well, they mistreated Christ with false accusations in verses 11 through 14, with hostility in verses 15 through 14. So people are going to mistreat Christ with false accusations and Verses eleven through fourteen. It we pick up there it says, Now Jesus stood before the governor, and the governor asked him, saying, Are you the king of the Jews? Jesus said to him, It is as you say And while he was being accused of by the chief priests and elders, he answered nothing. Then Pilate said to him, Do you not hear how many things they testify against you? But he answered him not a word. So the governor marveled greatly. This governor, of course, is Pilate. He was called governor there. He was a prefect. He was one who did who had limited authority, but he did have the authority to be able to put Jesus to death and to make judgments based upon his understanding of the circumstances. And The Roman trials usually included a magistrate who would hear both arguments, both sides of a particular accusation and a defense. And so he was doing that here. One thing to note was this is the third trial. It was a a Pilate, there was a original trial, a Roman trial. There are three Jewish trials, and now there's this is we're on the third Roman trial. First was Pilate. And the second we we sent it over to Herod, which was um a different jurisdiction and you could say it was sort of a Roman trial. And then And then Herod sent Jesus back to Pilate here in this passage. And we're seeing Pilate having to make a final ruling. The decision is squarely his in this context and frankly he could have chosen to simply say he's innocent and let him go. He had the authority and the ability to do that. That's not what we see in the passage. So Jesus, they're leveling all these accusations against Jesus. And he says to Jesus, he turns to Jesus, he says, Are you the king of the Jews? Now, this passage tells us, Matthew tells us. It is as you say. And that's all Matthew tells us. But John's going to flesh this out a little bit more for us in verses 34 through 37. It says Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, my servants would fight, so that I would not be delivered to the Jews. But now my kingdom is not from here Pilate therefore said to him, Are you a king then? Jesus answered, You say rightly that I am a king. For this cause I was born, and for this cause I have come into the world, that I should bear witness to the truth, every one who is of the truth So Jesus actually explains, I yes, I am a king, but I am not a king of this world. I am not one who is going to fight you. Otherwise, we would our servants would have f would fight and we would never have been delivered into the Jews in the first place. He explains all of this to Pilate But as he is doing this, there are accusations being leveled against Jesus as well. We find some of those accusations in Luke chapter 23. And in verses 2 through 5 it says this, we found this fellow perverting the nation. This is what the some of the accusations they leveled, and maybe there were more as well, but at least these three. Perverting the nation. And forbidding to pay taxes to Caesar, and saying that he himself is Christ a king. Now they were twisting Jesus' words, perverting the nation. Well that's just a general a general accusation that they felt that he was he was somehow uh perverting the nation and he was somehow undermining their authority and there were Did Jesus ever do that? Did Jesus ever call people to forbid to pay tax? No, this is a twisting of his words. Jesus never did this. This is a false accusation. And saying he himself is Christ a king. Now, he did name himself as the Messiah, but he never he never really inferred that he was going to be king. king or take over not really he didn't infer uh imply rather that he was going to take over uh overthrow the Roman Empire. He never did that. And so this even was a twisting of his words. And they're trying to, they're leveling all these accusations, trying to get Pilate to realize That Pilate needs to put this man to death because he is dangerous. He is one who needs to be put to death because of his treachery. He is treasonous, and they're accusing him of being of treason. Pilate's weighing all this out, and Jesus is making the explanation to Pilate that he is, and When they level these false accusations against Jesus, he says not a word. Pilate turned to him and said, Why aren't you replying to any of these? Why aren't you giving yourself a defense? And he just doesn't say anything. And Pilate marvels at this. He's amazed that Jesus says nothing, probably because he's never seen this before. Any trials that have taken place where he was the magistrate, he was making decrees in every situation, more no doubt, uh people would come and they would make accusations. and they would uh uh they would uh look for a conviction from Pilate and Pilate when he heard these accusations would allow the defendant to give his defense and there would be all kinds of defense made and yet Jesus made no defense at all. He marveled at this. And it is something that is quite amazing. Jesus, in saying nothing at these accusations, was fulfilling an Old Testament prophecy in Isaiah 53, 7, where it says, He was oppressed and afflicted, yet he did not open his mouth. He was led like a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before his share is silent, so he did not open his mouth. Why did Jesus stay silent under false accusation? Why would Jesus do that? I mean if is that your inclination? If you're falsely accused, are you inclined to say nothing at all? No, if you're falsely accused, you want to come to your own defense. You want to say no, that wasn't me I wasn't wrong. That wasn't what I did. You immediately want to defend yourself, and Jesus does not do this We see this repeated through the trials. He does not defend himself. But I don't want us to think for a moment that Jesus was not grieved and hurt by all of these accusations. These very people, this very crowd, week or days ago, on Monday, this is Friday, on Monday of the same week, were praising Jesus and looking and and and uh and worshiping him in fact. And now they are uh they are leveling these accusations against Jesus. and Jesus is saying nothing. You ever been falsely accused before? Do you know what that feels like to have someone accuse you of something that you didn't do? Jesus knows what that feels like. He understands rejection. Have you ever felt a sense of rejection from someone? Jesus knows what that looks like. He felt the rejection of his entire nation, the nation of Israel, the sin. Hedrin and and uh and wrote the Roman the Romans eventually. He understood what rejection felt like. He knew what re-abandonment felt like, right? You have all these disciples, and they've abandoned him. During his time of need. Abandonment, rejection, false accusation. If you ever think to yourself, well, I am going through all of these things and I don't know I just don't understand how anybody can know what I'm going through. Jesus knew. He knows. He was tempted in all points, like as we are, yet without sin. And yet Jesus chose to stay silent. Why? He chose to stay silent because he knew that ultimately he needed to go to the cross. He needed to fulfill his father's will. And his desire, more than his own reputation, or more than his own feelings, or more than his own sense of Any kind of anything. He wanted to do the will of his father, and so he chose to be silent. First Timothy chapter six verse thirteen says this way I urge you in the sight of God who gives life to all things, and before Christ Jesus, who witnessed the good confession before Pontius Pilate. In Hebrews chapter 12, verses 2 through 3 it says this, looking into Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, who the joy that was set before him endured the cross. despising the shame, and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. For consider him who endured such hostility from sinners against himself He endured such hostility from sinners against himself. That's an important phrase because that describes This reality that Jesus endured this. This was not easy for Jesus to hear all these false accusations. This was something that he endured, and truly he did endure great. hostility. And that really brings us here to to the people mistreating Christ with hostility. So Caiaphas and the Sanhedrin were threatened by Jesus, but Pilate apparently was a bit threatened. Both by the Sanhedrin and by the popularity of Jesus as well, as we'll see in the passage. The Sanhedrin come, Jesus is not giving any defense. Pilate realizes that Jesus Jesus is not dangerous. Jesus is not guilty of treason. He understands this and realizes that this is not a man that should be put to death. Now Pilate was not a good man, he was not a moral man, uh but he was a man that could s apparently see see some semblance of the truth and he was acting as judge and he realized that Jesus was innocent. We pick up in verse 15 it says now at the feast The governor was accustomed to releasing to Mount Multitude one prisoner whom they wished. And at that time they had a notorious prisoner called Baraphas. Therefore, when they had gathered together, Pilate said to them, Whom do you want me to release to you, Barabbas or Jesus, who is called Christ? Now what Pilate is doing here, Pilate is aware of the popularity of Jesus. So the Sanhedrin come, they come with their accusation And yet they uh the governor, this this pilot, he realizes that he that they that he should not be put to death. So he comes up with this idea This idea is that he that apparently there was this custom of releasing someone during the feast days. It was probably a way of him gaining favor with the people. But Pilate assumes that the crowd, the people, the multitude of Jewish people that Jesus is still popular with them. He knows he's not popular with the Sanhedrin, and it says in the text that he realizes that the whole reason that the Sanhedrin are bringing him to to uh to Pilate is because of envy. They're envious of Jesus' popularity with multitudes. And so Pilate thinks he Pilate's come up with an idea. He thinks he has He has what seems to be a solution to his problem so that he can he can deal with the Sanhu Sanhedrin who whom he apparently is a bit uh he is a bit intimidated by. So there is this man, Barabbas. Matthew says he is a notorious prisoner, but we find a little bit more of a description in some of the other texts, the other parallel texts In Mark 15, verse 7, it says, and there was one named Barabbas who was chained with his fellow rebels. They were committed, uh, they had committed murder in the rebellion. Okay, now so we have not just a thief. We have someone who is a murderer here. And apparently he was he is an insurrectionist. There apparently was at some point a insurrection, a rebellion, and he had committed murder during this, and that's why he was there. This was a a murderous uh insurrectionist, a ri murderous, rebellious person. In Luke 23, 19 it says, who had been thrown into prison for certain rebellion made in the city and for and for murder. And John 18 says that he was a robber. So, you know, this is this isn't a criminal. He's a lewer, he's a thief. He's a murderer. He's an insurrectionist. This person should be put to death for treason. I mean, you have Jesus who's being accused of treason and someone who has actually done treasonous acts. So in Pilate's mind, this is very clear. In fact, very likely the three crosses have already been prepared, one of which was intended to be Barabbas' cross. It's not we don't know that for sure, but it's very very likely that what's actually occurring here is that Jesus is going to replace Barabbas on the cross that is going that has been um that has been prepared for him and the other the other thieves that are going to be alongside him. Brabus probably being the worst of the three. Some of that is conjecture, but it's it's interesting. So ge so Pilate offers this replacement, verse 17. Whom do you want me to release to you, Barabbas or Jesus? who is called Christ. Verse 18, for he knew that he had handed him over because of envy. So what happens? Well, it backfires. Um his plan is, well, if the if the proud wants Barabbas, then he's kind of off the hook. He doesn't actually have to make a decision to put Jesus to death. He's basically deciding to release this man and he thinks he's got an ace in the hole because just a few days ago they're they're you know They're praising him and and and all of this. So they're assuming that uh he's assuming that they're gonna say Barabbas. But what he doesn't realize is That the Sanhedrin have somehow convinced, uh convinced them, the crowds, to turn against Jesus. And we pick up in verse 19, it says, while he was sitting on the judgment seat, he also has some other advice given to him by his wife. His wife sent sent to him saying, Have nothing to do with this just man, for I have suffered many things today in a dream because of him. This his wife apparently has a dream. By the way, Matthew is the only one who mentions his wife wife. Why does Matthew do this? Because I think Matthew wants wants us to realize that Pilate is culpable. And Pilate, not only did he realize that Jesus was He doesn't find any fall in Jesus. And he realizes why the Sanhedrin are doing what they're doing. He understands this, that they're they have wrong motives and why they're accusing Jesus. Jesus. Even his own wife is saying, don't have anything to do with him. Do not put him to death. Do not convict him of treason. Of course, during those times and throughout history, dreams have been have been sometimes interpreted as omens, either good or bad. And so um that's probably the case here. And And so he's warned even by Pilate. He has a lot of, in other words, there's a lot of signals being sent to him to not convict Jesus. Verse 20, but the chief priests and the elders persuaded the multitudes that they should ask for Barabbas and destroy Jesus. How did they do this? Well the text doesn't say. Uh probably what they did was they exp they they were able to convince the crowds That Jesus wasn't going to deliver them from the Roman Empire, that he was going to be ineffective in doing so, and he wasn't going to do it. They were expecting him to be the deliverer. You remember the palm trees and Mm naming him as king and all of that on Monday and that's not what they're going Jesus is going to do. It's interesting how the Sanhedrin on one hand are saying to Pilate, He's guilty of treason. He's gonna uh g guilty of the possibility of taking over the Roman Empire or at least trying. And on the other hand, he's telling they're telling the ro the uh the Jewish people, potentially anyway, best Most likely that he's that Jesus is not capable of doing that. And in fact, perhaps he's even saying Barabbas is a much better choice. But whatever it was, the people were convinced to turn against Jesus. No doubt the reason that the that that the people were convinced to do that was because it was obvious from the trials, all the different trials, now we're on our sixth trial total. That Jesus is not going to do what the people thought he was going to do. That seems to be clear. And so because he is not meeting their expectations They say, give us Barabbas, this murderous thief, give us Barabbas. And then he says, Well, what should I do with Jesus? And the answer is, let him be crucified. The governor said, What? Why? What evil has he done? But by this point, the crowd doesn't reply with any kind of reason or any kind of evil. They are just like this mob now that is demanding for him to be crucified. It says in verse 24, that when the people saw that he could not prevail at all, but rather that a tumult was rising, he took water and washed his hands before the multitude, saying, I am innocent of the blood of this person. You see to it. He he doesn't want to have any he does not want to be culpable in this, and there apparently this was a way of of uh of showing tangibly that he washes his hands of all this that that they are doing this and he is not. Of course he cannot be absolved of of culpability. Why? Because he's in charge. He could have very in the very beginning, he could have chosen to simply let Jesus go. He had that authority to do that, and yet he didn't do it. And we're gonna see s we're gonna see biblically why that is the case in in in in a few moments. For now he's absolving himself of this and the people what do the people do? This is they are they have really turned against Jesus. They're really willing to accept all culpability. Verse 25, and all the people answered and said, his blood be on us and on our children. Wow, what a contrast, what a change. Yeah, it's our fault. It's on us. This verse has been described as the darkest verse in the book of Matthew. There is no question, and there will be some that would say, well, isn't this anti To assume that these Jewish people are really doing this. They're putting the Jesus to death, and they're actually accepting responsibility for it. And the answer is that is exactly what they're doing. I don't think it's so much because they're Jewish people as their people. to be be deceived, which we'll note in a few moments. But I think it's also helpful to realize that in just a couple of months, something else is going to take place. And 3,000 Jewish people are going to actually turn to Christ once he rose from the grave and ascended to his father at Pentecost. So I think it's important to remember that although he put they put him to death, the Jewish people, in conjunction with the Romans, they also eventually would turn to Jesus Jesus. Most guilty was without question the Sanhedrin. And in Peter's sermon in Acts chapter three, verses thirteen through nineteen, we pick up here And we pick up and it says, The God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the God of our fathers, glorified his servant Jesus, whom you delivered up. He's talking now, Peter's talking to the Jewish people, to Israel. uh whom you delivered up and denied in the presence of Pilate when he was determined to let him go, be but you denied the Holy One and the Just, and asked for a murderer to be granted to you And kill the Prince of Life, whom God raised from the dead, of whom you ye we are witnesses. And his name, through faith in his name, has made this man strong whom you see. See and know. Yes, the faith which comes through him has given him this perfect soundness in the presence of you all. Yet now, brethren, I know that you did it in ignorance. But uh as did also your rulers. But those things which God foretold by the mouth of the prophets That Christ would suffer, he what he has thus fulfilled. Repent therefore and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out, that times of refreshing may come to the presence of God. They put Jesus to death, but they are offered later the opportunity to repent. What caused these people to turn to Christ? To turn away from Christ, rather. What caused them to do this, to turn on Christ? Likely it was their unrealized expectations. They expected Jesus to do one thing, and he instead did something very different. Now for those of you who have been saved for a long time, Christians for a long time, do you know people like that? At one point they profess to be Christians, they Seemed to be serving the Lord faithfully, and at some point they turned away from the Lord. Very often they do this Because they expected God to do a certain thing and God didn't. Or God did something or allowed something in their lives that that they thought God shouldn't have done or wouldn't do. And end up turning against the Lord. Folks, this is something that happens. The problem is, is that our ex and And the problem is that you have unrealized or false expectations from what God will do or won't do Instead of coming to God and simply saying, I submit to whatever your will is. See the contrast? You have the crowds and you have this anti Petron, and you have even Pilate, and they have all of their different plans and their different motives and their different agendas, and you have Christ, on the other hand, who says, I come to do the will of my Father. How do we stay faithful to the Lord throughout our lives, despite things that surprise us, things that we don't expect, that we don't understand? There are things, folks, throughout our lives that we say, Lord, why would you do this this way? Why would you allow this in this way? What are you doing, Lord? We have to submit. He is God. And we are not. And we need to realize that. We need to simply say, Lord, I do not understand your ways. I don't know why you do what you do. But I am s I am submitted fully to the will of the Father, whatever that is. And when we Maintain that attitude when we maintain that spirit of submission toward God, no matter what happens, no matter what we expect that doesn't take place or what or what we're surprised by. When we have that kind of attitude, we say faithful to the Lord. And you know the truth of the matter is in time, sometimes, God does give us glimpses of why he does what he does. And sometimes we begin to realize certain things. Oh Lord, that's why you did that. Or I see how you're taking that and using that for my good and for your glory. But when we can't see it, we need to trust Him. We need to submit to him. True dependency on Jesus is trusting and submission to the will of God. Well Pilate made the wrong move here. So he finds himself in a situation where now the Sanhedrin As well as the people are in agreement that Jesus must die. And so what happens? Well, verse 26. Then he released Barabbas to them. And when he had scourged Jesus, he delivered him to be crucified. And the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the praetorium and gathered the whole garrison around him, and they stripped him and put a scarlet robe on him. Remember, it's Friday, and the Sabbath is coming, and the there was apparently very likely an execution that was planned But this needed to be this needed to be expedited, this execution. By the way, this is just as a side note, we need to remember that the cross is a device of execution. We sometimes have crosses as decorations and reminders, and I don't think that's all wrong. Um But remember that this was This was an uh like an electric chair, this was except much, much more uh much more suffering happened with this And the crosses were set up for execution very likely, or they were they were um uh they were prepared very likely, but this needed to be expedited, so the Roman soldiers had a way of expediting uh an execution. through scourging, through whipping. And Roman scourging was not the same as Jewish scourging. There is Old Testament Jewish scourging Jewish whipping for certain crimes, but this was something that was that was quite different. This flogging, if you will, this whipping, in fact, there was a different different word used for it uh was was occurred when a man was condemned to die and they wanted to speed up uh this execution. A flagellum was used. It was a leather strap interwoven with pieces of stone and metal. And the man, it was never done to a woman, a man was whipped across the back. And in fact, on I this was a this was something I on several different commentaries that I read they noted that when this occurred oftentimes bones and even intestines became Visible. This was no, this was an extreme flogging. This was, and in fact, many died just from this. And that was the kind this was the kind of suffering that Jesus went to went through. This is the There is something very important and very valuable about looking at the details of what's going to happen. We're going to pick up on this next week. But looking at the details of the torture and the sacrifice that Christ made, it was a real event. We think of Jesus dying for me and dying for you in such trite terms sometimes that it's really important for us to go back to the reality of the sacrifice and the suffering that Christ made for us on the cross, the rejection of the Rejection that he experienced, these false accusations that he went through, and the physical suffering that he went through because of his love for you and his love for me. Isaiah 53, 6, all we like sheep have gone astray, we have turned every one to his own way. The Lord has laid on him the iniquity. Verse twelve of that passage, therefore I will divide him a portion with the great, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong, because he poured out his soul unto death. And he was numbered with the transgressors. And he bore the sin of many and made intercession for the transgressors. Now by way of application, I'd like to ask this question. Why did pilot compromise? Ultimately, it was pilot's decision. Why did he compromise in this? He knew the Sanhedrin had impure motives. He even had advice from his wife to don't touch this with 10-foot poles, so to speak. He still, yeah um he why what was the problem here? It really had to do, I think, very likely with the fear of man He was afraid of unpopularity. He was an insecure man, and many of the leaders back then were, and Pilate was no exception to this. And yet he made such a pivotal decision. Pilate would have been probably never in our history books at all. We never would have known him. He would have been in But because of this this event, he goes down in history as making the worst decision ever. One historian, Paul Maier, says it this way Pilate could never know it. He would have been astonished to know it, but apparently insignificant and insignificant pre- uh ex-prefect that he was, he would eventually be the most familiar name in all of Roman history For an uncounted masses in future ages who knew little about Caesar or Augustus or even Nero would confess in the Creed, I believe in Jesus Christ, who suffered under Pontius Pius. Pilate. Pilate is known forever for his for uh for perverted integrity, for his failure to stand where he needed And yet we find Proverbs 21:1 holds true as well that the king's heart is in the hand of the Lord. Lord. Pilate makes this wrong decision. He puts to death an innocent man, and yet that is entirely in God's sovereign plan. And this is something that we can be grateful for. The fact is, we find from Romans chapter 13 and other places in Scripture That God does ordain the ordinances of man. He does ordain governmental authorities. And they do make decisions Based upon his overall sovereign plan. That doesn't mean they will always make just decisions. That doesn't mean they will make right decisions, but they will make decisions that fit within the sovereign plan of God. So that we can always trust in what God is doing. Now, the question then becomes: you've got Jesus here You've got the crowds and their response to Jesus. You've got Pilate in his response to Jesus. You've got the Sanhedrin in their response to Jesus And the question is, what will you do with Jesus? What will you do with Jesus? Now the fact is that we have lived in a country that has been sympathetic to Christianity for most of its existence. existence and yet that is changing, isn't it? Is it not? Uh I don't think any more for you to say to the average person in the in the in you know, that you meet on the street, that you are a Christian is going to get you any brownie points. In fact, there is there may very well be a skepticism. Because you are a Christian. And there is there is not only persecution, but there very likely will be increased persecution In this country. And the question is: will you stand firm? Will you stand firm for the cause of Christ despite opposition and despite false accusations? Well, folks, it really has to do with whose will we want. The truth of the matter is none of us actually know who will stand firm. You could say, yes, I'll stand firm for Christ. Oh mo oh boy, don't be like Peter Don't think that you will not falter. But the question still remains: do we really desire the will of God? I think that's the helpfulness of It's not to say will I really be able to to stand if you know i if if I'm going to be physically persecuted, am I going to be able to do that? And the testimonies of missionaries and and uh and throughout church history have been and uh others have been that it was really sort of a supernatural strength from God that allowed them to go through these kinds of things. Think of John Huss uh you know singing while he is he is burning at the stake, that kind of a thing. But it does cause us to think to ourselves, do I really desire the will of God? Can I say, nevertheless, Not my will, but yours be done. Will you stand firm for the cause of Christ despite opposition? Number two, are you hostile toward Christ because of unrealized expectations? Look, this crowd, they were praising Christ a few days ago, and they turned because it he didn't do what they wanted him to do. And there are times, folks, where look, every Christian at one time or another is going to come at a crossroads and God isn't doing what you want Him to do. Probably many times this happens. I think of somebody who comes to Christ and they're experiencing the joy of their salvation, they're experiencing peace. peace that they didn't have before, and they think that everything is going to be wonderful in life until something happens that they just can't understand. Every Christian goes through that. And many times, multiple times. What are we going to do with that? Are we going to Submit ourselves to the will of God and say, Lord, you know better? I want to do your will, or will we become hostile to the to Christ because we don't understand what He's done or we we we we want him to do something different and we turn on him. Matthew chapter 12 verse 30 says this, he who is not with me is against me. And he who does not gather with me scatters abroad. Then ultimately the question is, will you accept Christ or reject him? Maybe you're here this morning, and you you're you do you're fine with Jesus. You're okay with with who you know with with him and in your mind you go, yeah, Jesus is is good. Uh understand, he says, I am the way, the truth, and a life. No one comes to the Father but me by me It is not as though you can kind of add Jesus to everything else that you believe in. Jesus, by his very decree is that you if you are not with me, you're against me. And you and you you have to be completely for him. The Bible says neither is there any man neither is there Any salvation against an um among any other, but there is none other name under sal under there is none of the name under salvation uh I'm miss I'm I'm messing this up. Neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under sal under under what? Under heaven, given among men, whereby we must be saved. And I'm going to read this next one. John three thirty-six says He who believes in the Son hath everlasting life, and he who does not believe the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abides on him. Now, regardless of my inability to quote the scripture The question is, will you believe in Christ or not? And if you are here this morning and you don't know whether or not you have truly accepted him as your Lord and Savior, let me ask you Encourage you to come to Christ and believe in Him. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you and thank you for who you are. We praise you because you You are, you went to the cross for us. Jesus went to the cross and suffered and died for us. He suffered rejection and humiliation from everyone. Even you, Father, turn your back on Jesus so that we could So that we could have eternal life and he could take on our sin on himself. Lord, I pray that you'd help us to This would be something very real to us that we would understand what Christ has done for us and that we would follow the example of Jesus in desiring your Christ's will to be done in our lives. And may we follow him. What should we do with Jesus? We need to follow him. And I pray that you'd help us to do that. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to To thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.