Let's bow our heads as we go to the Lord of prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning just to give you praise. Praise and honor and glory for your great name. Father, we are grateful for who you are and thankful. Father, you are the great I am. You are all powerful, all-wise, and all-knowing. You are the creator and sustainer of all life. And you are sovereign over all your creation. You are sovereign over all things, even in our lives, Father. And we're grateful and thankful this morning that you are a sovereign God, the one true living God And you tell us in your word that you are the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father unless they come through you. And we're grateful for the sacrifice that you've made to cross us. morning and we just want to praise you and thank you. And we thank you that you are now seated at the right hand of God the Father and you intercede on our behalf. We're thankful for your word. We're thankful for your sending the Holy Spirit to indwell our hearts. And we pray this morning as we prepare to get under your word, Lord, we would ask that you would help us to To set aside all of those distractions and all those thoughts that we've been having and all the things that have been going on this week. That we might spend this next hour under your word. And Lord, we pray for your spirit. to work in our hearts and open our eyes and our ears and help us to retain what we're learning, Lord. And in that, help us to be obedient to it. And I pray, Father, that uh you would guide us and direct us this morning for your glory. And I pray for those, Lord, who are unable to come out this morning. We ask that you would please be with them and bless them with your word. And I pray that you'll be working in their hearts. And I pray for those who are not feeling well. And I would ask God that you would uh enable them to withstand the illness and all and that uh by your power and might that uh you would raise them up and heal them and get them back to us Lord Lord. And we ask this morning also, Father, that uh to thank those that have been out helping and trying to get the parking lot cleaned up and all. We're so grateful, Lord, for your goodness and your working in our hearts and in the hearts of those who volunteer to come out and and uh try to get things ready so that we can have service this morning. We're very grateful and very thankful for for your good hand upon us. We ask now as we come to your word, Lord, enlighten us and cause us to understand. In Jesus' name. Amen. We are in Matthew chapter 26 this morning, and we're going to be looking at verses 47 through 67. And so we begin in verse 47. And while he was still speaking, behold, Judas, one of the twelve, with a great Multitude with swords and clubs came from the chief priests and elders of the people. Now his betrayer had given them a sign saying, Whomever I kiss He is the one. Seize him. Immediately he went up to Jesus and said, Greetings, Rabbi. kissed him. But Jesus said to him, Friend, why have you come? Then they came and laid hands on Jesus and And took him. And suddenly one of those who were with Jesus stretched out his hand and drew his sword and struck the servant of the high priest and cut off his ear. But Jesus said to him, put your sword in its place, for all who take the sword will perish by the sword. Or do you think that I cannot pray to my Father and he will provide me with more than twelve legions of angels? How then could the scriptures be fulfilled that it must happen like thus? In that hour Jesus said to the multitudes Have you come out as against a robber with swords and clubs to take me? I sat daily with you, teaching in the temple, and you did not seize me. But all this was done that the scriptures of the prophets might be fulfilled. Then all the disciples forsook him and fled. And those who laid hands on Jesus led him away to Caiaphas, the high priest, where the scribes and the elders were assembled But Peter followed him at a distance to the high priest's courtyard, and he sat, and he went in and sat with the servants to see the Now the chief priests, the elders, and all the council sought false testimony against Jesus to put him to death. But found none. Even though many false witnesses came forward, they found none. But at last two false witnesses came forward and said This fellow said, I am able to destroy the temple of God and to build it in three days. And the high priest arose and said to him, Do you answer nothing? What is it that these men testify against you? But Jesus kept silent. And the high priest answered and said to him, I put you under oath by the living God. Tell us if you are the Christ, the Son of God. And Jesus said Heaven. Then the high priest tore his clothes, saying, He has spoken blasphemy. What further need do we have of witnesses? Look now, you have heard his blasphemy. What do you think? And they answered and said, He is deserving of death. Then they spat in his face and beat him, and others struck him with the palms of their hands, saying, Prophesy to us, Christ Who is the one who struck you? You ever get discouraged by all of the people problems in life? You think about all of the agendas, all of from workplace drama and competing political agendas and false accusations and misinformation and No don't know who to believe, backbiting and fear and cowardice, whether you're seeing in the workplace, whether you're whether you're seeing in the news or even in churches. This can be something that's very the all these things can be quite uh quite discouraging. And yet what we see from this text and what we see in God's word is that God uses all of this mess down here on earth. for his plan and to accomplish his redemptive purposes. And what we have in this text is a dramatic display of that. You've got multiple people, parties, agendas, things going on here in this text, and yet all of it is going to ultimately end In God's redemptive plan taking place. God is sovereign. He is in control. His plan will carry out his plan. Now, the passage picks up with the disciples and Jesus, if you'll recall from last week, being in the Garden of Gethsemane. And um Jesus has been praying and the disciples have been sleeping. You remember that? Uh from last week. And if you'll remember also that Judas has been behind the scenes He has been conspiring against Jesus. But actually the man behind the curtain, behind even Judas, is Satan himself. We know this from both John chapter 13 and Luke 22. In John 13, 2 it says this that the devil having already put in his heart in the heart of Judas Iscariot Simon's son to betray him The devil put it in Judas's heart. And then we have in Luke 22. 3, Satan enters Judas, surname Iscariot, who was numbered among the twelve. So you have not only Satan putting into Judas's heart the desire to betray Jesus, but also he possesses Judas, in order that he might betray Jesus. And yet, Satan is behind the scenes doing all of this for the final outcome that Jesus is going to die for everybody. I mean this was literally part of the plan, the sovereign plan of God. Imagine being the disciples in the situation in the Garden of Gethsemane. Jesus has prophesied about what's going to happen. He's predicted what's going to happen. And it's taking place. And you have this crowd, the Bible says a multitude of people are coming to arrest Jesus. And wondering about all the chaos and all the problems and all the things, all these things going on, and how this is all going to work out, they had no clue. They had no clue what really was going to take place. And yet on the other hand you see Jesus, and Jesus the entire time is taking scripture actually, and we'll see this. He cites scripture on two occasions in this text. Taking Scripture and knowing exactly how to apply it to the situation that they are in, to know exactly what God is doing, and then Jesus is able to read it. Respond in such a way that is consistent with the plan of God, not opposing the plan of God. Jesus then sets an example for us. on how we can live this life in the rat wait race that we live in, the chaos, the agendas, the problems to know that God is sovereignly working all of it out for his purposes, so that Christians should never be In despair, sometimes I've got to be honest with you, I hear Christians that say things that Christians shouldn't say. Oh boy, this country's going to hell in a handbasket. Well, every country is going to hell in a handbasket. It's been happening for 2,000 years. So we shouldn't be despairing over this. We should be realizing that in God's sovereign plan, he rises up nations and he tears down nations. It's all in his plan. It doesn't mean we don't roat when sin is a reproach against a certain group of people or a nation. Certainly we do. But we need to understand we should never, as Christians, be and despair because we know that whatever we're going through in life, no matter how chaotic, no matter how it doesn't make any sense, that ultimately God is going to use those purposes To carry out his sovereign plan. And the question that we need to really ask ourselves is, what do how do we Think and respond. And the example that we're going to have here, the right example, is Jesus himself. It's not the disciples. Frankly, they do the wrong thing. And it's not, it's certainly not Judas and and and uh the Sanhedrin and all the all those folks. The person to keep our eyes on through this entire process is Jesus and how he thinks, what he says, what he doesn't say through the entire process. Jesus, I think, has, I just looking at everything, I think Jesus has several purposes in mind that guide how he He wants God's will and the kingdom to be promoted and to move Forward. That's Christ's goal. He wants the will of God, nevertheless, not your not my will, but yours be done. We saw that last week, and we're going to see him carrying this out in respond how responding how he responds. But it isn't as though Jesus says nothing. He there are certain times he says nothing in the passage, but there are sometimes he does speak up. He asks questions. Why does he do that? He is going to appeal to to the the consciences, I think, of the people that are betraying him. And he's also he's also, in a sense, he is preparing people For the fact that he will rise, he will die, and then he will rise from the grave. He is actually preparing people for that in what he says. And he is also doing something else in what he says and what he doesn't say. He is making sure that there is no accusation against him except the accusation that we're going to see at the end, that he is who he says he is. He is the Son of God. He is the Messiah. That becomes the accusation of Caiaphas and the Sanhedrin. And Jesus acts in such a way that they can't point to anything else except that He is the Son of He is the Son of God, so therefore he says he's the Son of God. And we're going to see all of that as we go on in this passage. Ultimately, what we're going to see in this passage is that God sovereignly works out his will to bring out his redemptive purposes And we're going to see that he carries this out in three ways. Number one, through competing agendas. You're going to see this. There are competing agendas in this passage. Then we're going to see in verses 57 through 63. through false accusations. You're going to see that. And then finally, God will sovereignly work out his plan through the condemnation of the He does all of this. And let's first look then at how God sovereignly works out his plan through competing agendas in verses 4 forty seven through fifty six here. So we pick up in verse forty seven and it says, and while he was still speaking, behold, Judas, one of the twelve, with a great multitude, with swords and clubs, come from the chief priests and elders of the people Now his betrayer had given them a sign saying, Whomever I kiss, he is the one sees him. Immediately he went up to Jesus and said, Greetings, Rabbi, and kissed him. Jesus said to him, Friend, why have you come? Then they came and laid hands on Jesus and took him. And suddenly one of those who were with Jesus Jesus stretched out his hand and drew his sword, struck the servant of the high priest, and cut off his ear. But Jesus said to him, Put your sword in its place, for all who take the sword will perish by the sword. So we we have here Judas is coming. He has a detachment of troops. In fact, John helps us understand this a little bit more, John chapter 18. Verse 3 says, then Judas, having received a detachment of troops and officers from the chief priests and Pharisees, came there with lanterns, torches, and weapons. You have this mob of people. And the mob of people, Judas is leading it, according to the John passage. Judas is leading it. You have Roman soldiers that are included in this. They're probably there to try to make sure that things don't get out of hand too much. So you have Roman soldiers that are there. That is indicated by the swords. And very likely the clubs were probably used by the temple police. according to one common commentary I read. And so you have the temple police that are there, or the John passage calls them the officers from the chief priests. So you have These sort of temple beliefs or officers from the chief priests that come. And then you probably have just a whole group of uh of other people, because you have a very large multitude that are there. And they're there, then you have the chief priests that are there as well and the elders. So you have a very large group of people that are there. And Jesus, and Judas, of course we know this famous kiss of death. That Judas comes and he's going to uh come and and and place a kiss on Jesus that is going to indicate who Jesus is so that they can know. And this particular kiss This is something that was commonly done back then. This is nothing weird. It's just it was a common greeting back then. And it was particularly a customary way of greeting people. venerable rabbi, people that were uh this was a sort of a a sign of respect. Um and it's interesting that Judas uses the term rabbi. He doesn't say Lord. That's common for the disciples to say Lord. He doesn't say Lord Lord He doesn't say Lord here, doesn't say master, he says rabbi. That tells us something about how Judas perceives Jesus, of course, and he is going to betray him. Jesus responds in verse 50 by saying, friend. Isn't that interesting that Jesus says to Judas at this point Now this is not an intimate term. It's a very open-hearted term. It's a greeting and it become and it is a reminder to Judas that you are taking advantage of our friend. That's very likely why Jesus says friend to him. You're taking advantage of this, Judas. The fact that you're fri we're friends, the fact that you know where I would be in all of this. So he's kind of reminding them of that. And he says, why have you come? He asks the question, why have you come? Now, did Jesus know why he came? He absolutely didn't know why he came. In fact, the John passage said in John we find that he knew exactly what was going on. Jesus knew why Judas was there, but he still asked the question. to really try to get Judas to come out with why he's doing what he is doing. And in the mo in all this moment of the mob coming and the chaos and Jesus And Judas is coming and and all of this, Peter pulls out a sword. We know it's Peter from the uh from John again tells us it's Peter. Peter. John chapter 18, verse 10 says, Then Simon Peter, having a sword, drew it and struck the high priest's servant, and cut off his right ear. And the servant's name was Malchus. Now it's interesting that Peter chose the high priest's servant. He didn't choo choose the Roman soldier. He didn't choose even the temple guards, the temple police. He chose this servant of the high priest, and we have the name of the high priest is Malchus. And apparently he's not a very good aim because he probably is going for his neck and he hits his ear. instead. And so Jesus, and it's also by probably by God's sovereign plan, he misses his neck as well as well here in the passage. And Jesus says to him to Jesus All who take the sword Are going to perish by the sword. Jesus is telling Peter and the rest of the disciples that we are not going to deal with this through violence. We're not going to deal with this. through force. Jesus has said some similar things in the past. For example, in Matthew chapter 5, verse 38, it says, You have heard that it was said, an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth. But I tell you not to resist an evil person, but whoever slaps you on the right cheek, turn the other to him also. If anyone wants to sue you and take away your tunic, let him have your cloak also. And whoever compels you to go one mile, go with him too. Give to him who asks, and from from him who wants to borrow from you, do not turn away. Now when Jesus says this, that those who live by the sword are going to perish by the sword, or those who who uh who take the sword are going to perish by the sword. He is not giving a broad brush uh statement of all that every that Christians all Christians should be pacifists. Some would take that here and they would say that a a Christian should never on any under any circumstances Resort to violence. And there have been, frankly, good people in the past that have taken that position. But that is not what Jesus is saying here. We see other passages of Scripture, we see other places where nations do, in fact the nation of Israel is told to defend itself, and God calls the nation of Israel on times as a nation to defend itself And so it's not wrong for a nation to use violence to defend itself. But what Jesus is saying is that the advancement of the kingdom is not going to come through violence. In other words, you can't force people to come into God's kingdom. Now there will be a day when Jesus will set up his kingdom on this earth. And every knee will bow and every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. But what Jesus is doing here is he's sending a signal to Peter That the way that God is going to build his kingdom is not through violence and not through force, it is through the working of the Word of God, the Spirit of God in the souls of men. That's important to understand. Throughout history, there have been times where the kingdom of God has been forced on people. people by religious leaders. Think of the Crusades, for example, as a prime example of this. Very candidly, Jesus would not have endorsed the Crusade. Or these holy wars that we find. Jesus would not have endorsed these kinds of things. The kingdom of God is not built that way. It's not built the kingdoms citizens during this particular during this time of grace, it isn't they're not built through through some sort of force or some sort of use of violence. No. It is as the gospel goes forward, the gospel is the power of God. to influence the soul so that they are converted through the word of God and the Spirit of God. That's important for us to understand. So Jesus says to Peter, look, understand this, that they're not, if if we wanted to deal with this, we could deal with this. I would just call 10, I would just call 12 legions. He says, I can call Do you not think, verse 53, do you not think that I cannot now pray to my Father and he will provide me with more than twelve legions? of angels. 12 legions, by the way, is 72,000 angels. It's a lot of angels. Maybe 12 legions. It's a legion. for each disciple and then one for him, each of the eleven disciples, and one for him. I don't know w I'm not sure where the twelve lead By the way, I don't know why the song says he could have called ten thousand angels. I was thinking about that when I was studying this. Why did this why does the song say that? I mean ten thousand angels is a lot, but if not as much as seventy two thousand, why doesn't it say seventy two thousand? Probably because the meter wouldn't work right. But anyway, but understand that it this seventy-two thousand that he is he could have he says he could have called. And then he says this. Jesus is fully aware of the sovereign plan of God and what is going on here because he says in verse 54, how then could the scriptures be fulfilled? that it must happen to us. He says, hey, the scriptures are being fulfilled here. How is it going to be fulfilled if we by i if I call you know seventy-two thousand angels to come and to take care of us, how is the scriptures going to be fulfilled? In other words, he's saying to Peter, this is part of God's plan. We need to understand this. Despite the opposition, despite the betrayal and all of these wrong motives and all of what's going to happen, this is part of the plan of God. Understand that Verse 55, in that hour Jesus said to the multitudes, Have you come out as against a robber with swords and clubs to take me? So he's now turning the multitudes and he asks them, have you come this way as though I'm a robber with swords and clubs to take me? He said, I sat daily with you teaching in the temple, and you disease me then. But all this was uh so so why uh but all this was done that the prophets might uh the the scriptures of the prophets might be fulfilled. So what What is Jesus saying? Why is he saying this? He's pointing out that they are not, this is not right the way they're doing this. That they are doing this under subterfuge. They're doing this behind the scenes. This is sort of a covert way of doing things. And we're going to see this get worse actually as we go. This is not on the up and up. This is not, okay, you have clearly violated the law and now we are arresting you. By asking this question, why have you didn't you not arrest me then? Why are you arresting me now? He is essentially pointing out, he's implying that this This is not an appropriate arrest. This is not a lawful arrest. Well, I don't really care, frankly. This becomes obvious as as the trials go on, and we'll see this in a a few moments. But all of this is to fulfill the scriptures. And we're going, and this is a general, there's not a passage referred to here in verse 56. But it does certainly refer, it does fulfill scriptures like Isaiah 53 and Zechariah 12 through 13 and others as well. Well remember we've so far we've actually left Peter with his uh Peter with uh or Malchus with the ear cut off. The Luke passage says, Luke twenty-two, fifty-one, that Jesus did heal the ear, and that probably happened right around the time that he's Explaining that we're not going to take the you know that we're not going to um use the sword here. Um and so then it says in the text here um uh uh that that well we'll see the next thing that happens in a few moments. Well what can we learn from all of this? There's actually a lot that we can learn. We could see a mixture of agendas that we've already noted We see the betrayer, but I want you to notice what the disciples do. The disciples, it says, they flee. The text says this. Then the disciples flee. forsook him and fled. Now I want us to think about this. What we see with the disciples is the natural human response. Two things. Fight. Oh, we're not doing that? Then flight. You see that? Peter, by really probably representing the disciples, he's been doing that the whole time, pulls out his sword. probably expecting that the rest of the disciples are going to pull out their swords as well or whatever they have to fight with. Jesus says, put it all away. And so their immediate reaction to this is, I'm going to fight. And when Jesus says we're not doing that, what do they do? They flee. That is the natural human response. to this kind of chaos, to this kind of opposition. That's not the right response. It's not the biblical response See, the disciples, what they needed was wisdom beyond their own to be under to understand that this was all in God's plan. And that the way to deal with opposition is not to fight and not to flee, but to stand And that's actually why you find in Ephesians chapter 6, having done all to stand. And the same thing in 2 Peter 5, where it says that we should stand fast. Jesus doesn't fight and he doesn't flee. Jesus stands. And we and the example that we have of Jesus Jesus is very clear here. Jesus is thinking biblically. And that's the example we need to have. We need to understand, we need to learn to think biblically. That doesn't mean that it may not be conventionally. It may not be the way everybody else thinks about it. It certainly is not likely going to be the way the culture thinks And it isn't going to even be the natural reaction, the natural human reaction to things. It's going to be different, but you've got to really Speak biblically in order to be able to respond the way Jesus does in this situation. 1 Corinthians 2, verse 13 says this. These things We also speak not in words which man's wisdom teaches, but what the Holy Spirit teaches, comparing spiritual things with spiritual. The natural man, the non-Christian, the natural man, does not receive the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him. Nor can he know them because they are spiritually discerned. But he was spiritual, judges all things, in other words, He discerns all things, yet he himself is rightly judged by no one, for who has known the mind of the Lord that he that he may instruct him? But we have the mind of Christ The mind of Christ, frankly, in the context, is the Word of God and the Spirit of God working with the Word of God. Christian, do you have the mind of Christ? When you come up against situations, struggles, difficulties, agendas, problems. Do you have the mind of Christ or are you ready to fight or flee? God desires for us to have the mind of Christ. to see, to step back a minute, to look to see God's biblical, uh uh God's point of view on it The biblical view of it, and to respond in a way that is Christ-like, to stand in the midst of opposition. So we have here that Jesus is arrested. Now, there's a lot we need to say about what's going to happen here. lot going on in the scene uh on the scene before we get into the text that we need to give you a little bit of background on. Remember that Jesus is rest arrested here on Thursday night So he's arrested on Thursday night, late Thursday night. They're going to bring him into an immediate trial. In the book of John, we find that he's actually first going to the trial of Annas. And then he's going to move to the trial of Caiaphas. Matthew only records the trial of Caiaphas. Anas and Caiaphas, Caiaphas was the son-in-law of Anas. They very likely lived in the same complex, the same, it was probably a palatial palace, according to uh archaeological and background information. They they lived in the same area and there was a courtyard according to the Matthew text that that um and so that's why you could have one trial after another so quickly because they're not moving from different places, different locations. They're all in that complex and they s it starts with Anison then moves to Kyavus. But then why do you have two people, two there's a sort of a interest Interesting thing going on there where Ennis was the original high priest. Caiaphas come in comes in and becomes the high priest, but it appears that at some point during the history of their priesthood that they become almost like co-high priests. And that may have been what's happening here. But the other thing more than likely is that they wanted both the judgment of Annas and Caiaphas So that if the both judgments are the same, then they can go before the Roman Empire and they can present their case to them. But they've got to thread a they've got to thread a needle here Here's the needle they have to throw. They have to figure out a way, see they're allowed as Jewish people, as the as as a uh under the Roman Empire, as Jewish leaders, to try Jesus, who is a Jew, under Jewish law. So they've got to find something that he violates in order to be able to put him to death But the death penalty is reserved for uh corporal punishment is only reserved for the Roman Empire. In other words, the Roman Empire will not let the Jewish nation that's under the Roman Empire put Jesus to death. So these religious leaders have to figure out something that is going to function as uh that will violate the death penalty under Jewish law, but will also violate that will also cause the death penalty under Roman law. And what they end up coming up with is this idea of blasphemy, which you're going to see in the past passage. Blasphemy, according to the book of Leviticus, is punishable by death. But but blasphemy isn't punishable by death according to Roman law. I mean they don't really care about whether you So how they do that, so they're gonna take this and they're gonna turn it and and apply the whole Messiah issue and suggest that what Jesus is going to do is he is committing, he has committed treason. So you have blasphemy and then treason. How is Jesus, he hasn't done anything violent. How is he committing Treason. That's why later on Pilate's going, I find no fault in this man. This guy's not dangerous. Okay, that's my paraphrase. Okay Um and so we won't be discussing that. We won't get to the Roman Roman uh trials today at all. But that's all background to understand what's going on here. I was going to have you turn to the John the John text. I won't, but it's in John chapter 18, verses 12 through 24. where you have that particular trial of Annas first before we have the trial of Caiaphas in this passage. So now let's look then secondly, God sovereignly working through false accusations of God. of evil men. Verse chapter twenty-six, verses fifty-seven through sixty-three. So in verse fifty-seven it says that those who laid hold of Jesus led him away to Caiaphas, the high priest, where the scribes and the elders were assembled. So you've got these, the the Sanhedrin is basically what they are, a combination of elders and scribes that are assembled, and Caiaphas being the high priest there, they are ready to pronounce judgment on Jesus. We've already discussed the location is at this sort of palatial mansion very likely. One thing to note is that scholars have looked at all of what's going on with the trials and It is basically like this kangaroo court going on. Here are some of the things that they question that are unusual about a Jewish trial. First of all, it was held at night. That didn't happen usually. It was held at the high priest's home. It was usually in the Pet Temple precincts. It was on the evening of a festival day. That was odd. It was um on the same uh they they made a judgment on the same day as instead of waiting into the next day. That was strange. Uh there were witnesses that disagreed. That was So uh all in fact s secular scholars look at all of this and they actually assume then that there must be something wrong with the text of the Bible because there are so many off things when it comes to the the the way these trials took place. The truth of the matter is what? No, there's nothing wrong with the Bible. This was this was a This was a truncated, twisted court proceedings to get the outcome that they wanted. That was what was going on here. in in the text. And so you have here another note in verse 58 that Peter was following in the distance. It's interesting by the way. Peter is still not functioning functioning with the mind of Christ. And we're going to click on See this next week. He's not doing that. He is midway between courage and cowardice here. Okay? He's following on behind. He's not with Jesus. He's not identifying Jesus. But he's also not fleeing completely. He's sort of kind of keeping his distance He's in between courage and cowardice. That is also a very human way of handling this particular situation. By the way, isn't it wonderful to know that the disciples are going to be after the resurrection and the ascension of Christ, that the Spirit of God is going to be working in the disciples and the apostles to literally transform them. So they're nothing like this later on. That's just for as a side note to point out. So we have here it says then time fear follow Jesus. And so did another disciple. So apparently there's another disciple, which we would assume is John. So you got Peter and John. Now that disciple was known to the high priest and went with Jesus into the courtyard of the high priest. But Peter stood at the at the door outside, and the other disciple, who was known to the high priest, went out and spoke to her, who kept the door and brought Peter in. So John and and Peter are the ones that follow. But John does go into the courtyard. And then Peter lags behind, and then John is able to bring Peter with him into the courtyard. That will save for later next week. That's going to become uh important for sure. So it says in the text that they desired to bring false witnesses against them. So what it m what they're actually what Matthew, that's a commentary for Matthew. Matthew is saying they're bringing false witness. Their desire was to bring true witnesses against them. Of course, there are no true wit witnesses against Jesus didn't violate any laws, and so they had to bring false witnesses against Jesus. But the problem according to the John passage is they couldn't agree. There was no two witnesses that could agree on anything. Finally, they found something that they could agree on. And in verse 61, we find it says I am the uh one said, I am able to destroy the uh this fellow, talking about Jesus, said, I am able to destroy the temple of God and build it in three days. So they say that what Jesus said was I could destroy the temple of God and rebuild it in three days. But that's not actually what exactly Jesus said. Exactly what Jesus said is found in John chapter 2, verse 19. It says there, and Jesus answered, look carefully at the Matthew text while I read for you the John text, and you'll see the difference. John 2. 19 says, Jesus answered and said to them, destroy this temple in three days, and I will raise it up. Did you catch the difference? What did they say, he said? I'm able to destroy the temple of God. He didn't say that. Now, Christ is able to do whatever he wants, but that's not what he said He was not implying that he was going to destroy the temple. He was implying that if they destroy the temple, he will raise it up. And actually the disciples didn't even understand what he was saying, and in fact he was actually referring to himself as the temple. But what they did was they took what he said and they twisted it. They twisted his own words. And this becomes the accusation It was an offense against the temple of God, and therefore there's a sense in which it was blasphemy, because it was against the very presence of God in the temple of God. And this becomes this is this becomes uh the what they consider to be the uh uh a credible accusation. Now, we see in verse verse 62 of this passage, look at verse 62, and the high priest arose and said to him, Do you answer nothing? So by the way, his response is nothing. He doesn't say anything. Jesus responds does not respond to this. I think it's very interesting, by the way. It's interesting that Jesus doesn't respond to them twisting his words. He could have corrected them. He could have said, no, that's not what I said, right? And and what would have happened in that case? Well, you have two people that are saying he said the same thing, and he says he didn't, so what's going to happen? It's two against one. Jesus is very wise in not choosing to be silent here because he did not want to choose just to defend himself. Jesus was not concerned about defending himself. Jesus knew where he was going and what he was doing. He was fully aware of it. He wanted the furtherance of the kingdom to move forward, which is why he's going to say some of the things he's going to say. But, and we'll see this in a minute, he says more. But he did not want to defend himself. His goal was not to defend himself. He was not in this sort of self-protective mode. You know how easy it is for us to come into that? We are very easily self-protective. We we hey don't falsely accuse me. You said don't twist my words. I didn't say that. And we become very upset about it. When we are, see folks, that's not the mind of Christ. The mind of Christ is to not get all up in arms when we are falsely accused. It is going to happen someday. times. The mind of Christ is not concerned primarily about defending self. The mind of Christ is primarily concerned about promoting the kingdom. See, everything Jesus does, Jesus' goal is to further the kingdom, not to promote himself, to further the kingdom, not even to protect himself or to defend himself. His goal is to further the kingdom. Brothers and sisters in Christ, if you name the name of Christ, that needs to be your goal. Your purpose in life, my purpose in life, is to is to def is to promote, to further the kingdom of God. Folks, this comes into play in all aspects of life. We begin to deal in business dealings and those kinds of things. Sometimes we just need to take it in the chin and say, you know what? I want God's kingdom to be furthered rather than me be protected and my rights preserved. And so therefore, I want God's plan to go forward. I'm going to handle this in that way. This gets real nitty-gritty practical, actually, when you begin to think about it. What is our purpose? If our primary purpose is to further the kingdom of God, it is going to be, we are going to respond and react differently than if our primary purpose is to promote self to very different goals. And we see this in Jesus. This is exactly what he does. He does not defend himself. Instead, he stays silent. And this really frustrates Caiaphas. He's frustrated because he can't even get a witness against himself. I mean, Jesus is not, I mean, there's two things going on here. He's not defending himself, but he's also not incriminating himself. And Caiaphas is pretty frustrated with this. What do you say to this? And Jesus is saying nothing. And so we're going to see then uh we're going to see then that Jesus answers Wisely in a few moments. But I want us to note something here. In Proverbs 26, verses 4 through 5, it says this. Catch this. Do not answer a fool according to his folly. Lest you also be like him. And then it says this, it's not done. Then it says, answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own eyes Did you catch that? Proverbs 26 verse 4 says, don't answer a fool according to his folly. And then Proverbs 26 verse 5 says you need to answer a fool fool according to his folly Well, which is it? Now remember, this is not these are not commands. This is a matter of wisdom. Sometimes it is wise to answer a full according to the Sometimes it is wise to stay silent, and we have to know the difference. There is a great danger, folks, when we answer a fool according to a folly, the Bible says, Don't do that lest you be like him. And I've I'll just say it this way. I remember on several occasions where there was a situation there were situations where just what was being said was foolishness. I remember one particular situation years ago. It was utter foolishness. It actually was an accusation against me. And I knew it was utter foolishness. And I read this text, and I thought to myself, I've got two options here. I can try to deal with this, or I can let this go. And I, by God's grace, chose to let it go. And you know why I chose to let it go? Because I didn't want to be like him. Did you catch this? It says the danger, the danger of answering a cool full according to his folly, less you be like him. That's really dangerous. And I would rather let that fool be wise in his own conceit, let God deal with him. than for me to answer him according to his folly. And so I chose to be silent in that particular situation. Now I'm not looking myself up. I'm I I honestly there are many times I chose to be like him in a person. situations. In fact, I probably probably the reason that a reason I came to that conclusion is because there are so many other times where I blew it But this tells us the importance of answering in a way that's wise, that ultimately, what is the goal? Furthering the kingdom. of God. That has to be the goal. And so we see that Jesus is going to answer here. When when um When Caiaphas, you know, pretty much puts him under oath and condemns him for we're we'll see all this in verses 63 By the way, doesn't chapter 26 have a lot of verses? Alright. 63b. And the high priest answered and said to him, I put you under oath by the living God. Tell us if you are the Christ, the Son of God. And Jesus said to him, It is as you said. Nevertheless, I say to you, hereafter, you will see the Son of God, or the Son of Man, sitting at the right hand of the power and coming on the clouds of heaven. Then the high priest tore his clothes, saying, He has spoken blasphemy. What further need do we have of witnesses? Look now, you have heard his blasphemy. What do you think? They answered and said, He is deserving of death. Then they spat in his face. beat him, and others struck him with the palms of their hands, saying, Prophesy to us, Christ, you uh who is the one who struck you? So the high priest Caiaphas basically swears in Jesus and calls him to answer under oath. And in this respect, finally, Jesus answers him. Why does Jesus answer? Because it is now for the furtherance of God's kingdom. Now he is answering because he is answering not to defend himself, but to further the kingdom of God. And the way that he does this does indeed do that, and it really indicts Caiaphas and all of them as well. Now Christ and the Son of God are interchangeable terms, essentially. They are equal together. You are the Christ and you are the Son of God together. You are the Messiah and the Son of God together. We see that in 2 Samuel chapter 7 and Psalm 2. But you'll notice then Jesus how Jesus responds, and I think this is really important. He says, Nevertheless, I say to you, Hereafter you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the power and coming on the clouds of heaven. Now, what event is that? Is that the resurrection? It's not. It's not the resurrection. The event he's speaking of is the coming, the second coming. of Christ. Why does He note that event when you've got this major one, the resurrection? It's because the Riz the the Resur the the These leaders who are trying him are not going to recognize the resurrection. We know that from the book of Acts. They do not recognize that there was a bodily resurrection of Christ. They deny it. And what Jesus is saying is the next time you religious leaders see me, I'm going to be king. I'm going to be in charge. You're not going to see me as the risen Christ. You're not going to accept, I mean this is all you're not going to accept me as the Savior, but you will accept me as Lord one day. And that's why he answers that way. It really prepares them, it really warns them that what they are doing is not going to be the final say. So this high priest sees this as blasphemy. Probably makes them extremely angry how he how Jesus answers. Well, not probably he does, it's clear. Because Jesus is now asserting that he will be over them, he will be king, he will be, he is on the right hand of God, and he tears his clothes, which is a biblical response. to blasphemy actually according to second kings chapter uh chapter 18 and acts 1414 they tore their clothes He tears his clothes and indicts them and he says, you are deserving of death. And if Jesus was committing blasphemy, he would be. according to the law. Leviticus 24, 10 through 23. So now and of course Jesus isn't committing blasphemy because he is God. But they have their case. Now they still have a problem, which which we'll get to in the future. We have a still problem because blasphemy is not a capital offense according to the Roman Empire, but they've got what they need here. in order to go to the Roman Empire and say, we have tried him, and he is worthy of death. So what do they do? They take him and they beat him. See, they are allowed to do this. They can't kill him, but they could torture him. And that's exactly what we see in this passage. We see, and all and and the other gospels verify this, that they come and they torture him. They beat him And what we see is really three things happen. Another parallel passage says that they spit on him. which shows they disdain his divine status. They strike him with blows, which disdains his the uh w which uh calls you know you know uh attacks his his powerfulness, his omnipotence. And then they slap him and blindfold him and slap him and say predict who slapped you. Because they do not believe that he is omniscient. You have his omnipotence that is questioned, his omniscience questioned, and you have his divine status questioned by spitting on him into saying they they mock the very son of God. And in doing so we'll see him, Christ uh ultimately he will go to the death of the cross. So, what are the final lessons that we can learn from this? Number one, we should guard against Satan's desires to turn us against Jesus. See, here's the thing All the different players in this story serve different purposes, all to accomplish God's plan. But let me ask you a question. What role do you want to play? What role do you want to play? Satan would desire to turn you. Now, if you truly know Christ as your Savior, he can't turn you against Christ as a non-Christian. But he can make you oppose the ways of Christ. There have been many people that profess the name of Christ. that turn their backs on Christ. And it is Satan's goal, Satan's expressed goal to do that. So we need to be aware of that. We need to realize that Satan would desire to sift you, just as he did the disciples. Don't just be aware that that is a possibility. That in your thinking, if you do not think biblically, if you don't think with the right motives, if you don't think right, think biblically. Then Satan can deceive you to going and going in the wrong direction. Number two, we should realize that our natural response will be fight or flight in self-preservation. We just need to realize this. That our natural response will be fight or flight. And very and most of the time, that's not the biblical response Most of the time, there is something else that is going to be the biblical response. God called us to stand against opposition. That does not mean that we act crazy. I I say that because I've seen Christians act totally nuts. And what they're really doing is fighting. God often does not call us to fight, but he wants us to stand. And I think that we can really fight, we could really see an example here when Christ stands firmly in what he knows to be true. Don't fight, don't flee, stand. We need to be aware that that is the tendency. We want to fight or flee. Number three As we said, God's desire is for us to stand firm in truth. By the way, did you notice that? Jesus was always speaking the truth. And anything he said, he he'll correct things. He'll ask he'll point things out. He points out, well, why didn't you arrest me at uh uh you know while I was teaching the temple instead of arrest arresting me here? He's pointing out truth. He's correcting lies. He's pointing out things. But he's standing in the truth. He's making sure he's true. He's biblical in what he's thinking. And then what he says, he says to further God's kingdom and God's glory. And folks, we need to learn to react and act and And respond in that way for the furtherance of God's kingdom. Before we react against opposition or craziness or whatever we're dealing with, we need to stop and say, okay, what would be most helpful for God's kingdom in the situation. And that will really help us to respond in a Christ-like manner Maybe you're listening, you're watching today, or you and you're you're hearing all this and you're saying, well, this is so different than and than how anybody responds. And maybe you've even seen people in your life that you say, well, they responded in a way that was so different. It is because of Christ. And who he is and how he changes people and changes lives. And if you're here today and you don't know who Christ is, you don't know, truly know this Christ that we speak of, maybe you understand something about the cross, something about the death of Christ, but he has not really changed your life. Let me encourage you to talk with me after this service. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. That doesn't mean we It doesn't mean we don't sin anymore, it doesn't mean that we are sinlessly perf perfect, but it does mean that there's a change of thinking, a change of mindset, a change of approach, a change of purpose. And if you don't have that change in your life A change of purpose. Let me encourage you to come and talk with me. I'd be glad to help you scripturally with what the Bible says about that. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you and thank you. for the truth that we find in your word. We thank you for this, for Christ's example, even in his own arrest and his own judgment, we see this example that we can emulate. And Lord, we thank you for what Christ did for us in living a perfect life under unimaginable circumstances. circumstances. He was certainly tempted, like as we are, in all manner like as we are, yet without sin. We thank you for that, Lord, and we thank you that we can learn how to pray for your will to be done, and we can learn how to respond to life in such a way that your will be done is done. Lord, help us to do that in our lives. We confess before you that so often we resort to fighting or fleeing and what you want us to do. is to stand. Help us, Lord, to do that. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.