All right, thank you so much. And again, it is good to be here. I'll have my family stand at this time. This is my wife Melissa And we have Madeline, Bethany, and then up here on the front is Micah. Our fourth child, Benjamin, is uh in Singapore on a missions trip. So uh we actually got to talk to him uh this morning about eight thirty and uh they had two good services today so they're um should be in bed by now uh because they're twelve hours ahead. Uh hopefully we'll be but uh Um, but it it is great to be here. And I do want to say thank you so much for those uh uh I know there's lots of new faces since we were here last time in two thousand uh I think it was twenty eleven, two thousand ten, two thousand ten we were here. And uh uh I do want to thank you for your faithful support over those uh these past uh four years and uh uh as I told those in Sunday school, um because we uh you know, this is the second time we've been there Um we are planning to have a meal for you in Haiti. So you all come down and we'll provide a meal for you there and uh be glad to sit down with you and uh fellowship there in Haiti. So Um we're signing up for those that want to uh uh to come to Haiti and uh don't see any takers yet but Anyway, but in the since you you you if you don't come to Haiti, please grab one of our prayer cards. This doesn't obligate you to a trip to Haiti, by the way. Um, but uh please grab one of our prayer cards, pray for us, and uh uh stay in contact with us. Out on the uh table out there is a uh um a list that we have folks sign up on if you'd like to receive our email. I noticed you you printed out the email there that we sent out. Um we we send out our our quarterly prayer letter but sometimes uh things come up a lot quicker and we need immediate prayer for and so uh we like to get those uh uh emails out to as many po people as possible to get you to pray for us. And I know in the society we live in today it's we're a lot more connected through Facebook and and things like that. And we are on Facebook and all that kind of stuff. So uh we uh would like for you to to stay connected with us. And also there's a little information about our child sponsorship program and our schools out there And we can give you some more information about that. Turn with me, if you would, in the book of Acts. And while you're reading, while uh you're turning there, I'm going to read just a springboard verse in 1 Corinthians. But Acts chapter 18 is where we're going to be for the message. And while you're turning again, let me read 1 Corinthians chapter 3, verses 4 through 6. For while one saith, I am of Paul I am And another, I am of Apollos, are ye not carnal? Who then is Paul? And who is Apollos? But ministers by whom ye believed? Even as the Lord gave to every man, I have planted a polis water, but God gave the increase. Father, we do thank you for this day And we thank you for your love and your grace. We thank you for your word and how powerful and how true it is. And I thank you for saving me and changing my life. And I thank you for the privilege to proclaim your word to the people. And I ask God that you would just use me this morning. Help us to remember, as Paul said, Who am I? I'm nothing without Christ. And Lord, fill me with your spirit this morning. Use me as you see fit, for it's in Jesus Christ's name we pray. Amen. Paul was speaking to the uh church there in Corinth, and of course uh uh there was a lot of uh Carnality there in in Corinth. Uh when I was in Bible college we always joked because not too far from where I went to college there was a church called Corinth Baptist Church and we always joked about how many problems they had each week. But anyway, um but There are people that were trying to get us in different groups, and of course, you know, we're uh we do associate, we have people groups, we have uh group from work, we have group neighborhoods, we have church groups. Within the church groups you've got different uh age groups and things like that, and we do have groups. But understanding that we're all When we're saved, we're all the body of Christ no matter where we are. In Haiti, um uh when we're having a church service We're part of the body of Christ. Understanding that we have each individual called out assembly, each local church that served God, and each church has its own personality Every church we go to has a little bit different personality and uh it's neat to see how God uses everyone and their personalities and and begins to to uh uh move through and and impact the community. And uh and so in in Corinth in Corinth there were people that were trying to say, well We're better Christians, we're stronger Christians, we're better than you are because uh we're of Apollos' group. And then some were saying, A Paul, and later on Paul said, I'm glad that I only baptized two of you so that you can't really claim me as your spiritual father in that group. And uh but when we understand that that God is the one that gives the increase, everything we do is for the glory of God. That's how we should live our life And it's more than I want you to understand that no matter how insignificant you think something is that you do for Christ, it's a huge thing. No matter you say, well, I'll just give this one gospel track down, that's not really anything that's, but for God's, in God's work, it's a it's a major thing. No matter what we do, speaking to someone at your work, inviting them to come to church, that's a huge thing in the scope of God's work. And so in Acts chapter 18, I want you to see We're introduced earlier to a man by the name of Apollos, but this kind of gives a little more explanation of Apollos, but verse number 25 specifically. Chapter 18, verse 25, the Bible says, This man was instructed in the way of the Lord, and being fervent in the Spirit, he spake and taught diligently the things of the Lord. Knowing only the baptism of John. And he began to speak boldly in the synagogue, whom when Aquil and Priscilla had heard, they took him unto them and expounded unto him the way of God more perfectly Now, Apollos was a man who was fervent in spirit, the Bible says. He was a Jew. Verse 24 tells us he was a Jew, and he was going speaking to the Jewish people there. And uh But he was just missing a little bit of information that he needed. Okay? He was doing the right thing, but he was his doctrine was a little messed up. He only knew about the baptism of John And so one day, Aquil and Priscilla, husband and wife team there, uh they uh were walking through and uh they heard Someone talking about Jesus and about the Bible and things of that nature. And so they stopped, just kind of listened, and they noticed he was missing something that he only knew about the baptism of John. He didn't know the full scope of the gospel. And so the Bible says they took him over and they expounded unto him the way of God more perfectly. And then look at verse 28. What did he do as a result of that? For he mightily convinced the Jews that publicly showing the scriptures, by the scriptures, that Jesus was Christ. So here is Apollos who is doing a great thing, although he needs a little more instruction, Aquila and Priscilla, bring him over, expound on him more perfectly the word of God, and then he mightily convinces the Jews. Now remember the apostle Paul is the apostle that you know many times people say he's one of the greatest Christians ever to live out you know uh uh in in all times. And and I think Certainly there are a lot of uh uh examples that we could draw from and and God definitely uh had his hand on the ministry of Paul and and Paul used was used to write a lot of the letters and and instruct the church, the early church, and and even today, uh it's his his work is still continuing on. But Paul desperately wanted to reach the Jews. He desperately wanted to do an evangelistic work to the Jewish people. In fact, that's where he started out, going to the Jews. But notice flip back with me a few verses in verse number six of chapter 18 And when Paul was speaking to a group of the Jewish people there, the Bible says, and when they, speaking of the Jews, opposed themselves and blaspheme, he, Paul Shook his raiment and said unto them, Your blood be upon your own head. I am clean from henceforth. I will go unto the Gentiles. Paul tried his best and wanted to reach his own people. Was there a better Jewish person than Paul? The Bible says he was of the tribe of Benjamin. He was a Pharisee of Pharisees. He was brought out of the feet of Ganelia. He was He was trained. He knew the Old Testament inwards and outwards. He knew. And he I think to Paul, I think he thought, why wouldn't they believe that he's the Messiah? I really think he just was like, I can't believe they're not understanding that he's the Messiah. Have you ever been around somebody like that? You give 'em the gospel and it's like I I don't understand how you just don't believe. Just you know? And uh and he says, I'll go of the Gentiles. Of course we know Paul, the Apostle Paul, we know him as the Apostle to the Gentiles, and uh we are here in this church today because of what the Apostle Paul did going to the Gentiles. But he wanted to reach the Jews, but God said, No, I've got something else planned for you And so Aquil and Priscilla. Now here we see the Apollos, him doing something that Paul wanted to do, but he couldn't. But Aquila and Priscilla were used. Look at verses one through four of chap of Acts chapter 18. And after these things, Paul departed from Athens and came to Corinth and found a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontius, lately come from Italy with his wife Priscilla. Because that Claudius had commanded all Jews to depart from Rome and came unto them, and because he was of the same craft, he abode with them and wrought For by their occupation they were tent makers. And he reasoned in the synagogue every Sabbath and persuaded the Jews and the Greeks. But notice he was there with Aquila and Priscilla. Now The Bible doesn't say exactly how many days he was with Aquil and Priscilla. Some say a certain amount of time, some say longer, and I'll. Well, it really doesn't matter. All we know is he was there with them. Now, understand that this is Paul. Now I want you to get something. Remember when Paul was in the inner prison? He had been beaten. He was in not in just the regular prison, he was in the inner prison. He had been beaten, he was chained, and he was between two guards. And what was he saying at that time? Get me my lawyer! That's what we'd be saying with them. I've been privileged to uh ha take part in jail ministries, but thank the Lord I've never been in jail. Uh just visiting. But uh I think if I went to jail, I think that would be what I would be saying. I would be wanting my lawyer, I'd want to be saying, you know, get me out of here. You know, there's one common thing with uh everybody in jail, of course, they're all innocent and they want you to help 'em get out of there. Every time I've ever been, even in the juvenile prison when I worked for a short period of time uh in the the uh uh counseling department in a a juvenile prison. Never that it was it their fault. They were always praying. They always wanted out. But what was the apostle Paul doing during that time? He was singing and praising God, wasn't he? All night long Now, there's some of us that uh, let's just face it, we're not in prison, we're not in jail, we're not in chains, and you don't really see us singing praising God all night long. But here he was in prison, having been beaten, and he's singing and praising God. And what happens, Acts chapter 16? He leads someone to Christ because of that. So, what I want you to get from this is if he lived with in prison for that time, he was in prison, and he praised God and sang praises to the Lord Jesus Christ and led people to Christ What do you think he talked about that time he lived and stayed with and worked with Aquila and Priscilla? Do you think all he ever said was, uh, you know, Aquila, if you'll actually sow this thing this way it keeps more water out. Uh, Priscilla, if you'll actually cut this in this direction, it'll kind of give a more artistic flair to the tense we make. Do you think that's all they ever talked about was tense? I don't think so. I think he talked about Jesus. I think he showed them from the scriptures, from the Old Testament, how prophecies were fulfilled and taught them things about Jesus Christ. and discipled them for that time period he was living with them. And what happened? They expounded unto Apollos more perfectly the Word of God. Now Paul wanted to reach the Jews, but God said, no, I got different plans for you. He allowed Apollos to mightily convince the Jews, the Bible said. Through Aquila and Priscilla's teaching, but Paul had a hand in that, you see. Now, one last thing. I promise all this is going to make sense at the end. Or hopefully. It did to me. Anyway. So if you don't get anything out of it, I'll get something out of this, so. Flip over to Acts chapter nine. Acts chapter 9. I want you to see a man that is mentioned one time in the Bible, other than the time that Paul gives his testimony. Acts chapter 9, look at verse number 10. And there was a certain disciple at Damascus named Ananias. And to him said the Lord in a vision, Ananias. And he said, Behold, I am here, Lord. Now, let's get the picture here. Let's set this up for you. Let's set the scene, as they say. Ananias was a disciple. God used him in different ways, gave him things to do, and he did it and all But at this time, a man by the name of Saul, who would later become Paul, was on his way to Damascus to do what? Have Bible studies? No. He was coming to arrest them. He was coming. He had already arrested a bunch. And he was coming with the paperwork in his hand with authority to arrest anyone who called on the name of Jesus Ananias was one of those people. Now, this past summer we had a very difficult situation that occurred in Haiti. We were uh legally evicted from the property where we live in Haiti. The only thing is we never were invited to any of the hearings they had had in court against us. You seem shocked, but we didn't think we was anything out of normal. That's just the way things are in Haiti. It's a very corrupt system. And uh so the paperwork we were told the paperwork had been signed by the judge And that the process was already over that we were, you know, just a matter of days we'd be out of there. And for about four to five weeks we lived in the Constant thought process that they're coming. And we would get messages from the courts. They would send word up and say, tomorrow they're coming and they're having bulldozers and they're tearing everything down tomorrow. Tomorrow they'll be there and they're going to take everything. Uh you won't have, you know, everything in your house will be taken, you won't have anything. The paper is at the police department and they're coming this afternoon. They're taking your vehicles and everything. Yeah. We realized that when we went to Haiti, we realized that uh it could all be taken away and that's the way all missionaries uh um live and that when you're outside of your own country, but We begin to gather things, sentimental items. My wife, she loves to decorate the little Christmas tree thing. uh in Haiti and no we don't ha it's it's artificial we don't have Christmas tree farms there in Haiti. But uh And no, it never snows either. So uh, you know, it gets down in the in the s in Christmas time it may get down in the low eighties. So uh yeah, I kinda lose heart in trying to get into the Christmas spirit, you know. Uh white Christmas and that kind of song, it just don't mean anything in Haiti. But anyway. Um So anyway, we went through she had some ornaments, you know, from when the kids were small they made and this type of thing and uh my wife had made me one of our anniversaries she had made me this quilt that had these pictures uh um on there transferred to you know to fabric and she made this quilt for me about our where we were dating and all that kind of stuff, you know, and all and uh and a quilt my grandmother made, a quilt her grandmother made and and all this kind of stuff. So we packed it up in these boxes thinking that any minute we're gonna have to throw these things out the window and and run. You know, we had missionaries on standby waiting to come at a moment's notice to pick us up if they took everything. And uh Um, we had all these boxes and and and uh I can imagine Ananias Hearing that Saul is on his way, is there in his house, kneel down around a box trying to get a few things put in, put in, put in, and Dealing with the flaps and trying to remember how to fold them so they stay together and and uh getting all that stuff. And all of a sudden God says, Ananias, I'm here, Lord. And he says, I want you to go down and speak to a man by the name of Saul. Now Ananias says, I'm here, Lord, I'll do whatever you say. And God says, Go down to a certain house and speak to a man by the name of Saul and touch him. And I'm going to use him in a great way. Then verse 13 and 14 shows us that Ananias is just like every one of us. Here Ananias is saying, Whatever you want me to do, Lord. God tells him what to do. Ananias answered, Lord, I've heard many of this man. How much evil he hath done to thy saints at Jerusalem. And here he hath authority from the chief priest to bind all that call on thy name. And when you go study this phrase, these phrases in the Greek, let me tell you what it says. Lord, are you sure you know what you're doing? Not really, but that's kind of Ananias saying, Behold, I'm here, Lord, I'm your servant, whatever you want me to do. And God says, Go down to Saul's, this place where Saul's at. Uh wait a minute Lord, do you know what's going on here? Do you know my situation I'm packing up boxes because this guy's coming to arrest me and you want me to go to him? Are you sure? How many of you have you ever done that with the Lord? Okay, we got a couple honest people. Thank you. Well, I'll be honest with you. I've I I am my biggest problem. I try to help God out way too much. And I'm learning to back off. I am. Uh one of the benefits of me being a min missionary is my faith has grown. And um I can see God using me in different ways and I can see back off and let God work and it com usually comes out a lot better, yeah. I mean we do what we can do, but sometimes you reach a limit and you can't do anything else. That's when God just comes in and takes care of it. Ananias did that same thing. How many have you ever heard that phrase, pray and believe and you shall receive, pray and doubt you'll do without? Boy, those people weren't real living the Christian life when they came up with that. Because we doubt all the time, don't we? You know why? I still got this flesh here I've got to deal with. I've still got this flesh that causes problems for me. Even the Apostle Paul in the book of Romans said, when I want to do right, I do wrong. It's a war, he said. I've still got this old flesh. The three Hebrew boys, remember the Bible says they stood up to King Nebuchadnezzar and said, We will not bow, our God will deliver us. But even if he doesn't deliver us, we're still not going to bow. They didn't know for sure they were going to walk out of that fiery furnace, but they knew for one thing they weren't going to bow. We don't know exactly what's going to happen to us tomorrow, but we can know that we're going to serve God. No matter what. We can know that God has our best interest in mind. How many ever heard the uh story of uh Bill and Kathy Rice that started the Bill Rice Ranch? You know their daughter was deaf. I heard I heard her speak one time and she said that, you know, her daughter was was uh became deaf and She said, I felt like if one more person said to me, God works all things for good, I was going to slap them. You know, because when you're in the midst of it, it don't look good. And you don't see how it's going to work out. But God is in control of everything. One of the best illustrations I've heard to describe this is from Lester Roloff And he said, you know, flour by itself is kind of bland. It actually doesn't taste good if you try to see a spoonful of flour. Just a half a cup of sugar down in that at one time is just that's just horrible. Eggs by themselves aren't that great And he went through a list of ingredients and he said, but you take the right portions and you mix them all together and you put it in an oven and take it out a little while later, and that cake sure does taste good. Each individual thing in our life we can look back, and while we're going through it, I agree, it's difficult. And it looks like it's never going to end. But when we look back on our life, we can see how God had worked all things to good. And you see, Danias was there. He obeyed God and he eventually did in verse number 15 and 16. He eventually did go and speak to uh uh or excuse me, verse 17, he did go and speak to Saul. And do exactly what God said to do. Now, understand this. Ananias was just a little small thing that he did, really, in the scope of things. But he reached out to Saul, who became Paul. Paul reached out to Aquila and Priscilla. Aquila and Priscilla reached out to Apollos, and Apollos is the one that mightily convinced the Jews. There was a huge church in Jerusalem. Huge church in Jerusalem. In fact, it was so big that God had to send persecution to break them up so they could go other places. Huge church. Remember, Peter preached, thousands were saved. They were added to the church. Later on, the Bible said they were added to the church. Apollos was used to do something Paul wanted to do. Now, let me apply this to your life in a practical way. John R. Rice said, you're praying for a loved one to be saved. He said, You're praying the wrong way. The Bible says God is not willing that any should perish. Jesus wants to save people. Don't you think so? Yes. He died for everybody to be saved. Some people reject, some people accept. Instead of praying for my mother to be saved or my sister to be saved or whoever to be saved, pray God send a soul winner Just like in Matthew, uh uh Matthew 9, 38, I think it is, pray therefore the Lord of harvest, he would send forth laborers into the harvest. The field is white unto harvest. Pray for laborers. And that word laborers is not a specific skilled position like later on in Ephesians 4. 11. Talks about a pastor, teacher, and evangelist, things like that. No, this is just a a ditch digger, just a hands-on laborer. He's wanting laborers, people who are willing to tell the story People who are willing to invite. Now, here's the key. Um You have people that you could reach that I could never ever reach I've got people that I have unique circumstances in my life that I could connect with in a better way than you could ever connect with. You know, traveling as a missionary, it's a whole lot, whole different ball of wax. You know, we're in a different city every week. In fact, today we'll be in two different cities. We're leaving to go to Virginia this evening. And it's a unique lifestyle. It's crazy at times. You know? Crazy. Um, even living in Haiti. You know, my wife says I missed the call. It should have been Hawaii instead of Haiti, but It's crazy. You things just you just never know what to expect. You know, I I tell people I told this to Pastor Jim You know, my kids are MKs, missionary kids. Well I grew up as a PK. And I never knew how much the skills that my dad taught me would help advance the ministry that I have there in that third world country. Never, if you would have asked me years ago, growing up as a PK, if it would help me today, I would have said, nah, won't help me. Who would ever thought, growing up as a plumber's kid, how it would advance my ministry in Haiti? But it has. You come to visit us, that meal I'm talking about serving you on, hey, you'll have indoor plumbing. I thought, why not run a pipe to the outhouse? You know? Hey, good idea. So it is. So growing up as a plumber's kid, I've had to weld my truck back together. I've had to do all kind of hands-on work. When it comes to uh uh back when we used to run the well pump off of a generator, if the uh generator wouldn't crank Sermon preparation, study, uh everything stopped to get water flowing again. Sometimes it took two of us missionaries out there working on it. Neither one knew much of what we were doing. And we've learned as so No matter what we're going through in the the unique circumstances that that we have in our life, we can relate to other people. The other night we were talking to some other missionaries, and uh uh we went over to the pastor's house, and they had some other missionaries over there, and we we were talking, there were things that we could relate to. Because having been missionaries we could understand the situation and traveling, trying to figure out what to do with your kids as you're going here, there, and everywhere, you know Well you see I can relate to some situations that other that you all couldn't relate to. The person you crossed at the wall at the the the grocery store. Walking down the aisle, that God says, speak to that person, invite them to church. They may have just come from the doctor's office with the worst possible news. And you may have just come through that same storm victorious. And you could reach that person whereas I would never be able to reach that person. A friend of mine, he just had a uh his son, twenty-five years old, died unexpectedly. I go to him and I say, Keith, I'm praying for you. But another friend of mine had a a young child to die. When he says, Keith, I'm praying for you, it's a whole different level of prayer that he understands. You see, Paul wanted to reach the Jews, but there was a process that God did reach a lot of the Jews. But he used Paul in a different way. But the results Paul wanted were seen. It's like a chain reaction. Ananias started it. And it just started getting bigger and bigger and bigger to where all of a sudden you saw a bunch of Jews. Come to know the Lord. The next person you witness to could be the one that starts a chain reaction that sees your whole family saved. That sees this whole county turn to Christ, sees Maryland turn to Christ, could start the whole revival burning across America. You say, well that's a don't limit God. It's happened before. It's happened before from a man preaching a sermon, reading it word for word. That sparked a great revival across America. You never know when you're going to be the one that ignites that little spark that could start a blaze of fire burning through someone's family. Pray for soul winners. And here's the last one. You be willing to be that soul winner as well. And I I w Pastor Jim and I were talking before the service, you know, the way our culture and society and things have are are uh growing and changing and all There it's reaching a time where we're going to need to reach out around us to those people we contact and we're in contact with because it's coming to where uh you connect on Facebook, but not face to face a lot. And it's becoming to where uh people don't don't want strangers coming up because you don't know they could come up and kill you, you know. This kind of is crazy some of the things that go on nowadays. But you're a familiar face, and you would have an an access to those people that I would never be able to talk with. Pray for soul winners, and you'd be willing to be that soul winner. What is it that God is asking you to do that could be that small spark? That starts a chain reaction. And could see people saved and lives changed. It can happen. I see it happening in Haiti, lives changed through the gospel I see it happening here in America. I have seen over the 25 years in the ministry. I have seen lives changed, families straightened out because of the gospel. You see the the res the answer for a lot uh for all our problems are right here between these two covers. And that's what we've got to get out to the people. Heads bowed, eyes closed, as we prepare for the invitation, I'll pray and then give it back over to the pastor. Father, we do thank you so much for your love again today. Lord Jesus, there are so many things that we can see in our lives as individuals where we can just stop and say, this was you working things out. And I pray, God, that you would just allow us to use those situations to reach out to other people. Help us to to reach out to this lost and dying world. Lord, there's so many people hurting. There's so many people that are filled with loneliness that you, only you can fill that void. And I would ask God that you would help us to be more effective soul winners and have a heart of compassion for those that need to be saved. Continue to speak during invitations as we rely on you. Force in the name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen. Brother Pierre mentioned on several occasions this term gospel, and he is encouraging all of us to get out that message. Maybe there's somebody here today that would say, I don't know. I don't know what that gospel is that you're talking about. The gospel is the thing in all of those who've accepted uh all accepted it by faith has changed their lives. It's caused them to go from being separated from God to being rightly related to g God through his son Jesus Christ. See, we are all born as sinners. We are all born separated from God because of Adam and Eve's original sin, actually. And so because we're born this we're born this way, separated from God, God of course is holy and perfect and there he can never do uh anything wrong and can't be in the presence of sin. There had to be a way for he he had to make a way for us to come and rightly relate to him Although God is holy and can't be close to sin or connected to sin in any way, he sent his own son because of his great love for us. And it demonstrated, and what Christ did as he came is he died to pay the punishment for our sin. You see, sin separates us from God. The Bible calls that spiritual death But the Bible says that Jesus died. He took our place on the cross so that we could have our sins forgiven. And so that we could be rightly related to God. We could be get connected to God. The Bible says that is the only way can we can be connected to God. God. Titus 3. 5 says, Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us. First Corinthians 15, 3 and 4 say Christ died for our sins, according to the Scriptures. And that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the Scriptures. So Jesus Christ died taking our sins on himself. But he didn't stay dead. Three days later Jesus rose from the grave, victorious over sin and death. And the Bible tells us in John chapter 1, verse 12, but as many as received him To them gave he the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. So the Bible tells us that all we need to do is place our dependence on Jesus and his death on the cross and resurrection. To pay the punishment for our sins. To realize I can't do it myself. I can't be rightly related to God. My good works can't outweigh my bad works. I can't be a religious person. None of that's going to work because God expects perfection, which I can't give Him. And so Jesus, who is the perfect sacrifice, died. And I have to trust in that. And the Bible tells us that trusting in Christ as our Savior means that we are, number one, we're going to understand what He did for for us. We're going to agree with God about what he did. And then we're going to accept that as our very own. That we're going to say that I know that Jesus died for me. Maybe you've understood you've thought about the fact that Jesus has died. Maybe you've even thought about the fact that Jesus has died to pay the punishment for sins of the world, and maybe you've heard that before. But you've never said, no, I know that Jesus Christ died to pay the punishment for my sin. He rose from the grave for me. If I were the only one in the world Jesus died for my sin, and you have to personalize it, and that's what it means to receive him. The Bible says if you'll do that If you see him as your savior, the Bible says he will save you. He will you you can be his child even today. And if there is anybody here that doesn't know Just unsure about that. You've heard a good message from God's Word. You've heard singing about who God is. We would love to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure You're going you're you are connected to God. You are rightly related to Him that that you are you are God's child. You're not born that way, but you can come to know Him as your Savior as as Maybe you want to talk to somebody you're comfortable with about that. Ask them how can I know for sure that I'm rightly related to God. If you want to talk to me after the service, I'd be glad to talk to you. I'm sure he'd be glad to talk to you. We'd love to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you are God's child. And we'll we'll actually love to work with you even more beyond that. We have a Bible study that we could offer you. just to show you how you can be a disciple of Christ and a child of God