Ecclesiastes chapter seven marks the turning point in the chapter. from delusion or delu uh being um uh delusion meant I should say delusionment to learning the value of living life with God. Let me ask you this question as we begin tonight. How do people cope with disappointment? Maybe you've done this before. There are temptations that we have. How do you cope with disappointment? Any idea? Yes. Uh Enrique? In general, many people, including myself at times, they they see kind of a random escape Okay. Such as anybody. Entertainment. Okay. Entertainment can be as as Okay. Yes. Anger? Okay. Another way is anger. Which is which is feels better? Sadness or anger? Anger does. Anger feel feels better. And so it's tempting to feel anger or to choose anger over over dis disappointment. And sadness. Good. What else? Any other ways? You actually hit most of 'em. I I wrote down uh sometimes we mask it. Um sometimes we make excuses sort of sort of to ourselves. Sometimes we uh will compartmentalize it. And the other thing we sometimes we escape it, sometimes we And there's various ways we escape it. So all of those things are things that we try to do in order to to deal with disappointment or even disillusionment, which is sort of a sort of a deeper, more sustained uh kind of thing. Uh disappointment is like one event. Disillusionment is sort of my whole life is Not what I expected. Okay. How many have you ever thought to yourself, you know, my life is not what I expected it to be? I can say that from time to time. I I'm from a very from a fairly young age I I I thought I was going to be a pastor. I had no idea that I would be pastoring in the same area I grew up in. I am a fairly adventurous person. And uh you'd think I'm not. You'd think I just like my own company. But I actually am rather adventurous, so so it's sort of unusual for me to to I did not I did not think I would be doing that. And so uh and so we do there are times or maybe you know what various things in our lives where we we we sort of realize that there's sort of this disillusionment that occurs And we tend to not want to think about that. And there is a sense in which if we don't handle this right and we don't excuse it and we don't escape from it and we don't do these other things and we don't deal with it in the right way, you could sort of lose hope and and end up in a very bad place like like manic depression or something. So we have to be careful with that, but at the same time and really all of us are prone to that possibility. Did I I am really more and more convinced of that, by the way. I think there are some people that would, you know, mentally maybe more inclined that way, but all of us, given the right circumstances and the right uh chemical imbalances or those kinds of things, all of us could have that possibility of ending up in a place of sort of of of of you know of clinical depression. And so we we all are trying to avoid that, right? Okay. So so you have that possibility and then you have these other possibilities of escape and And those kinds of things. This passage is going to deal with this. It is going to deal with this head-on how do you deal with disillusionment Now I want you to notice a couple of things about this passage. If you'll recall from chapters one through six, which really was all about life's disillusionment In verses 1 through 11, you have this general futility of life. Life is futile. It's a great positive message, right? Okay. Verses one through eleven of chapter one. Then you have the futility of wisdom. Wait a minute, I thought wisdom was a good thing. We've got a whole book of Proverbs, wisdom. We've got wisdom literature all everywhere. Well, this says Solomon, who actually wrote Proverbs as well, actually says Ecclesiastes, that wisdom ain't all it's craft cracked up to be That's the Jim Gannam version. Not not inspired at all. Verse twelve says this. I the verse twelve of chapter one. I the preacher was king over Israel and Jer in Jerusalem, and I gave to my heart to seek and search out by wisdom concerning all things that are done under heaven. This sore travail hath God given to the sons of men to be exercised therewith. I have seen all the works that are done under the s under the sun, and behold, all is vanity and vexation of spirit. It's all vanity, even pursuit of wisdom is That which is crooked cannot be made straight. And that which is wanting cannot be numbered. I commune with mine own heart, saying, Lo, I am come to a great estate and have gotten more wisdom than all that they have been before me in Jerusalem. You, again, my heart had great expec experience of wisdom and knowledge, and I gave my heart to know wisdom and to know madness and folly. I perceive that this also is vexation of spirit, for in much wisdom is much grief. And he that increaseth knowledge increaseth sorrow. There are limits to wisdom. Well that would explain then why Solomon had 700 wives and or se yeah, 700 wives and 300 concubines He was not a very moral man, right? At least at times he wasn't. So there are limits to wisdom. Now, I want you to notice that in contrast this whole idea of wisdom, and he says nothing can be fixed that is broken. Well, what's broken? Everything. The whole world is broken. It's all crooked. It's all fallen. And he says, wisdom is not going to help you to straighten out what's broken. Now, notice then in contrast to that In this passage, which is 1 all the way through 14, that's the same, it's one unit, chapter 7, verses 1 through 14, but I want to dip in and look at 11 through 14 for a moment. Chapter seven, eleven through fourteen. Wisdom is good. Oh that's a contrast, isn't it? With an inheritance. And by it there uh and by it there is profit to them that see the sun. Oh, wait a minute. So far, prior to chapter seven, everything has been what in relation to the sun? Under the sun, right? You see this phrase over and over again, under the sun, and it is vanity. Under the sun is is a sort of a reference to the idea of out without God, not seeing, having God in view. He now says wisdom is good When you see the sun. In other words, when you see God in view. For wisdom is a defense, and money is a defense, but the excellency of knowledge is that wisdom giveth life to them that have it. Consider the work of God, for who can make that straight which he hath made crooked? Do you see the contrast? What did he say prior? Nobody can make straight what's been made crooked. What does he say here? There's a rhetorical question. Who can make straight what's been made crooked? God can. By the way, who made it crooked according to this passage? God did. That's deep, isn't it? God, do you think sin took God by surprise? Do you think the fall took God by surprise? Sin is a distortion of God's pure creation. That's what it is. It didn't take him by surprise. Now, what we see then is a contrast between what wisdom, the val the valuelessness of wisdom versus the value of wisdom. Wouldn't you like to be on the side of wisdom being valuable? This chapter is going to help us. It's going to help us to understand how to how to live with God in view. And in order to do that, we're going to have to do something that we're going to be a bit uncomfortable with. Would you look at verse 1? He begins this way. A good name is rather the rather than uh is better than precious ointment. Good name is better than precious ointment And the day of death, then the day of one's birth. Now, in this passage, as in much of wisdom literature, he begins to use something called Hebrew parallelism. It's Hebrew poetry and you have parallel thought going on here. So in this particular verse, you have good name correlates, okay, with the day of death. And precious ointment correlates with the one with the with the time of birth, one's birth. Now here's how it correlates. You can't have let's start with the with the time of birth, because it'll be the easiest way to work our way from there. The time of birth, you can't have a good name when you're born. Right? What is a good name? A good reputation. You can't have a good reputation when you're born. Everybody likes a baby, but they don't have a good reputation. They have no reputation. Right? It's not bad, it's not good. It's a it's not really a clean slate, but from our our vantage point it's a clean slate. So so he says, but what do w does everybody like a newborn baby? Yeah, everybody likes a newborn baby. Uh-uh. Unless you're weird. Everybody likes newborn babies. Sorry. Anyway. Generally speaking, it is a newborn baby is like precious ointment. Okay? And the passage correlates the two. Sorry, Carrie. Anyway. All right. So it's like precious ointment. Everybody says death versus a new baby. New baby's much better than death. This passage says, no, no, remember the end is better than the beginning. The end you have the about ability to be able to gain a good reputation You can look over your life. So the whole idea here is is that he is he's starting out saying, look, you want your life to to mean something. He's talking now about legacy. He's saying that there is a life legacy that you can have that's valuable. It's more valuable than just being born. Verse, so that's the potential legacy you find in this verse. Verse 2, you have the concept. It says, it's better, now, here's how you get it. first step. Now remember we've talked been talking about a lot about disillusionment. How do you deal with disillusionment? He says this verse two It is better to go to the house of what? Of mourning than to go to the house of feasting. For that is the end of all men, and the living will lay lay it to his heart. Now he says it's better to go to the house of mourning than the house of feasting. Let's start with the house of feasting. What do you suppose he means when he says let's let's better it's it he's talking about the house of feasting. What is he talking about? He's t yeah, he's talking about going and having a good time at a feast. At that ultra uh in that culture, the same as our culture, you know, you have food, that means fun. Sort of Goes together. And feasting and partying and going that's what it's talking about here. He says it's better to mourn than to go to a party. Why would what why would he say that? Do you know people that are weekend warriors? Have you ever heard that term, weekend warrior? What is a weekend warrior? It's someone my understanding of it, maybe I'm wrong, but my understanding of it, is somebody who works hard all week and lives for the weekend. Okay, he w lives for Friday. Friday night comes and he's party hardy all weekend, he or she is party all weekend, and then he goes back to to normal on on Monday. Uh and he lives and he doesn't really like his job, but he sort of lives for the next party. A person that is living in disillusionment, there is a possibil there is a a danger that we can go from one party to the next party to the next party. I recently uh realized my kids were having this trouble. Uh all of us have this tendency to want to do that. We sort of I remember as a kid myself kind of wanting to go from the next fun thing to the next fun thing and like getting by with the schoolwork, like doing bare minimum with the things I'm supposed to do so I can get to what I want to do. We all have the temptation, right? I was realizing last year that my kids were really doing that. They were just going from one thing to the next thing and trying to have this d d to to do that. The Bible says that we need to we need to learn to live quietly and to do our business as God hath desired. And so I explained that to my kids. We And he is saying here when it comes to this, we have to be careful not to distract ourselves from disillusionment with the next fun thing. Instead, he says we need to mourn. Now what does he mean by mourn? What do you think he means by that? Well let's let's let's put some bare boundaries on here. What does he not mean by this? Okay. He doesn't necessarily mean go complaining like I like you know an Eeyore or something, right? Yeah, well those characters. They're they're ex In the context of passage, it seems like it says the living will take this to heart. And that there is everybody I I can sound like crazy, but everybody's gonna die. Yep, right. Yes. I think there's kind of a view of um of extreme party and and then there's the sobriety contemplation that comes in mourning when you're really thinking about something Yeah. Focus on something. Yeah. I think what he's saying is this. He's it is linked with verse one, which is talking about death. He's almost saying this. Why don't you mourn your death early so you can live? It would be very something very similar to what Christ says. He who finds his life will lose it, and he who loses his life for my sake will find it. There is a sense in which we cannot live until we die. He's basically saying instead of trying to make your life what you want it to be, which will only bring disillusionment, he tried that in the first six chapters. One thing after another. Materialism, he pursues pleasure, he pursues status, he pursues money. All these things he's pursuing, all of them is futility, and he sort of has to die. He has to mourn over the fact that all of this this self um pursuit um is is futile and you sort of have to mourn over it. You sort of have to get over it. Like like mo like process this. Really think through this and realize that You know, trying to f live for my own self or trying to make a life for myself the way I want it is going to end up in futility. Um and so and so that's really the key to living in wisdom and living with God in view. Doing all this. We've got to deal with this disillusionment. We don't like to deal with disillusionment. We'd rather escape from it, cover it up, figure it out, go to the next the next fun thing. No. He says you must deal with it. If you're going to be able to live the guy life that God intended you for to for you to live, if you're going to be able to see God's working in your life and what God is doing and His providence, you're not, you're gonna be, you're gonna get past the disillusionment. Because when you when you see things from God's perspective, And you see what God is doing in the world, and you're con but if you're constantly caught up in your own disillusionment, you're not going to see anything positively. And positive thinking is not positive in the way that we think of it. We'll see it in a minute. It's different than what we think usually. But we'll see that in a minute. This morning idea is is necessary. Processing things, thinking through the these things. There's sadness is not wrong. It doesn't feel good. But if we'll do it For a time, then we'll be able to move past it. If we work through it, then we'll be able to move on past it. And so he says, you've got to mourn in order to get through this disillusionment. He says, sorrow, verse 3, is better than laughter. That's pretty rough, isn't it? We don't think it think of it that way, do we? Who wants to cry versus laugh? Everybody wants to laugh more Well, he explains it. For by sadness of countenance the heart is made better. He said, if you allow yourself to be sad, then your heart will be made better. Now that does not mean having a pity party. It doesn't mean I'm just going to complain all the time. It doesn't mean I think of my life as the worst life. Or you know it's not what it's talking about. It's saying Taking the thought, let's take it to some New Testament scriptures, taking the thought into captivity, whatever you're disillusioned about. Taking the thought captivity, reckoning it to be futile. And saying, okay, that's that's it that is what it is. It's it is a a vain thing. It's not And then moving on, and then being able and having a sense of sadness about it, but then it will heal your heart. There is, it's very hard to explain, but there is a healthy sadness that deals with things. There is an unhealthy sadness that doesn't deal with things proper. That actually dro plummets into hopelessness, hopelessness and this end of this And that is, by the way, a real key. We know we're in unhealthy sadness if we lose hope. That's why David said, he's talking to himself, and he says, Why art thou cast down, O my soul Hope thou in God from whence comes my help. David didn't say, Oh, I'm not cast down. He recognized he was cast down. He admitted it. He said, I am cast down. My soul is cast down. And he asked himself the question why, but he caught the key to that was he didn't lose hope. He said, God is my hope. And so we never want to get a place where we're saying, well well well we we we lose hope. That's unhealthy sadness. I'll just say very practically, you get to that point, get help You can't get yourself out of it once you once you get to that place of hopelessness. The problem is all you don't want to get help at that point. Once you actually are in hopelessness, it's like you don't want to be helped. And so sometimes you have to have somebody, a friend in your life that says that rebukes you, which we're going to see in the passage actually in a minute. It says a and actually will do what you don't want to do and talk about it, that kind of thing. Yes. the self-centered life as opposed to the Christ centered life? Yeah, I think so, but I don't think it's that I think it's more s a little more subtle than that maybe. Uh I do I don't this I don't disagree with that's the case. Um but I think it's a sort of a more subtle than just live it up kind of a kind of a thing. I uh that's just my take on it, but I could be. So I would I would take it. Um verse so that's verse verse two. Verse three, we got sorrow is better, uh and it the heart is made. So the so notice what it says in verse four. The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning. He's really emphasizing this, isn't he? But the heart of fools is in the house of mirth. Mirth is exceeding gladness. He says the heart of the wise is where? It's in the house of mourning. He he really is trying to get across the importance of this mourning. And I can tell you this just when I remember probably the best example I can give you, you've heard it all many times before, is my own mom passing away many years ago. And there what there has to be a time of mourning. You've got to recognize that it's happened. You've got to realize this You have to ask this the hard questions of of why. You have to come up with a conclusion that you don't know why, but you're okay with I mean you have to process it in order to be able to move on. And so that's probably, you know, one example, but but there would be many in life as well. And there's all kinds of examples of disillusionment. It's not just the death of a loved one, although that would that would certainly be included. Verse 5: It is better to hear the rebuke of the wise than a man to hear the song of fools. The reason he says this. Is because a wise person will not just try to distract you. The foolish will just try to distract you. But he's saying that person that is willing to come alongside you and make you talk when you don't want to May uh in counseling I find this sometimes to be the case. It's like um people wanna talk but they don't want to talk. People are very very confusing. Um including myself. I I confuse myself all the time. Um but it's like people they come to you and they want to talk, but it's like then they'll shut down real quick. Um and sometimes you have to say to somebody, look, you better talk. Um or you better you you need to you need to deal with this, you need to process this. Note that the wise man does that. The fool does not offer the distraction. Okay, just be distracted. Now. Sometimes, you know, a friend might do that. I'm not I don't think that this is an absolute. You it might be that you just need to get out of the house. I remember when my mom was uh and suffering a lot and my dad was um just overwhelmed with the amount of suffering he was going she was going through and he needed a new car and I And I knew he had the money and everything and I said, Dad, let's go buy a car. I did. That that cor that blue Corolla which is now old, he he bought he bought when when it was said, Look come on Let's go let's go buy a car. And I wasn't gonna let him make a bad decision. He wa he's not that kind of guy, he makes good decisions. But anyway, um and he he just needed to he just needed to get out of that situation for a while and just sort of back up a bit because he had been just in it for so long. And uh I don't think it was wrong to do that. So it's not wrong sometimes to realize you need to step away and those kinds of things. But if it's never dealt with is never now my dad and I talk about my mom's death all the time. I all not like every day. But but occasionally we'll talk about it. We can talk about it very freely. We did at the beginning when we were Uh but we talked about it. You got it and and that's all necessary. Um and so the same thing goes here He says it is better to hear the rebuke of the wise than a man for the song. A song is like a happy happy song of fools. Don't just realize that that that's the case. Here's why. Verse six for as the crackling of thorns under a pot So is the laughter of the fool. This also is vanity. Now, it's not as as weird as it sounds. Okay. The crackling of thorns, apparently I had to look this up because I didn't know what it was talking about at all. Um apparently the cracking crackling of thorns is back then they used to they used to ha burn thorns in order to to create heat. Okay. But it was a very quick heat that didn't last very long. You couldn't boil a pot of water with it It was just something that was quick and it went away real fast. I mean it'd be like having like burning kindling and never putting anything else besides kindling on the fire. You know, you it's good to start a fire, it doesn't do it doesn't do any good for any lasting help. And he's basically saying the same thing about the song of a fool or the or the or the the the jovialness of a fool versus the rebuke of the wise. The rebuke of the wise is a long lasting help. The Bible says better is the uh better is the r the um rebuke or uh um the wounds of a of a friend versus the kiss of an enemy, sometimes you have to be told what what's needed to be a friend will actually tell you what's wrong. And and and so uh this is the same kind of thing. You can get the kisses of an enemy enemy anytime, but it's not lasting help. It might be help for the moment, but it's not lasting help And so laughter, and so we have that here as well. Verse 7 Surely oppression maketh a wise man mad. And a gift destroyeth the heart. This is another interesting verse. This is The word oppression, it could be taken both a couple of different ways, but probably what he's talking about, because there's Hebrew parallelism here, it's probably talking about extortion. And he says if you take it as extortion, because it probably is connected with this idea of a bribe, so he basically is saying that a wise man's heart is is corrupted by extortion or a bribe. Well what what does extortion what what does a bribe do? Essentially, it gets you something faster than you should get it. In other words, it's something that corrupts you because it's it it you're not getting it at the right time. And so sometimes that's the way laughter is or those kinds of things, if you never deal with it, you could have lasting joy But you're sort of not dealing you're using it for the wrong purposes. I think that's essentially what he's talking about. So he's sort of sort of using it here as a warning. He says in verse 8, Better is the end of a thing than the beginning thereof. And the patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit. So he points out in this whole process it takes time. If you are dealing with disillusionment, it can't it it's not a quick fix. And he says, the end is better than the beginning. Have you ever gone through something and somebody says, look, you need to give it time? It's true. Hard things take time to get through. And so he says, better is the end of the thing than the beginning. And the patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit. Yeah it is very very in fact I thought of James when I was studying this. Yeah, that's exactly right. And so let me ask you this question. Do you usually think of patience and pride as contrasting ideas? He that's what he does here. He basically says, patients, so somebody tell me, just applicationally If you take patience and you take pride, why why would these be mutually exclusive? Why would these not why why would if you have pride you're not going to have patience? Okay. I can't think of the verse, but there's a a build up of things that get you Yeah, that's true. And do yeah. Faith faith uh produce whereas pride you kinda want it right away or you want what you want then. Okay. Pride can be one of those things that causes you to take a pride. Well that's true. Yeah. That's a good point. Now let's think about this just practically. Let's say you are being you're in disillusionment And you want to be done with this sadness. You want to be over it. Why wa why might you want to be over it? It might be problem. Think about it. Well, I I'm dumb, I'm strong enough. I'm I'm strong enough to handle this. I I I got it. Instead of being patient and working through it Pride might actually keep you from working through it in a patient manner. I think that's in the context what he's talking about. It's very subtle, isn't it? You wouldn't think of it that way. But pride can keep us from patience. Patience with ourselves. And patience with ourselves doesn't mean tolerance of ourselves, uh like of sin. That's not what he's talking about, but patience with ourselves is a little different. And he says, pride will keep you from that. So the patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit. Verse 10 He says this, Say not thou what is the cause that the former things were better than these? For thou dost not inquire wisely concerning this He says, don't look back constantly and say, boy, that back then was better than it is now. Oh, the old days, the glory days, the things were better back then. Is it a possibility to do that? Sure it is. And he says that's unwise to do. Things were so much better back then. He says, Don't do that. You know you know what ha if you're doing that a lot, you know what you know what it says? You haven't mourned correctly over the thing that you're disillusioned over. Or not correctly, but you meant you're not finished mourning. There's there's more of a process. If you're looking back now, I don't mean let me let me clarify. I don't mean looking back with fondness at memories or something Okay, like when my mom was ali alive and I can think of memories that we did. That's not that's not what it's saying. It's simply saying that if you look back, like you're it causes you look back and you're despairing about the present because you look back. Instead of having hope for the future because your hope is in God, then you probably have more mourning to do. It's an indication of that. And he said it's not a wise thing to to look back and say, oh, it was better back then. Why would it be an unwise thing? I mean why? Because you can't only draw it. Okay. Well that's obvious. George? It becomes inoptimable. Okay. Well it's an un focused in the wrong direction. Yeah, you're really not content with what God's given you are where where you're at right now. Paul said, In whatsoever state I'm in there with to be content. I've learned to be content. I've learned to be abased, I know how to abound. Job said, What did he say? He said, God giveth, the Lord taketh away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. This indicates that there's not contentment. Paul says godliness with contentment is great gain. So if we're not content, it means we're still in disillusionment. And if we're still in disillusionment, then we still have some mourning to do and some reckoning of some things and some processing of things So that we can then move to a place of valuing wisdom and really seeing on a day-to-day level what God is doing. Don't you want to see that every day? Is that possible? Every day you see what God is doing from one day to one day He says in order to get there, we've you've got to uh You've got to go through this process, and he's very detailed about this entire process. This is a very helpful chapter Wisdom is good with an inheritance, and by it there is profit to them that see the Son. So now he's talking here about the value of wisdom. You cannot, you will not really be able to value wisdom until you have mourned adequately and gotten past your disillusionment. And here's why. Because until you do, you can't navigate things correctly. There is a sense in which it's a barrier to wisdom. Now you might still have shrewdness. Solomon still had shrewdness, but he ended up saying it's it's pointless, it's worthless, it's vanity. But in order to be able to grasp a hold of the real value of wisdom, he says you first have to mourn in your disillusionment, you've got to get over that, and then you're ready to be able uh to accept wisdom. We that's all the time we have. The best part is yet to come. So you've got to come back next Wednesday. And uh and you'll see next time Next Wednesday. The Wednesday after what next Wednesday. And uh we will we will see how to how to uh to see things from God with God in view here. And we'll continue that study. Let's uh let's pray together and then we'll be dismissed. Lord, we thank you for the time that we spent together and we ask, Lord, that you would uh help us to really learn how to apply these things. These are not har not easy things to apply. in our lives, but we want to live lives that just ha we want to live life the the the life you intend us to live. A life of enjoying your grace, but a life of great purpose. And this past this chat this book of Ecclesiastes can teach us how to do So I pray, Lord, for all of us that if there are times of disillusionment in our lives, of loss for various things, that you would help us to choose To deal with it in an appropriate biblical manner so that we can live the life that you want us to live. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.