The battery We'll start everything. We'll start our s uh Sunday evening service the following Sunday. So that'll be Sunday school, Sunday morning, and then Sunday evening at six o'clock. And that will also be when we start the kids program. for Sunday night. Does that make sense? Hopefully that that clears things up. I didn't I didn't put together the fact that you know I should remember the first the first Sunday of of September is Labor Day, but I I I forget that like every year. Anyway. And I always uh like anyway, I forget that we're not having church Sunday night and somebody tells me and then oh yeah, that's right So anyway, that's what happened. Um we get to have here Kevin's preach tonight, so looking forward to that. And uh let's go ahead and go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you this evening and thank you for just a beautiful day. We thank you for um your the the the goodness that we can see Uh just as we enjoy creation and uh you are good to us and your goodness is evident in um in our lives even through the midst of difficulty difficulties and struggles and and um difficult things Lord we we know that you are a good God and um we We we confess before you that, Lord, often we do not we find goodness in things apart from you. And when we do, Lord, we understand That is uh that is sinful. So I pray, Lord, that you'd help us as we just enjoy life and enjoy the things that you give us. And see your goodness in the blessings of life that we would always point those things point back to you in our hearts and our thinking. And um Lord, as we come to you, may we even look Looking ahead this week, there's all kinds of challenges ahead this week. I pray that we would take them and use them or and and to think through the fact that no matter what happened happens in our lives, you are a good God. Lord, we look forward to Kevin speaking tonight, Lord, and I pray that you'd help him to preach from your word clearly, that he'd explain the text clearly and help us, Lord, to uh understand it and to uh our hearts to be receptive to your word this evening. And uh Lord, we pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen. And we're going to open with trust and obey. We're going to sing, we're going to sing the first three verses of trust and obey. When we walk with the Lord in the light of his earth, what a glory beast has on our way. Well be to his good deal, he alright with us here And with all who'll trust and obey, trust and obey, for there's no other way to be happy But it was an day, and a shadow can cry. Not a cloud in that time, but his mean right here. Can apply while me trust and obey, trust and obey, for there's no other way to be happy Not a burden we say, not a coral we share, but our will be the greatly reway Not a grief nor a cause, not a proud nor a cross. What is left in free to us and And no pain trust and no pain, for there's no other way to be happy Amen. We're going to be in Second Kings chapter five. I appreciate it in Rick's Message this morning. I told him he he trampled, tread a little bit on my sermon, but really he strengthened it. And we're going to talk about some similar thoughts that we saw with the the rich ruler and with this man named Naaman. 2 Kings chapter 5. We're going to start reading in verse number 1. Second Kings 5, verse number 1. Now Naaman, commander of the army of the king of Syria, was a great and honorable man in the eyes of his Master. Because by him the Lord had given victory to Syria, he was also a mighty man of valor, but a leper. And the Syrians had gone out on raids and had brought back captive a young girl from the land of Israel She waited on Naaman's wife. Then she said to her mistress, If only my master were with the prophet who is in Samaria, for he would heal him of his leprosy. Saman went in and told his master, saying, Thus and thus said the girl, who is from the land of Israel. Then the king of Syria said, Go now, and I will send a letter to the king of Israel. Let's open in prayer. Heavenly Father, I thank you for this opportunity to preach your word, to be in the word. I pray that you would be with my mouth, with My nerves, with my pride, and with uh with with the people here, Lord, I pray we'd have the ears to hear truth, not to just hear it and log it away, or not to just to spend time in church as a good Christian Christian should, but really to say, God, how should this scripture change me? How should this challenge me? How should this affect me, Lord? I pray that we would be applying your word to our life. We'd retain it, be retaining it, we'd be meditating on it. Amen. Have you ever seen someone make a terrible decision? A just ridiculously terrible, undefendable decision, and you're just watching them make this decision. And it it Not just that they're making a bad decision. Right next to them is the right decision. And the right decision is very obvious. It's shouting out. It's very legible, it's very clear, and it's very easy. But no, they're still going to choose the opposite Of the right-wise decision. When I think of this example, I think of a typical suspense movie. There are all kinds of different genres and categories of suspense movies, but they're all the Designed to do one thing. They're designed to put you in suspense. And how do they do that? Well, they present you with a group of friends. A group of, maybe a group of strangers, a group of people That the story's been resolved around. And throughout this movie, throughout this telling, throughout this book even, there is a threat, a danger that looms, that grows. I think of a typical shark movie Scene one, you've seen them all, right? Just filmed a little differently, a little better, different music. A typical shark movie. Or perhaps, as we get closer to Halloween, a horror movie is Sorts, where there's some danger. There's some group of friends camping out in the forest, and a couple miles away there's a prison that loses power. And the story goes on. There's a danger There's a group of friends on the beach, and and little to they know there's there's sharks in the water. There's there's a s a particular dangerous shark that's that's unrealistic in every way. Because if it was realistic, why would we watch this? This is reality. We don't want that. So we see the suspense movie grow and the danger grows, and we come to the point midway of the movie where we've been hurt. There are people in this group that aren't as core to the story as a others. And they come to a an impact. They come to maybe it's a sound in the forest. They hear this breaking of branches out in the forest at late at night around a campfire and what do they do? You know They make the logical decision, I'm gonna go check that sound out. By myself, without a flashlight, without a weapon, without a phone. I'm just gonna go over there and I'm gonna go check that out. And hear the music You hear the violence? Without the music, by the way, it's not as scary. If you're getting scared watching a movie, just mute it. Normal. So so this they're making this terrible decision and you are watching this movie and you're going, No, why are you doing this? Stop! That This doesn't make any sense. I wouldn't do that. You wouldn't do that. It's just a movie. And you're getting worked up. Maybe there's a friend, a group of friends on the beach around a campfire, and one of them hears this abnormally sound loud splash out in the water So they go clearly, obviously, by themselves, out on the pier, and they come on the pier and and they get low to the water. And the camera is in the water, it's coming up, it's getting closer, and you're like, No! And then you come to a point where you're just like, This is a horrible decision, there's no way to fend this decision. And the movie goes on, with more and more of those things happening. That's That's a typical suspense movie. We're about to read that idea in Neiman's life. Neiman comes to a point where he has the clear answer That would change his life forever, for the for the better. And he says, I'm gonna go over here on my own Without a flashlight, without friends, and I'm gonna do the worst thing I could possibly do. Sadly, this occurrence is not isolated. There are many, many Places in the Bible where you see this, where someone comes to God or God's prophet and says, Give me an answer, help me, rescue me, give me wisdom. And they get the answer from God And they go, no, we saw it with the rich ruler today. Could you get a better answer from God? God. God who knows your heart. There's no one else who could tell that rich ruler what he needed. As you're counseling a friend Or a family member. Don't you wish I could just tell them exactly what they need? And you're trying to help them. You're trying to love them and encourage them. You're trying to be be the best you could be You're not God. But here, God saw his heart and went right to the problem. And the rich ruler said, Well, we don't know exactly what he said. We know he went away fat. He came to that answer from God. He had no doubt in his mind why God said that. He felt the gravity of that decision. And he came there and he said, Ah, no, and he left. We had to abandon his quest for this salvation. We we there's many other examples in the Bible, but I I'm not gonna go to all the examples. We're not gonna do a a devotion or a sermon Marathons tonight. We're gonna stay with Naaman. We're gonna let him represent this idea of getting an answer from God and rejecting it. So let's talk about Naaman. Let's look at Naaman's reputation. In 2 Kings 5. 1, God is very clear to list Naaman's credentials, if you will. So we see Naaman was a commander of the army of Syria. When I I think of a commander of an army. I think of a man's man. Right? I think, all right, Naaman must have been, maybe he was really Strong and powerful. He had to know how to fight. He had to know how to deal with weapons and strategize and make war. Now perhaps he wasn't a big guy. Maybe he was shorter. God, but I'm sure he had a presence, a commanding presence Presence. So we know Naman was a commander of the army, the commander of the army of Syria. We see later on he reported directly to the king. Naaman was a powerful man. He was a man of presence. He was a man Man that you wanted to follow. He was a leader. We see Naaman was great and honorable in the eyes of his master. His master was the king. As I I am working full time. I pray and hope and seek. My boss thinks of me as a great and honorable man. I want him to think of me as heaven. He's a great man Worker. He's a great uh inspector, he's a great manager, he's a great this and a great that, and also he's honorable. He's an honorable person, he's a man of integrity. This is what the king of Syria thought We see the Lord had used Naaman to give victory to Syria. Naaman was used mightily by God in a crucial key way. Just to save and rescue his whole nation. Naaman wasn't known as Naaman in his country. You know what he was known as? He was known as a hero. He was known as that guy who was used mightily. And maybe Naaman didn't understand The significance of God using him, but the king did. Do you see that? The king recognized that Naaman had been used by him. The Lord had used him. The king saw the significance of Naaman. These are great these are things we would want. Would you not want most of these things applied to you? And then we get to a mighty man of valor. Naaman was a mighty man of valor He was a courageous man. He he was a man willing to t to take risk for others. He was a man willing to take things on. He was a man of valor. He wasn't someone who was quick Quickly distracted or quickly discouraged or quickly changed from something. He was he was a focused man, a valorous man. All of these things we would want, except for this next thing. This next mind Minor thing. Neiman was a leper. He was inflicted with leprosy. Leprosy is known as a skin condition. It spreads over the body. You could think of it as a highly toxic mold. It's a disease that attacks the nervous system. People with leprosy primarily contacted through unclean conditions, through death, through through carcasses, and and this was a much more common disease back in the Bible Times. We see it throughout the New Testament. We think of leprosy in strong terms because it's presented to us in strong terms. We see leprosy as a separator. Leprosy wasn't just, oh that's inconvenient. Leprosy was a kiss of death. Leprosy is not known to kill quickly. It's a lingering disease and it kills eventually. There is not really a known cure for leprosy, especially back in old times. So so when Neiman contracted leprosy, and I think it's safe to assume he didn't have leprosy his Career. I would imagine we could say safely that Neiman didn't join the Armin Army as a leper and wasn't accepted for promotions as a leper. At some point, Neiman had to have come in contact with this. Probably through war, perhaps. And when he had this leprosy, his life changed right at that moment. This was one of the biggest things that could happen to his his career, his personality, his future, his expectations. You see, up to this point, he was known as Namin the Hero The great leader, the commander of the army. The king trusts him. And you know what? The only thing people thought of from now on about Naaman? Poor Naaman, who's gonna die of leprosy. You can't think of anything else. There was no end other than leprosy. Leprosy ended in death, and that's what happened. It was only a question of time. It was only a question of pain. It was only a question of how long he could fight this leprosy. We see one more thing about Naaman's reputation. Naaman was surrounded by people who saw him him deserving of being healed. We see he's surrounded by his wife. We see his teen sees him as deserving of being healed. We see a servant girl who was captured from Israel who's also seeing Naaman as being deserving of being healed. So much so that she offers a solution. She's probably with Witnessed Neaman's wife in torture, seeing her husband slowly falling more and more prey to this disease. Could you imagine Neiman fighting this leprosy? Now he had opportunity to fight it more than most. I'm assuming Assuming he had he had wealth. He had he had much at his disposal. Any modern medicine that that nation had, or another nation I'm sure he could get. He probably had many people researching How to solve this problem. He probably every day, I would imagine, spent time washing and cleaning, whatever was infected, wherever this disease was. I imagine he measured it And tried to see if it was growing. This impacted his every day, every present thought and mind. And I'm sure this impacted his family, his wife. And this trickles down to the surface And the servant girl offers a solution. She says here, she says, um, if only my master were with a prophet who is in Samaria, for he would heal him of this. And A side note, a side rabbit thought here, rabbit trail. Do we offer God as a solution to people? I know God isn't meant to be a solution to make your life better. We don't want to offer God as a But still, when we see suffering, sorrow, anger, calamity, do we give good, trite, generic advice or do we say my God is bigger than this? I know a God, the only God. Do we bring God up in that tense? So here we we know who Naaman is. We have a good picture of Naaman. Let's move on to Naaman's journey. Verse number five five. So he, so Naaman departed and took with him ten talents of silver, six thousand shechas of gold and ten changes of clothing Then he brought the letter to the king of Israel, which said, Now be advised, when this letter comes to you, that I have sent Naaman, my servant, to you, that you may heal him of his leopard Naaman's journey. So Naaman's journey, right away I see his journey shows faith. And there's all up there, but we're just gonna read one right now. It's okay. Naaman's journey shows faith. His his area go ahead. Alright. Maven's journey shows faith. We see He he m acted on this information. He started traveling. He started moving. Probably it didn't just show faith, I would assume it also showed some level of desperation He's exhausted every other option he can think of. This could be it. This could be the answer. Just like the wise, the rich run ruler who came to Jesus, we learned this. Morning. He came looking for an answer. He felt convicted about needing this answer. He knew this was important. And Naaman saw that. So we see some faith, we see some desperation. We also see Naaman brings gifts He brings um clothing, he brings riches. He comes what does that mean? He comes with respect. Naaman is not just coming to demand. He's not coming to Threatened. We don't see him coming with the idea of just pleading. He's coming with respect. He's coming to a king and he knows it. See, Naaman is like a leader, a commander. He knows what respect means. He knows what hierarchy means. He knows what authority means means. And he thinks of the king of Israel as the highest authority he can go to in this other nation. We see that. Also, Naaman doesn't go on his own accord. Do you see this? Naaman is sent by his King. Naaman's king sends him. Naaman actually doesn't even represent himself. The Bible says Naaman gives the letter to the king of Israel. Do you see there's some significance to this? Wouldn't you, if you had to advocate for yourself, I think of a a resume. As you're applying for a new position and they want a list of references and you're thinking, all right, uh no, don't put him down there. He never liked me. Uh oh yeah, yeah. No, that's family. They're not gonna believe And you're trying to think of the best references you can get. Oh, he yes, people know it. He's a celebrity. He let oh yes, got him down there. You want to represent yourself with the most authority the most integrity, the most conviction you can. Here we see Naaman, he goes with the authority of his king. This isn't just Naaman. It's not just Naaman the leader of the commander of the army army which would be great. It's the king of Syria sending Naaman. So Naaman journeys with faith, he brings gifts with respect. He sent by his king to the king of Israel. And he doesn't Represent himself. He hands the king his letter. I can't help but see a similarity here, a comparison. When we go to God in prayer, don't we go with a letter from Jesus? Jesus? Don't we go through his son? Don't we say in your son's name? Doesn't Jesus grant us access to God in a way we could never think or hope to attain. So Naaman, he completes his journey and he comes to the king of Israel and he gives her gives him his request, a simple request. Let's read that in verse 7. And it happened when the king of Israel read the letter that he tore his clothes and said, Am I God to kill and make alive that this man sends a man to me to kill This is not What Naman was expecting. Actually, I find this response from the king almost comical. Here we see the king of Israel instantly declares his inability to accomplish what only God can That's probably a rare thing for a king to declare, by the way. Kings typically think of themselves as being God, being powerful. But the he right he right here he says, Am I God? Am I God? He's I can't solve this problem. I what this is not a problem that I can solve. Have you ever been asked to solve a problem that you you can't solve? Have you ever asked for like medical advice? And you're like That's a real detailed question. Clearly you think I do something else for a living. No. Go go online. Your phone is gonna answer that better than me. Have you ever been asked a question Yeah. Like no that that's a question for a metallurgist? Yeah? No, not for me. That's a question for someone else. Well here the keen. He's this is not for me. This is this is a question for God. I'm not God. More than that, we see the king he panics. He tears his clothes, which is a great sign of distress, even sorrow or grief. The king panics He's trying to figure out why are you seeking a quarrel with me? The king is concerned that they're gonna they're gonna use this and it's gonna end up being a problem, and his nation is gonna go to war This is going to be a big dilemma. This idea of the king sitting on his throne that morning, he drinks his cup of coffee You know, tunes into the news. He's having a normal day. Kings probably felt pretty powerful, pretty in control. This isn't this isn't Isn't on his scope at all. And then he gets a letter. You know, you can imagine with me that he's reading a letter and his hand starts to shake. And he's like, his whole world changes. He goes from instant calm and And in control to instant panic. And as I'm trying to convey this idea of panic, I think of a really well-relatable illustration that I have experienced a few times in my life, and I imagine Imagine some of you have too. Imagine you are preparing for a trip, and instantly you can think of all these things that have gone wrong during a trip. But you haven't left yet. Your family is all outside, they're getting ready to load Everyone's happy, excited. You're going, it could be a vacation, it could be to the store, it could be to church, it could be anywhere. And and you as as I'm thinking of myself as a leader of my home, typically I'm Uh I'm the last one out. Come out the door. Shut the door behind me. I hear a satisfying click of the door. Lock. And then I reach for And it's not where I expected. I'm not hearing that little jingle sound that I and then you can just my heartbeat is just calming a little bit more than it was earlier. And I and I And then I turn and my family standing by the van. My wife sees me. She's been watching me. She's ready. Did did do you have the No she says nope don't have the keys never had the keys I was not the key lady today you you have the keys we don't have the keys nobody at nobody nope ever all the kids checking themselves, shaking the brother upside down, because they know it's about to go down. We got a problem. And Dad has a problem. He is about to stress out. He needs the keys. And this is the king right here. He's got a problem, and he doesn't have the keys. He's never had the keys to solve leprosy Never who told you I could do this? Why are you here? This is ruining my day. Do we go to the wrong team looking for a leprosy? Do we say I have a problem? I'm gonna go seek it out of my friend. My friend can solve this. My social circle can solve this problem. Man's intellect can solve this problem. problem. I'm gonna go research it, read, read everything online I can possibly find, cross-examine, do some history, that's all great. That's great. That's nothing wrong with that. But that's not the key of the That's what happens here. The last thing I see about the king. The king seems completely ignorant of God's prophet in his own country. Country. Right? Perhaps he just forgot in the moment of panic that he had an option, if you will. There's a prophet close by, represents God. Perhaps he wasn't a believer in this prophet. He didn't really see merit to it. I'm not sure. Perhaps he didn't think the prophet would care about this problem. Maybe he wasn't on good terms with God. Maybe he wasn't on good terms with the prophet of God. And he just expected this to not really be an option. So let's let's look at verse 8 So it was when Elisha, the man of God, heard that the king of Israel had torn his clothes, that he sent to the king, saying, Why have you torn your clothes? Please let him come to me, and he shall know that there is a prophet So word gets to Elisha. And Elisha reaches out to the king. And the king gladly, it seems, sends Naaman away. the prophet. And what is Elisha's motivation here? Look at the text. Why is Elisha offering this? Is he doing it for self-glory? Is he doing it to Earn an attaboy from the king? Is he doing it for a promotion or for riches? No, he says, and he shall know that there is a prophet in Israel. So you see Elisha sees an opportunity with leprosy. Well most people see this leprosy as a life changer, as a kiss of death, as the end of a career, as the end of everything you want. Elisha says No, this is an opportunity. Great things will come from this. That's what Elisha sees. That's what God sees. Then Naaman went with his horses And his chariot. And he stood at the door of Elisha's house. And Elisha sent a messenger to meet him, saying, Go and wash in the Jordan seven times, and your flesh shall be restored to you, and you shall be clean. There you go. Simple, right? But, verse 11, but Naaman became furious and went away and said, Indeed, I said to myself He will surely come out to me and stand and call on the name of the Lord his God and wave his hand over the place and heal the leprosy. Are not the Abna and the Parpar, the rivers of Damascus, better than all the waters of Israel? Israel? Could I not wash him then and be clean? So he turned and went away, and the Bible says, in a rage. In a rage. Do you see the emotions here from Naaman? Clearly, we can see Naaman had some expectations that did not get satisfied. Naaman had expectations of God. Naaman had expectations of God's answer for him. The first expectation I'd like to say is he expected to meet this prophet. That's a pretty fair expectation, I suppose. He didn't meet the prophet. He came to the prophet's door And the prophet sent a messenger to Naaman. Naaman had just seen the king. Naaman had just seen the prophet's boss, if you will, if you think of the idea of authority. in the country. And that's probably how Naaman thought, as a as a commander. I just saw your boss, Jack. Why are you not coming to talk to me? Have you ever had somebody go to your boss in authority and say, hey Hey, I'm not getting the results I want with Kevin. I'm not getting it. He's not giving me the respect I deserve. He's not giving me the attention I'm demanding. You need to fix this problem. Do you see Naaman's frustration, I didn't even get to see the prophet. I traveled across the whole country. I traveled with all this caravan and I didn't even see him. What else do we have? So this expectation Neaman had. He had an expectation. To see something memorable, to experience something magical or dramatic, something powerful that would impact him, a great story to tell and share. Had a really vivid imagination. He expected this. He's gonna come out, he's gonna wave his hand, say something, and and it'll be done. I also I noticed that didn't involve him doing anything else The effort wasn't on Neamon at that point. I came to you, you solved problem. Prophet of God solved my problem. And that was his expectation, something memorable, something dramatic, something glorious and He didn't receive that at all. He was told to go wash in a muddy river seven times. He also expected one more thing. He expected something worthy of his status, worthy of his of his position. He came to God's prophet and he expected a solution that met him where he was at. He he knew his status in life He probably had great riches, great power. He was just under the king. He was a hero. Don't you know who I am? That was his expectation. And that's those expectations left him angry, left him in a rage. The young rich man this morning that Enrique talked about, he He left sorrowful, sad. Both of their expectations sent them away. Both of their willingness to answer and to respond to God's answer left them away. They had the fortune cookie of God life that would answer all of their problems. No question about it, no better answer. This will solve it. This medication, if you will, this will solve it. And they hated it They were sad about it. They walked away from it. But I'm I'm very thankful that this passage doesn't end there I feel personally thankful about this because when I think of my salvation, I think of God chasing me. And we see with Naaman, we see Naaman's second chance. Let's read in verse 13. And his servants came near and spoke to him and said, My father, if the prophet had told you to do something great, would you not have done it? How much more then when he says to you, Wash and be clean? As you read Scripture and you and you learn about God, because Scripture Reveals God. As you're reading Old Testament, New Testament, that scripture will reveal God to you. We see our God, He has a still small voice, a earnest Gracious voice. Now our God is is a conqueror and a lion, but our God is gracious. And you can see here, he's reaching Naaman through His rage, through his anger. He's sending his servants to plead with them. You see God's grace here, and I I can't help but feel but see God's grace in my life. Often as I get angry with what I'm being Told what I'm reading. As I get sorrowful about what I need to make as a decision, I see God pricking me day after day, convicting me. I see the Holy Spirit reaching me, talking to me And here we see Naaman. He's getting another opportunity from God. Naaman was about to pack up. Naaman was about to travel to where there was no river, even. He was supposed to bathe in that not the right river. What do you think would have happened to Neiman months later? Do you think he would have regretted this decision? Perhaps he would have traveled back and tried again. Perhaps I I want to be careful not to speculate too far, but I want to put our minds in this passage. Not just read it. I want to think about it. His servants who lugged all this gear across the country, all these clothes and riches and all these chests They're like, now we're going back with them? What? I someone in leadership needs to talk to. This is not a good decision. So they come to him and they talk to him. They say, maybe Actually they say father. Very respectful. If he asks you to do something incredible, something hard, like bring me this rare rock, or or I'm I'm option, something something worthy of of hard hard to do, something valorous, something honorable. Would you have done it? He's just saying dip in the river. Seven why not do And here we see Naaman listens to reason. Maybe out of faith, maybe out of desperation. We're not sure. We see Naaman says, okay, I will put myself Through this requirement. I will follow this command. Verse 14. So he so Naaman went down and dipped Seven times in the Jordan, according to the saying of the man of God. And his flesh was restored like the flesh of a little child when he was clean. And he returned to the man of God, he and all his age, and came and stood Before him and said, Indeed, now I know there is no God in all the earth except in Israel. Now therefore, please take a gift from your servant. Isn't it interesting? After Naaman obeys, he He's completely different. We see after his obedience, for one, he meets God's prophet. We have every reason to believe he gets to meet God's prophet at that point. He He sees and interacts with God's prophet and has a conversation with him personally. May I ask you, do you think perhaps there is a closeness to God you will not feel unless you're obeying him. There's a closeness to God you will not experience unless you are following his commands. We we complain as Christians that God is is hard to relate to. He's hard to understand. He's hard to feel close to. He's hard to feel connected to. He's kind of vague. Sometimes that's because we're not obeying him. We're not following his commands. Here we see Naaman Is given access to God's prophet. We see Naaman sees the bigger picture. There is no God in all the earth except in Israel. Israel. Do you know he he doesn't the Bible doesn't say he shouts, I'm whole, I'm clean, I'm gonna live much longer, I'm clean of my leprosy, I look like a child again. No, see that's not what he's shouting. Maybe I'm I imagine he shouted that too. But what are you shouting with the Bible documents? Is he shouting there is no God except in Israel? Isn't that a better truth? Isn't that more important than a temporary leprosy? Isn't that More substance? We also see Neiman offers his gifts in thanks to God. These gifts he was going to take back, these gifts of respect. And thanks. He was going to take them home. And now he says, no, here, take them, take them. And he he tries to give. He's very upset that they won't take them later on. We won't read farther. But he wants to give to God now. May I ask you Do you think perhaps when we struggle with giving of our time, of our heart, of our finances to God, it's because we're not even obeying Him. We're not even listening to him. It's really hard to sacrifice to something that you're not following. And this convicted me, this idea of am I giving To God because I'm obeying Him? Is His obedience causing me to want to give, to want to sacrifice as I obey Him? You will not truly be thankful for God until you're really obeying him. There's a deeper level of thankfulness to God as you see his command, true. As you see the bigger picture in your life. So Naaman, he he goes through this huge life ordeal, this huge change, and he enters his country again. And you would expect That that he lived a much longer life because of being cured. But what else do you think might have happened? What else might have happened during this bigger picture? This idea. And even came back to his country as a respectable person. People honored him, valued him. And I imagine he had a message to share. He had more to say other than I'm cured. He was able to speak of the God So as we close tonight, how can we apply this passage? How can we Learning glean from this passage. God gave us these verses for a reason. Let's really think about how they apply to us. My first question for us: what is our leprosy? Or what is our request of God? Naaman had a clear, unarguable leprosy. But don't we all have leprosy? Don't we all have a problem? A group of problems? Maybe it maybe it's a A core problem that's on our mind constantly. Or maybe it's a group of minor problems. Or maybe it's not a problem, but it's a big decision. It could be a circumstance that we're dealing with This year has all been about a big circumstance in America, honestly. But it could be more than that, much more than this. It could be some kind of limitation we are dealing with, a physical limitation Uh a distance limitation, a financial limitation. Our leprosy could be a trial or a difficult situation. Something that we wake up and we think I gotta I gotta solve this. I gotta fix this. This is a big deal. This is this is growing on the arm. Our leprosy could be caused by sin. Here we see in in the In demon's life it wasn't shown that way, but but we often sin in our life. So we know that the end of sin is death. We sin and that causes a problem, and that causes leprosy And our we all have this. We all have a dilemma. And frankly, if you feel like you have no problem, um you have a problem. I can help you find one. I wish I was more like you, somewhat. We all have sin. We all have problems. It you'd be you'd be ignorant to not think of it. So we see our leprosy, we see our problem. Let me ask you what incorrect authority are you looking to for an answer? Naaman went to Akeem, the wrong king. Akeem Who panics, a king who's like, I got nothing. This is not my zone at all. Can't what authority do we go to with our problems? Do we go, like I said earlier, to friends or to the internet Or to uh to to family, to professionals we know, perhaps very good people to go to, but guess what? They are not the king of your leprosy They aren't. And they should know it. And if they do anything right, they better tell you, I can't solve this. Maybe I can help you a little, maybe I can give you advice, but I can't solve this. Do you know what? The world's not going to tell you that If you go to the world, if you go out to get the world's advice, the world's opinion, it's not going to be uh, you know, you need more God in your life. It's not gonna be, you know, you need to be humble before God It's not going to be that. The world is going to be more than less happy to distract you with other options, other advice, other opinions. What authority are we going to to solve our problems? I was at a uh a men's conference a couple years back with a a friend of mine who invited me and and it was a totally different church. I didn't know anyone there at all and I went and I was so glad I went. And at the end of the This conference they had a preacher panel and they lined up the five preachers who had spoken and they asked them a bunch of questions and I really enjoyed that opportunity to see their personality and their answers. And they said, give me, Pastor Wise Leader, what book would you recommend that we read? What what really and and they went down the line and they had really good answers about deep doctrinal spiritual books. And I'm sure if I asked Pastor Jim to ask to give me a list of books to read, we'd be here longer. Because he reads and there's great things to read. And they got down to the last pastor on this panel. He was also the oldest. He he wasn't too worried about the political answer. And he said, you know, frankly, what I tell people, if you're not reading the Bible He shouldn't be reading anything else. And that's what I tell people. Read the Bible. And I was like, oh, that's great. That's great. So all the other books are are really good, but don't think you need a new book. Don't come to Pastor Jim. And read and say, what do I read? Well, if you're not reading the Bible, start there. The Bible is the answer. So where are we going for our authority? What are we treating as the solution to our left? I got another question. What expectations do we have when we ask God for help? When we come to God for help, or for advice, or for counsel or guidance, what are our expectations? Here's some better ways to think about it. We ask God for salvation for loved ones. And we should. And if you're not praying for a lost person, there's There's something wrong with your heart. If you are not a loving Christian and you don't have love for someone you know who's lost, whether it be a family member or someone who's a neighbor or someone you barely even know And you're not praying for them, your heart has not charity. Not the charity it should have. We should be praying. So as we pray for salvation for loved ones, what is our What is our expectation? Do we have expectations? As we, dear God, you know, and we pray, and we think, all right, now that I've prayed, I've ordered up this answer from God. And it's just a matter of time before he does what I think he's gonna do Check. Ding, I push the microwave button. What about when we ask for safety? God keep me safe. That's pretty clear, right? Do we have expectations about safety. And then something goes wrong. God, I pray for safety. I don't feel safe. Do we have expectations about safety? Do we have expectations when we pray and ask God for blessings or success at work or good help? Do we have expectations when we ask God for help with raising our children? As we raise our young children and our teenagers, and as we're interacting with adult children. As we're interacting with spouses, do we come to God in prayer and then be like, all right, well, I have a feeling this is what's going to happen now. This is what should happen. It seems to make sense to me. This is my expectation of God. Do we do that As we ask for help with financial decisions, financial hardships, loneliness or depressure, anger or pride, do we have expectations of God? I know what God should do now that I've prayed for God. About this. What about coming to church? Do we come and sit and we have expectations of how the sermon should go? Or how the vibe should be, or what the temple should be should be at. And and we go home and we go, man, that was a that's a powerpoint. Or the AVs. We have expectations about that the PowerPoint. And man, that was a waste of a Sunday morning. I was there, but boy, I uh And we have this expectation. What are our expectations? Do we bring that to God? Could you imagine coming to the President of the United States or a king of a nation with expectations? And demands. Oh King, oh God, I'm here, but here's what I'm expecting of you. Do you see how ridiculous this is? You know where that ends? That ends in sorrow and running away. That ends in anger and running away. Way that does not end in our leprosy being solved. Why? Because we're thinking we deserve something special. There's some something deserving of us. What are our expectations Lastly, what are you doing with the answer God has given you? It's 2020. God's word is accessible to you. If you don't know God's answer to you, you're not reading it. God is very clear about answers in the Bible. Perhaps you need assistance finding a good answer, a true answer. And you want assistance, but it it should be there. If you don't know what God has said about your problem, you're probably not looking for it in the Bible. You're probably not seeking it out. So what are you gonna do with the answer? I'm gonna assume You have an answer from God. Maybe you're here's an example. You're struggling with tithing. The Bible is very clear about tithing. It could be anything in your life, whatever your leprosy may be. You slot this out. What you should be doing. Maybe you don't know. You're not God. Maybe you don't know it's going to solve it instantly. But you know it's what God wants you to do. You know it's the next step. Clearly. What are you doing with it? Are you arguing with God's answer? Are you trying to find a way around it? A loophole, a way to lessen it, diminish it. Well, technically that text was Written to the nation of Israel so long ago, I'm not so sure it applies to me. Are you trying to find a way to not let it convict you? Are you angry with God's answer Have you ever been angry with God's answer? You read it, like come out and be separate? That's so hard to do. I'd have to give up this and I'd have to give up that. Have you read God's answer and was angry with it. That's that's not very gracious. That's not the answer I want. I don't want to feel that way about my sin. I don't want to make that drastic change in my life. I'm angry with it. Are you holding back things? to God because you don't agree with his answer. If you find that you're having a hard time thanking God, sacrificing for God, it's very likely that your expectation Are keeping you away from God. So let me leave you with these three things. What are you dealing with? What is your leprosy? And we all have, we all have something. What authority are you going to with your leprosy? Who are you seeking help from? And what are you doing with the answer God has given you? God does not try to hide our solution. God does not want to keep the right thing from you. That's not his goal. Constantly we see in scripture that God will give you exactly what you need to do, exactly what you should do. It's right here. What are you doing with that? What am I doing with it? It's going to pick up. Thank you, Kevin. Very good. A lot of similarities between Naaman and the rich young ruler this morning, huh? They really complemented each other. One of the things that uh Uh you see there both of them really had expectations, didn't they? They I think I think in in the text this morning you could see the expectation as they come came to Chr as he came to Christ to ask how He could uh have guaranteed entrance into heaven. And you had the same kind of expectations as well tonight. Why? Why do we have these expectations Expectations. Isn't it because well we see in the text both this morning and tonight they can't they they come with their efforts. They come with all the things that they have, the riches and the efforts and all the works and all the they're coming they're coming with all their efforts. Uh they're trying to use avenues of authority through kings and all the things like Kevin talked about. And really them and didn't need to do anything except go dip in the river, but there was one thing he had to have in order to dip in the river. It's humility. He just had to go dip in the river seven times. And trust God and go do. And and really you see a picture of the gospel in both this morning's lesson as well as this e this evening's lesson as well in Naaman. And uh and so thank you very much. It was very good and lots of lots of things to think about in Naaman's life. We have expectations of what we expect God to do. And really what we have to simply do is come to God and say, Lord, I'm willing to do whatever you want me to do. And there's a humility there that we need to have in order to be able to apply the gospel to Live out the gospel every day of our lives. The key as Christians to living out the gospel every day of our lives and not to have expectations that are not of God. The key is humility. And just saying, God, I'm here to do what you want me to do and to do it your way. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Oh, let me ask you this question. How many of you all are starting school of some kind or another tomorrow. Who's starting school tomorrow? Kids and parents? Okay, we got quite a few people starting school tomorrow. We will be praying about that as well, those of you who have decided to start school tomorrow, those of you who are slackers and are waiting later to later, um, we'll pray for you as well. So let's pray together. Father, we come to you this evening and we thank you just for the privilege of gathering tonight and we thank you for how we see really in both this morning's Message and his evening's message, we we see how um it is impossible uh to come to you to rid ourselves of our own Sin and even the greatest of rulers or the greatest of honorable men or those who have great riches are absolutely Um they're unable, complete inability, unable to come to you. But it is with God all things are possible as we saw this morning. And Naaman had to learn a lesson, and we have to learn a lesson daily, that if we're going to live out the gospel every day of our life It's going to be as we do so in humility. That what you don't want from us is to is to somehow think that we have something to offer you We have nothing to offer you. The only thing that we can do is respond to what you've already given to us through your gospel. And I pray, Lord, daily you would help us to respond. And Lord, as we anticipate tomorrow, many uh families are starting up school and if not if not this week, uh I'm sure the next coup several weeks uh uh different different people are are starting up school lord and uh I uh in man some cases this is gonna be a very, very different year uh for some Others it won't be all that different. And Lord, I pray in every case, Lord, that you'd help us to educate our children and uh give guidance to the education of our children uh in a way that honors you and pleases you. Lord, we don't want our children to we want to raise our children with a bunch of uh head knowledge that is only going to cause them to think that they're rich young rulers or naamans, or we want them to learn with a with the right heart before you to be able to serve you uh with the unique heart before you Lord and even as we educate our children Lord help us be good stewards with what you've given to us and help us to put as many tools in the in the tool shed if you will Will to be able to help them to be able to serve you, that the goal would be to serve you. And as we as we educate our kids, may we instill that in them. That what we are doing is we are we are uh desiring to give them the tools that later on uh you can use in their lives. Lord I uh to to be able to serve you uh and be equipped to do that. And so Lord, may we have that in mind as we educate our kids this week. I pray that you have help kids down have good attitudes and parents to have good attitudes and that there would be love and uh and flexibility and diligence in the coming uh week as well And Lord, we thank you for your many blessings to us, and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. You are dismissed. Have a great week