Anybody remember what we talked about last week? Pardon? That's your excuse. What was that? Somebody else say? Very good. The genealogy. Yep. Very good. Well this week we are going to go into their beginning to come around to doing some more spiritual things. And uh I have uh really enjoyed preparing this week. Uh Got me started on some things, which was good. I got reminders as I was going. But uh if you would turn to your Bible to Nehemiah chapter eight, we're gonna read verses one through eight, and I will struggle through the names, but I will try it. Okay. And all the people gathered themselves together as one man into the street that was before the water gate. And they spoke unto Ezra, the scribe, to bring the book of the law of Moses, which the Lord had commanded to Israel. And Ezra the priest brought the law before the congregation, both of men and women, and all that could hear with understanding, upon the first day of the seventh month. And he read therein before the street that was before the water gate from the morning until midday, before the men and the women, and those that could understand and the ears of all the people were attentive unto the book of the law. And Ezra, the scribe, stood upon a pulpit of wood, which was made for the purpose, and beside him stood Mediah, and Shema and Ananiah and Arijah and Hilakah Hilikiah and Mattheah on his right hand and on his left hand Pedaiah and Messiah and Malachiah and Heshem, and Heshabadana, Zachariah, and Meshulem. And Ezra opened the book in the sight of all the people, for he was above all the people. And when he opened it up, All the people stood up. And Ezra blessed the Lord, the great God, and all the people answered, Amen, Amen. with lifting up their hands, and they bowed their heads and worshipped the Lord with their faces to the ground. Also Jeshua and Bani and Shareba Sharia Sharia Biah Jamin, Ekub, Shabiatiah, Hodajah, Maseya, Khalita, Ezrah, Josebad, Hannon Beleah and the Levites caused the people to understand the law, and the people stood in their place. So they read in the book of the law distinctly And gave the sense and caused them to understand the reading. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for what you are going to teach us. And I pray, Father, that you would help us to be attentive this evening to your word. And Lord, I pray that we would gain understanding. And Father, I just pray that in all things your Spirit will lead and guide and direct for your glory in Jesus' name. Amen So we find here in uh chapter 8, verse 1, all the people were gathering themselves together, and uh they were coming together as one, says one man, but it's bringing them all together. And they were inside the walls of Jerusalem, before the water gate, and this was a very spacious area, and uh where the Nithians and the Gibeonites used to bring the wood and the uh water in uh to the temple. And they uh come in there and they called upon Ezra. They call him the uh scribe, but he's also called the priest, uh, to bring the book of the law of Moses. Which the Lord had commanded to Israel. Now this is kind of interesting. Now these people were in captivity for seventy years. They built the temple, they built the walls, and they're back in their cities. They've been uh all been registered now and um they were all registered uh Republicans and no, I'm just kidding. But they were all um brought together and uh so now they come on their own into Jerusalem and they ask for Ezra to read the uh scriptures to them. And uh just to take a note here, the public reading of the scriptures was required by the law in Israel every seventh year to read the scriptures. And uh being said it was seventy years plus uh approximately a hundred years uh since uh this has been done because when they were in captivity uh they wouldn't be able to do that. But uh it was probably neglected then. So we can see here how God is working in the hearts of these people. He's bringing them back. into where he promised that they would uh be. It's a place where he chose to put his name and it was the people that he had chose to bring there. And so it was a great honor and a great privilege. And I think the people uh here probably wasn't really recognizing that God was doing this work But he was bringing them together. He was bringing them in and and even causing them and to desire to hear the word of God. And so it was required by law again uh that every seventh year that they read the scriptures And some of these older folks may have remembered that and some may have not. A lot of people are going to be younger people here. But there seems to be a strong desire here of the exiles who are returning to hear the word of God. And I think about that. In our country I thought about just a little bit, uh, when the planes crashed into the Twin Towers. You remember that? Was it real clear in your mind? Do you remember what happened right after this took place? We found that people started to flood into the churches at that point in that time. They were something had just happened before their very eyes in our own country that we didn't think would ever take place in our nation. Two planes running into those World Trade Centers. And I can still see it in my mind. I can remember exactly where I was. I remember my son calling me. I tried to call my wife. I couldn't get her. She was right here in Annapolis. I was in Bethesda. My son calls from New Hampshire. I can talk to him all day long. Couldn't figure it out. But anyway I remember all this stuff and I think about how all there was a lot of people flooded into the churches at that particular time. And you wonder why, what caused them to go into the church I mean, you know, they don't go any other time. What what or maybe some of 'em had and have not been going regular. But it made them stop and think about the situation. And the first thing that came to their mind was We gotta go and talk to God. We gotta go and find that they wanted to know what's going on. They were there probably a lot of people went out of fear, a lot of people went out of sadness because of the loss of family members and whatnot. But it was just When I think about that, I think about Israel here coming out of that captivity. And they were a mess when they came out of captivity. We're going to find that out when we get into the next few chapters that they were really a mess. They were intermarrying and everything else. But here we find them coming together. And they're coming together, I think uh when you think about that, if you were in captivity for seventy years And you lost everything, your homes and all that, and now you have the joy of coming back. It's like being reconciled back with God the Father, coming back to that city where he chose to put his name And I think that when we think about that, that's kinda where I'm looking at this and thinking about maybe that's what's going on with these people. They want to know God now, they're back and And they see that God has brought them out of that. They know why they went into the captivity because of their sin. And now it's refreshing to them. And if you ever remember Isaiah, it talks about them, they were kind of wondering if God had forgotten them. But as soon as that seventy years was over, as he said, he was bringing them back. So here it was a great time for them. And um it mentions here um on the uh first day of the seventh month. And in in uh the history of Israel and all of their uh feast and everything This was an important time. The first day of the seventh month was the time of the uh Feast of the Trumpets. And uh the people would uh come out and they'd be blowing trumpets and all. They were celebrating in the civil New Year's day and they were also uh it was called a great day in the scriptures. Great day of celebration celebration. It was a holy convocation where they were coming together to worship God. It was a meeting of the people uh that were coming together with grateful and thankful hearts of what God has done and brought them through. We do that here. We celebrate New Year's. We celebrate a little differently but We should be thinking of how God brought us through the year and provided for us, protected us, and did all these things. We should it should be a joyful time for us too. But Verse 2, Ezra brings the law out before the people, and both men and women, and all who could hear with understanding. And it makes a note in my commentary I was looking at, one of them I was looking at, and it said that uh probably even children who were old enough to understand came to this, uh, to hear God's word preached. And whether they were brought by their parents or whether they were brought on their own, it makes no difference here Proverbs twenty-two six says, Train up a child and the way he shall go. When he gets older, he will not depart from it. Some of these people probably were trained that way before they went into captivity. So they're remembering and it's coming back to them, just like these children, they want to train them up. You and I want to chain train our children and our grandchildren to know God. and hopefully catch them while they're really young and and bring 'em up in the nurturing of God's word. Um I remember Pastor Jim preaching on uh chapter six of Ephesians last uh week before and uh about training up our children. And uh so it's a it's an important part of uh uh our being uh God's children and uh raising our children in that manner. So here we see probably children were involved in this uh coming together Ezra read from morning to midday. Can you imagine that? I've got forty minutes. From morning to midday. Not only is that hard, but that's hard on Ezra to have to preach that long And then we have all these other people there with him helping. And uh so it's probably a pretty trying time, but I'm sure at the same time it's a very joyful time All the people here, listen to this point right here, this is important for us. It says that in verse 3, and the ears of all the people were what? Okay. All the ears of the people were attentive unto the book of the law. They were attentive to the book of the law. They were paying attention. And it mentions here also in verse 4 that he was standing on a pulpit so he was up high and they could hear his voice as it went out over. And uh so this is um a sign uh here, uh all the people when uh Ezra opens up the book It says that in verse uh five, it says, and when he opened it, talking about the book, all the people stood up. And I think about that and it shows here it's a sign of reverence and a sign of humility at the same time. But also um They were talking about that uh Ezra blessed the Lord, the great God. So he was praying. So we always pretty much always stand for prayer. And uh but I've been in some churches where you stood when they read the Word of God and out of respect for God. And that was something these people were doing here. They they stood up as soon as he opened up the Bible. They wanted to hear, they wanted to be attentive. And you know you're much more attentive if you have to stand from morning to noon. Either that or your But anyway, thinking about that, uh it kept them attentive too, but it was a reverence for God's word, mainly. And then we see that uh Ezra prayed and all the people uh Said amen. They bowed their heads with their faces to the ground. And this reminds me of the worshipful attitude that they had and the adoration for God and the humility before God. They bowed their heads. We normally bow our heads when we pray, but we don't always put our face to the ground, to the floor. Um and raising our hands, I've seen that happen. I've done it myself at different times when The Lord seems to really be moving in my heart, and I just can't help but raise my hands to him. And so this is what's going on with them. And uh so it says here in verse 7 and 8 That uh these folks who were coming alongside, um, including the Levites, um they were causing the people to understand. And Especially in verse 8, it says that so they read in the book of the law of God distinctly. and gave the sense and caused them to understand the reading. And there was two um things that were mentioned as I was um reading through this and what they're talking about and why they had all these other folks around. And I'm just gonna share with you what I had found in uh some of the commentaries. But in uh verse seven and eight to me really uh Sh is really a great example of expository preaching here because they're not only preaching the word, but they're making sure that the people get the sense of it, they get the understanding of it And uh Ezra read while the others explained and interpreted. And there were two reasons given for the reading and explanation. It is believed that Ezra probably wrote uh read from the book of the law in Hebrew And uh these other men would interpret it to the people. And uh we find that uh they would probably interpret it from Hebrew to uh Aramaic And a lot of the people, in fact the majority of the people, probably uh had picked up the language of where they were at in captivity. and could not quite understand. And let me give you just a um little reason why we think that way. That that's what possibly was taking uh place. If you look in uh Nehemiah 13, verses 23 and 24, here Nehemiah is uh working with the uh people And this is where we're finding out how those people were when they came out of that captivity. But in 23 and 24 of verse 13, it says, In those days Also I saw Jews that had married wives of Ashdod and Ammon and Moab, and their children spake half in the speech of Ashdod, and could not speak in the Jewish language. but according to the language of each people. So we see here that that's possibly what's going on here because most of them may not even know Hebrew now. 70 years plus um in captivity. So most of them picked up the language where they were at. We find here also that quite a few people, a lot of the people, uh quite possibly have forgotten um God's word. Uh we're losing the understanding and they we're completely ignorant of God's word and its true meaning. And I see that even uh in today we are warned against this. And if you would uh in Hebrews chapter five um The writer of Hebrews uh mentions this in their in chapter five about people who um can forget or not remember. But he says in uh chapter five, verse um eleven Through fourteen, he says, of whom we have many things to say, and hard to be uttered, seeing ye are dull of hearing. For when for the time ye ought to be teachers, ye have need that one teach you again, which be the first principles of the oracles of the So it was still in Paul's day It's still in our day that this takes place, that we don't grow, we don't know, and we don't understand fully. And I can tell you, in uh if you're in a church that does not do expository preaching Preaching, you will have a tough time understanding everything that God uh is trying to tell us and teach us. And if you ask Joey, my wife, or myself, the reason that we are in this church is because of the expository teaching. And not only that, but Jim has been gifted so wonderfully to present it. He uses scripture to bring it over and bring it back and he just makes it so easy to understand. And uh so Here's what's going on with these people too. I mean, they were ignorant, they didn't know, and uh so these people were trying to explain to them, give them the sense of it and understanding. And um Psalm 119 is another uh passage I wanted to look at. We're all pretty much familiar with Psalm 119, especially the one I'm going to be talking uh uh reading here. In uh Psalm one nineteen verse nine through sixteen it says, Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way by taking heed Thereto according to thy word. With my whole heart have I sought thee. O let me not wander from thy commandments. Thy word have I hid in mine heart, that I might not sin against thee. Blessed art thou, O Lord, teach me thy statues. With my lips I have declared all thy judgments of thy mouth. I have rejoiced in the way of thy testimonies, as much as in all riches. I will meditate in thy precepts and have respect unto thy ways. I will delight myself in thy statues. I will not Forget your word. So it's important and critical here that we understand when we're studying God's word, what he's saying and what it means. And here that's what uh is going on with these other people who are there with uh Ezra. They are teaching the people and encouraging the people. And so The other people uh with Ezra would give the meaning of what was being taught so they could rightly and fully divide the Word of God. Remember that they could understand it uh what God has commanded, what God's expecting of them. And what God has promised to them. And also God's holiness. All these things is what they learn when they're being taught that way. And uh in Timothy uh two Uh 2 Timothy 2. 15. He speaks of that in there also to Timothy. But uh in verse 9, we're going to move on. The response of the people who ask Ezra to read the book of the law And I find this uh kind of natural and normal, uh, but it says in there that for um what can I see towards that? Oh, okay. It says here that um they caused them the understanding, but it gets down a little further, and it says that for all the people wept. when they heard the word of God, the words of the law. They all wept. And uh probably what's going through their minds, you know, they intermarried, they're doing everything wrong, and they're coming out of captivity. They Been doing all this stuff and all of a sudden now they're hearing God's word. They're getting reconciled to God. First thing that happens when you're in that position is you get what? Conviction. Conviction of your sinfulness. And that's the Spirit's working. And I remember when I first got saved, when I heard the gospel, how the conviction cut me to the heart I thought I was a great kid. I thought I you know I thought I knew God. I was raised in a Mennonite home, but I really didn't know Christ until I was twenty-some years old. And uh so it's amazing how this spirit works and brings that conviction. And so these people were weeping because of the conviction. But I think there would probably be another thing too that they might have been weeping about. They were overwhelmed. They were overwhelmed by God's word and what God has done for them and how God is bringing them back. There's probably some weeping of joy there too. Uh, but coming to be reunited or reconciled to God, so to speak. When they were in captivity, God was probably far away from them and even in their minds and their actions. Otherwise they wouldn't have been intermarrying and everything else. But what a comfort we find here from Nehemiah and Ezra and the priest, the Levites. I'd like what they say in verse 9. It says, This day is holy unto the Lord your God. Mourn not. Nor weep, for all the people wept when they heard the words of the law. They're encouraging them here. Don't weep, don't mourn, because this is a holy day. This is a day that the Lord had made. Remember the uh hymn that we sing from time to time. This is This is a time that God chose. This uh first uh two days of the seventh month was the trumpet. Yes Uh sorry things are up to the thing. No, go ahead. I am thinking of um that situation. It's only the word of God that conscious conviction in their heart. Um and uh If we want to be sinners really give and save, it's only the word of God that is going to make birth. Yes. James 11. Of his own will beg he used with the word of truth that we should be kind of Only the word of God can be sinners to repent. Exactly. Exactly. It's word uh God's word, exactly. We can do all the things we want to do. We can try all the tricks in the book, but it's gonna be God's word that's gonna bring the command. conviction and the fruit. And that's very good. Thank you for sharing that. And so they're talking about this day being holy, and then they give instruction in verses ten and eleven. And they tell them to go your way Eat the fat, drink the sweet, and send portions of them who have nothing. I think about that and what an encouragement that is. You know, you just heard God's word and you're just being convicted. And right away they're telling you, hold on, hold your peace. You know, don't be sorrowful. Don't do this. Now, there's there's some things we're going to learn here at the end of this, but it's important for us to have conviction and it's important for us there are times when we need to be sorrowful But we dare not stay there if we are God's child. And I've learned that through this, and there's some uh things that we're gonna learn from this. A lot of people get caught in that sorrowfulness because they continue to go there. When they sin, then they they start repenting and asking God to forgive them And then they go a little bit and they do it again and they go back and they do it again. So they lay in that place where they're always sorrowful and always asking God to forgive 'em for this, forgive 'em for that, and they miss the joy of the Lord. And we're going to look at what causes that. And the word of God is is critical in this. But what they say here in um Verse 10 and 11. This day is holy unto the Lord, neither be ye sorry, for the joy of the Lord is your strength. The day is holy. God has chosen this time. And it was a time for them to be rejoicing, not be sorrowful. This is the way God set these feasts up and these festivals. When they did these festivals, the majority of the time the joy of it I mean there was times they had to do the sacrifices and all those things too. But the main thing was that God wanted them to recognize and depend on the other thing. That's what the feast of Trump was is kind of about. And if you look in Leviticus, uh I don't have time to go there, but Leviticus twenty three really brings a lot of these things out. But in the first and second day of the seventh month, I I might go there anyway. Let's turn to uh Leviticus uh chapter twenty three. And uh in uh Leviticus chapter twenty three, it states In uh verses 23 to 25, it says, And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, in the seventh month In the first day of the month, ye shall have a Sabbath, a memorial of blowing trumpets, and a holy convocation And ye shall do no servial work therein, but ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto the Lord. And what God is doing here, he's bringing the attention to them that He has brought them here. He's the one who's doing this. And if you go on in uh God gave them this great day, they were to do no uh survial work Uh it was a Sabbath memorial, and it also was the blowing of the trumpets, was a celebration, and it was a holy congregation. It was when the people came together to worship Jehovah. And it was a grateful and thankful time. A time of uh joyfulness, acknowledging God's goodness, acknowledging His blessing, His provision for them, and His protection around them. And this was not a time for sorrow. It was a time for joy And uh he says that the joy of the Lord is your strength. And if we read on and go into um verse twelve And uh the people here did what they were told because they heard the word of God and understood it. Verse 12 says, And all the people went their way, and they ate to eat and to drink, and to send portions, and to make great mirth, because they had understood the words that were declared unto them. So they went on and they did what they were instructed. They now they now understood that this day was a holy day, that it was a day that God provided for them to give thanks to Him and praise to Him. and be joyful in the fact that He has provided for them. He has protected them. So it was a joyful time to be and they were learning that through the Word of God because of what the people were telling them. And so uh in the uh verses uh thirteen through fifteen, uh which is the second day of the trumpet um blowing. And uh feast of trumpets, the chief of the fathers and the priests and the Levites gathered together with Ezra to understand more of the law of God. I thought that was pretty neat. The people were out doing the the uh things that they were instructed to do, but the fathers, the leaders of the families and all And the priests all came back together with Ezra to learn more. They were really getting excited by what was going on. And lo and behold, they found written there uh according to um verse uh fourteen. And they found written in the law which the Lord had commanded by Moses That the children of Israel should dwell in booths in the feast of the seventh month. Oh, they learned something new here. Remember the Feast of the Tabernacles, Leviticus twenty three We'll head back here just for a second. And um Leviticus twenty-three and we will look at uh Verse 33 and 36. This is what he's talking about. And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, The fifteenth day of this seventh month shall be the feast of tabernacles for seven days unto the Lord. And on the first day shall be an holy convocation, and ye shall do no servial work therein. It is the Sabbath. Seven days ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto the Lord, and on the eighth day shall be a holy convocation. unto you, and ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto the Lord. It is a solemn assembly, and ye shall do no servial work And so he's talking about these seven days in the tabernacle. And uh one of the things that we find here that they were instructed uh the people uh to prepare for the feast by getting branches and uh all kinds of different tree branches and stuff and they'd make this little hut and they would sit under it And uh so that's what the people did. They went out and done that. And then we find in verses uh sixteen through eighteen, uh verses seventeen and eighteen in particular, uh back in Nehemiah. It states that in all the congregation of them that were come again out of captivity made booths, and they sat Under the booths, for since the days of Joshua, the son of Nun, unto that day, had not the children of Israel done so, and there was very great gladness Now, in that passage there about not being done, uh it was done in Second Kings and Chronicles, it mentions it, that but it wasn't as a whole, as a nation, they didn't do this. feast. But there were people that did do it. It was mentioned in uh first Kings uh eight sixty five and also second Chronicles seven nine. But as a whole nation they didn't do this. But here we find that there's great gladness. And um There was very great gladness, and verse 18, Ezra read day by day in the book of the law, first through the seventh day of the feast. The Feast of Tabernacles Was fifteenth through the twenty-first of the month. And uh with the eight day added, and the eighth day was added there. Uh the first day and the eighth day were Sabbath days. They were days where you do no service serve your work or nothing and you praise God and worship God. And uh the reason for these was to commemor commemorate God's deliverance and protection during the wilderness wanderings from Egypt. Leviticus twenty-three, uh back here in Leviticus again, uh, that your generations may know that I made the children of Israel to dwell in boots When I brought them out of the land of Egypt, I am the Lord your God. So the reason they were doing this, it was to show uh it was a time that they would reflect on God's Bringing them out of uh slavery in Egypt, and also the time that they wandered in the wilderness for forty years. And also it was a time uh to commemorate and rejoice the completion of the harvest. This was at the end of the season and then the harvest was done, and we find that in verse thirty nine. Uh it says also in the fifteenth day of the seventh month, when ye have gathered in the fruit of the land Ye shall keep a feast unto the Lord seven days. On the first day shall be a Sabbath, and on the eighth day shall be a Sabbath. So we see here that God is trying to remind them, and the reason that these are holy days is so that they will reflect on God and trust God and put their faith in Him and be grateful and thankful and know that He is going to take care of them And the Feast of Tabernacles again in Zechariah is a foreshadowing of the peace and prosperity during the millennial reign. Zechariah 14, 16 prophesies this. And so on the eight uh verse eighteen it says there was a solemn assembly, a holy congregation, and it talks about uh in my commentary that that was a time of reflection and that was a time also of repentance. a time of worship, excuse me, being it was a solemn day. So some things that uh I got from uh chapter eight. There's a lot more in here, but There's two principles that I wanted to bring out. And the first principle that I found in chapter 8 was that God's word demands attention And we find that in verse 8, where not only were the people attentive to the book of the law, but they stood to hear and to listen and to concentrate. So God's word demands attention. And Matthew Henry writes, if through carelessness Get this now. If through carelessness, not attentive in other words, we let much slip from our hearing, and there is a danger that through forgetfulness, which is a result of not being attentive, We shall let all slip after hearing. Did you catch that? What he's saying here is that if we are careless not to be attentive to God's word when when uh The word is being preached. If we're not attentive to it, it's like it's slipping from your ear. How many times have you walked out of here and a day later or somebody asks you, What was the message about? And you gotta scratch your head and wonder, what was it about? the message of that. I can't remember. Then all of a sudden it comes to your mind. But being attentive and when it starts to slip and you don't be attentive after a while, it's not there at all And that's why a lot of people fall into sin and get away from God is because they're not attentive to the word of God. So God's word demands attentiveness. The second principle I found also was the better that we understand God's word the more comfort we find in it. These people finally understood it and they brought joy to them. Remember they were weeping. And I think that um Matthew Henry, my favorite, he says, The darkness of trouble arises. Get this now. The darkness of trouble arises from the darkness of ignorance. So in other words, the troubles that we come into is because we are ignorant of God's word. We are not staying true to God's word. Word. We're not learning it. We're not getting it rightly. We're not rightly dividing it. So the better that we understand God's Word, the more comfort we find in it. And uh Remember when uh the people wept and they were instructed not to be sorrowful? We are enemies to the growth of holiness when we are constantly indulging in sorrow. Did you know that? If we have a life always in sorrow, always asking forgiveness, always doing this, and we miss, the reason is that by this we put away the consolation. That is tendered to us by God's Word and God's Spirit. If we're constantly in that sorrow and repentative area all the time, we are not going to get the consolation that brings you out of there. Because we're not being attentive to God's word, we're not taking God's word at heart. After a while when you get into that sorrowful routine, I've seen people, I know people who are in that even now, and they are not joyful They cannot never get right with God. It's always I did this. I'm sorry I did this. And they're even apologizing to me at times. But it's important that we be careful of that sorrowfulness. We are, there is a time for us to be sorrowful. We should be sorrowful over our sin, but we should not dwell there. We should get the consolation out of God's word by reading His Word and making He strengthens us. back to where we get out of that sorrowful condition and be joyful as they were instructed here. In Ephesians 430 it says, grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby you are sealed until the day of redemption. How do we grieve the Holy Spirit? If we're always sorrowful, we're always doing things wrong and we keep asking forgiveness, keep asking forgiveness, we keep doing it over and over. We have greed the Spirit. And it also says here that we quench the Spirit. When the Spirit is trying to do something, if we would just allow the Word of God to change us and mold us and get us out of that sorrowful and sinful condition, uh we would not quench the spirit's power. A lot of times the spirit is working in our hearts, but we'd We want to mellow in the uh sad part. But one last thing. Expository preaching. I think this is one of the greatest examples of expository preaching. The fact that Ezra read it and the others explained it so that they would get the sense and the understanding of it. And the people could not get that if they were not attentive to God's word. But reading is good. Preaching is good, but expounding makes reading better understood and preaching more convincing. When I sit in here when Pastor Jim is preaching, uh if I don't keep myself focused, uh most of the time I am because he keeps my focus. But that's what this is actually talking about. Expounding makes reading better understood. In other words, we're understanding better when someone's expounding the Word of God and and expository preaching. And it also is more convincing to my heart. It's more real to me. And I think when we do that as um uh Hisham was talking about using the Word of God That's where the power is. That's what's going to change someone's life. And so it is more convincing if you are explaining the word of God to people that they would understand. So I hope that it's been some uh consolation to you, but uh I think the uh importance of uh God's word demands our attention. uh when we're being preached when it's being preached, and also the fact that we better understand God's word the more comfort we find in it. So let's close in a word of prayer. Father, I thank you for your word. I thank you for what you're teaching us here. I thank you for the examples that we see of people's hearts being changed. And Lord uh We are going to find out later more about these people, but Lord, I'm just grateful how you show us the importance of your word and the power that's in your word And Father, your Holy Spirit. And Father, the responsibility we have is to be attentive. And Lord, not only be attentive, But Father, believe and trust in your word and find the comfort there. And I pray that you will continue to be with each one of us. I thank you for each one who's here tonight. I thank you, Lord, for the input from Heshem and others, Lord. I just pray that Father you will help us, help us to be good and faithful servants, and that in all things your name be lifted up and praise. We ask in Jesus' name Amen.