Well good evening. Sorry I'm here. But I'll try not to be next week I can relate real well. I probably look like I'm half asleep. But uh it was funny when I think about um my work and all that and how God provides uh even in specific things that I pray about And believe me, I have learned through studying Nehemiah that there's never a time in the day that you shouldn't be able to go to the Lord and whatever's going on. And uh today I had that happen to me and I was on the second job that I'm helping with and uh I came into the trailer and we were meeting with the superintendent, my uh project manager and I, and he just went off because we weren't going to do this little thing. thing he wanted done today. And uh all of a sudden I started getting dizzy and lightheaded. I'm thinking, what is going on? And uh so right away I just Put a prayer up to the Lord and uh ask him to sustain me and uh help me get through that. And uh by his grace and mercy he brought me through it, and I'm thankful to be here tonight. Right. But the other thing too is different things on the job. When when things happen Uh I'm sure we all have things go on in our lives when we're at work or at home and things that are so unexpected. And you know, you pray in the morning and you ask for God's guidance, you want to be an example to others and you want to do what the Lord wants you to do. And there's always that opposition. Always that opposition. There's always something. And uh I was telling my uh assistant that was working with me, who went to take over a new job, I kept saying that to him, I said, It's always something and it is. There's always something going on that causes you to have to stop and rethink things and uh lo and behold uh it happened again today. But um when you think about that, uh how the opposition comes on When you want to do things for the Lord. And we are going to learn that about Nehemiah and the people of Israel when they were rebuilding the walls. And uh so I just wanted to ask a couple questions tonight. Is there anybody who would like to share tonight some things you see God doing in your life? I mean that's kind of what we're looking at in Nehemiah. What's God doing? How's he working in the hearts of the people? And how does Nehemiah handle things? Is there anything that maybe you've been thinking about that you'd like to share with everybody tonight about how you see God working in different things? Uh it's I think it's very important for us to get that mindset that God is still working today like he was in Nehemiah's time. But do we recognize it and do we actually look for it. I'm sure when Nehemiah was uh in his day he probably struggled just like we do. But uh to see God's good hand working Uh we can see it because we have it here in writing, but to see it in your own life, you know, and I said this almost every week that this is our time in history That was Nehemiah's time. Now it's our time. So how do we see God working in our hearts? Anyone have anything you'd like to share? Something that you should ask God for specifically, or anything like that? That you might want to share tonight how you've seen God work. Yes, Josh. Um with my current job situation, I I feel like um it's it's interesting he's showing me a lot actually this last year going from pride to selfishness and many different areas of my life but um With this job opportunity, last year I probably would have already taken this job and not thought twice about it and moved on. And um The longer I sit and wait and talk and pray and look at things, I do see the Lord moving different pieces to Where where it's going, I don't know, but I know that throughout him. He's showing me different things. He he makes me feel um more confident with different decisions based on what I am seeing that he's allowed allowing me to see. And so I'm really grateful for that. On the other side of that, even with Being patient, he's also allowed me to even have a better understanding of different things within my own house. Um and understanding my wife and my children or just many areas of where I lack and it just shows me these different things that sometimes it's not waiting on him and waiting to see what he's gonna do. So those are just some different things I've seen him working in my life illuminating to me and then just often Yeah. I appreciate you sharing that. Um and it is a challenge in the home trying to keep your family and your children together and you know Uh it's a lot of it's a lot of work plus work. Yes. Um Yvonne. I think um along the same lines I I think, uh when you're looking backwards you can see with Where uh God knew what you needed when you needed it. So you know you needed a job for a particular you know stability and financial means and everything and then After you've had that for a little while, there's something else that you need. He you can see in hindsight how you put people in your life and how Yeah. You know, but it's usually in hindsight that you can actually see what's what's going on. But it does change your heart for the process by being around other people and being influenced by them and certainly some of the words, but you can definitely impress it. I like it's like keeping a journal and you You can go through it and you pray specific prayers or something and you write 'em down in there and three months later all of a sudden one of them prayers gets answered and you you remember when you wrote it down back there. So it's great to think uh about uh what God is doing. I appreciate you all sharing that. Anybody else like to share before we move? Yes. I'm Joshua Holland Okay. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you as well. I've been with Wegman's for thirteen years. We live up in Rochester, New York. Uhhuh. I've done a little bit of everything and I was in the management position and I was in that position for about three years and I thought I knew everything, had everything down and God just put this one manager in my way that him and I just butted heads. And I try to fight him and I try to fight, you know I know what I'm doing, you don't know what you're doing actually. The Lord just told me, Sut back, give it to me and I'll take care of it. And I did that. And it's amazing I've been in this new position. for almost three months and just the Lord knew with what he was doing in that certain circumstance. And my wife always prayed, you know, Lord, He's not supposed to be in the phone position. Let them see the good that he does do and the good hard work that he does try to do and my last couple weeks in the one position They're just like, wow, what a difference in you. What a so it's it's really cool that they did they did get to see my hard work, but the Lord just needed to get me to where he wanted me. Not quite in the Do you find it hard to apply scripture when you're in the middle of the day at work? I mean it's hard. It's hard to remember and you want to do things things and and uh so I I appreciate you sharing that. And we built three of your uh Wigmans here in Maryland, so our company building. So but uh love that store too by the way. We have one on three oh one And uh we've been there for lunch after church already. But uh all right, let's uh go ahead and turn to chapter three. I appreciate you all sharing. Uh but I do We need to do a little bit of scripture here. One of the things about chapter three of Nehemiah, which I am not going to read through because there's too many names in there that I cannot pronounce But there's some things that I do want to point out from chapter three. It's like going through um uh so-and-so begot so-and-so begot so-and-so and you You go down to there. And I remember being in BSF, you they didn't skip them chapters. You went through 'em. But uh in uh chapter three there's just a few things uh they're they're now getting ready to uh rebuild. They're actually going in to rebuild the walls. And uh they're getting ready to do it. And uh there was some things that stood out to me and uh so I'd just like to share a couple of them uh with you. Uh in verse one it says that uh Eliasheb, the high priest, rose up with his brethren, the priest, and they builded the sheepgate They sanctified it and set it up, the doors of it, even unto the Tower of Mia. They sanctified it unto the Tower of Hananil. And uh what I'm getting out of this is if you remember back in uh verse 20 it says, Then answered I them and said unto them, The God of heaven will prosper us. Therefore we are his servants. We will arise and build. And then he tells the other people that they have no uh part in this. But if you uh remember when we went back to verse eighteen, where Nehemiah is telling the people, after he went through, remember he went through the whole place at night and checked everything out and was And he was actually scaling the place and see what all had to be done and and uh but he says to them, he said, Then I told them of the hand of my God which was good upon me. As also the king's words that he had spoken unto me, and they said, Let us rise up and build. So they strengthened their hands for this good work. And now we see it starting and I thought it was really uh a great thing here that the high priest and the priest set a good example. They did not like the nobles stand back and just let everybody else do the work. Uh and there's several places in there where they had worked. different priest at work. But uh I thought it was pretty um a pretty good example to us. And uh you've always heard the uh little analogy as the leadership goes, so goes the church And we wonder sometimes, I guess, today, why the church as a whole is in the position it's in. And I think personally that it uh has a lot to do with the leadership Not so much, not everything's on the leadership. But in the churches that are going, they they want to try new things and they don't get enough education and so on and so forth, so they just went and they they aren't really following the scriptures and uh so I think about that and uh why the church is the way it is. And when you talk to uh people who are unsaved, they're always making comments to me that uh well so and so I heard uh I remember when uh Jimmy Swagger was caught doing what he did and and you know they always come up you know with uh well you're no different than we are And that's basically true in a lot of churches. Uh they're no different than the world. They want to be like the world, they want to act like the world. But when people come up to me and say stuff like that, especially about I remember when the guy told me about that, Jimmy Swaggard and I just told him, I said, Well, I said, God's clean in house and uh we'll see what happens. And uh so I left it there. And uh but what I'm thinking about here is that uh the leadership really set a good example by going to the sheepgate and starting to build And it's start- I don't know if it was done in this order, but that's the way it's written here, and I like that. And then uh another thing we find here, when a task is set before us of this magnitude, uh, it all rises and falls on the leadership. And it's the same in your workplace. If someone in your leadership is not doing the right job or not doing their job, it affects the whole place. It can be an attitude problem, it can be anything. And this is becoming a lot more clear to me as I work with my men. You know, I I don't uh I'm not harsh, but I am firm Uh, I definitely am not cussing them out like most of our guys do. But at the same time, I think when you the way you approach someone when they're not doing their job correctly makes a whole lot of difference to what's gonna happen. afterwards. And a lot of guys will come up and they'll just yell at the guy and humiliate him and and everything else. And uh I found that it's better to um Mm, take them aside where nobody's at, and explain to them what the problem is and what we need to do to correct it. And if it's a reoccurring thing, then it's time to Uh, get rid of me. But most of them appreciate that I think. Um, because you're not humiliating them. Nobody likes to be humiliated. And uh in in front of everybody. And uh so one of the things that I'm learning here about this leadership is they're setting a good example and uh It reminded me again of Nehemiah when he first set up with them and talked to them about uh going in and doing this. And notice that almost all the other verses after that, through the end of the chapter, begin with and next unto him builded And next unto him build it, or it would be um after him somebody build it and every verse it says that. And so it kind of reminds me of how everybody was putting their uh selves together to work together and uh I think that's important. Uh can you imagine uh what this must have looked like this has gotten me kind of laughing because I'm in this kind of work. And it it just amazed me that we had this many people who were not professional builders by any means. And uh yet they put their uh minds to work to do the work and they strengthened their hands to do it. And you had to have strong hands to be picking up all them rocks But there were all classes of people, too, that you find throughout this um chapter uh that participated in the rebuilding of the walls of Jerusalem. In verse one, it was the high priest and the priest. And in um verse 8, it was goldsmiths and perfumers. That got me. And uh Then in verse 12 it was rulers and women. Women were out. One of them's uh daughters were helping. And then you had uh Levites were helping, uh merchants and goldsmiths And uh so when you think about that, that was quite an undertaking for Nehemiah to have that many types of people and everything come in to do one job and that was to build the walls around God's city. And I think it shows again the leadership that Nehemiah exemplified. And he handled things as we're going to see as we go through different chapters. He handled things right then. He didn't play around. And he also almost every time went to God first. And um And uh I like that. Uh I learned that uh from Nehemiah. And uh some of the men, such as uh Mirmoth, accepted a uh second allotment of tasks, he did one section of the wall, and he went somewhere else and did another section And uh so the people uh to me that was quite a thing because, you know, and you wonder that they have jobs. I mean how'd they find time to do this? But they were doing it. And they did it in fifty-two days. I'm on a built two buildings and I've been there a hundred and eight days. And we we're not very near finished yet. So when I think about fifty-two days now I don't believe I don't think they built that wall like it is today, but they were rebuilding it and putting it up and uh which would have protected anybody from coming in. But I can't say that for sure, but I I'm almost certain fifty-two days they wasn't building that wall that high With that amount even with that amount of people. But it was very well organized and the leadership really made the difference. And then you know, you had these uh nobles Remember the nobles? Put not their necks to work. They were too good for this. And how would you think about this now, how would you like to have it recorded of you in the eternal word of God that you were a slacker, not wanting to support the cause of Christ. Or maybe you were too good for this or too good for that. Maybe the nobles feared the reprisals of uh Sam Ballot and then 'Cause they were probably friends of theirs. And uh but for the most part all the people did pitch in and to rebuild the wall. But I think about that and how God names people in every almost every verse who helped I would rather have that than have and the nobles put not their necks to the work of their Lord. And I don't know about you, but I think that uh that was uh that stuck out to me. And but everybody else was working. And doing their job. So uh Matthew Henry says in his commentary, I love he's got a lot of neat little sayings, but he says here, when a general good work is to be done, Each should apply himself to that part which is within his reach. And he makes this little statement. If everyone will sweep his own door, the street will be clean. And I thought about Germany, uh in the old days in Germany they used to sweep the sidewalk, street and everything in front of your house. You know, the people who lived there kept it clean. And uh I thought that was a pretty neat little uh thing that he wrote in there. So, what do we learn about uh from chapter three? Like I say I'm not gonna spend much time in there, but it's basically the the building and who was doing it and it was going from one place to the other. It started at the uh sheepgate and it ended at the sheepgate. So it went all the way around uh Jerusalem. There were ten gates, which uh was a lot. And I don't know there may have been more, but that's all that was mentioned here. And I thought it was unique too that the high priest and the priest started at Sheepgate because that's where they brought sheep in for the sacrifice. Pretty unique that they did that that one One uh gate and that area. And uh it says on in there a little further that somebody else came over and did the high priest house. Worked over to his house. And uh but anyway, so what do we learn from chapter three? I think we get a good example uh at this point of what the church is to be like God is very clear in Scripture, especially in the New Testament, as Jim's been preaching in Ephesians, he really talks about this unity. and this working together. And uh I thought that was a pretty neat thing in chapter three, how they all came together and worked We're gonna find a few things going on as we go further into the book. But in the main stream of things they were working hard and they were working together. There's no way you can get that many people to get that many stone in the wall if you aren't working together You're not showing off to your neighbor, your everybody's out there doing the same thing. They want to get the wall built around God's city. So I think that's important. And um but the thing about each person doing their part, um Each working together, uh doing their part for the common good. And if you would uh I'm gonna turn over to Ephesians for a minute if you want to turn there, uh you can. And um This is something we were learning in uh Ephesians chapter four, uh verses uh Fifteen and sixteen. But speaking the truth in love may grow up into him in all things, which is the head, even Christ. from whom the whole body fitly joined together and compacted by that which every joint supplieth, according to the effectual working in the measure of every part Making increase of the body unto the edifying of itself in love. And I think, you know, when it talks about everything fitly joined together and every joint supplying, we all have something that God wants us to be doing in the church. He never calls us to not do anything. There's times when he tells us to stop and wait, but he never has us he never called us to sit and do nothing. Would you agree? Would you agree? So I think it's important here as we look how they were working together, how God has done the same thing in the church. He wants us to work together And he's the head of the church. So the reason that we would be doing what we're doing is for his glory. And the reason they were building the walls around Jerusalem was because that was where God chose to put his name in Jerusalem. And the fact that God had it destroyed by enemy is now calling his people back into it to rebuild it. They already built the temple, which took a long time, but they got it done And now they're coming back to build the walls around Jerusalem. And uh to me it it uh I don't think they were doing it so much for their own good. I mean I think they were doing it more for God's glory. Especially Nehemiah. He was very uh you could tell just from uh his beginning in chapter one. So um In that same chapter 4 of Ephesians, I've got one more thing I want to look at there. Chapter 4, verse uh thir eleven through thirteen. It says, and he gave some to be apostles, some prophets, and some evangelists, some pastors and some teachers, for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ Till we all come into the unity of faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God and unto the perfect man, unto the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. And so God has put leadership in the church in a way, and uh it's there for our good and also uh hopefully um in learning what the leadership is teaching us that we are taking that and applying it in our lives. And so here just from uh Nehemiah's leadership and also that the uh high priest and the priest were not ashamed to get in and pitch in and help. And uh so they leader they set a good example there. And I think here when we think about the church today, God has put people in leadership in different ways and we all have that commonality in Christ. And we want to be working together and keeping the unity. And uh we may want to consider what is being written down about us in the books. One day we're going to stand before the Lord and give an account for all that we've done, whether it's good or bad. And so it might be something to consider if we struggle with doing what we should be doing or what we should do be doing. And I think that's important for us because one day we will stand before Christ and give an account. And uh it really has brought a I I struggle mostly with keeping my faith at work At home it's not too hard because I'm around my wife who is far better at this than I am. And we have a great relationship. because of Christ. And we kinda have that commonality in how we think, course, you know, I'm a man and she's a woman, so there's always that friction in there. But uh and we're completely opposite. We are completely opposite. And uh I was telling a ga uh pastor one time that we were at a church we were at about it. He says, Well 'Cause that's the way God did it. Where she's weak, you're strong. Where she's strong, you're weak, brings it together. And so Uh that straightened me out pretty quick. I thought my way was the only way, but that didn't work. Um so in um We may again, like I say, we may want to consider uh as we look at this, and I'm thinking about when everybody else was working and the uh nobles didn't want to help. So we gotta give an account. And I don't know about you, but I struggle with keeping my Christianity in front of me and particularly when I'm out in the work place or in the world going out, uh whatever we're doing. And uh I'm thankful that God has granted me enough grace to uh and patience to help me with that. And I still pray about it every day for God to help me. Um I'm gonna turn to uh chapter four and we're gonna do uh the first six verses and then uh we'll say the rest for next week If the Lord's willing. So if you have uh Nehemiah chapter four, I'm going to begin reading and we'll read one through six. But it came to pass that when Sanbalad heard that we builded the wall, he was wroth, and he took great indignation, and mocked the Jews, and he spake before his brethren. and the army of Samaria, and said, What do these feeble Jews? Will they fortify themselves? Will they sacrifice? Will they make an end in a day? Will they revive the stones out of the heaps of the rubbish which are burned? Then you got Tobiah right next to him. He says, he's the Animite, he says, Even that which they build, if a fox go up, he shall even break down their stone wall. And got to remember that little point there. I really like Nehemiah's response. Again, Nehemiah goes to God He says, Hear, O our God, for we are despised, and turn their reproach upon their own head, and give them a prey in the land of captivity. And cover not their iniquities, and let not their sin be blotted out from before thee, for they have provoked thee to anger before the builders So built we the wall, and all the wall was joined together unto the half thereof, for the people had a mind to work Anytime that we want to get into God's will and want to do God's work, we find opposition, don't we? Even if we're not and people know you're a Christian, there's going to be some opposition. And uh when I think about this here, the enemy uses ridicule and mockery, humiliation, and it causes fear and doubt. Will we finish this wall? And I like when he talked about using the uh fox example. You know, a fox is known to be a light footed animal. He can walk around through things and you can't even see his foot print. And he's very light. And uh so they're kind of teasing them and saying, well, you know, this little light footed fox can come along and knock him stone right back over. So it was kind of making fun of them and um I think um We um need to be careful about people who humiliate. And I think sometimes we can even have that danger of doing that humiliating someone. As I was speaking about earlier, correcting someone. Maybe our children. Correcting them when we should take them aside and correct them. and uh not do it in front of everybody else and humiliate them 'cause sooner or later that humiliation stays with them and it's a hard thing for their life And we never want to not discipline, but I think there's an appropriate way of doing that. And when I thought about the humiliation thing Uh we can very much so humiliate our own children as Christians. But how do you like it when someone humiliates you or says something about you? It's not nice. It's not fun. I mean I i it hurts you. And I've I've been humiliated a couple of times at work. And I use work a lot, but that's where it happens. I'm spending most of my time. But um it doesn't feel good. And I think when these people were building these walls and they get humiliated and laughed at like that, sometimes we get to fear in us. I don't want to do this. They're going to make fun of me. I don't want to do this. And uh so when we're thinking about these guys coming in there, the opposition and uh using humiliation. It w it could have weakened them. But Nehemiah, the smart man that he is, uh the godly man that he is, I should say. Did you hear the prayer that he prayed? Don't let them have their names blotted out, God. Send them where they gotta go. And uh we're not to be that way are we? Christians today. They had a little bit different situations than we do in today because God has given us ways of dealing with situations that are not exactly what they were doing. But you found that a lot in the Old Testament, where they would pray for God to destroy somebody or or you know, bring something down upon them. Sometimes I would love to do that, but I gotta be cautious. Um These feeble Jews are building a wall that even a light-footed fox can knock down. After all, they are goldsmiths, perfumers, women, etc. etc. etc. This again really brings to my mind the fact that this was a great variety of people doing this work. And then to get humiliated. Have you ever been ridiculed? Have you ever been ridiculed? Verse 4 and 5, Nehemiah's response: I love the prayer. Hear, O our God, for we are despised. And verse four and five just um it took me for a loop for a minute for how he prayed for them. But what Senbalat and Tobiah didn't realize Is that they were actually mocking God. And that's the thing that I learned from that. Though they were mocking God's people, they were actually mocking God. So it's something that we want to be careful about when we talk about other people that we don't like, uh, or we do things like that or humiliate someone. one. That's dangerous ground because they are God's child too. Maybe they're not a Christian, but God created them. And we are no better than they except that we have Christ. And uh so I'm sure that uh before I was saved I was probably worse than uh what we're reading. Nehemiah was calling on God to make a righteous judgment on their enemy and God's enemy. He even calls them God's enemy, which they were. Because they didn't like Jerusalem, they didn't like the Jews. They didn't like it that they were gonna build the walls up and protect themselves now because they had all the run of the whole area so they could go in and out and do whatever they wanted But now they're seeing that this is coming together. And I think they also realize that it is God that's doing this and working in them. In verks uh verse six, the people's response, so we built the wall has Did you get that? It says that so we built the wall and all the wall was joined together unto the half thereof for the people. had a mind to work. Do you have a mind to serve the Lord? Is that your desire? I'm sure it is, most of us. We want to serve the Lord. So the people had a mind to work, and that's why they did not fall to this opposition plus the fact that Nehemiah had prayed and they knew that this was Nehemiah's will. I mean God's will. So A couple things that I think about for this is the the biggest thing that I got was the leadership and the um not only the leadership but how the people came together and worked together. And that's the way it should be in the church. They had a lot of respect for Nehemiah. And And uh they um of course he earned that respect by the way he carried himself. So that and um the opposition. Opposition is always gonna come to us when we want to serve the Lord. I can tell you many times when uh I've had things that I was called to do that it It was scary to me. But it was opposition. And it's not always opposition from people. It can be from the flesh. I don't want to do that I just don't want to do this. And so anyway, I hope that you might got something out of this tonight. We will be in chapter four next week if the Lord is willing. And finish up chapter four. But I thank you all for sharing tonight and thank you for uh being here. And uh so I'm gonna close with a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we are so grateful for your goodness, Lord You have been gracious to us and patient. Your good hand has been upon us and we are grateful for that. And Father, I just lift each one of us up to you tonight and ask God that uh you would continue to keep your good hand. hand upon us. Guide and direct our paths, Lord. Show us the way to go that Lord we would follow in that path. And Father, as I think about those who are struggling with different issues and and uh opposition maybe at work, I just pray, Father, that uh you would uh continue to sustain them Protect them. And Father, we do ask that all that we do and all that we say, might it be pleasing in your sight, and that in all things you would be glorified and lift it up for your name's sake. In Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you all