Nehemiah. And it's the last chapter of the book that we will not finish tonight. But uh anyway, we are going to be in the first fourteen verses, and there is a lot of this sounds awful loud. Scaring me. Can you hear me okay? Can you hear me now? What? Okay. Um if you would turn to chapter thirteen and we are going to read the verses tonight And uh we're going to go one through fourteen if you'd like to follow along. On that day they read in the book of Moses, in the audience of the people And therein was found written that the Ammonite and the Moabite should not come into the congregation of God forever. Because they met not the children of Israel with bread and water, but hired Balaam against them, that he should curse them How be it our God turned the curse into a blessing. Now it came to pass when they had heard the law that they separated from Israel all the mixed multitude And before this, Eliasheb, the priest, having the oversight of the chamber of the house of God, was allowed, has allowed unto Allied unto Tobiah. And he had prepared for him a great chamber, where aforetime they laid The meat offering, the frankincense, and the vessels and the tithes of the corn, the new wine and the oil, which was commanded to be given to the Levites and the singers and the porters, and the offerings of the priests But in all this time was not I at Jerusalem, for in the two and thirtieth year of Artaxerxes, king of Babylon, came I unto the king, and after certain days obtained I leave of the king. And I came to Jerusalem and understood of the evil that Eliasheb did for Tobiah, in preparing him a chamber in the courts of the house of God And it grieved me sore, therefore, I cast forth all the household stuff of Tobiah out of the chamber. Then I commanded, and they cleansed the chambers, and thither brought I again the vessels of the house of God, with the meat offering and the frankincense And I perceived that the portions of the Levites had not been given them, for the Levites and the singers that did the work were fled, every one to his own field. Then I contended with the rulers and said, Why is the house of God forsaken? And I gathered them together and set them in their place. Then brought all Jerusalem all Judah the tithe of the corn and the new wine the oil unto the treasuries and I made treasurers over the treasuries Shelemiah the priest, and Zadok the scribe of the Levites, Pedadiah, and next to them was Hanan, the son of Zachor. the son of Madaniah, for there for they were counted faithful, and their office was to distribute unto their brethren. Remember me, O my God, concerning this And wipe not out my good deeds that I have done for the house of my God and for the offices thereof. As we look at this, um beginning of this chapter. Um I don't think that according to most commentaries that this came into play right after they celebrated the uh uh dedication of the walls. But this is something that happened a little bit beforehand. And we'll see it because of the fact of the timing of Nehemiah's coming back to Jerusalem after taking a leave and going back to the King. So that is not real critical here, but I just wanted to mention that because it sounds kind of funny coming out of the great salvation, I mean out of the great celebration, right into this So he's talking about a day that happened, and they were reading in the book of Moses. And so we find here in these first three verses, which I want to reread for one moment. On that day they read in the book of Moses, in the audience of the people, and therein was found written that Ammonite and the Moabite should not come into the congregation of God forever. Because they met not the children of Israel with bread and water, but hired Balaam against them, that he should curse them, howbeit, God turned the curse into a blessing. Now it came to pass when they had heard the law that they separated from Israel all the mixed multitude Now if we remember back in chapter 9, verse 2, this same thing took place, and they did separate the people at that point in time. And also it's uh uh mentioned in uh chapter 10, verse 28. So this is where I see that uh and I can understand the commentary saying that this really wasn't something that just took place because we're going to find as we get further into here too that um It couldn't have been right after that. But anyway, that's not a big thing. What we want to learn is what the lesson is here. And we find here in this first three verses the necessity and the importance. And the benefit of the public reading of God's Word and also the private reading of God's Word. We find how necessary that is, how important it is, and what we can benefit from it. And when I think of the public reading today It's more the church. And most of you are familiar with Hebrews ten twenty five where it says, Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another, and so much more, as you see the day approaching. And that's why I'm excited on Wednesday night to see you all here. You are faithful to be here. And most of you are here almost every Wednesday night Right. And uh when I think about that, I know many people have many things going on and uh can't always make it but to see the importance and um of being together as believers. And so this uh public reading of God's word happens today in the church And uh you find some out on the street corner, but most of it's done in the church. And then you have the private reading, which is you and I in our personal time. Second Timothy two fifteen says to study study and show yourself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the Word of God. So both are important and both of them are necessary if you are a believer, and there is benefit to it, because here we find that there were probably at the time that they read this word There were people who did not know God's word, never heard it maybe, because they were a generation coming out of the captivity, and uh I'm sure that there wasn't much Bible reading in the captivity And so they got a hold of all the stuff that was going on there and started learning their practices. But we find here in verse one through three is that the separation, they learn about the law and what it says about separation. And um I want to touch on uh Deuteronomy chapter 23, if you would like to turn there, Deuteronomy chapter 23, and we will be looking at Verses 3 and through 5. So Deuteronomy chapter 23, verses 3 through 5. And it says here, an Ammonite and a Moabite shall not enter into the congregation of the Lord, even to their tenth generation. Shall they not enter into the congregation of the Lord forever? Because they met you not with bread and with water in the way, when they came forth out of Egypt, and because they hired against them Balaam, the son of Beor and Pethor of Mesopotamia, to curse thee. Nevertheless the Lord thy God would not hearken unto Balaam But the Lord thy God turned the curse into a blessing unto thee, because the Lord thy God loved thee And so this was the law that was probably read to them, and they heard this here. And then I want to turn to one more in Leviticus chapter 20 Uh Leviticus chapter twenty, verses twenty-four and twenty-six say this. But I have said unto you, ye shall inherit their land, and I will give it unto you to possess it. A land floweth. with milk and honey. I am the Lord your God, which have separated you from other people. And verse 26 says, And ye shall be holy unto me For I the Lord am holy, and have severed you from other people, that ye should be mine. So here we find this issue of separation. Now the story about uh Balaam and all of that was found in Numbers 22. I'm not going to read it, but four times uh he sends Balaam to pray and to put a curse on Israel. And um four times God talked to Balaam and said no, and he told him what to say. And uh so that's how God turned that curse into a blessing. And uh so the actual incident happened uh back in Numbers. But uh I wanted to touch a little bit on this thing of separation What does the New Testament say to you and I about separation? I'm sure that we're familiar, if I ask, a lot of verses that we find speaking about it. So rather than do that, I'm just going to read a couple of them. If you would like to follow along, we're going to start at 2 Corinthians chapter 6. This was a chapter that really struck me years ago. Um and I um really love what God says here in His Word. But it's uh 2 Corinthians chapter 6, verses 14 through 18. And we're all familiar with it, but let's read through it. It says, be ye not unequally yoked with unbelievers. For what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? And what communion hath light with darkness? And what concord hath Christ with Biel? Or what part hath he that believeth with an infidel? And what agreement hath the temple of God with idols? For ye are the temple of the living God. As God has said, I will dwell in them and walk in them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Wherefore, come out from among them, and be ye separate, saith the Lord. Touch not the unclean thing, and I will receive you. And will be a father unto you, and ye shall be my sons and daughters, saith the Lord God Almighty. I think about this verse, and When we talk about being separate, we are being separated from what? Pardon? This world? This world. And what are we separated to? According to this scripture here, what are we separated to? If we're separated from the world, we are separated to God. Yes. Okay. This is important. And um there's a couple more verses I'm going to read, but when I think about this one and what God says about separation. And I want to read from 1 John just real quickly. And everybody knows this verse also, but just as a reminder, 1 John chapter 2 And we will look at verses 15 and 17. And it says here in 1 John 2, verse 15, love not the world Neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, The lust of the eyes and the pride of life is not of the Father, but is of the world. And the world passeth away, and the lust thereof, but he that doeth the will of God abideth for ever We have been separated by God from this into his kingdom. And when you think about these things here, the lust of the flesh, And the things that we want to go after all the time. We struggle with it day in and day out. Paul struggled with it and uh we're no different. But when it becomes our avenue and when it becomes our life That is where the problem lies. We uh are defiling the temple when we do that, because he says here, in what agreement hath the temple of God with idols? For ye are the temple. Of God, of the living God. So our heart is where God places his spirit and he dwells. In the Old Testament, it was in the temple And we find here because of Eliasheb the priest brought in Tobiah who was an Ammonite, he defiled the temple. And it's amazing that God did not destroy them and send them back into captivity. But he knew them. He knew that they were young in the Lord. They did not know a lot yet. And uh but I think also uh in his sovereignty bringing Nehemiah into the picture and getting that cleaned up and getting it straightened out. But uh before I jump too far ahead, if you would turn with me to 1 Peter 2. 1 Peter chapter 2 9 and 10. And it says here in 1 Peter 2, verses 9 and 10, but ye are a chosen generation. a royal priesthood, and holy nation, a peculiar people, that we should show forth the praises of Him who hath called us out of darkness into His marvelous light which in times past were not a people, but are now the people of God, which had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained Mercy. What a privilege for you and I. As we think about this, I like the little uh title there, A Peculiar People Do you feel peculiar? You go out in public, if you know the world, you are peculiar to the world. That guy is weird. I've had it said to me that I was weird. And uh I had the opportunity this week. I was up on the roof and some uh roofers were up there And for some reason the conversation came up about ISIS and all that stuff going on. And this one gentleman there just could not He couldn't get it together. He he thought that, you know, we shouldn't be we shouldn't be going after them and this and that that let them take care of that. We don't want to send our soldiers here and all this. It became a a regular political little battle, but I stayed on God's word and kept bringing little things into it. And you know that that man stood there and stared at me for five minutes while I presented a gospel. He shook my hand and said, I agree with what you're saying. But I know he didn't know the Lord, but it was just the fact that um we are viewed as weird. And if you ever watch um T V you can see that being uh we are a peculiar people, but being a peculiar people The reason that we are a peculiar people, why do you think that is? Why do you think we are called a peculiar people by the scripture? Yes. Because um loving God with everything goes against everything this world has to offer Yeah. It's the opposite of uh first John chapter two. But there's another reason too that I think we're called a peculiar people. It is because we are possessed by God. We are possessed by God. There is a difference in you and I, in the way we were before we were saved, to now. We are now possessed by God. He owns us. He dwells in us. And uh but I like what uh what you said there, Josh. Thank you for sharing that. And uh also if you look across my page here in uh chapter 1, verse 15, it says that as He which hath called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation. I guess you might know where this is leading when it talks about Separation unto God and separation from the world. So my question and challenge would be tonight: do we really consider the fact that our heart It's God's dwelling place. Do we consider that? Do we really get a full grasp of that? I think a lot of times we're so busy and whatnot that we don't consider that God is there. And we wouldn't do a lot of things that we do if we really did seriously consider it at all times There are, you know, I consider it now because I just read it and I'm really thinking about it. But I'm not certain that every day when I'm in the middle of my work day and all the stuff is going on that I'm considering that I have God living in my heart. Am I going to defile that temple? Am I going to do something here that will destroy Please God. And I I don't mean to say that we're going to be perfect. I'm not saying that. But I think just realizing the fact that we are God's dwelling place today might help us to be a little more aware of how we respond and how we react to people and situations in our lives. And I would have probably I don't know what moved me to talk to that man the way I did on the roof. But I could s it I wasn't looking at I knew I knew about our country and our weaknesses. I wasn't going there because the people that are leading our country are sinners. I mean if they're a sinner, they're gonna do what sinners do. And uh But it just I didn't want to go into that argument, although I would have loved to. But for some reason God just moved me in that direction to share scripture with this man Yeah. And there was uh three or four other guys there, and uh the one guy's boss was there. He stayed with me until I got into the scriptures and he he went off in another direction. He stood off he was there, but he was off twenty feet away, watch it. It was kind of funny. But the guy shook my hand after we were done and I had to go back down to where I was at, but where I was working. But uh I just thought it was kind of amazing that God brought that on my mind because I know it wouldn't have been my first thought. I like to argue about politics sometimes sometimes But I wasn't going there that time. So as we look about at at what's going on here in Nehemiah chapter 13. We find here what resulted in Israel's disobedience. And when I think about this, what results in our hearts, in our lives, when we are disobedient? and defile the temple. And uh so we look here at uh what's going on in verses four and five and what it says is this is the result of Eliasheb and his doings. And before this, Eliasheb the priest, having the oversight of the chambers of the house of God, was allied unto Tobiah. Tobiah was an Ammonite, and it was very clear in Scripture that they were not to be in that temple. or even any part of God's people. Here is a man who is a priest and has allowed him in. It shows you the corruption and what had happened to them when they were in captivity and all the things that were going on But we find out here that it says that he had prepared for him a great chamber, wherefore where aforetime they laid the offerings in the franchise. frankincense and all that. And he says, which was commanded to be given to the Levites and the singers and the porters and the offerings of the priests. And we find out down the couple passages down that the priests were not being taken care of, and the Levites were not being taken care of, the porters and the singers were not being taken care of, they left. They left the temple and had to go and work in the fields so they could eat and feed their families. So this is a result of the high priest Eliasheb. Bringing Tobiah in there and putting his junk in there where the tithes were supposed to be and the offerings. And When you think about that, the Levites and all, the workers, were not working. And uh it said in one of my commentaries, the work is neglected. Talking about the Levites and all that they do because the workers were neglected. So in other words, they weren't getting what they were supposed to be getting in there because the high priest decided to put an enemy's stuff in where all that stuff was supposed to be. So that's the result of this disobedience and defiling the temple. It caused the Levites and the singers to leave go there uh out into the outside of Jerusalem and farm and work and get their food that way and to be able to feed their family. So probably and most likely the worship there was neil to none. Uh the tithes stopped coming in. And uh could have caused God's wrath to come down on Israel again. And so let's think about us now. What happens when we allow things into God's temple that causes other people to stumble and fall. And as I was thinking, and I think we said it before in here about as the leadership leadership goes, so goes the people. Intermarrying was happening happening and it happened right in the high priest's family. So it was happening amongst the people. The temple was neglected, so the all the people that were supposed to be serving there had to go somewhere else So we find here that there was a great sin committed and that a lot of people were affected by it. And so when I think about that, what does the New Testament say about you and I? Defiling the temple. This is our hearts, what we allow to go into our hearts. And if you would turn with me again to First Corinthians, we will look at a passage here. And uh I don't think that any of us are immune from struggling with different issues in our hearts But here we find in 1 Corinthians 3, chapter 3, verse 16. 1 Corinthians chapter 3, verse 16. Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you? If any man defile the temple of God, Him shall God destroy. For the temple of God is holy. Which temple are ye? Now, this doesn't mean that we are going to be perfect, but I think this does mean when a lot of times when it is intentional And people get off and start living that way that they defile the temple. And uh I've known some Christians and I know you probably have too, who have fallen and have struggled for years. And uh It's not the fact that they can't be restored. It's not the fact that God's going to put them to death and things like that. But he's very strong on his teaching here that he shall destroy him. And it doesn't necessarily mean that he will put him to death, but he may have struggled all his life because he hasn't cleaned up the temple And does it mean it's going to be perfectly clean? No. That's why we have God's grace and we have God's mercy. We have forgiveness. But if we are intentionally continuing in something that we know is not right, that's the problem. And I think that's what he's referring to here. And um so let me ask you this. Do the decisions that we make affect others? Like Elijah, Elijah Shibbs did. How might that play out? How might that play out? Tell me what you think. about this. If the decisions that we make can affect others in a good way, it can affect them in a bad way. What do you how does that play out? Anybody Wanna share how you think that plays out when we make decisions that affect others in a wrong way and affect them in a right way? It's pretty simple. We learn it all the time. in here. Anybody have any input there? How that plays out? How about a marriage where it is a Christian family and they have a Christian daughter marrying an unsaved person? Yes, Josh, I'm sorry. The husband who was trying to say weed, but really isn't interested in weeding in different facets. They've allowed what you could say sin in the camp, right? Which is really not allowing them to do what God has called them to do. inadequate in doing things because they know they are full of filth in their own life. And um this verse keeps coming to me here first john one uh five it says then this for this then is the message which you have heard of him and declare unto you that God is light and in him is no darkness and then it says at all. If we say that we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not truth but I think some key words is darkness at all. Yeah. And to walk in this to walk in this light that it lends itself to believe there is the the ability to really just fully concentrate our lives to him his holiness for us to walk worthy of his name and and and lead properly Yeah. I don't know if you just ran out of the year. No. And one thing I that I wanted to add to that is the reason that we come together as believers is to encourage one another another to help one another in our struggles and our and we can share scripture, we can share just being there. And And uh getting wise counsel and all when we struggle with different things. But that's that's one good point when a husband does not lead and then he struggles to get that leadership role. And that that can take a while, especially if he's been in darkness for a while. And uh so I I I would understand that. And yes. Um he should I think in uh in a lot of churches uh nowadays that the teaching about separation not really emphasized enough. And that um The UC um you you can find a lot of Christians who are mingling with the world in many uh areas, such as the music website they watch the type of uh movies and how they spend uh their interpreting time and yeah other things. So basically there is not really separation that we as believers we should really separate ourselves from the world, not really to be with a mixture and disappeared Mm-hmm. Because a lot of times you find movies that come out that seem to have a good plot to it or a good story, but it is not where we need to be. It's not what we need to hear because the rest of it is not it's not a Christian movie in other words. But uh I think movies is one thing. And uh but I was thinking about my daughter, I think I might have mentioned it before. In a church that I was in at one time, we had a deacon who was chairman of deacons. And my daughter was out at a restaurant and he was drinking beer at the restaurant. She saw him at another table. And my daughter was a young Christian at the time. She was older, but she was a young Christian. She just came to Christ. And she came to me and talked to me about that and wanted to know about that. And not that it was a sin for him to drink. He has that privilege and he has that right. But to cause a younger to stumble is the issue. And Joey and I, when we came to Christ, we made that decision. not to drink anymore and I've had my share of that. But we decided even before I was a deacon in another church. But we decided we didn't want to do that anymore. Because of the stumble and because of the fact I didn't like the way I woke up the next morning. But uh not that I was I was I wasn't saved at the time, but that was a decision that we made because of conviction and not wanting to cause a little So there's lots of decisions that we make. How we handle something at work is another issue. And I know some of us in here have spoken spoken with you have had issues at work with different people and how you handle that makes a difference how it'll affect them. Yes, Josh? we will we'll say well I just use this as a stumbling block thought process right we'll say well you know I I might I have the ability or I have the strength to not allow it to get the best of me or you know I'm not convicted of this so maybe I have liberty in this area for whatever reason. Um but really If we really think of our state as as really frail humans, we are n none of us are above any idea that we all and go in the toilet at any time. So Ross said for one second, think that we're strong enough. We're strong enough for this liberty of mind that I will then exercise because I know that I'm in control. Well today you are. Yeah. It doesn't mean tomorrow you and a little bit of sand leads to a little more And the other issue to that is I guess the question would be, what you're doing or what you think is okay for you, would you do it in front of Christ? if he was right there with you. And that's kind of the mindset that has struck me when I started reading this a while back. And uh thought about that and I thought, you know, he's there. He sees everything. And thank God he's merciful. That's why when people ask me how I'm doing, better than I deserve, because I know I know my flesh and I know that I'm weak and uh but I know that God is strong in me. So we find here uh anybody else have anything else they want to add there before we move on Okay. Um moving on. Um First Thessalonians says Abstain from all appearances of evil. And that was where I thought about the deacon in my old church that was drinking. He could abstain from that because it per s my daughter perceived it as evil. And because she knew me when I drank and she knew that when I came to Christ that that stopped, along with a lot of other bad habits I still have things that I struggle with. But Luke 17, too, causing one of these little ones to stumble, Jesus says. It's better to have a rock tied around your neck. So I guess the thing here about the decisions that we make and how it affects others As Eliashub here didn't realize all that he was doing, how it affected a lot of people, and in particular, it affected God's temple and the people who were in trouble. So how did Nehemiah handle the issue? Uh if we'll turn back and we'll finish this up quickly. Um Nehemiah finishes up in verses uh 9 through 13. Well he uh it got me here when he said in verse 8, and it grieved me sore, therefore I cast forth all the household stuff. of Tobiah out of the chamber. I can see him doing that. It's like Christ when he went into the temple and started throwing the money chambers and stuff all over the place, getting it out of there. And then he says, um, then I commanded and they cleansed the temple So not only did they get the stuff out of it, but they had to cleanse it and clean it and get it completely out of there, all the uh st stuff from uh sin and all that And then I perceived that the portions of the Levites had not been given them, for the Levites and the Singers fled, every one to his field. Then I contended with the rulers. So here you see Nehemiah goes to the leadership Because it was the leadership's responsibility to keep everything the way it was supposed to be. And I would include Eliashib in that. And he says, Why is the house of God forsaken? And I gathered them together and set them in their place. And then he brings in uh um the wine and all the stuff starts coming back, uh bringing um everything back in and he sets men who were what did it say? Counted faithful to their office was to distribute to the brethren. So he puts certain men in there to watch to make sure that they didn't do that again to the uh temple and start bringing somebody in there wasn't supposed to be in there putting stuff in. So he puts men who are faithful in charge to make sure that the tithes were brought in and to make sure that the Levites and all were um um taken care of so that they didn't have to go out and do all this other stuff. So as we look at that, I like the way it ends up Asking God to remember him for good. Do you ever do that? Do you ever do that? I've never done that. I'm afraid to do that. I I just I just think it's amazing that he does this, but uh I don't think it's a fact I mean, we're gonna find out in one of his prayers here near the end that he knows his condition. And that's why he considered God to remember him for what he did. And uh so he's not boasting in himself and all that. But asking God to remember him for good. I wanna read one thing before we close, and I'm sorry if I'm running. But it comes out of uh Matthew Henry again. I really love his uh commentary. But in Matthew Henry chapter thirteen he sums it up there. He says, Israel was a peculiar people, and they were not to mingle with the nations. See the benefit of publicly reading the Word of God. When it is duly attended to, it discovers us sin. duty, good and evil, and shows wherein that we have erred. We profit when we are thus wrought upon to separate separate from evil. Those that would drive sin out of their hearts, the living temple, must throw out its household stuff. I like that. and all the provisions made for it, and take away all the things that are the food and fuel of the lust. This is to mortify the flesh. When sin is cast out of the heart by repentance, let the blood of Christ be applied to it by faith. Then let it be furnished with the graces of God's Spirit for every good work. like that. I like the fact that he talks about the repentance and trusting in Christ's blood. That's the privilege we have that they didn't have. At that time. But um any uh comments or things about tonight? Okay, well we're gonna close in a word of prayer. Father, we thank you so much for your word. And Father, we are definitely at your mercy. And if it were not for your grace, none of us have any hope. So, Father, we're grateful that you made it possible through your Son that we can come before your throne. boldly and find mercy and grace. And Father, we're there many times, Lord, and we are just grateful that you have made that provision for us us. For Father, it is our true desire to keep ourselves holy and to keep your temple clean, Lord. But we struggle and you know we do. And Father, we are grateful for your mercy And we ask that you might, in your great mercy and your wonderful grace, may your Holy Spirit work in our hearts Lord, work in our hearts that your word will find room there and live there and dwell there. And Lord, that we would be speaking your word as we go our days. Going to work and to at home. Father, I just thank you for everyone here tonight. I thank you for the uh joy of sharing together in your word. Lord, and I do pray your hand a blessing on each one. I pray your protection around us as we go our way, Father, from the evil one and from the wickedness of this world. Help us, Lord Take heed according to your word that we may not sin against you. And may the words of our mouth and the meditation of our heart be pleasing in your sight, we ask in Jesus' name Amen. Thank you all for coming tonight.