At a um safety uh stand down meeting we had on the job and the superintendent knows my uh knows that I'm a believer. And uh it was kind of funny we had to do a stand down meeting because there was a fight on the job. between two men. And uh so they had to bring up all the politically correct ways to handle things And so he made the statement that uh they were going to be politically correct. That's exactly what he told told us. And there were probably I don't know, two hundred people out there. And uh I'm sure that eighty percent of them didn't know what he was even talking about 'cause they didn't understand English But he made the point of saying that you can't do this, you can't cuss in somebody's face, and you can't swing and hit them and get And he said, uh you can't uh all these things like religion, you can't do that, you can't do this and do that. And he made a point of saying religion. And I think it was n air uh aimed at me. But uh I kinda laughed and I thought to myself, you know, it's amazing where our country is going. And just fifteen years or so and uh not gonna get much better with our leadership but thank God that he's in control and uh tonight we are going to be in Nehemiah chapter six And uh two things that we should learn tonight from Nehemiah chapter six, and uh one of them is that anything we are doing for God is important to God. And it should be important to us. And Nehemiah makes the statement in chapter six that he is doing a great work, which means it's an important thing that he's doing. And the second thing that we should learn tonight, which we should have been learning all along, is that if we are God's children. It is critical for us to make sure that we have the whole armor on. And when I think of someone who was definitely wearing the armor, it was Nehemiah I mean all the stuff has been flung at him. And uh he stayed true to God and he sees things. God is working and uh So that's the two things that I'm seeing tonight, but uh we're going to begin in uh chapter six and I'm just gonna read one through four and we're gonna go through it in uh pieces. So if you have your Bible and you want to follow along, we're in chapter six Verses 1 through 4. Now it came to pass when Sambalat and Tobiah and Geshem, the Arabian, and the rest of our enemies, heard that I had built the wall. and that there was no breach left therein, though at the time I had not set up the doors upon the gates, that Sandbala and Gishem sent unto me, saying, Come, let us meet together in some one of the villages in the plain of Ono. But they thought to do me mischief And I sent messengers unto them, saying, I am doing a great work, so that I cannot come down. Why should the work cease whilst I leave it and come down to you? Yet they sent unto me four times after this sort, and I answered them after the same manner. I'm just thinking about this in uh Here's the enemy, you know, they don't give up. They're they're relentless. And if we're not being uh if we're not seeing it in our own life, then maybe we're a little too warm. And should be a little more hot towards God as we talk about in Revelation being lukewarm. But the enemy here, uh they hear that the walls are built and there's no breaches and uh left within them. And we're gonna find out how they keep getting all this in So here, notice Nehemiah mentions except that the doors were not hung yet. The honesty of him in writing this uh just amazes me. But in um This uh particular four verses the lessons uh the danger of attack. The enemy's uh time was running out And all their plans were being foiled. Uh this work of God did not happen the way they wanted it to go. And the enemy saw their hopes were fading And so now they're starting to send messengers in and uh they're thinking that uh in verses two through four that uh maybe we can get him to come out of Jerusalem to meet us And uh they're coming under the disguise of being they're wanting to come together and compromise. Why don't you come out and meet with us? Now When you think about that, they sent these messengers to Nehemiah wanting him to come out and uh with the uh with them in the village of the plains of Ono, which was probably nineteen, twenty miles north of Jerusalem So it's a good little hike out there to them. But I I just thought to myself, you know, I can just imagine their conversation going on between these three. And uh here Nehemiah sees right through their deception, and that they wanted to do him harm, he notices this and maybe lure him out of the city to capture him or maybe even to uh assassinate him or to get him out of there so they can go in and reattack the people and get it all destroyed again because they didn't want to see this come to uh fruition But Nehemiah, being the godly man that he was, with his wise response, was that he sends a messenger back to them. And he tells them, I am doing a great work. Why should I leave? And the work cease. And then he goes on to say that the Uh in that same passage that uh why would I come down to you? Why would I leave this and come down to you And the the enemy was relentless here and they sent four messengers to do this and he kept doing it and every time he'd send the same message back. You'd think they would get it. But I wanted to take a minute here just to uh bear with me a little bit. It's kinda comical to think about, but I was thinking about it as I was doing the lesson and I'm thinking, I wonder what the conversation was like between Sam Ballot and Tobaya and and this other uh character. And I cut got to thinking to myself they're probably all back there just, you know, what what what else can we do? We can't get that guy to he's a tough nut to crack and they keep thinking things will You know, I bet you right now, he's probably up there hiding. He's probably building these walls because he wants to rebel against the king. They're probably saying this stuff back and forth to themselves And uh he wants to build this army inside the walls and I'll bet you even he's gonna try to make himself king and he's gonna take over out here and he's gonna hire a bunch of prophets to come and and um say things about him, you know, all this yada yada yada stuff. I can just imagine that conversation going on. And uh I started chuckling to myself because We see it so much today, it's so prevalent in our world and uh especially if you have any time to watch the news, you can see the difference between different people in the government and how they just and they make up stuff And they they they start using their own mind and their own wisdom. And that's what's kinda going on here. And uh so they were well what else can we do? And then uh all of a sudden they come up with the idea, well I know what Let's write him a letter and take that up there. You know, they're trying everything. So they write this letter and they send it up. And you know, I think about in my workplace, when all else fails, shoot an email. You know, and there's emails going everywhere. We waste more paper because anything that gets on an email has to be documented so the papers go fly I get papers all the time and I'm thinking about this, you know, we're a lead company and we are a green company. And I'm thinking to myself, all these emails, you know They'd be better off if they made, I don't know, ten thousand rolls of toilet paper and use instead of using all these emails they keep shooting back and forth We waste them we waste paper. But anyway, I'm thinking about them now. They're going to send a letter up there. This letter coming up to Jerusalem is an open letter, which means it's probably either going to be posted and everybody reads it, or someone's going to read it aloud between all the people. So when all else fails, they send this letter up. And Nehemiah's response to the letter. Let's move on here and read a few more verses. In verse uh five, he says, Then send Valet and his servant unto me In like manner, the fifth time, with an open letter in his hand, wherein was written, It is reported among the heathens, and Geshem saith it, that thou the Jews think to rebel. For which cause thou buildest the wall, that thou mayest be their king according to these words. And thou hast also appointed some prophets to preach of thee at Jerusalem, saying, There is a king in Judah, and now it shall be reported to the king according to these words. Come now, therefore, and let us take counsel together. Then I sent unto him, saying There are no such things done as thou sayest, but thou faintest them out of thine own heart. For they all made us afraid, saying their hands shall be weakened from the work that it be not done. Now therefore, O God, strengthen my hands. Now you see here what they do. They send this letter and it's an open letter. So everybody's going to hear this letter, and especially the Jews that are in the city. And he says that they're making these accusations again, and that's why I'm thinking about their conversation back there. It's their mind, it's their thinking. And and if you listen to the world today, they got all kinds of things to say against Christians and against uh people that want to do the right thing. And uh so here Nehemiah uh says that there is no such thing, but you make this stuff up in your own heart. You invent them And are you trying to scare us? And then he goes on and he uh says that their hands will be weakened in the work And it will not be done. And of course Nehemiah, being the godly man he is, prays real quick to the to the God and he makes it known what's going on. And he says, Therefore, O God, strengthen my hands. Now when you think about this, Nehemiah is being the godly man example, he prays before God. But uh one thing that uh I was reading in a commentary on Matthew Henry, and he makes this statement that every temptation To draw us from duty should quicken us all the more to duty. And I thought about that, you know, that's true If we are being tempted to go a different way or do something else when we know what God wants us to do, then we should try all the harder to do what God wants us to do and not follow off because sometimes it only takes one little step, one wrong decision, and next thing you know you're five miles away from where you started So it's critical for us to uh think about this and how Nehemiah didn't allow it to distract him. And that's one thing I love about Nehemiah. And we're going to read at the end here uh in Ephesians about the uh armor of God. Nehemiah has his armor on. I mean here he's protected his mind with the helmet of salvation because he's knowing what they're trying to do to him and he's very wise and looking at And thinking it through before he goes and makes a decision. But uh let's move on and we will read um 10 through uh 14. Afterward I came into the house of Shema, the son of Deleah, the son of Mahitabil. I don't know these words. who was shut up, and he said, Let us meet together in the house of God, within the temple, and let us shut the doors of the temple, for they will come to slay thee, yea, in the night they will come to slay thee. And I said Should such a man as I flee? And who is there that, being as I am, would go into the temple to save his life? I will not go in And lo, I perceived that God had not sent him, but that he pronounced this prophecy against me, for Tobiah and Symbalat had hired him Therefore was he hired that I should be afraid, and do so and sin, and that I might have matter for an evil report, that they might reproach me My God, think upon Tobias and Balad according to these works, and on the prophet is noted I, and the rest of the prophets that would have put me in fear. Here we have a false prophet Nehemiah meets up with. And he says, let us meet together in the house of God within the temple. For they are coming to slay you this night. He's trying to scare Nehemiah. He's trying to act like he's a prophet who's actually speaking on God's behalf. And one of the things that I find kind of uh Ironic here is that back in verse um seven, he says, And thou hast appointed prophets to preach of thee at Jerusalem. In other words, he's hiring prophets to do this to build him up to be a king. Here they are doing that in particular, they send this uh false prophet in to kind of trick Nehemiah. So it shows you the mindset of the world and the people uh who don't know God. And Nehemiah's response was, Should a man such as I flee, or go into the temple to save myself, I will not And as we know, only the high priest could enter into the holy of holies. And if Nehemiah would have done what this man wanted him to do, his testimony would have And Nehemiah perceived that this man was not sent by God, but that he was hired by Sambalat and Tobiah. And Nehemiah's prayer to God was to remember these people. because they're trying to stop the work which you've called me to do. And when we think about this, and uh should I flee You know, after all that Nehemiah has been through and all that he has done from the beginning when he was the king's cupbearer. And the fact that God opened the doors for him, God laid it on his heart to do this work. And so if God lays it on his heart to do the work, he knows he's in the will of God. God even works in the heart of the king, who gives him the lumber, gives him a guard to go with him, and allows him to go and do this. The king loved and trusted Nehemiah. So I'm thinking about this letter that they were writing. I mean What would the king think? Who do you think he would believe? Would he believe Nehemiah, his trusted servant, or who would he believe Saint Balat and Jebiah and Feah? I'm sure they probably weren't going to send the letter because they were just as afraid of the king as anybody else would have been out in that Nehemiah was I don't think was afraid of the king because he knew he was in God's will. But uh just um a bit of thinking on that, that um Nehemiah knew his position And he knew God had called him. Just like you and I, when we go through things uh in our daily lives, do we remember that we have a position in God that that nothing can change that. No matter how many things the temptations come our way to get us to fall away from God and do things And those things come so subtle, but it's so obvious now to Nehemiah that he's he's keeping on uh top of things and he's has that armor on. And he's protecting himself. And Nehemiah has strong faith. Uh he also knows God uh has called him. And um so in verse sixteen as we read on it says that actually my So the wall was finished in the twenty and fifth day of the month of Elo in fifty and two days And it came to pass that when all the enemies heard thereof, and all the heathen that were about us saw things that were much cast down in their own eyes, for they perceived that this work was wrought in God. I love that statement. And here you see Nehemiah giving God the glory. It is rot in God. It's not Nehemiah Doing it, but God is doing it. And these people were getting all downhearted and downfaced. Nehemiah finishes the task in fifty-two days. He gives glory to God. Verse 16: the enemy is disheartened And their own eyes, of course. They were cast down. But um the thing that I like about Nehemiah is that he gives the glory to God. He knows it is God. And so when these men are making up all these lies and all these uh ways of trying to get to Nehemiah and to destroy uh Jerusalem. Um they can see now, they're all down hardened. They couldn't they know that it's God that's doing this and they don't have a chance of trying to destroy them. Then we read on in uh chapter uh six, verse seventeen to the end. It says, Moreover, in those days the nobles of Judah sent many letters unto Tobiah. And the letters of Tobiah came unto them. And there were many in Judah who were sworn unto him, because he was a son of, and so on and so forth. We go to the end of the chapter and it says, Also they reported his good deeds before me, and uttered my words to him, and Tobiah sent letters to put me in fear. There were enemies within the camp. These were most likely Jewish people, most likely were nobles and rich. They had ties with Tobiah and Simbalat and And there were letters coming all the time. So we find out here at the end of the chapter that it was people actually inside Jerusalem that was sending information to Tobiah. So he's living amongst the enemy. He's got them inside the camp. And there's a warning here, and I like again I use Matthew Henry a lot. He states concerning those within the camp who were friends to Tobiah And like I say, there were most likely nobles. There were people that were well to do. And um he says, See the mischief of marrying with strangers when men once become akin to Tobiah The soon they became sworn to him. A sinful love leads to a sinful league. The enemy of souls employs many instruments and forms, many projects to bring reproach on an active servants of God to take them from their work. This was coming from within the camp. And that had to be really hard on Nehemiah But at the same time he didn't bring judgment or uh about the nobles and all. But I think it uh would have made it a probably a pretty hard thing for him. And before we end up which we're running out of I can't I want to go to Ephesians chapter six and just read through this uh verses ten through eighteen. And it's a good reminder for us. We've all been here and read this chapter. We know these armors. But when we're reading through them, see if you can recognize where you saw it in Nehemiah. And see if you can recognize it and the importance of having it. Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. Wherefore, take unto ye the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day. And having done all to stand, Stand therefore, having your loins gird with the truth. Do you think that Nehemiah knew the truth? And it says to keep on the breastplate of righteousness. He did what was right in God's sight. Your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. Above all, taking the shield of faith, he had great faith, strong faith in God Wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked one, and take the helmet of salvation. And the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God, praying always with all prayer, supplication in the Spirit, and watching there with all perseverance and supplication for all the saints. Do you see Nehemiah's character in here? Do you see how he had that uh arm on and I wonder myself when I get up in the morning if I'm thinking about my armor. But I don't necessarily know that I think about my armor. But there are times throughout the day Where I can see definite need for me to have the armor on. And my faith in particular is one thing it has to Stay strong. Even though mo no matter what's going on on my job site, no matter what's going on in my neighborhood, no matter what's going on in our government, no matter what's going on around the world, I've got to keep this on There are people who uh which we need, don't get me wrong, but there are people who leave the ministry and think that their ministry is to go out and do this and And I know we need people to do that, uh in our nation in particular. But at the same time I think it's more important for us to do what God has us doing right where we are. And uh if we can't do it in our home and in the church, we're probably not going to do much good out there. And so when we think about this And uh whether or not we have our armor on. Uh be thinking about Nehemiah and how you see that in him. He was a man of great faith. Uh he knew the truth. Um And he guarded himself against uh the the wiles of the devil. And he was very wise. God had given him wisdom to figure things out. How would he know that that man was a false prophet instead of a True prophet. First of all, a true prophet probably would not have put him in the temple to protect himself. I mean, after all, God has protected him all the way up to this point. Why would he go hide now And I mean they were going to bring an army against them. So it's good to have that wisdom. Another one verse that I wanted to look at uh is in Second Timothy chapter two, verse four. It says, No man warreth entangled himself with the affairs of this life, that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier. God has chosen each one of us to be a servant. He's chosen us to be soldiers. And so we can't get entangled and get caught up in the things of this world because we will lose our focus And I think uh as I think about uh the news that I was listening to the other day and how you hear things uh down in um I think it's out in Indiana actually and the new law that they're enforcing and how when I listened to the response to that just the accusations that get flying and it's oh it's gonna be against this people, it's gonna be against that people. And you know, where does the believer have His right. Where does he have his hope? Our hope is in God, but we as a nation have set up laws and different laws to make sure that we are protected to have our freedom So we can be grateful when we come together here that we still have the freedom in our country to come together as believers in the church. It will come to a time that we'll probably be persecuted more Because we stay with the truth. And if if we don't stay close to the truth, like we have here, Jim is very good with the word of God. I've heard you speak. And you know, if we don't stay true to that, we'll become like some of those churches that they become like the world. Okay, we're gonna compromise here. You didn't see Nehemiah compromising with Sam Balat and him. He stayed true to the word and we need to do the same thing. And we can't do that without the armor of God, first of all. We can't do it without God. So I think it's really important for you and I to make sure we stay close to God's word, that we stay in it. And um I see many churches today that are falling away from the truth. They they'll take some things as doctrine and other things as not And so when you get to that point where you get sloppy, then you're gonna be just like the world. The world will love you. And they'll come in and they'll start making the changes in your church. They will implant their people in your church. make the change. And it's happened already. All of us know we've seen churches that are doing things that are completely uh against the will of God. Yet they come under the So it be important for us to remember that we have been chosen by God to be His servant and His soldier. And that we should keep this armor on. And one of the things that I think about as we were talking about the um walls of Jerusalem, there were no more breaches. We cannot have breaches in the armor either. Because if we do, we leave one thing apart or something not right. Satan can get in there and he can work in each one of our hearts in some way to get us away from the truth. So I um thank you all for really coming out tonight. It's very few, but it's great. God has here who he wants. But I hope that you are encouraged by God's word and as you study Nehemiah. Uh it's been a great uh blessing for me at work and I'm looking forward to chapter seven's probably not gonna do a whole lot in there because I know I'm gonna mess those names up, but uh we'll definitely go through a little bit and Go into chapter 8 if the Lord is willing. Let's close in a word of prayer. Father, we thank you that you are the one true living God, the creator and sustainer of all life And Lord, we know that our hope is in you. We thank you for what you have done through Christ to allow us to come boldly before your throne. And Lord, to know you and to make you known to others. We thank you for the grace that you bestow upon us, the great love wherewith you have loved us. We thank you for the mercy you show us. And Father, I ask that you might help us as we leave here tonight to remember about what we learn about you in this study and also about Nehemiah, the good example that he Help us, Lord, to take uh to heart what we learn, and in particular about wearing this armor that you provide for us. And Lord, help us to keep our minds and our hearts. For your namesake, Lord, not for us, but for your namesake. And we need you, Lord, to protect us. We need you to grant us wisdom. Wisdom, discernment, and strength to carry on. So we're grateful that you are true to your word. We're grateful that you are all powerful, all wise, and all-knowing. We are grateful that you are sovereign And Father help us to stay true to you this week. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.