Have a rough day out in the battlefield in the war zone. We were uh as I was reading I was thinking about Nehemiah and the opposition that's coming up on him. I don't handle that real well, I don't know about you, but the opposition don't always uh suit me too well. And the way I respond sometimes is probably not good. But anyway, be that as it may, uh I thank God for his grace, and I thank God for choosing Nehemiah. And working in his life. And uh tonight we're going to be in Nehemiah chapter four. And uh just a little matter of review about last week. Um we did learn a few things Or I did. I hope you did. Um one of the things we learned last week was about leading by example, as we saw the uh priest, high priest in the priesthood. uh go out and start building the sheep gate. They set an example and as we saw that uh all the people came together to do their part And as we read through the chap well we didn't read through the chapter, but if you read through the chapter, almost every verse started with and next unto him they built it and they had to peep. people's names. And I thought that was interesting that he mentions names in there of people who are doing it and then he mentions uh you know different uh work uh things that people do. But then he came up on the nobles, who you would have thought would have been the uh ones to be out there to help, but they uh were gonna be remembered for not putting their neck to the work. And so it's kinda a little uh wake up call for me, uh, to be careful in my um way that I work and what I do and how I serve. And then in chapter four, verses one through six, we saw how the uh opposition came in to ridicule and to make fun of the people and uh mentioned about the uh Fox could run in and just walk on the wall and it would fall down. And uh mister uh Heshaim, he uh reminded me of the little foxes in uh Song of Solomon and uh how they come in and spoil the vine and the importance of making sure that wall had no crevices and all that. But the people were making fun of 'em Because they said that fox could go up over the wall and knock it down. He didn't have to find a crevice. So it's kind of a um Not a good thing for the people. But Nehemiah prays and he responds with righteous judgment. And uh through that the people uh response was in verse six So we built the wall halfway high for the people had a mind to work. That's kind of where we went last week. And uh this week we're going to be uh in chapter four, verses seven through twenty-three. I'm gonna read through it quickly. I don't have a Clock. Where'd the clock go? Seven thirty-eight, thank you. You can yell when it's eight or speak up when it's eight. But uh anyway, so let's begin to read if you have your Bibles. Uh Nehemiah chapter four, we're gonna start in verse seven. But it came to pass That when Sambalat and Tobiah and the Arabians and the Ammonites and the Ashadites heard that the walls of Jerusalem were made up and that the breaches began to be stopped, Then they were very wroth, and they conspired all of them together to come and to fight against Jerusalem and to hinder it. Nevertheless, we made our prayer unto God, and set a watch against them day and night because of them. And Judah said, The strength of the bearers of burden is decayed And there is much rubbish, so that we are not able to build the wall. And our adversaries said that they shall not know, neither see, till we come in the midst of them and slay them. And caused the work to cease. And it came to pass that when the Jews which dwelt by them came, they said unto us ten times From all places whence ye shall return unto us, unto us, they will be upon you. Therefore I set I went in the lower places, behind the wall, and on the higher places. I even set the people after their families, and with their swords, their spears, and their bows And I looked and rose up and said unto the nobles and to the rulers and to the rest of the people, be not afraid of them. Remember the Lord, which is great and terrible, and fight for your brethren, fight for your sons, and your daughters, and your wives, and your houses. And it came to pass when our enemies heard that it was known to us, and God had brought their counsel to naught, that we returned all of us to the wall, every one. unto his work. And it came to pass from the time forth that half of my servants wrought in the work And the other half of them held both spears, shields, and bows, and Habergeans, and the rulers were all behind the house of Judah. They which buildeth on the wall, and they that bear burdens, with those that laid it, every one with one of his hands wrought in the work, and with the other hand held a weapon And the builders, every one, had his sword girded by his side, and so built it. And he that sounded the trumpet was by me. And I said unto the nobles and to the rulers and to the rest of the people, the work is great and large, and we are separated upon the wall, one far from another. In what place, therefore, that ye hear the sound of the trumpet, resort ye thither unto us. Our God shall fight for us. So we labored in the work, and half of them held the spears from the rising of the morning till the stars appeared. Likewise at the same time said I unto the people, let every one with his servant lodge within Jerusalem, that in the night they may be a guard to us and labor on the day. So neither I nor my brethren, nor my servants, nor the men of the guard which followed me None of us put off our clothes saving that every one put off them for washing. Let's go to the Lord. Father, we thank you for the opportunity and the privilege to have your word and to look into it tonight. And Father, I just ask that uh you would forgive the speaker, Lord, of his sins. I'm sure there are many, Lord. Lord. And I pray that your Spirit would lead us and guide us tonight. And I do pray that you would help us to cast off all the cares and the concerns and the worries of this day, that we might dwell in your word tonight for this next half hour Lord. So we ask for your spirit to do the work in Jesus' name. Amen. As we look at this and uh thinking through this in Nehemiah, in verses seven and eight we see the opposition coming back again. They found out that their little uh teasing and their little making fun of the people really wasn't affecting the Jews and their work And so they were getting more and more angry about this. The Jews were working for the Lord and um they were a little uh upset about it, I'm sure, as we would be when someone makes fun of us and uh or uh makes fun of our work and so to speak. So they got uh more neighbors and they conspired secretly to come and attack the Jews and uh come in and stop this work and fight against them, even to put some to death Now isn't that just like the enemy? He can't get it one way, he's coming another way. He never gives up, he's relentless. And what we're going to learn tonight from Nehemiah and this part of the chapter, finishing up the chapter, I believe there's two important things that we can learn from this. And one is that we are instructed To be watching for the enemy. And not only that, but prayer starts. So in Nehemiah's case, he prayed and watched In Jesus' case, when he was uh in the in uh Gethsemane and they were coming to get him. Remember what he told the disciples? He told them to watch and pray. And what was their response? They fell asleep. That's kind of funny. But It's it's very true. Uh I can see that happening to me. Satan a lot of times is very subtle and very sneaky and deceptive, isn't he? And I think about this watching and praying. All of the opposition here, along with Judah, were subject to the Persian Empire. But the re-establishment of the Jewish exiles into their homeland restricted the activities of these governors. And power is not easy. Extinguished, is it? Or relinquished, I should say. We don't like giving up our authorities and our powers and our so-called light And it's no different with these people, these governors. And but they didn't like the fact that they were coming in to build the walls of Jerusalem because they loved it when the Jews got destroyed. and got taken out into captivity and and everything else. And uh so now they had the freedom under the uh Persian Empire to be governors and do this So this was really crowding their space, so to speak. So we see that uh this uh threatening to come in by force causes a little bit of problem. But before we get to the problem, we see Nehemiah's response. And I like that in verse 9 where Nehemiah says, Nevertheless, we made our prayer unto God. This is critical and important for you and I, no matter what the issues are in life. I don't know about you, but during the day there are times when I definitely have to go off to the side and pray. Or if I'm walking to something, sometimes yeah I just have to pray 'cause I know the flesh, I know how I am, and I know that Satan is tricky and I know that I can ruin God's name. in one word or two words. How I react. Today I lost my temper again. Uh I try not to do that, but uh um I did and uh but I not the choice words, it's just the fact that I lost my temper. And the fact of how I reacted and became angry and was telling people what they had to do and sort of basically I was telling they had to get out of my way. And uh thank God the uh superintendents were both there and uh they saw the issue and knew Well it had to happen. But they had to calm me down too. And that's embarrassing to God. 'Cause they know that I'm a believer in Christ And so I prayed to God about that and and I'm very thankful, aren't you, for God's grace and his mercy. Without that we have no hope whatsoever. So uh that was one of my experiences today. But um One of the things here about him, he made his prayer with God, but Nehemiah, in all wisdom, sets up a watch against the enemy. Day and night. Nehemiah not only prays and relies on God, but he also shows wisdom in setting up a guard. God gives us wisdom. and discernment and strength for our jobs, for life, for our families, helping our families and raising our children. He gives us that and expects us to use that And we cannot do it without his help. And so I believe that Nehemiah prayed and then he acted upon what he knew God wanted him to do. And I think God was directing him at the same time. But again as we think about Jesus instructing the disciples to watch and pray and uh see and the disciples fall asleep. It's very uh easy when you're tired. I think about watching out for the enemy is not just um a physical enemy. enemy that you see or something going on. He's very slick. What do you do when you leave here tonight and go home? Do you lay back and turn on the TV or go on the computer or do this or do that. Are you watching for the enemy at the same time? Because he can tempt you to do things that you wouldn't normally do, especially when we are tired And uh so just a thought about watching for the enemies, not necessarily coming after us with swords and knives, but he is very slick and subtle in how he works. And so just a thought there. There's an important lesson here that we should never let our guard down. The enemy is always running to and fro seeking whom he may devour. So though we are protected by God, there is a responsibility that you and I carry. And one of them is to keep in constant contact with God and fellowship with Him And it's not just when um there several times in Scripture it mentions that But let's move on before I get uh off on a wabbit trail here. Verses ten and twelve, not only was the trouble from without, but it also started to come within. And I can understand this, and I'm sure you you can. In verse 10, they say the strength of the laborers or the bearers of burden was failing. It was decaying. It says. They were becoming discouraged. That was setting in on them. And then in verse eleven, the threat of the adversary, they are coming to kill us, now puts not only discouragement but it puts And not only are we discouraged, but sometimes we become fearful. And then verse 12, the neighboring Jews were urging those who came from outside to come to help in the city to stop the work and return home to protect their families. That didn't sound like a bad idea, does it? Wouldn't we want that? I mean if we have our families living over in Silver Spring or somewhere and something's coming up on 'em Wouldn't we want to go there and help them? I mean, uh I can understand it, put myself in their shoes. But just a reminder here of this point of why these people came to help in the first place to rebuild the walls of Jerusalem If you would, uh I'm just going to turn back for one minute to chapter two, verse seventeen and eighteen, when Nehemiah first came to the uh city, and he went around at night and did all that. And he comes to the people in verse 17, he said, Then said I unto them, Ye see the distress that we are in, how Jerusalem lieth in waste. and the gates thereof are burned with fire. Come and let us build up the wall of Jerusalem, that we be no more a reproach. Now you know that if they fail here and they discourage and go back, they go back to being a what? Well they go back to being Thank you. A reproach. And here is the second part of this. Then I told them of the hand of my God, which was good upon me. And also the king's words that he had spoken unto me. And they said, Let us rise up and build. So they strengthened their hands for this good work. So they need to be reminded, and so do you and I, that if they would have fallen back here, they would have gone back to being a reproach. And so the people were getting discouraged. They were becoming fearful. But when Jesus tells us to count the cost when it comes to following him, He makes clear to us that it's not an easy road. And I think we all know that. We all struggle with different things in life, whether it's in our family, whether it's in the workplace. Whether it's with neighbors, whether whatsoever it is, we all struggle with things in life. And God makes that very clear that we are to count the cost. And I'm wondering here if some of these people started getting dismayed In Galatians 6. 9 it says, And let us not be weary in well-doing, for in due season we shall reap if we faint not. We can't fall back. We need to keep going forward. I think also in uh Zechariah uh chapter eight, um I'm gonna turn there just for a second. This was one of the prophets during Ezra's time. And he says in verse eight, uh chapter eight, verse thirteen, and it shall come to pass that as ye were a curse among the heathen O house of Judah and house of Israel, so will I save you, and ye shall be a blessing. Fear not, but let your hands be strong. And these people probably heard this back when they were building the temple, possibly. But and when you think about this, I think the Jews were And I remember a young man saying that to me one time about the gospel. He asked me and I'm thinking this guy's nuts. He says, Is it not worth dying for? And I'm thinking to myself, uh I sure don't want to die for the gospel. But my sav Savior died for the gospel. He died for us. So when I think about that, I'm thinking, I don't know how that's going to go down when that happens to me, but I would hope that I would Be willing. I know I would lay down my life for my family. There's no doubt in my mind. And would I do it for my brothers and sisters? I would hope that I would And be a good example. But as we think about this, the God whose will it was for them to return return there It also brings to mind Isaiah forty thirty-one where he talks about uh those who wait upon the Lord will rise up as wings. with Isles and uh they will not faint. Um so when I think of that here where they're all getting I thank God that he chose Nehemiah. Don't you thank God for that. Thank God for the people that he chooses that are always there. Nehemiah didn't back down. He didn't Get discouraged. And you know, he had all the rights in the world to turn his back and walk away with all the stuff that going on. But he stayed there. And uh so he sets up the guard in the low places and the high places behind the walls. He brings the families together with swords, spears, and bows. And he says, I look and rose up and said to all the people I like this. Be not afraid of them. Remember the Lord which is great and terrible and almighty. Fight for your brethren, fight for your sons, fight for your daughters, for your wives and your houses. He's such an encourager. Don't you think? He's such an encourager. He was strong. He had faith in God. He knew God. He knew God was going to help him. Do we have that kind of faith? When I think about stuff that's going on in our country right now and when I listen to the news, all the stuff that's coming out of there, I just wonder how we came this far. And why is our country turned so far around and where it was when we were younger? And I think one of the things is that we see it Because we're watchful. We see it because we're in God's Word. We are God's child. And we're knowing what's going on. And we're knowing what's wrong. A lot of these people that are doing this stuff they don't know it's wrong. I mean, uh we're getting to the point where you have a right for anything. And I always tell people when they say that to me that we talked about different rights of different people. And I said to them, so you think that if a man wants to murder someone, he has the right to do that? And of course they're all puzzling around and fumbling with their words and they can't come up with a good answer. No, because that would hurt someone. I said, Well Some of the stuff that we're saying people have a right to do is hurting people. It's hurting other people. But anyway, that's a another day. I think about here too. I want to turn to a passage. I shared this with some other folks in here. This passage has been a very help to me, a very great help, especially when I'm discouraged and wondering what's going on, what God is doing, and does he And this is uh in Isaiah forty-one. And I've shared this with different folks, but it was such an encouragement to me. And I think about these people right And it says in forty one verse nine, Thou whom I have taken from the ends of the earth, and called thee from the chief men thereof, and said unto thee, Thou art my servant. I have chosen thee, and not cast thee away. Fear thou not, for I am with thee. Be not dismayed For I am thy God. I will strengthen thee, yea, and I will help thee. Yea, and I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness. And he goes on to say, Behold, all they that were incensed against thee shall be ashamed and confounded. They shall be as nothing, and they shall strive with thee, they shall perish. And thou shalt seek them and shalt not find them. Even them that contended with thee, they that war against thee shall be as nothing, God said. says, and as a thing of naught. For I, the Lord thy God, will hold thy right hand. And I always put my name in here. And uh saying unto thee, Fear not, I will help thee. Fear not, thou worm Jacob, and ye men of Israel. I will help thee, saith the Lord, and thy redeemer, thy holy one of Israel. Israel. If Israel would have only remembered God's word. That is such a great help to me in my times of struggle. And I've read that thing several times in different times in my life. God takes me back there to remind me I am his servant. Yes. Pardon? Oh. It's eight o'clock? Oh my gosh. Okay. Well, uh I'm going to end up here. Give me give me uh five minutes, if you would, please. Grant me that grace. Be not afraid of them. So what is God doing in the hearts of the men at this time? And we look at the next verse, and he says, The enemies heard that it was known unto us, and God brought their counsel. to not. We see God working in the hearts of men right there. And he brought their counsel to not. And Isaiah forty twelve B says that they that war against thee shall be as nothing. And is not. So I'm gonna end um well I hate to do this. I'm just gonna go to the end of this thing. Just a thought. You and I, we must watch always and pray against spiritual enemies. And not expect that our warfare will be over until our work is done. I love that part of life when it comes to the time that we go to be with our Maker. And all this stuff that we're going through is gonna be as nothing. The Word of God is our sword of the Spirit, which we ought to have always at hand as we labor in the Lord's work. Every true Christian is both a laborer and a soldier, working with one hand and fighting with the other. And we have that sword, we have God's word. Matthew Henry states, thus must we wait to the close of life, never putting off our armor. Till our work and our warfare are ended, then we shall be welcomed to the rest and joy of the the Lord. Don't give up when the discouragement comes or the fears. Turn to God and trust Him. Pray for Him. Pray to Him and ask Him to help you. And be watchful how the evil one will try to tempt us and come to battle against us. And I like Isaiah 4031. But they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. strength. They shall mount up with wings as eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. That's you and I, brothers and sisters. And it's us. It's our hope to trust in the Lord. But remember to pray and keep watch because Satan is so sneaky. And he can get in there and catch you right when you least expect it. Doesn't have to be an enemy coming with a knife or a sword. It can be anything. Close in prayer. Father, we thank you tonight for your word. I thank you so much for your grace and your mercy. Thank you for the hope and the joy and the peace that we find in your word And Father, I pray tonight for each one of us as we go our way. Father, may you remind us of the importance of speaking with you You and also, Lord, keeping watch. You have told us in your word that we are to keep on the full armor of God, for we are in a battle. And Lord, we are your servants, and we are So, Father, I pray that you will guide us and direct us with your grace and mercy and with your right hand of righteousness. And I pray you'll get us all home safely to Tonight and Father, may your word not go void. Thank you for each one who came out tonight willingly, Lord, to sit under your word, and I pray your blessing upon each one in Jesus' name. Amen.