Have you ever prayed a a prayer and uh just a quick one? And God answers it within two hours? You know, I it sounds sometimes to people when you tell them how you prayed and God answered this prayer. I was at work uh this week and uh actually it was last week. And w we're running out of material. And in the summertime when you're looking for our kind of material It's usually takes two or three days to get it and even when you call. But I have a good friend, he's a older gentleman that works for the supplier that we were using. And I called him up and told him my dilemma. And of course, before I called him, I prayed to God and asked God if there be any way that they could get this material here the next day And uh because I had like twelve guys and I had to make sure that we could keep going. And uh so I prayed and and then I called a guy up and uh Told him what I needed and uh he was expecting me to not say anything else and go on. But I said, If there's any way, I said, Do you think it's possible that I might get this tomorrow And he started stuttering a little bit and he says, I'll see what I can do for you. And do you know that that material came on the next day at before ten o'clock in the morning? Well that is the most amazing thing. At least I would have thought it would have been on a second run, because I know there's a lot of trucks coming out of there. But I was so grateful and so thankful and and you know when you tell people this sometimes they think that's this doesn't thing. But to me it was a great thing. And we were able to keep working and and all. And uh I wanted to share that with you because Uh I was so excited about it. I got home and I told Joey about it and uh so I was just telling her how good God is. And I'm sure each of us in here could probably share times that uh we've had these uh things happen. I came in and Brother Josh shot a quick prayer up for me. And uh so anyway, if you're uh have your Bibles uh we're going to be in uh Nehemiah chapter eleven tonight. And I was praying about Nehemiah chapter eleven. It's another one of them chapters um that um kinda gets you asking God why is it here? And uh I mean we we know what's going on, it's the history of Israel and it's the um time when they were coming back into the land, but sometimes it's hard to uh go through them and and find a lesson for yourself, something that I could learn or something we can learn together. And uh but God showed me some things and I'd like to share them with you tonight. But uh before we start I have a question. How many of you all read bumper stickers on cars? Have you ever seen the bumper sticker that says I love city life? You ever seen that one? It says I and then it has a heart and says city life. Uh okay. Well I can't for the life of me figure out why they made that, but It kinda struck me as I was uh beginning in here, but I think about um people that had that motor sticker on their car. I saw one just the other day. It was on a little mini coupe. And I started laughing when I saw it. I said, That guy must live in the city. But anyway, uh how many of you uh love city life? Do you like living in the city? Well, might be nice if they put one uh you know something like uh I love the suburbs or uh or I love the country. I I love to live in the country. How many of you all were born and raised in the country by any chance? Kim, yeah, okay. Well I got one here with me. I was born in the country too and I love the country. And uh there's that saying that you can take the boy out of the country but you can't take the country out of the boy. And it's true. I love going to the country. When I get on my motorcycle I'm in the country. Riding around through the country. But um I love city life. Evidently this was not so popular in Nehemiah's time, just like we don't care for city life here. Uh, Nehemiah and the Israelites at that time evidently did not care for city life too much either Most of the uh exiles in uh that time had come back from captivity ended up dwelling outside of Jerusalem. In the little villages, maybe on the family farm, maybe uh in just uh little towns or whatever uh outside of Jerusalem And uh a lot of the reasons there's several reasons. One of them is uh probably because it was the land that was given to them uh back in uh before the captivity and all. So they were going back there. And most of them, uh, their homes and stuff would have probably been destroyed. But um when I think about um Jerusalem, the new and they were trying to populate it and get it repopulated and get the people back in the city because they needed to form a government and everything else. This is what's going on in chapter eleven Now as we know the dangers of living inside of Jerusalem also was the fact that we remember Sam Ballat and Tobiah and all them guys. who uh had no love for the Israelites and uh sure didn't want to see anybody coming in there living in that city. They didn't like it that they were rebuilding it. They didn't like it that they were putting the walls back up And uh so, you know, that would probably keep people a little bit away from there also. But uh we see here in uh chapter eleven And rightly so. In order to have order, they were setting up a government, and they were setting up the uh temple and everything getting that uh situated. As you know, last week we talked about uh how they were renewing their covenant with God and um So after that now they're starting to uh they want to repopulate and and reform the nation. And so uh here we find that uh they were trying to put order in, and they were doing that for protection And also to have the center of worship back in Jerusalem. And uh they needed to be organized and needed to have an organized government. So this is what we see coming about here in uh chapter eleven. And first of all, they uh would need proper leadership, and uh like the Levites and the priests and the singers and the Nethians and the porters and the guards or overseers, the military, and they needed all kinds of uh leadership and they also needed people to fill these positions along with having people working under them And according to verse one here, it says, And the rulers of the people dwelt at Jerusalem, and the rest of the people also cast lots. To bring one of ten to dwell in Jerusalem, the holy city, and nine parts to dwell in other cities. And so we see here that they uh I don't know that would work too well today, having one out of ten come from villages and uh have to come and live in the city. But uh that's what was going on. This is they were going to do lots, cast lots to do that and bring these people in. And casting lots seemed to be a uh pretty common practice in their day and I think uh the thought behind it was as as they were casting these lots that God was the one orchestrating and bringing the people that he wanted, whoever got chosen. But um Anyway, we see here um that um most of the people that were outside the city And dwelling in these villages and all. They had to come now and and uh have one out of every ten come into the city and live in there and help with the government, help serve And there were also those in uh chapter, I mean uh verse two here where it says, And the people blessed all the men that willingly offered themselves to dwell at Jerusalem. So if you were coming voluntarily, uh, it was a real blessing for the people and the people were blessing them because they were willing to come and to serve freely. And so you had some that were coming freely and then you had those that had to be uh uh chosen to come in uh through the um casting of lots. And then we find in verses four through twenty-four, which I'm not going to read, but it lists um these that were already dwelling in the city, and they were out of the tribes of Judah and Benjamin. And it included uh all kinds of people. And I'm just gonna uh drop in on a couple of these verses. In verse eleven It says here that um there were um the son of Ahithib was the ruler of the house of God. So these people that uh were in there Uh there was one that uh they were they were chosen to be the rulers of the house of God, and um they would be the ones who would assist the high priest uh in inside the uh temple and all. And then it had in verse sixteen, um there was Some listed that um had the oversight of the outward business of the house of God, and these would have been the people who would uh oversee going out and and uh um collecting the provisions and all for the uh temple and for the city and for the things that had to be done, they would be the ones that would go out in the villages and get that taken care of. Then in verse seventeen it also spoke about was the principle to begin the thanksgiving in prayer. And I looked that up and it was talking here about the the leader of the choir. He would they would be this group of people, they would be different times, different people, but they were the ones who were in charge of the uh choir at the morning uh sacrifice and at the evening sacrifice. And they would chant uh public praises, they would uh say a psalm and they uh would do sacred music And this person that was doing it at that time would be the one who would lead it. Then in verse twenty two you had the sons of Asaph, and they were the singers, and they were over the business of the house of God. And So these people, though they were uh Levites, uh they were not the ones who rotated in and out and whatnot, but they were permanent residents there in Jerusalem and they had the duties of providing for the things inside the temple, the things that were required for service. And then in verse twenty uh three we find the King's commandment here And um talking about the Persian monarch, he set up a person and he issued his edict um that the temple service should be revived in all the religious fullness. And so he was trying to get that all set back up and this amazed me that uh this king would be doing that and the fact that uh God is orchestrating here, God is in the background, he is working in the hearts of men. And so they wanted the uh temple service to be revived and to be um all the fullness that they had before. And then in verse twenty four we find uh Pethahaya, who was at the king's hand in all matters concerning the people, so he was the one that king selected to be entrusted with the judicial powers and all and adjusting and working in uh civil disputes and whatnot. So they were really organizing everything and getting things together here. And they just list these kind of things in there and I thought it was um Pretty neat 'cause when I first read through it it it was uh not catching me. I wasn't catching what was going on. But um then we find out here now that uh as they're setting it up Those cities in verses 25 through 36 it's talking about the cities outside of Jerusalem, and it speaks here and mentions the fact in verse 36 that And of the Levites were divisions in Judah and Benjamin, and he's talking about here that they were setting up different Levites for uh to serve in these areas. And they were divided between the tribes of Judah and and uh Benjamin. And uh they were not residents in uh Jerusalem per se, but um they were distributed in the settlements throughout the province. So we see here that all were included in uh ministering inside and outside of the holy city of Jerusalem. And I found that uh Pretty neat uh that God takes the time to put these things in here and uh you know we don't always realize all that's going on, but here is God orchestrating this and bringing this about. And then it mentions a couple places in there, uh, in the um one verse that talked about the um uh let me find that verse. Uh where was it? Where it talks about the um um okay, I'm not finding it, but it was talking about the area of uh Kurth Arba. And it was originally completely devastated uh by the Chaldeans during the uh time of the invasion. And uh Which one uh probably could assume that uh all the homes and the villages were destroyed and had to be rebuilt. And uh we find these reasons other reasons why these people were out in these areas. And uh I thought that uh Haggai, if we remember last week we uh used a verse uh four and it said Is it time for you, O ye, to dwell in your sealed houses and the house lie in waste, talking about they were working on their own homes and all, but they weren't working uh on the temple, which should have been the first thing that they had done. And uh so uh Haggai had a lot to do, he prophesied a lot in getting them to build the temple and rebuild the temple. And if you remember uh in the temple, uh they had run into uh some opposition and they started building the temple in five thirty five uh BC and uh they didn't finish it until five fifteen, which was twenty years of time. And it sat for sixteen years not being built. In the meantime the people were all building their own homes and all. And this leads up to a a little bit of a reason for the fact that the people weren't moving into the city. They were preoccupied. They wanted their own comforts. They wanted their own uh uh homes and all to be uh They were kind of um I don't know about you but sometimes um when I think about this and I think about um the city life and the fact of uh serving in uh uh the Lord's house here in the church. There's a lot of times when you're preoccupied at home. There are things you'd rather be doing than coming and doing something here that you should be doing. And these people were the same way Um they were real comfortable at their homes. Uh and uh some of these people lived uh quite a far off from the city. But um It amazes me that we have not changed much. When he talks about the sealed houses, we we put a lot into doing things at our homes and all and sometimes we let everything else that is important to God uh go by the wayside. And that's kind of what was going on there in uh around Jerusalem instead of coming in and and being involved and and getting the uh uh things together to eat. That's to me it's kind of uh amazing that they had to do cast lots to get people to come into the city. And uh here you got people crowd to the city 'cause they know they're gonna get everything for nothing. And uh so I mean it was the same then. I mean they would have been supplied their needs if they would have moved in the city but They liked having their own farms, their own homes, they could grow their own gardens and stuff like that. But anyway, as we get through chapter eleven Um we see here that the people really were not desiring to serve God. And I think that um we can learn a lesson from this. And um One of the things that I seen in here, what what keeps me from desiring to serve God or serving God's kingdom? And, you know, I uh There are times that I greatly desire and then there are times that I want to do what I want to do. I don't know if you uh can relate to that or not. Maybe you're a little more uh further along than I am. But uh one of the things that catches me is this uh neighbor that uh came and knocked on our door came once before and knocked on the door and uh I hesitated. Joey was doing something. She was hesitating. We knew it was her And I told Joey, I said, you know, I said, we can't be doing this. God has brought this lady to the door. We did answer the door, by the way, but I was hesitant. Because I I have been She meets up with me when I'm coming home from work. And you know I'm tired, I'm ragged, dirty, and uh I feel so bad for her. I know her heart is aching. and she's going through a lot. But God has brought that lady into our path. God has brought my neighbor Kevin into my path. He's struggling with a pinched nerve and uh He also has brought another neighbor across from us whose wife is uh invalid. And uh she's not really invalid, but she makes herself invalid. She don't like to go out, she don't want to do anything, she wants to stay home and eat She doesn't work, she won't go to the doctor, she won't do what she's supposed to do. But um there's a lot of ministry right there, and I think sometimes we get kind of preoccupied and don't want to serve in the kingdom of God. And uh but this lady next door, um, I told Joey, I said, you know, I said, we really need to pray for her and and pray for God to show us and give us the words to say. Sometimes you just don't know what to say. I mean the concentration is not on God in that person's heart because they're struggling And all they want to talk about is what's going on and they want you to give 'em a quick fix. And we know that we can't do that and we know that God can. So choosing to say the right things using the scriptures and uh whatnot. And Joey was very good about it. She shar shared with me some things that she has spoken about. And you've got to keep redo redirecting redirecting these people because they're so uh engrossed in their pain and their uh uh hurt that uh they don't really need to hear, well it'll be okay and you pat them on the back. They need to hear that Christ is the one Who can change them and give them that peace that passes all understanding? And we can only share what uh God has done in our lives and we can share what He says, we can share who He is and uh how he works and the fact one of the greatest things that um this lady got uh was the fact that she felt And uh I I had talked to her about sharing things and uh she really wanted me to ask all of you to pray for her. She's she's uh open to that. But uh she was worried at her past that maybe God was paying her back. by this trouble that she's going through 'cause she went through this several years ago with her own uh first husband And it hurt him and devastated him. So now she feels that maybe God's doing this to uh get back at her and so on, being revengeful. And of course we share that God is a merciful God, He's a God of grace. and that he loved her no matter what she did. And uh he didn't save us because we're good. And so that really opened a door for Joey to share some of the scriptures that she shared with this lady. And uh but I just thought it was amazing how God keeps bringing them back to us. And I had a person call the other evening about a friend who had gotten cancer and ask us to go visit and pray. So I've called, can't get a visit yet. So I'm still pray for me on that that we can get that visit But this is what I'm talking about with what was going on with Israel. They didn't want to go in and serve in the uh city in the around the temple. And I was going through uh Matthew Henry's commentary, and it was really was good, and I'm going to share it with you in a little bit. But like God, are you patient not wanting that any should perish? I think about that when we think about serving in the temple and we are serving in God's kingdom right now. We are the chosen ones right now And we are the ones who are being called upon. Back then it was those people outside of Jerusalem that were being called upon, and Nehemiah uh set a great example as a leader He didn't falter, he didn't uh waver, he stayed true to the course. And so I wonder about uh our own lives, uh are we like God and not wanting any to perish If we are, then I shouldn't be hesitant to answer the door. I shouldn't be hesitant to go over to a neighbor who is hurting or a neighbor who's going through something. And you know you I learned that I don't need to go and throw the Bible at them, and I'm sure you all know that too. But just sometimes to listen to them. They it brings a uh release for them And I have not had any time that I have been around someone who did not who who knew me, who knew that uh I was a believer. and that I well they knew I went to church. That's their their view. Well he goes to church. And uh so but um I think that Uh we should be like God, not wanting that any should perish. And that was a good verse to share with this lady. The uh God was patient to her, he loves her, he's kind, and he does not want any to perish, including her. Yes, he should um on the same point. Um Paul was praying for the the church of the Telonica in uh two one verse eleven and uh I'm reading from NASD because of the uh translation it's a little a little clear. He said to this N Also we pray for you always that our God will count you worthy of your calling and fulfill every desire for goodness and the word of God. of faith with power, so that the name of our Lord Jesus will be glorified in you, and you in him according to the grace of our God. and the Lord Jesus Christ. So what really caught my attention for the last few days that call to prayer for them that God God will spend every good desire um and and uh uh for for goodness and the work of faith with power. You know that we have that goodness Exactly, exactly. That is very true. And you know I I think about sometimes what am I gonna say to somebody And you just have to ask God to give you the very words sometimes and allow him and his spirit to work. That's very good. Thank you for sharing that. Um is it our desire to see the holy city of Jerusalem filled with many souls? And are the people you know that you could invite into his kingdom. I want to share something from Uh Matthew Henry's commentary, if you don't mind. It's about chapter eleven. Now Matthew Henry is not as incise, but he is so good at relational understanding of it of what's being said. He talks about here in the um Chapter eleven. He says, In all ages, men have preferred their own ease and advantage to the public good. Even the professors of religion too commonly seek their own and not the things of Christ. And few have had such attachment to holy things and holy places as to renounce pleasure for their sake. I thought this is really good. Yet surely our souls should delight to dwell where holy persons and opportunities of spiritual improvement most abound, like being in church or being in the temple, being around holy people. And he said, Surely that should be our soul's desire. But then he goes on to say, if we have not this love to the city of our God, and to everything that assists our communion With the Saviour, how shall we be willing to depart hence? How are we going to get away? And then he goes on to the verse to be absent from the body that we may be present with the Lord. And he talks about the carnal minded Christian. He says to the carnal minded The perfect holiness of the new Jerusalem would be still harder to bear than the holiness of God's church on earth. I thought that is just amazing. And he then he goes on to encourage us, says, let us seek first the favor of God and his glory Let us study to be patient, contented, useful in our several stations, and wait with cheerful hope for admission into the holy city of God. And I'm thinking about this. He's looking forward to the new Jerusalem and when we come into that new Jerusalem. We may change our tune when it comes to that point in time. Then we might say that we love city life. Because we will be with God, we will be with him in the Father in heaven. He will be the light. And when I think about that The fact that, you know, there'll be no pain, no crying, no suffering there in that New Jerusalem, doesn't it stir your heart to want to share with people you see hurting right now, people who don't know the Lord, even family members in particular, to see them uh not know Christ, they're not gonna be in that new Jerusalem. We would want them to be there. And that's what I always think about uh where it says that uh God is not patient or God is patient that he would not want that any should perish, but all come to repentance. That should be my heart's desire to want to serve in that vein into God's kingdom, so that one day uh I will enter into that new Jerusalem and I will be desiring to be there. I'm not desiring to be in the city but that may be the place that God has us But the desire is not to be in the city today, the desire is to be in the kingdom and to do and serve in the kingdom of God. And I think that's what's going on here. They're trying to get the people in so that they will serve because the main thing that was going on in Jerusalem, the main government, is all around the temple and God. It's not about you know, all the other city life that we have today with the parties and the bars and the football games and so on and so forth. But it was more because it was surrounded around that temple where God chose to place his name And right now God has chosen to place his name in the church. He is the head of the church. So our desire should be to be there and to be in I call it the city, but the fact is that it's in God's kingdom. And uh one day Um if uh the Lord is willing that we uh get through this life and uh get there, which I know we will, it is a promise, and I uh believe it wholeheartedly. that one day we will say, I love city life. I don't know if we'll need a bumper sticker there. I don't think so. But anyway, I hope that it's some encouragement to you as we think about the uh the new Jerusalem. Here they're talking about the Jerusalem in the earthly Jerusalem and the importance of them coming and serving God there And uh we should have that same desire and that same fervor to serve in God's kingdom now. And uh so uh I'm gonna end with a word of prayer. We probably went a little early today, huh? Pretty close. But anyway, um let's close in a word of prayer. Father, we do thank you so much. We thank you for your word. And Father, even a lot of times when we just are not understanding what it is that you want us to learn and to know. But I thank you for the lesson that you have given us this week in seeing the importance of serving in your kingdom, Lord, and having a desire to do that and not become uh complacent or uh To be content where you have us, Lord, and to be used where you have us. Help us, Lord, not to become preoccupied with the things that we would like to do. And I know, Father, that uh you are a God of grace and a God of mercy, and that uh, Father, you understand us better than we understand ourselves And we thank you that you are a merciful God and a God of grace. And I pray that you will help us with our challenges, Lord, and I thank you so much for the message Sunday Lord, uh, in putting on the armor of God, we are in a warfare. And Lord, as I see it so clearly, we all see it so clearly, just in our nation alone here, and in the world, throughout the world, all that's going on. And Father, help us. Help us to be a light, to be a beacon, Lord, and not be silent. Help us to be strong and courageous. And Father, I pray that in all things that we will bring glory to your name, that that would be our desire. And may the words of our mouths and the meditation of our heart. be pleasing in your sight, Lord. We ask that you go with us now. I thank you so much, Lord, for all those who have come out this evening. I pray your special blessing upon them and that you will guide and direct us the rest of the week, Lord, and bring us back. Safely on Sunday we ask in Jesus' name. Amen.