We're going to be in Nehemiah chapter ten tonight. And uh kind of a short lesson, but where am I at? What do I got there? I can't even read it. Quarter of the light glares on the clock. We've got to do something. What's that? You probably get a little glare here too, right? Thank you. Thank you very much. Glad you noticed. God has a sense of humor. But anyway. Um we're not going to read the whole thing, but I want to s uh just go through it. This is when uh Israel is now going to be ratifying their c uh covenant with God. And I thought it was kinda interesting some things that um that I had uh that God has showed me in this. And um So in chapter 10, uh I'm just going to read verse 1 and then verse 28. And it says, Now those that sealed were Nehemiah, the governor, and the son of uh Hechaliah and Zedekajah And then it goes to verse twenty-eight and it says, And the rest of the people, and the priests, and the Levites, and the porters, and the singers, and the Neteans, and all they that have separated themselves from the people of the land unto the law of God, their wives, their sons, their daughters, everyone having knowledge and having understanding. And so When we think about all these names that are listed there, Nehemiah was at the top of the list because he was a high-ranking official. He was and plus he was kind of overseeing just about everything going on in Jerusalem at this time. But um He was the first to sign. And um the names that are mentioned following that were probably uh the elders of all the different groups. because not all the people could get in there and and do this, but they had elders that would uh speak in their place and they would be in agreement with the covenant, but they didn't necessarily um get in there and um sign so to speak. But uh I thought it was um kind of interesting that uh why this chapter is in here and what God was uh showing us And uh I probably took it in a different direction than what uh quite possibly might have been uh God's reason, but God really showed me a lot of things that got me to thinking about it. But as they uh all come together to uh agree with this covenant with God, uh it says um In verse uh twenty-nine, uh what was the covenant about and and as we know, uh it was the law that God had given to Moses. And so it says in verse 29 that they claved to their brethren, their nobles, and entered into a curse and into an oath to walk in God's law. which was given by Moses, the servant of God, and to observe and do all the commandments of the Lord our Lord, and his judgments and statutes. And uh when you think about this covenant, the responsibility that they are agreeing to here, uh that's a Tall order. And I think about in our days and sometimes how we try to uh I've I've talked to people already who have prayed and made promises to God and could not keep them. And I think it's a dangerous thing for us to make covenants with God or make promises to God. And um that's why God by his grace is saving us. And uh I'm glad we're not under the law as it was in the Old Testament, so to speak. But um one of the things they were saying here was that they were going to keep all the commandments of the Lord their God, all his judgments, all his statutes They were going to observe them and obey them. How many times have we thought that in our mind? We really want to uh get right with God, we're going to do it right this time, and we go right back and fall somewhere along the line. God chose us. Uh, that we're not really um able in our own strength to be able to do that. So it's kinda dangerous for us to make promises to God that we're gonna do this. But anyway they enter into this covenant. It says in verse twenty nine that they enter into a curse and an oath. So if you would, uh in Deuteronomy chapter twenty nine, I was looking aba at this when they uh had done this back in Deuteronomy. And uh in Deuteronomy chapter 29, it talks about this curse. And when you think about it and read about it, uh it's not something you really uh probably want to do with God, but it says in Deuteronomy 29, verse 20 uh through twenty-nine. It reads here, and the Lord will not spare him, but then the anger of the Lord and his jealousy shall smoke against that man, and all the curses that are written in this book shall lie upon him. And the Lord shall not and the Lord shall blot out his name from under heaven. And the Lord shall s Separate him unto evil out of all the tribes of Israel, according to all the curses of the covenant that are written in this book. So that the generation to come of your children that shall rise up after you, and the strangers that shall come from far land shall say when they see the plagues of that land, and the sickness which the Lord hath laid upon it, and that the whole land thereof is brimstone and salt and burning. that it is not sown, nor beareth, nor any grass groweth therein, like the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah And it goes on to say that even all the nations shall say, Wherefore hath the Lord done thus unto this land? What meaneth the heat of this great anger? Then the men shall say, Because they have forsaken the covenant of the Lord their God, of their fathers, which he made with them when he brought them forth out of Egypt. For they went and served other gods and worshiped them, gods whom they knew not, and whom he had not given to them. And the anger of the Lord was kindled against this land to bring upon it all the curses that are written in the book. And the Lord rooted them out of their land in anger and in wrath and in great indignation and cast them into another land as it is this day And the secret things uh we don't need to go into that. Well I'm going to anyway. The secret things belong to the Lord our God, but those things which are revealed belong unto us and to our children forever, that we may do all the words of this law. So the curse, uh, when we that's why they mention this curse, if they didn't keep the covenant, if they didn't keep their word as they said they're going to do here, they're gonna do all the commandments of God, they're gonna observe and obey, there's a curse to that. And I think we're all aware of this if we've ever studied the Old Testament. But the oath also is there and um in Deuteronomy twenty-nine and it's in um Verses eleven, I'm probably not gonna read that right now, but it it goes into the oath and how that came about. But uh it was the Palestinian uh oath or covenant. But um In thinking about this and about making covenants with God and making promises that we want to do this and do that, it's not only that we do that with God, but sometimes we do that with our mates, we do that with our friends, we do that with people in the church, we do that with our neighbors. We make a promise. Oh okay, I want to do this for you. And then we don't keep the promise. It it's not a good thing for us. Because our word should be our bond. And so when we say something and make a promise, we need to keep it. God keeps all of his promises God is faithful and God can do it. We cannot. But it goes on down into verse thirty, and they talk about that they were not going to allow their uh daughters and uh sons to marry a heathen nation uh people and uh they were not going to buy and sell on the Sabbath or holy days. Uh and they were gonna let the land enjoy rest. and remit the debts for every seven years, that would be a nice thing. And then in verse thirty two to thirty nine he talks about the tithing and um I thought it was interesting about all of that y that we read there. I think it's uh uh amazing too that they recognize um All the stuff that they had done and what they'd been through. But um the tithing was uh provision for the uh temple and its servants and uh Levites and the priests The Nethians and the singers and so on. And they cast lot for people to be responsible for bringing in the wood. Uh the Nethians used to do that, but evidently uh a lot of the uh Nethians did not come back in. to the land at this point. And so we get down to the end in verse 39, and it says, And we will not forsake the house of our God. And when the whole thing started back in Ezra, we know that Haggai had prophesied, and in Haggai chapter 1, I'm gonna turn there just for a minute and read what Haggai said and what was going on at that time. If you remember they were coming back in to build the temple and they got some opposition in the middle of it and they stopped for like fifteen or twenty years, I forget what it was now. But it says in um um Haggai, chapter one, and it's in verse um two and four. Thus speaketh the Lord of hosts, saying, This people say the time is not come, the time that the Lord's house should be built. And then came the word of the Lord by Haggai the prophet, saying, It is time for you, O ye, to dwell in your sealed houses. and this house lie in waste. So what God was telling them there, and Haggai was relating it to the people, when the opposition came, they started going back and they were working on their own houses and stuff and and God's house was uh going down the tube and uh not being anything done to it. And that's amazing that here now they say, okay, well They finished the temple at that time. They were moving in and everything. And now they're going to make the promise to God that they will not forsake the house of God. And I think that uh probably um They were sincere in what was going on here, but why all of a sudden do you think there was such zeal for them to want to get back in and get right with God and do all these things. Why do you think there was such zeal there for them to do that and want to uh agree to make this covenant back with God and and making these promises that they're gonna go in and take care of the uh temple and all that thing. Why do you think that might be? Anybody have any ideas what yes, Kim. Pardon? It was new. Yeah, it was new to a lot of 'em, yes. And they were excited. We all like new things, don't we? But in particular, knowing about God, the the God of Israel. Yes, Josh. John fourteen twenty one, he that hath my commandments and keep them. He is that loveth me, and he that loveth me shall be loved of my father, and I will love him and manifest myself to him. So the Lord manifested itself to these people and these people realize his great love for them. So the byproduct is a natural response for they sought him for who he was. Yeah. Yeah, I agree, 'cause it's his time, uh he was bringing them back into Jerusalem. He was the one bringing them back into land. And I like what uh Kim said also because a lot of these people didn't know They didn't know God. They were a new generation. And now they're getting excited about this because they were um if you remember back in the chapter before, they were going through this uh struggle with their sin. They it was revealed to them through the word and uh they were struggling with that and they wanted to uh they were sad and they were starting to cry and they told 'em not to weep And uh I think they saw the grace of God in that point when God said, Don't weep at this time. This is the Lord's day. This is the day that you will rejoice and and and uh be glad in it, so to speak, the uh song we know. But I think also um Under the feelings of the sorrow and repentance of their national sins, the biggest sin that they had was their apostasy. and uh they turned away from the one true God. And the generation that uh was left out there that uh was taken out of um Israel at that time because of the punishment or the judgment that God brought uh probably didn't uh didn't teach the younger generation, so most of them didn't know, but this was a time when God is bringing them back in there. Now they're excited because they see God's good hand and uh the fresh um uh thought in their mind of coming out of captivity too was probably something exciting for them. If you've been in captivity all that time and all of a sudden you're being brought out, there's an excitement about that, I think, and there's a joy And uh I think the um uh devotion also to God was one of gratitude and thankfulness. I believe there was sincerity here. in the part of these people. They really wanted to be right with God. They really wanted to uh get the house in order, so to speak And um, though it uh was an oath and a curse, I think there's a little more significance to the ratification of the covenant. God is bringing them back into Jerusalem. And as we know, uh, I want to talk a little bit about um how God works in things. And if you would turn with me just for a minute, maybe we'll get on the uh get a little taste of what I'm uh talking about. Uh first Corinthians uh chapter fourteen. First Corinthians chapter fourteen. And it says here in uh chapter fourteen, verse thirty three. For God is not the author of confusion, but of peace, as in all churches of the saints. God is bringing the people back into Israel. He's bringing things back to order. God is not a God of confusion. He is a God of order. And I think about that and I think about um our church. Why do we have a constitution in our church and why is it important that we read that and be in agreement with it? Uh why do we have that constitution? Why do we have to be in agreement with it? Ordering the church. Order in the church. And I think here when God is bringing these people back in, you we see how He's setting up the priests and the Levites. They're going to start doing the tithing now to help uh take care of them and bring food and uh and all the other things that go along with uh keeping the temple up. And God is a God of order. And uh so I think here when we see this taking place, they needed the covenant. They needed to be in agreement with the covenant so that they didn't just come back in there and do any old thing they wanted to do. And, you know Uh it's like going to a church that doesn't have a Bible and they're just going to tell you anything that comes to mind. But I think the the main uh significance behind this is being reunited with God, but also that it's going to bring order. And verse forty, in that same um chapter in Corinthians, it says, Let all things be done decently and in order. Paul reminds the people. And we saw what happened in um Exodus, when they were uh building the temple, how everything had to be just so. God was bringing everything into order there, and uh God's the only one who can bring order out of chaos And we saw that at creation. Uh he takes and makes something out of nothing, or creates something out of nothing, and brings it in. And I think about the universe and how Everything is going like it always has, as long as we've been on the earth. And it hasn't gotten out of whack yet. And uh so I think that, you know, when we think about um this thing of being God being a God of order. A lot of people have a lot of things that uh they struggle with and when I was we were thinking about it when we were talking to this lady about her situation her life is such a mess right now and she can't focus. She can't so our desire was to bring Christ uh to her and share Christ in God's word, that she could get some order, gets get her mind directed in one direction instead of, you know, I mean I I can understand that she wants her husband back and all that and I can understand she's afraid. I can understand she don't know what's gonna happen But at the same time something has to bring her to orders where she can have something going on in her life. And um I remember uh in the days of um Doing drugs and stuff it's the same way. You are so out of order and you have no uh direction and you're just existing so to speak. But here we see uh um the purpose of um God bringing these people back and why this covenant had to be uh re-established and taken place. It was to bring order into Jerusalem. And remember that Jerusalem was where God chose to place his name And uh it was the place where um they were to come and worship God and and um the other thing that we find in this I wanted to go one more place in Psalm two and I want to read this. And it kind of gives us the idea uh of what it's like uh to be out of order. And Psalm two Kind of gives us an example of that. And um Psalm two Okay. It says in here in Psalm 2, verse 1, Why do the heathen rage and the people imagine a vain thing? The kings of the earth set themselves and the rulers take counsel together, against the Lord, and against his anointed, saying, Let us break their bands asunder, and cast away their cords from us. He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh. The Lord shall have them in derision. Then shall he speak unto them in his wrath, and vex them in his sword displeasure Yet have I set my king upon the holy hill of Zion. I will declare the decree, and the Lord hath said unto me, Thou art my son, this day have I begotten thee. Ask of me, and I shall give thee the heathen of thine inheritance, for thine inheritance, and the uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession Thou shalt break them with a rod of iron, and shalt dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel. Be wise now, therefore, O ye kings. Be instructed, ye judges of the earth Serve the Lord with fear and rejoice with trembling. Kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and ye perish from the way when the his wrath is kindled. but a little. Blessed are they that put their trust in him. Does this not sound familiar to you as you read that beginning? Why do the heathens rage? And what is it that is going on today? I mean they the kings of the earth set themselves up, the rulers, they take counsel together, and they are against the Lord and against his anointed, saying, Let us break their bands asunder and cast their cords from them. What happens to a nation or a country who has no law, who has no uh government? What happens to that nation? It is a nation of chaos. And you got people just like this who come in and they just take it over. And uh we see it going on quite a bit in some of our nations today. But I want to go a step further here. Our governments and our forefathers set up our nation the way they have and they set up a constitution and everything and they set the government up And uh with all the checks and balances. What would happen if we do not respect the Constitution or we do not honor the Constitution? What would take place? Chaos. May I say something to you? We will lose order. And it's so heading that way right now. And the first thing that you find when you have no order in government is that the morals are the first thing that go. And I think in Judges 17, 6, where he says, In those days there was no king in Israel, but every man did that which was right in his own eyes. And he says it again in verse in uh chapter twenty-one. And that pretty much summarized the uh events that were taking place during the time of Judges. And I think about here as uh It also said in uh 2 Corinthians 10, 12, I found it, where it says, but they themselves compare themselves by themselves. And they are not wise to do that. So they compare themselves with each other, and that's kinda how they operate when they get into where you have no government and no laws and No constitution. So we actually as a people and especially as a church should be very grateful for where we are right now that we have the freedom that we have. Uh although I think it is critical for us to be I don't know how much you pray for your nation, but it's critical for us to be praying. for our nation because right now they're trying to break the chords of anything that has to do with uh religion in particular But not only that, but it also has to do with um everybody wants to do what they want to do. They want their rights. They want to do whatever they want to do. And that reminds me of uh the book of Judges. And one of the second things that we find, not only does the morals start to go, but there is no measuring stick. There's no measuring stick. What what is the uh plumbomb. What what says this is right and that's wrong? That's why God uh has set up government. That's why he gives us his word. His word is that plumb line for us. to know what is the difference between right and what is the difference is wrong. We would know no way would we know this without God's word. without having that been revealed to us what is right and what is wrong. When you get to the point where you have no thumb line, then anything is right in your eyes. And I think about people who want rights for this and rights for that That can just keep going and going and going until where we I was thinking about it the other day, I know uh the marriage issue that we have going on and the Supreme Court. And you know, once that uh goes, I mean if if they decide to make the mistake and uh redefine marriage, then what's gonna keep the people who wanna have a relationship with a child? Sooner or later they're going to be able to do that. When they're right, they can do that. And it'll keep going from that to other things that we see, um marrying animals and whatnot. I mean, God talked about this back at the beginning and and in Romans even. And so when we think about this thing of bringing order, and what happened in Exodus thirty-two, six when Moses was up in the mountain, remember, and left the people down there, and all of a sudden Um there's no guidance and l leadership there and they decide to make a golden calf. And of course we know where that went. But One of the things we see here is that God didn't orchestrate that. Everything is let loose. There's all the restrictions are dropped. All the restraints are gone Uh there's no prophetic revelation. And uh Proverbs twenty-nine eighteen says, Where there is no vision the people perish. Talking about God's word. If there is if it's not there and we don't have the law uh they're gonna perish and they literally uh are unrestrained. I mean they can do pretty much whatever they're gonna do and they fall into judgment. from that. And so God is not the God of confusion, but he's a God of order. And I think when he's bringing these people back in, uh we see that uh He is bringing order back to the people. Remember they were in captivity, so they were everywhere and different uh families and all got separated up and everything, so there was confusion during that time. But God's bringing them back And he's bringing them back to order. And I think about God being the uh uh God of order and not the uh God of confusion. We know that Satan is the author of confusion. But God created, He set everything in order, the universe, the earth, everything. And He even set government in order. And Isaiah 9, 6 says, and the government shall be upon his shoulders. So I think as we think about this chapter, and I think it reminds us about God being a God of order. And that can go not just in government, not just in the church, but it also goes in the family. Uh do you have order in your home or or or is it chaos? I think about uh What rules, what what uh standards do we have in our home and do we keep them? If we don't set standards and we don't set uh priorities, then we'll have a home in chaos And I think uh we're finding that more and more. A lot of families in the country don't have two parents, or they have two of the same parents. And that confuses the child just as bad as not having another parent there. So think about that on our own level, uh, in this point of uh God being a God of order and he has established that. And we should be thinking about that in our lives in the church. Uh I'm thankful that we have a uh constitution for this church. I'm thankful for how God has kept us uh in order here. But I think too it it it goes all the way down to our homes and also to our devotions and our time with God. Do we have that set up and do we keep that? And um The other thing is is that God established a family and there are different roles that are put forth for us. I'm thinking about my granddaughter getting married uh next month. and how important it is to have counseling beforehand because we can misunderstand the scriptures and the responsibilities that are given to the And so I think that's important to do that also when someone young is getting married. So we're praying about that and uh who's going to be doing that. With them. But um so what happens to families who have no order or set no rules, no standards? I mean we see it. We see it every day and we're praying for families right now that are struggling because their loved ones have uh gone astray or haven't had uh leadership in the home. And uh so I believe that there are probably other reasons for this chapter which I'm sure there are. I mean it is the history lesson here of Israel's return from captivity and God is faithful in bringing them back into uh Jerusalem and setting it up. And we're gonna find out next week how they had brought people there wasn't a lot of people living in Jerusalem at the point at this point, so now they're gonna start bringing people in. to have them established there. And uh I think that's a good thing too. And we'll learn more about that next week. But uh the importance of taking care of God's church the people and being good stewards. We find that in this lesson. They're setting up the priests, how to take care of them, how to take care of the Levites. and uh how to take care of the temple itself and the stuff that's in there. And I think it's a good example for us as we uh take care of God's house here uh the church and uh we should be praying for the leadership that we would be good stewards of all that God has blessed us with and He has truly blessed us uh in this church and I'm very grateful to be here and be a part. And um he's used um a lot of avenues bringing people here too. I think it was pretty neat. But I believe that most important part of this whole chapter is a grateful and thankful heart. And Josh had brought that up in his prayer. We can be so thankful that God is sovereign and he is the God uh who is faithful and he keeps his promise and he's keeping his promise to these people in uh Jerusalem, bringing them back in and he's even orchestrating, setting it up and getting it in order. And uh so I think that As you see this and why the people have this, I think it also has this zeal is because they are grateful. They are thankful. And as Kim said, it it's new to a lot of 'em And they were excited about it. And um I think that uh that's a good thing. And when I think about people who do not uh know Christ and come to Christ, I remember when I first got saved how excited and on fire I was for the Lord. And uh thank God he's uh seasoned me out a little bit. I was kinda a little over rambunctious sometimes. But uh I believe that the intent of the heart of Israel was sincere at this point. And uh but we must be very careful of the promises and the covenants we make with God. And I think that that our word is our bond as we know from God's word. And it would be uh better for us To remember Ephesians 2, 8 and 9, where God says it is by His grace that we are saved, through faith and not of ourselves. For it is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast And he says, For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which the God of order before ordained or before ordered that we should walk in them. God has already planned our path. He's already planned our lives. And be thankful that we are under his grace. And his mercy, we should have the grateful hearts. And we should be desiring to come here, and we should be desiring to come here and give as they were coming back into Jerusalem and being willing to set up and encourage the leadership and taking care of them. We are very blessed, very blessed to have the pastor that we have here. And he has become a wonderful friend to me, wonderful mentor. Uh he's just uh I've I've known him for a little while, but uh Since I've been here I've got to know him much better and we can be very grateful to God. And I like also uh the way he presents God's word. He gives it to me in a way that I can understand it I I was in a church in uh Edgewater years ago and uh w where I first got saved I went there. And it was a King James church, very King James church. And um but it was all about what the Hebrews said and this and I was having a hard time following this guy I loved him. He was a he was a great pastor, a good friend. But I couldn't follow it. I couldn't keep my attention 'cause I'm a little sick. It's gotta be simple for me to understand it. And uh So I was so glad we we moved from there and went to God took us to another church and it was a young pastor, it was a young church, and uh we had been in the other church for about I guess twelve years And uh uh we met a family uh who was in leadership there and they uh husband and wife both taught Sunday school. And very good with the word. And I learned more in a Sunday school class than I did sitting in the service, but that's A lot of people did get a lot from this guy and he was very um very well versed in scripture too. I I don't want to take that away from it. But I need it in simple language. And uh so when we left there we went to a new church and it was just a wonderful time. This church was new, it was just starting, it was a plant and uh they already had their property that was given to them. The building uh went up and it was built by people who came out of uh the South, I think it was Atlanta, Georgia. There was some churches and a group of men down there that they would take their vacation and go put a building up in a week. And uh they did the concrete decking, they did the walls and put the roof on. We had to do everything else, but they had that all done in one week. They did the sanctuary and they did a L shape off of Sunday school classes And then uh about six years later at that same church we put an addition on two floors and uh uh it was done in-house And we had uh a wonderful time. We had all the electricians and the plumbers and all had to be licensed, so we used them. But building the church, most of it all was done by the church and it was just a wonderful time. And uh but anyway, uh the just to say that the desire to want to be used by God and to make sure that we are following His plan and His way And I think here we see in Israel they're they're coming back to the covenant. It is God's way that He set up for them, and they were being obedient to that. And so it I hope it's an encouragement to us to be thankful for what we do have here and that God is a God of order, even though we see all the stuff going on around us and going on uh in the world today. And I don't know about you but there is stuff going on everywhere. And it can so distract us sometimes if we get involved. I got to the point now where I don't listen to the news as much. I I find myself listening and then I get involved in it and then I'm getting away from the the word and I get angry so I I said and talk shows I can't stand them anymore. But We gotta keep focused and God has um given us a great example here of uh the people coming back into Jerusalem and uh God is uh bringing them back to order after being uh in captivity. And so we can be thankful here and we should uh continue to pray and support uh our um leadership And uh also um I like what Pastor Jim was talking about tonight, reaching out to our neighborhood. Um I think that um We've done a pretty good job with a lot of the outreach things we have, but follow-up's going to be important. And if you feel so led to maybe get a part of that and and go out and revisit some of these people. That would be great too. I'm sure Pastor Jim would like that. Okay, well I'm going to close here and uh close in a word of prayer. Uh Father, we are so grateful that you are sovereign over all creation. You are the creator and sustainer of all life. And Father, we're grateful tonight that you were bringing Israel back and bringing order to the chaos in their lives. And Father, I thank you for the examples that you give us. And I just thank you, Lord, for your word. And Father, I want to thank you tonight for each one that's here, Father. I thank you for their love for you, their desire to serve you, Father. And I I just thank you for all of them uh people that you've brought here, Lord. And I pray that we will continue, Lord, to be pleasing in your sight. And I pray that, Father, you I thank you for the grace that you grant us, Lord. and the mercy you show us. I just pray as we go our way that you'll be with us and watch over us and protect us and keep us safe from the wickedness of this world and the evil one, Lord. And uh may you continue To use us for your glory and for your praise in Jesus' name. Amen.