Uh patience and all with me as uh we went through the book of Nehemiah. Um we are going to try to finish up tonight. And uh I'm very uh grateful for um uh what God has taught me through studying uh Nehemiah. And uh I hope that it's been an encouragement to you. But uh we're gonna finish up tonight and we're gonna be in uh chapter thirteen verses fifteen through thirty one. And before we go there, if you could turn with me to Exodus chapter twenty, and we want to kind of set the stage for what is taking place here, just to get a handle on it. I'm sure we're all aware of the Ten Commandments and uh things that were given to uh Israel. And uh so tonight if you would read along with me in Exodus chapter twenty, verses eight through eleven. And uh it begins with, remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Six days shalt thou labor. And do all thy work. But the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God. In it thou shalt not do any work Thou nor thy son, nor thy daughter, nor thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates. For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth and the sea and all that in them is. And rested the seventh day, wherefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it. As we begin tonight in Nehemiah chapter 13, this is something that Nehemiah came upon when he had returned the second time. to Jerusalem. And these are some things that he took care of. And we can learn a lot from Nehemiah's Love for the Lord, his desire to uh do what is right in the eyes of the Lord, and how he handled situations. And I know that we all have work situations, we have home situations, we have neighborhood situations, all these things. And I don't know that in my uh particular uh life that I have handled things as well as I should have. And I've learned a lot from Nehemiah and how he handles it. And we get to the end of the chapter, I just want to mention four things that I found in Nehemiah that I want to uh make sure in my own life that I'm considering this, that I've learned uh from this book But in uh Exodus twenty, eight through eleven, it talks about the Sabbath day. And here in uh chapter thirteen, I want to read uh verses uh fifteen through twenty, I guess, twenty-one, somewhere around there, twenty-two. So in those days in Nehemiah chapter thirteen Verse fifteen In those days saw I and Judah, some treading wine presses on the Sabbath, and bringing in sheaves, and lading asses as also wine, grapes, and figs, and all manner of burdens, which they brought into Jerusalem on the Sabbath day, and I testified against them in the day wherein they sold victuals There dwelt men of Tiri also therein, which brought fish in all manner of wear, and sold on the Sabbath unto the children of Judah in Jerusalem. Then I contended with the nobles of Judah, and said unto them, What evil thing is this that ye do, and profane the Sabbath day? Did not your fathers thus, and did not our God bring all this evil upon us and upon this city? Yet you bring more wrath upon Israel by profaning the Sabbath And it came to pass that when the gates of Jerusalem began to be dark before the Sabbath, I commanded that the gates should be shut. and charged that they should not be opened till after the Sabbath. And some of my servants set I at the gates, that there should no burden be brought in on the Sabbath day So the merchants and sellers of all kinds of ware lodged without Jerusalem once or twice. Then I testified against them and said unto them, Why lodge ye about The wall. If you do the so again, I will lay hands on you. From that time forward they came no more on the Sabbath. And I commanded the Levites that they should cleanse themselves, and that they should come and keep the gates to sanctify the Sabbath day. Remember me, O my God, concerning this also, and spare me according to the greatness of thy mercy. When I think about Nehemiah and his straightforward here, you're thinking about the breaking of the Sabbath. That's one of the Ten Commandments. And I'm not sure that everybody knew this because this generation had come out of captivity, but I'm sure there were many that did, and especially the priest, the high priest and all should have known this And uh one of the things we learn about this, God's law is never arbitrary. I mean his laws are for man's good. And so we see this here. And in um Jesus came and redeemed the world, uh the first day, Sunday, commemorates that. And in our day, uh our worship day is corporately and personally is on is dedicated to the Lord on Sunday, which Paul and them started back in the New Testament. And I remember thinking about this, and you know Times have changed in our nation. How many have been here sixty years ago? Not too many of you, you don't want to tell your age. I remember sixty years ago. I was six years old. Does that tell you anything? But I remember uh even at six years old, Newberries, Woolworth, Sears, Montgomery Ward, you don't know a lot of these stores, J. C. Penney. They were all closed on Sunday. Nothing was open on Sunday. There was no mall, so you know, you had s uh little uh streets in the city, in the town, that where all the stores were. And if you could have seen JC Penny in my day it was about the size of seven eleven. But um To me it was quite a thought when I was thinking about it. You know, you most gas stations in my hometown were not open on Sunday. There was two I remember were open. All the rest of them were closed So if you had problems at home, your washing machine broke down, you couldn't just run out to Sears on Sunday and get it fixed. You had to wait till Monday when they opened. And I think about most restaurants and all at that time also in my hometown were closed. And um so there wasn't much open on Sunday. And I remember in our family, uh normally we went to church on Sunday morning and then either we spent Sunday afternoon resting and sleeping Or we went visiting and majority of the time we went visiting to my family. We had a a large family, both uh my mom's side and my dad's side. But um that was pretty much what happened on Sunday And can you imagine that today? I I really am grateful for Chick-fil-A. I am very thankful that they take a stand like that. like that. But I can just imagine that now on the news if we decided to close all the merchants on Sunday again, I mean the country would go broke. The country would fall overnight because a lot of money comes in on Sunday And uh it's a shame because when we think about it, you know, Chick-fil-A closes so that their people can go and worship God. They don't want to put them under the burden of working on Sunday when they should be worshiping God. At least that's my take of it. Uh that was the take back then too. And I noticed it when I was getting older that the first places that opened up on Sunday were taverns and bars. Yeah they were open till two the night before, but they were the first ones that started opening up on uh Sundays. And it wasn't till I was a lot older that the retail places opened up. But I'm thinking about that today and how uh when we go out and we do all this uh merchandising ourselves, we kinda are encouraging people to work on Sunday. If we want to go out and buy stuff and go shopping and do our stuff and uh we kind of encourage people to work. And I know that uh might be a little sound a little legalistic, but God created in six days. In the seventh day he rested. He left us an example. It's for our health, for our goodness. And that day we should be dedicating to the Lord and we're And uh even though the Sabbath was a covenant with Israel's people, um I think still just the um idea of it that we work six days and we rest one and we use that time to draw close to the Lord and uh be encouraged by his word and worship together corporately. I think it re energizes us for the week coming up. And uh so um I'm not uh I'm not uh advocating that uh the Sabbath for us, but I do believe that um Uh six days of work and one day of rest in the Lord and uh worshiping the Lord and dedicating our time to Him is appropriate for us even today. So Nehemiah, I want to move on, Nehemiah in chapter 13, verses 15 through 22. We see Nehemiah's observation. That's the first thing he noticed when he came back into Jerusalem. And he goes to the nobles of Judah, the leaders and all, and he gets on them because they're allowing this to take place. They probably owned part of that merchandise and stuff and was selling it. And he went he was straightforward and he was clear when he spoke. Probably not politically correct, but I'm sure that he was straightforward. I mean he was, and we see it there and we read it. Nehemiah closes and locks the gates uh during the Sabbath on Friday evening until uh after um Saturday evening. And he places his own servants there to guard it. I thought that was pretty interesting. And he threatened those outside. Uh he's straightforward. But he threatened them outside. I thought it was funny that they never f they never came back on the Sabbath. And then he sets up the Levites to take the responsibility. And then he ends with his prayer. I really like this prayer with Nehemiah. You know, we see Nehemiah all through there saying to God, Remember me for good. Remember me for what I've done. And it's not that he is Expecting God to forgive him, I mean forget him or anything like that. But here he sees his own need. And he um we see in verse twenty-two, uh, part B, where he mentions In his prayer, remember me, O my God, concerning this also, and spare me according to the greatness of thy mercy. He knew his position before God. And I think this is a really wonderful prayer. He keeps his perspective even when he's doing what he's doing. When I think about this, Nehemiah, though a great man of God, still recognized his position before God. We need to do the same thing. I think it is solely by God's grace and mercy that we have the privilege to serve God in any manner. And uh this is the one true living God, the one who is perfectly holy, the creator and sustainer of all life. He's almighty, all powerful, all-wise, all-knowing the one true living God. And he gives us this privilege to serve Him. And I think that you see in Nehemiah, he knew that he wasn't perfect. And he was relying on God's mercy and God's grace. And it reminds me of Hebrews four sixteen where it says, Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace. He was coming boldly to God. Remember me, God. And then he also here it says that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. And I love that verse. Uh I am in there all the time before God's throne with situations and and stuff going on uh at work and in my life. And uh I am glad for God's mercy and God's grace, aren't you? And I think Nehemiah recognized that he it wasn't that he was boasting in all that he was doing He wasn't perfect and he realized that and he was coming to God in a humble manner. So now I want to move on to Nehemiah 13, 23 through 31 and finish up the chapter. In verse 23 it says, In those days also saw I Jews that had married wives of Ashdod and Ammon and of Moab, and their children spake half in the speech of Ashdod, and could not speak in the Jews' language, but according to the language of each people. And I contended with them and cursed them, and smote certain of them, and plucked off their hair, and made them swear by God, saying, 'Ye shall not give your daughters unto their sons, nor take their daughters unto our sons. Or for yourselves, did not Solomon, king of Israel, sin by these things? Yet among many nations was there no king like him. who was beloved of his God, and God made him king over all Israel. Nevertheless, even him did outstandish women cause to sin Shall we then hearken unto you to do all this evil, this great evil, to transgress against our God in marrying strange wives? And one of the sons of Jordah, the son of Eliasheb, the high priest, was son-in-law to Sanbalat the Hornite. Therefore I chased him from me. Remember them, O my God, because they have defiled the priesthood and the covenant of the priesthood and of the Levites Thus cleansed I them from all strangers, and appointed the wards of the priests and the Levites, every one in his business, and for the wood offering at times appointed, and for the first fruits Remember me, O my God, for good. Is that your prayer tonight to remember that God would remember your good? How much good do we have? Separation. We spoke last week a little bit about God's law about not intermarrying and uh especially Ammonites and Moabites And we find in Deuteronomy twenty-three, we went there last week and Leviticus twenty where the law is written about that and why it came about with the Moabites and all And in the New Testament teaching, we looked at that in 2 Corinthians 6, 14-18. But the sincerity with which Nehemiah dealt with those who blatantly, blatantly I tell you, broke this law, including the grandson of the high priest Eliasheb in verse 28. This shows the importance of separation. We are separated from the world and separated under God. I remember one time when I was at another church and they had a speaker in, and I was kind of new to the church. Excuse me. And this speaker kept saying that he was a separatist. And he kept saying it, I'm saying, Where are we at? What is this man talking about? And uh I don't go around stating that I am a separatist, but I am separated under God And uh but that was what his point was when he got through it and I but he caught me by surprise, I'm looking at Joey and I says, What are we doing here? Where are we going with this separatist stuff? And uh but anyway I understood afterwards what he was talking about But uh kind of caught me by surprise. But here uh Nehemiah is really showing uh by his action of the problem with Intermarrying. Can you imagine one of your children wanting to marry somebody unsaved? You'd be pulling the hair out of their heads, you'd be beating them around. You can't do this. But um the criticalness of that And I think about that. I have uh one daughter uh who did marry that way, and uh the man kind of uh led us to believe that he prayed and and I know he did pray the prayer, but it's like Jim was saying. A lot of times when you go to revivals and stuff that are going on, pray this prayer with me and they just tell you what to say. Not necessarily that you're actually going to be saved by that prayer, but you just do what somebody told you. You don't completely understand what the gospel is And so this is where this young man was, and he told me personally that he prayed that prayer. But down the road came out and it showed and so I should have pulled uh my daughter's hair out. No. But uh thinking back on it, uh I should have been a little more I was a young Christian man, younger Christian But uh uh when my son and my daughter, especially my youngest daughter, um we were getting a lot stronger in the Lord at that time. and we kinda kept a real close uh watch on her and but she was never a problem, never an issue. But I love my daughters, all of 'em, I love all my children. And I even love my son in law who separated from my oldest daughter. I still love him and we still speak and talk and and whatnot. But um it's kinda sad and you can see where that goes. It affected both of my granddaughters and my youngest one in the particular uh affected their life and everything and and when people go through separation and divorce it's a really hard thing. And it's a result a lot of times. Not necessarily always a result of one not being saved, but it's a lot to do with one not being saved. My daughter was going in one direction, my son in law was going in another direction. another direction. And when he'd get around us it was always trying to impress me that he was doing something better, but I knew a lot more than he thought I did. But anyway, thinking about this, uh showing the importance of the separation. And here I like the way Nehemiah uses um um Solomon as uh an example When you think about uh Solomon, uh he was the wisest man. God gave him a lot of wisdom and uh also gave him riches. He was a great king And his falling into sin kind of brings about the thing that God chose Solomon, giving him all wisdom, gave him all these things. Prepared him. And yet he started out great in his uh kingdom, and yet at the end we see what happened. And one of the things here that I see. If if one of the greatest kings of Israel fell because of the influences of unbelievers, where does that leave the people? The principle that I draw out of this, which uh My thought is here, my principle that I'm thinking about here, your gifts and your strengths won't be of much benefit if you fail to deal with your weaknesses. and your sins. And we find in Second Timothy, I want to go there real quick and read a passage out of there. In 2 Timothy, Paul is talking to speaking to Timothy here, and I'm going to read verses 19 through 26. And he says in 2 Timothy two nineteen. Nevertheless the foundation of God standeth sure, having this seal. The Lord knoweth them that are his. And let every one that nameth the name of Christ depart from iniquity But in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and silver, but also of wood and earth, and some to honor and some to dishonor. If a man therefore purge himself from these He shall be a vessel unto honor, sanctified and meet the master's use, and prepared unto every good work. And he tells us on Flee also youthful lust, but follow righteousness, faith, charity, peace, with them that call on the Lord out of a pure heart. But foolish and unlearned questions avoid them, knowing that they do gender strife, they bring about strife. And the servant of the Lord must not strive But be gentle unto all men, apt to teach, patient, in meekness instructing those that oppose themselves, if God peradventure will give them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth, and that they may recover themselves out of the snare of the devil who has taken captive by him at his will. Thinking about this here and what he's speaking about here. And it kind of brings about the fact that if God gives us these gifts and these talents and these things And this purpose and this reason to do. If we want to be successful in it, then we need to find where our weaknesses are and bring them before the Lord. And have others be praying with us and help us and encourage us through God's word. That we don't allow those weaknesses to override us and allow Satan to get a foothold there and bring us down. Though Solomon was a great king, his marriages to foreign women brought tragedy to the whole kingdom of Israel. and dividing later on the kingdom. And I want to read just a few pay uh a few uh paragraphs from 1 Kings About Solomon. And this is in 1 Kings chapter 11. And we're going to look at verses 1 through 8. It says, But King Solomon loved many strange women, together with the daughter of Pharaoh, women of the Moabites, Ammonites, Edomites Zidianites and Hittites, of the nations concerning which the Lord said unto the children of Israel, Ye shall not go into them, neither shall they come in unto you, for surely they will turn away the heart Af turn away your heart after their gods. Solomon clave unto these in love. And he had seven hundred wives Princes princesses and three hundred concubine and his wives turned away his heart. For it came to pass when Solomon was old that his wives turned away his heart after other gods. And his heart was not perfect with the Lord his God, as was the heart of David his father. For Solomon went after Astareth, the goddess of the Zidian ones, whatever that name is And after Milcom, the abomination of the Ammonites. And Solomon did evil in the sight of the Lord, and went not fully after the Lord as he did, as David his father Then did Solomon build a high place in Shamash, and the abomination of Moab in the hill that is before Jerusalem And for Molech, the abomination of the children of Ammon, and likewise did he for all his strange wives, which burnt incense and sacrifice unto God. And the Lord was very angry with Solomon, because his heart was turned away from the Lord, God of Israel, which had appeared unto him twice. and had commanded him concerning this thing, that he should not go after other gods, but he kept not that which the Lord commanded. And the Lord finally took uh brought down. Uh he did give the kingdom to his son, but only because of David. And we find that later on there was a division between uh the northern and southern kingdom and so on, which all is a result of this man and his sin and his weakness for women. And uh I can't even imagine a hundred I mean, I have one wife and I love her dearly. But Hunter just would not go with me. I'd be a dead duck But here we find that though Solomon was a great king and his marriage to foreign women brought him down. That was his weakness. And he didn't deal with the weakness. And many of us have weaknesses in our lives. And the way we deal with them, if we want to be productive in God's kingdom and be obedient to God's will and be pleasing in his sight, we need to deal with the weaknesses and the sins that we have. And not carry them out. And there's a lot of times people think they're strong enough they can handle this. After you know it they're they're drowned in it. So we should never flirt with uh uh with sin and thinking that we can do this. A tendency to sin must not must be recognized and dealt with swiftly. Otherwise it may overpower you and bring you down. This is what I learned here and why Nehemiah was so strong against this being separated. And one reason that we find for studying and reading God's Word is to learn from the mistakes of God's people And if you would turn with me real quick to First Corinthians. And in First Corinthians chapter 10, we find here in verse 6 It says, Now these things were our examples to the intent that we should not lust after evil things as they also lusted. He's speaking about Israel. Neither be ye idolaters, as were some of them, as it is written. The people sat down to eat and drink, and rose up to play. Neither let us commit fornication, as some of them committed, and fell in one day, three and twenty thousand. Neither let us tempt Christ as some of them also tempted. And were destroyed by serpents. Neither murmur ye, as some of them also murmured, and were destroyed of the destroyer. Now all those things happened unto them for examples. They are written for our admonition, upon whom the ends of the world are come. Wherefore let him that thinketh he standeth. Here it is right here. When we think we can handle it, when we think we're okay, we think when something's coming into our lives that we can take care of it, and just a little bit we can handle it. He says here, Wherefore let him thinketh, he that standeth take heed lest he fall. There hath no temptation taking you, but such is common to man. But God is faithful who will not suffer you to be tempted beyond what is able, what you are able, but will with the temptation also make a way of escape that ye may be able to bear it. And I love that passage. Knowing that we have hope when we have struggles in life and sin. And temptations. God never gives us more or allows more, I should say, for us to bear. But the key is that we get the rest of that verse where he says that Uh he is there. Um he will be faithful and will not suffer you. He gives you a way out from under it. Do we take that way out from under it or we still dabble with it and do we flirt with it thinking that we can have it? handle it. I think uh probably Solomon at the beginning thought he could handle this and get away with it because nothing was happening to him at that point. But later the consequence So, as we know and we learn here, as Paul tells us to learn from the Old Testament. and the scriptures that are given. Nehemiah ends with his prayer. In verse 29 he prays for the priest and all who had done this wicked thing. And there's two ways to look at that prayer, either positively or negatively. I believe maybe it might have been positive for us. For Nehemiah and praying for God to show mercy and work in their hearts and restore them back to their right place. Or it could have been negative when he was praying God's judgment down upon But I think more so he would be praying positive probably that he would want them to uh because he loved Israel, he loved uh Jerusalem, he loved God, he knew it was God's city. And then on the end he says, remember me for good. Remember me, O my God, for good. Four things tonight that I'd like to share with you that I've learned about Nehemiah. And the first thing that I learned about Nehemiah and in my life is to have a clear purpose in life. Nehemiah had a clear purpose. He knew the direction. He knew where he was going. And he not only knew it, but he kept evaluating it. He was always before God asking God and and thanking God. And um so if you notice uh in this That Nehemiah never got off track. Did you ever notice that as we went through the book? He never got off track. He never got sidetracked. Can you imagine when San Ballot and him come up several times, tempting him to come out of there and visit with them and meet with them and then we'd come in and threaten them and everything else. He didn't get sidetracked. He didn't go off and and oh what am I gonna do and all this and that He stayed focused. He stayed on it. And uh he stayed on track. So have a clear purpose in our lives. We should know what the purpose of God is for us. and to keep that focus on us. Now there's things that God will call us to do at different times, but we should always have that clear purpose and focus to stay upon what God is desiring for us how we handle that is to look to God and find out how to handle it. When these situations come up we don't want to go off. Well then a lot of times we'll go to this and go to that and try this and try that Stay true to God and uh keep our focus and keep that clear purpose that God has called us to. The second thing I learned about Nehemiah, which I admire, is his straightforwardness and his honest When he spoke to people, they knew what he meant. He didn't beat around the bush, he didn't candy coat it, he didn't water it down, he didn't care if he was politically correct But everyone knew exactly what Nehemiah meant. And because he spoke the truth. If you notice all through the book of Nehemiah He spoke truth about God. He knew God's will. He knew I mean here when he came to the end, he knew about the Sabbath. He knew about separation. He knew about these things. And he knew how to restore the people and bring the people together. And uh I just think that um even though he did this, he was straightforward and honest. I mean this these last couple verses we read is amazing to me. But when he does this, even when it made his goal harder to achieve, can you imagine him going to his people, the uh leaders and the nobles, and having to correct them several times Can you imagine their opinion of him or their uh thoughts about him? But it didn't faze him. He was straightforward and honest. They could not argue because he was speaking the truth And I think that is a great uh character trait that we learn from Nehemiah. Third thing that I learned from Nehemiah, which is very critical in our day, and that is to live above reproach. The accusations that uh against Nehemiah were always empty and false. God always brought it to naught. You remember when um Sam Balatinum came to him and and saying, Oh, you're going to do all this and and you're going to be a king. We're going to go to the king and tell him. And Nehemiah knew that wasn't his what he was doing. He was there. He knew what he was there for And so he lived above reproach. They couldn't bring anything against him. And today when we look at our nation and we look at our leaders, and everywhere everybody's trying to To bring them down. And in particular, when you see Christian families or Christian leaders, they are apt to try to bring you down. But if you keep your life above reproach And knowing that you are right with the Lord. When we do make mistakes and we will. We need to confess that before God and and even if we need to go to people and and let them know that we've done something against them, then we want to get it right. But live above reproach. And we see that in Nehemiah. The last thing that I find about Nehemiah is he is a great person of constant prayer. He was Always before the Lord in prayer. And in the beginning, you see in Nehemiah chapter 1 how he recognized God's holiness And right away he's confessing the sin. Because he knew the city was ruined, the walls were down, he knew why that happened. And here he thought that things were going okay there and he found out they weren't And he humbled himself before God. He knew at that point that that was God's purpose and reason for him to go and rebuild them walls. But he knew he couldn't go there without first Coming before the Lord and getting his life clean before the Lord. Everything Nehemiah did, if you notice in this book in this story. Glorify God. There was nothing he did that we can see that dishonored God Because of his constant communication with God and making it known, which I think is a great thing, is to make it known that it is God's good hand that was upon him And we find that in several passages where he says, God's good hand was upon me. Even when he went to the king, he right away he said a prayer before he spoke to the king. And he comes out of there and he tells the people. And the key verse, if you would, turn to Nehemiah chapter 2, which I think is One of the key verses for the book. There are many in there actually. But in 218, I really like this verse. Because it was the focus and purpose of Nehemiah. And it says, then I told them, talking about Israel, of the hand of my God, which was good upon me as also the king's words that he had spoken unto me. And they said, Let us rise up and build. So they strengthened their hands for this good work That was the purpose and reason for Nehemiah's life. But at first he goes and tells them that it was God's good hand upon him that is bringing him there. And God's gonna he tells them even later that God's gonna prosper. them in this endeavor. And so we find here that uh Nehemiah was definitely a man of prayer. And I am so grateful that here we have prayer meeting on Wednesday night. night. We don't sidetrack it. We stay with it. And I know many churches do not have Wednesday night services. And uh I don't know when they do their prayer time, if they do it. But I'm sure they have prayer, but I think it's Uh excellent for us, and I'm grateful for everyone that comes, and I'm sure Pastor Jim is, that come here to pray together corporately. That's critical in the church. And it keeps us unified, keeps our brothers and sisters before the Lord. And all of our situations and all that we have. We can come before God here corporately and pray to God and put our petitions before Him. But at the same time we need to be praising Him and glorifying Him. And when my friend asked me about my Walk with the Lord, the one that's been coming here for a couple weeks. He saw something in me that he didn't see in a lot of people, and it's not me. Believe I'm not saying that at all, but it's God's good hand on me He's seen a couple sides of me that probably were a little not good when I'd lose my temper sometimes. But he sees something and it is God. hand working in and through. And they see it in each one. When a person comes to Christ, therefore he is a new creation. The old things pass away and I have people that know me that knew me before I was saved. And to this day, they can't believe I'm the same person. And I know that it's only by the grace of God of God. And I know that it's Christ working in me. He's changing my desires and things in my life. And so I want to take you to Joshua to finish. The book of Joshua is another one of my favorite books. But there's a passage in here that kind of describes to me Nehemiah. And it also is a good hope and a good lesson for you. I we all know this verse, I'm certain. It is in uh Joshua chapter one verses eight and uh nine nine. It says, This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth. But thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein For then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then shalt thou have good success. Have not I commanded thee, Be strong and have a good courage. Be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed, for the Lord thy God is with thee, whithersoever thou goest. I think of Nehemiah, and it really exemplifies who he was He was a man of God. He was not afraid. He knew the direction. He knew God's word. And what I like about this thing, he was a man of strong character. and good courage. And he was not afraid when all these things were coming at him. Even when they threatened war. He was not afraid. Because he knew God had called him to do that. and knew his purpose in life. And so I hope that it's been an encouraging study for you. It's definitely been encouraging me, and I thank you for your patience with me and thank you for what God might do. through his word. So I am thankful for Nehemiah and the study. Yes. His on. I want to add uh to what the book of uh through the book of Mach Mat and Maya. Um we we studied chapter eight how we found that the law they started to read the law and all the people started to read But then in this chapter we see that you look back to the ironing. But in both cases we see that mind as the one who is very straightforward and strict. And I see that leadership. Yeah. That the leader sits their song, sits the pain. And that's how he was able to project the uh what the word and uh activity. I remember the verse in uh John 9 about Christ that he set up his face towards Jerusalem he was determined to the cross. that when the leader is kind of the need. The cliche is is that when the leadership goes, so goes the people. And we see that in in our nation today. So clearly. And here we see it in Nehemiah. When he was away back at the palace, all this stuff started happening again because there was And that shows the weakness of uh high priest Eliashib and others. And uh so I'm glad I'm hoping that we didn't fall apart while Pastor Jim was away for a week. But uh it does. Um I can't I can't manage somebody who said uh everything was great and done Oh. No. Well we certainly we certainly uh we certainly missed you, but uh I'm glad that uh God did uh give you a wonderful time down there. and uh that he brought you back safely. I'm very thankful for that. And um we're glad to have you back. But anyway, uh thank you for sharing that, he shared him. And anybody else have anything you'd like to share about the Nehemiah and the study? Or about God, how God worked in there. You know, at the beginning we talked about that, you know, what can we learn from Nehemiah? And then the other thing was, what is God doing in this time in history Can you answer today if somebody asks you, what is God doing today? In our time. This is our time. We're the Nehemiahs So rather be a Nehemiah than a Solomon. But um Solomon started out good But again, he didn't take care of the weakness. And we all have them and Satan knows them better than we do. So anyway, thank you all. And uh I'm gonna end in prayer. Father, we just thank you tonight for the goodness that you bestow upon us. Father, you are a most gracious God and merciful God. And Father, we love you tonight and we thank you for your goodness and who you are. Father, we know that you are holy, we know that you are righteous, we know that you are just, and we also know that you are mercy. And Father, we are grateful that we are saved by your grace through faith. Thank you, Jesus, for what you have done at the cross on our behalf. Thank you for how you intercede for us today And Father, I thank you for what we can learn from your word. I thank you for Nehemiah and his example. Thank you for how you show us, Lord, that you are still sovereign in your creation. You fulfilled your promise to Israel that you would bring them back in and that you would rebuild the walls. I think that was in Daniel and uh Zechariah maybe. But Lord, I just thank you for what you've teaching us. And I pray that you'll uh continue to be with us, guide and direct our paths, Lord. We ask for your help And where we struggle, will you please help us not to fall to the temptation? Help us to see those weak areas, Lord, and not fall, but stay strong. So Father, we thank you for your goodness, and may the words of our mouth and the meditation of our hearts be pleasing in your sight in Jesus' name. Amen.