Good. Got him watching me back there, making me nervous. But we're going to be in chapter twelve tonight, and the main thing in chapter twelve that I that really touched my heart was the dedication of the wall of Jerusalem And uh but a lot of things took place before that and some things took place after that. But um I'm not gonna read the whole chapter, but I am gonna be reading some verses through it. So if you have your Bibles and would like to open up to uh Nehemiah chapter twelve, uh we're going to begin there. And as I mentioned earlier about um people who have said that they dedicated their life to Christ. What do you think dedicating one's life to Christ means What do you think that means? Tony. Um I remember from my personal experience when I really feel that I at least took my I faith more seriously was just committing to do all for the glory of God. Remember reading first Corinthians ten thirty one, you're hearing it over and over again at hand. And saying, okay, I I I know it's it's not like I'm getting saved again, but it's like I'm really committing. I'm going to You all for it. Yeah, like the rededication. Yeah. Very good. Thank you. Anyone else want to share? Yes, Carrie. back to where you should be and then continue going forward. It's like a fresh start. Yeah, fresh start. Yeah. Yeah, that's good. I have uh my friend that came to visit uh Sunday. Um We've been talking off and on for over a year and uh he's had a rough uh childhood, a rough life. But uh at one point in his life when he was eleven years old he was taken out of the home and put into a foster family up in uh Hagerstown And they were a very strong Christian family and uh Christian children in their family and they went to church and uh like we do on uh Sundays. and the Wednesdays and whatnot. And he made the statement to me last week that it was the best time of his life from the age of eleven to sixteen And when he turned sixteen, they took him out of the foster home, put him back in his family home, which was very um um dysfunctional. And he will share that with you if you ever talk to him. But one of the things he said about recently was that God's really been working in his heart and he wants to rededicate his life to Christ. And he wanted to find a good church and I uh mentioned to him that we had left our other church and we're in a new church now and everything and just talking. And uh so he said, I would like to come and visit your church. And so we set it up. I gave him the directions and I did a lot of praying. I still pray for him. Uh and And he's uh a very good worker at my work. And uh but he's had a rough a rough life and he lives with his mom and he's kinda taking care of her. Uh she can't be on her own But uh a lot of things go on there too. And uh but I was just touched that um he desired to come here. And this he lives in Silver Spring. And so Silver Spring is a good uh forty five minutes to an hour away But uh so he got he was gonna do it once before and then he didn't come. So this time I gave him the directions and everything, gave him my phone number, and uh so he came And so I rejoice in that, the fact that he's God is working in his heart. And one of the things we're gonna learn tonight about this dedication that they're doing of the wall And uh you can see it in the people that their dedication of the wall, um, they're very grateful and very thankful for God's enabling them to be able to come out of the captivity, out of their sinful life and back into Jerusalem and be able to have the temple rebuilt and be able to have the walls redone and now God would see fit, they were hoping, to make his presence there again, put his name in So it was a joyful time for them. And uh so a lot of things were taking place and after reading chapter twelve and reading chapter thirteen, uh it leaves you a little confused the way um Nehemiah ends up. But it's kind of a pattern for Israel. But not only for Israel but a pattern for people today. How we're on fire one minute and the next minute we're back down and the next minute we're up and And uh it's one of the important reasons, as Pastor was speaking about tonight, of the coming together of believers in church. And um It's a great joy to come here and see all of you all and and on Sunday seeing all the people. I I uh to me it's my family, uh, along with my um personal family. But um and I always tell people what a joy it is to come to church and be here and the teaching and everything that we receive. And so I have another uh friend that we're trying to invite and we've been praying for her here. Her name's Kim and uh she's our neighbor across the street. And we had a gathering on Memorial Day with my family. my kids and everything and we invited her the evening before. She called at ten o'clock at night and wanted someone to come over and pray with her. And of course That's out of my realm, so I gave it to Joey. Joey wasn't real pleased, but uh she went. And uh uh my neighbor next door said, you know, we gotta put a curfew on that lady She came to their house at midnight one night, so she's struggling. She's really struggling. And uh so we were praying for her. But Joey invited her the night before when she went over to pray with her. And uh lo and behold she came knocked on the door all on her own, came in and shared some food with us and uh left. And uh but we're still praying for her and praying that she might come here too So keep her in prayer. I'm going to read uh only a couple verses at the beginning But it kind of sets up verses 1 through 9. And it says in chapter 12, verse 1, it says, Now these are the priests and the Levites That went up with Zerubbabel, the son of Shatil, and Jeshua and Sariah and Jeremiah and Ezra. And it lists a few more there and goes all the way down to nine. And These are they're they're giving us a list here of those uh priests and Levites that came up during the time of Zerubbabel, which was a hundred years before where we're at right now. So some of these folks, most of 'em may have uh passed on, but some of them are still living. But if you look at the first uh nine verses, that's the list that's given there of the priests and Levites that had returned with Zerubbabel And then uh verses ten through twenty-six mentions uh the priest and the um heads of uh Levitical families and whatnot coming in at a later generation. And it even says that some of these um high priests are identified as being uh there the whole period. In other words, from the hundred years till the where they're at now. So they would be pretty old folk But uh they were all uh mentioned here. And then it goes on to uh verse twenty-seven through forty-three. And uh in verses ten um 27 through 43, this is uh where we're probably going to be at. But in verse 27 it starts, and I want to read part of this. It's talking about this is the time when they come to dedicate the wall And uh I think this is really an an awesome thing. But it says in verse 27, if you want to follow along. And at the dedication of the wall of Jerusalem, they sought the Levites out of all of their places to bring them to Jerusalem, to keep the dedication with gladness, both with thanksgiving and with singing, with cymbals, psalteries, with harps. And the sons of the singers gathered themselves together, both out of the plain country and around Jerusalem, and from the villages. And it says in verse twenty nine, also from the house of Gilgal, out of the fields of Gebbeh And Armabeth and uh the singers had built them villages all around. So the singers were everywhere outside of Jerusalem and in Jerusalem. And uh so it says here in these verses, uh, even up to verse thirty, and the priests and the Levites, uh I want to hold before I go to that verse, but in these um uh verses here uh 27 through 29. It talks about um the dedication of the wall and what was taking place This was going to be a great celebration, and we're going to see that as we read further in and get further into the chapter. But uh what got me was that they got all the Levites, even the ones that were outside in the villages, and brought them all in And then uh not only did they bring the leaders in and et cetera, but they also brought the singers and the sons of the singers and uh all the priests and the high priests and etcetera. And uh as we read on, we're gonna find that they brought the um Uh princes of Judah or the leaders of Judah brought them in. And we find out later on also that the men, women, and children were going to be present at this great dedication And so in verse 30 it talks about the priests and the Levites. They had to purify themselves. Then purify the people, and then the gates and the wall. This was what the dedication was all about. And one of the things that was mentioned in a commentary that I was reading is that if someone is going to serve in a position in the church and they're going to be dealing with other people. And he talks about here that they had to purify themselves first. And then the Levites and then the people. And uh it's important for us that if we are going to be doing something in the church is to make sure our hearts and our minds are right with God before we're going to try to teach and work with others. And it's not that we're going to be perfect, but we ought to be mindful of that and be praying in And uh I was listening to a pastor the other day and his prayer was that the uh and I mention I used it in here once, but he was talking about the words of his mouth and the meditation of his heart would be pleased. Pleasing to God before he started to pray. And David used that in Psalms. And I really like that. And a lot of times when I pray to God, that's one of my prayers that uh my uh words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart both are in tune and I'm saying what is pleasing to God. And uh so I think when we talk about um when we're gonna even in our homes uh as parents and uh parents to be. And uh but in those cases, you know, we have to set the example before we can teach our children to do what is right. So it's very critical that we understand that and I think that that was a good point brought out by the commentary. But uh the priests first had to purify themselves and then they were going to purify the people. And this purification was always done with blood, sprinkling of blood. So there was going to be sacrifices done. And uh so as we go through this and go on, uh the celebration in verse twenty seven I wanted to back up there for a minute. And it says that um they were to um the dedication of the wall they sought the Levites out in all their places and bring them to Jerusalem to keep the to get dedication with what? With gladness and with thanksgiving. And I thought about that and I thought, you know, celebration, when we come to worship God, uh, we should come with a glad heart and a thanks. And uh when I think about the music that we have in this church and how wonderful it is, and uh I can just imagine here you had probably uh thousands sing as they do this dedication we we learn later on. But uh it uh is quite a um great undertaking but This uh celebration was going to take place and in and uh there were gonna be uh uh hymns of thanksgiving sung. There were gonna be singing of songs and singers from all around including the younger ones. And um with musical instruments. And this one got me with the cymbals and the harps and the lyrics. And um you know, we kinda shy away from certain instruments. And uh I'm not an advocate of uh bringing drums into the church, but uh I've been in churches that had drums and didn't stay long. But um I'm just thinking about, you know, what they they used what they had. to worship God with it. And the and uh David I remember when um uh he's the one actually I think that started the uh lyries and all but he had a choir of two hundred and forty something people that sang uh all the time in their celebrations and stuff. But they also had all these instruments and uh I think about us we're very uh blessed here to have pianos, flutes, guitars and trombones and trumpets and When when the trumpet and trombone play together, it's just an awesome sound. And uh I really like that. That that added a lot bringing that bass in there But uh anyway, uh we can be very grateful and very thankful. I think that our music here and our worship of God in the music field is is very good and very honoring to the Lord. I'm very grateful for that. And then he goes on here in verse thirty and he talks about the pure purification. And we know that uh this was going to be done with sacrifice Most likely always when they did purification it was done with uh the blood of animals, uh bulls and goats and so on and so forth. And uh so I want to go to verse thirty-one and uh I want to touch on that one. It says, Then I brought up the princes of Judah upon the wall, and appointed two great companies of them that gave thanks. Whereof one went on the right hand upon the wall toward the dungate. Oh can I have that map up there, uh Pat, just for a moment Give us a little visual. Uh the Dungates down there at the bottom, and this is where everything, thank you. That's where everything was going to take place. But they had um we see here that they broke up the group and um So in verse 31, the princes of Judah would have been the leaders of Judah, and uh they were brought up upon the wall, and Nehemiah divided them into two groups. And one company um and they they also mentioned that these groups, all of them were singing, so it was like two choirs. And uh so you see down here at the bottom they start and uh the one was led by Ezra and the second group was led by um Nehemiah, and we find uh verse 33 talks about Ezra in verse 38 uh Nehemiah mentions himself taking the other group. But they start down at the bottom at Dungate, and it says here that uh and after them went um Hoshiah and half of the princes of Judah And it goes on down and it comes to the certain priests' sons. Uh they brought uh trumpets and talks about Zachariah and them and the son of Asaph. And it goes on down and comes to verse 37. And at the fountain gate, which was over against them, they went up by the stairs. Now, the fountain gate's down here. David's uh when he first uh took uh conquered Jerusalem it was by the uh what was it Jud Jebacites or something like that. But that was all there was down there by the fountain gate was the city And he expanded it up there and then uh Solomon came and made it bigger and then it kept growing. But at that point in time when they're there, they started at the Dungate and went up to the fountain gate and then it mentions them going to uh the water gate eastward So they came up to the water gate and they kept going to the east. And uh the other company that gave thanks went over against them and a And I, Nehemiah speaking, after them and the half of the people upon the wall, beyond the towers of the furnaces, and even to the broad wall. So he's going the other way, where you see the furnace tower And the broad wall. He goes up by the old gate, the fish gate, they go past Tower of Hanel. And uh meanwhile this other group's coming up this way. Now they're lining those walls because it's constant people. And so it's not just that they took a group of people and went all the way up around there. They're lining this whole wall with people. And uh this seems really uh an awesome thing to me and I think it the sound of it when they were worshiping God would probably have been just uh Amazing. But you get to uh verse uh thirty-nine it says, and from above the gate of Ephraim, and above the old gate, and the fish gate and the tower of Anil, and it gets down and it says even unto the sheep gate, and they stood still in the prison gate, which would have been the guard gate to the t uh to the temple. And so they're all ended up together right up there at the east gate by the temple. And it says here that um So stood the two companies of them that gave thanks in the house of God. So now they're at the presence of the temple. That's where they came together. So you got 'em all surrounded around there and they end up right there at the temple. And uh this would have been quite a sight to see. But um they talk about there that um the two uh and they saw they stood uh the two companies of them he stood still there and he gave thanks in the house of God and I and half of the rulers with me and the priest and so on with the trumpets and everything. And you get down to verse forty three And this is where we're going to be concentrating a little bit. But verse forty three says, Also that day they offered great sacrifices So there were sacrifices going on at the temple, there was music being sung, there were instruments being played, people were rejoicing and there was gladness there. And it says, and also that day they offered great sacrifices and rejoiced. For I like this line, for God hath made them rejoice with great joy. And the wives also and the children rejoiced, so that the joy of Jerusalem was heard even afar off. Now this is just an awesome thing to me as I think about this. Number one, uh they stopped at the house of God. And they were all together and they were giving thanks and praise and worship to God. Can you imagine that with all the instruments And you think about the size of that city at that point in time. It's probably about eleven acres or twelve acres somewhere around there. But uh it reminds me of a time, and I know that a lot of people are not in uh agreement with the Promise Keeper organization when they started. But back then I was in a um uh a little um Southern Baptist church And uh we got a promise group together and we went my son and I went and we went to RFK Stadium where they held one of their um uh um programs and uh to hear that stadium filled with probably 15,000, 20,000 men singing how great thou art or a mighty fortress. I mean there was times when my son and I we were just at all we we just stopped and listened And uh I can imagine outside of the stadium. You can hear when stadiums have football games or baseball games and somebody scores. You hear it outside. Everybody screams and yells and you can say it somebody must have scored But when I thought about that and all the people around that outside of that stadium had to hear them songs. And uh and the other thing was that that praise and glory to God goes straight up and I'm I'm sure it was a sweet sound in God's ears. But uh it just reminded me of that when I'm thinking about this and this great city and they're all on the walls, they're singing, they got the instruments playing, and uh just how wonderful that was. And I like the fact that he points out here, for God had made them rejoice with great joy. And when I think about that, what would it have been that would cause them to rejoice like that that God would have done. And a couple of things that I just want to run by you that I had thought about. And the fact that this joy was so great and so loud that it was heard all around the city of Jerusalem out in the bellies. Can you imagine Sand Ballot and And uh the uh what was the other guy's name? Uh just hearing this and uh oh no, them Israelites. But uh I think it was a great time, but one of the things that I think about this rejoicing, why would they be rejoicing? What was it that God did that makes them rejoice And I think that one of the things that I see in this is that because it was God's good hand upon them that enabled them to complete the temple to complete the wall. And it was the fact that now that they have this all back together, that God would again place his name upon that city and be uh willing to uh place and recognize that uh as God's city. And uh so I think when you think about the rejoicing, they just came out of All this time in captivity and sinfulness and everything. They knew why the city was destroyed. They know why it was destroyed like it was. And here they God had enabled them. It was God who enabled them It was God who brought them back. It was God who chose Nehemiah to go in and lead these people to build these walls and get them back and led the Rebel and the others to come and build the temple and Ezra. And it was God's good hand upon them. And we see that in all through Nehemiah, uh, he writes that in there, that God's good hand was upon him and this happened. And this happened. So I think the great joy and rejoicing that they have was because God's good hand was upon him. And I think about that today here in this church. Why would we not rejoice? Why would we not be the same way? God's good hand has been on each and every one of us here. We have been blessed beyond any We go through trials. We go through tribulation just like they did. And I think about my my friend Donnie and the fact that, you know, it's been years since he was sixteen years old. He's now in his fifties. And he's coming back. God is bringing him back. And he told me the other day he wasn't sure that he was saved because of his lifestyle and because of He's not in church, he's not reading, he's not praying. And so it was really God was working on his heart. That's what brought him here. And when he left, he told me today that when he left that he was in tears He loved what he heard. It was very convicting, very familiar when he was 16 years old. And he told me that when he was uh between that time of 11 and 16, he did receive Christ as his Savior And but he said as soon as he got out of that atmosphere, he just he went he ended up in prison, he was doing this and that. And uh but now he he's he stopped drinking, stopped smoking, and uh But he's he's seeing that God is working in his heart. And so I'm glad that he came. And I'm glad uh I'm very thankful for Pastor II. He uh gave a great gospel message at the end. And um Harry did a great job. Uh he he's very easy to follow when he preaches and what he was sharing. And uh but it touched my friend Don And uh so I think about this. We should be worshiping God tonight and thanking God with gladness and with grateful hearts because his good hand is upon us And the second thing we find here is that God did not leave them and forsake them. And if you remember in Isaiah uh forty one or forty, wherever it is there, He he's talking about bringing them back and they were all concerned that God had left them. And uh so I think another reason to be glad and thankful and rejoice the way they did here was because of God not forsaking them and leaving them in captivity and leaving the city in ruins. But He brings them all back together and this is a time of great uh joy and great celebration. And they wanted to dedicate the wall and um put that back uh and give it back to God, so to speak. And to to dedicate uh I looked it up in uh two different places and two different um uh in the Greek and Hebrew thing. And one of the things it brings out is it means to purify or it means to make new or make anew, consecrate or set apart. So they were coming back to dedicate the wall back to God And they wanted him uh to um they wanted him to purify it. They were they were doing these sacrifices and everything and they sprinkled that blood on those walls, on the gates and everything else because they wanted to dedicate it to God. They want it to be purified. So it could be used by God again. And I think about as you read and finish out, we're not going to finish out in the chapter today, but in forty-four through forty-seven they're already setting up the uh the priesthood and everything else, making sure the tithes are being taken care of. So they're really getting things established here And uh but one of the things that uh this dedication making anew, I mean it's it's all new and and I think uh it was uh Kim that mentioned a couple weeks ago that A lot of these people didn't even know about God because they were another generation. And uh so they uh would uh not quite understand things. But here the people were very glad and they were dedicating uh the wall and everything to the Lord. And uh dedication consisted in a solemn ceremonial um type thing and in which the leading authorities accomp uh accompanied by the Levitical singers from all parts of the country and all the vast amount of people marching in an imposing direction, I can just imagine this, round the city walls and uh pausing at different places. It mentions it in there that they stop certain places and give thanks or praise to God and then they would go further and uh as God so moved them. But they went around and um In uh united praises too in prayer. It wasn't something that was off. I mean they were together when they were singing these things and they were making their supplication to God, wanting him to continue his presence and favor and blessing on the Holy City. And uh which the biggest thing for me is is the fact that he chose to put his name there. And so what What did I learn from this and what can I share with you about this particular chapter and about the dedication? To me, it's a first of all it's a picture of true worship. God says He wants us to worship in spirit and in truth. And I believe that their hearts were set on worshiping God at that time. That was just too big a thing and and too uh um pointed towards God And they I think their gratefulness, their thing when they came with gladness, I mean um uh to me it's a perfect picture of true worship. And it should encourage us and and teach us and help to continue to do our worship uh in that manner. And I think their mind and their thoughts were grateful and thankful to God. God. And I know that there are a lot of times there's hymns that we sing here and if I'm not familiar with them Sometimes I have a hard time singing 'em because I don't know where I'm going. Voice wise, I don't read music. But uh the words is what I try to concentrate on. What is the words in that song? And they have and um I was coming up here tonight and and uh on my stereo I heard the uh one song we sang tonight. A time of thankfulness and gratefulness to God for his enabling. And I think that's a good lesson for you and I as we come to worship God on Sunday, as we come to worship him on Wednesday. And I think uh uh everybody mentioned it in their prayers tonight of their thankfulness and gratefulness. And I think that the key is that God is enabling us. That's why we should be thankful. They couldn't come in and build that wall and do that temple without God's enabling. They would have never done it. That's why they were grateful and why they were thankful because God enabled them. You and I can't come to the Father unless God enables us. Do you know that? We don't we just can't come to God. And it says here in John 6 44, No man can come to me, Jesus talking, except the Father which has sent me, draw him I will raise him up at the last day. And in John 14, 6, no man can come to the Father except by me. So all this is God's enabling that you and I have salvation. that we have this joy and this privilege to come. And without the gospel we find of Jesus Christ, which is God's enabling for us to come, that we might become the sons of God. John 1. 12 says, but as many as received him, to them gave he the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believeth on his name. And so when I think about this time of great joy and worship and dedication to God, though they're dedicating the walls, they're also dedicating themselves. But when you and I come to worship God, our dedication should be ourselves, dedicating ourselves to God. And what Tony was talking about, sometimes we do have to rededicate. I mean we we go through times in our lives. I mean Years ago I went through a very hard time in my life and uh it took a lot for God to get me back on my feet. And there are times uh since then I've had little struggles here and there, but nothing like that time. But I rededicated my life at that point. Uh in my my life. This was like twenty-five years ago. And um but there are times when we need to rededicate our lives to God. But I think when we prepare to come to church, we ought to consider what was going on here And be thankful and come with gladness and gratefulness for God's enabling. And maybe we have a rough week, maybe we have some rough times, but God will not leave us nor forsake us. And Israel found that out. I think that was one of the reasons also that they were So just as God enables Israel to complete the walls of the temple and a place where he chose to place his name, We likewise ought to be thankful and grateful for God's enabling us to become his children, where he places his name in our So we ought to be glad for that that God enabled us to do that. And He chose to place His name upon us And not only thankfulness and gratefulness, but also with gladness and joyfulness. With great joy might we sing praise to God aloud with the instruments and all that we use In verse forty three again the joy of Jerusalem was heard afar off. And again I just think about the time um that I was there at uh the stadium. But I also came back a couple of years later when they were praying on the uh mall and that was the same way uh in that whole mall area in the DC when they uh sang great hymns of the faith. Uh it's just amazing to me of how that volume goes out and I can just imagine hopefully that it's pleasing to God. And I believe it is uh when we're singing from the heart it definitely is pleasing God. So be thinking about that as you come to worship Sunday or as even as you are speaking with friends and neighbors. My concern for my neighbor is first of all that She would come to know Jesus Christ. Uh she is religious or had some religion in her life, comes from a Catholic background. But she knows something's missing, but she is very uh she's always asking us to pray. She wants Joey to come pray with her. And uh so when I think about that, you know, God has enabled me to know him, then my desire would be that I could share that with others that he might enable them. And it uh and Donnie is the same way, that he will rededicate his life, but that first of all that he will know that God is safe. That's the biggest thing. And he has to find that out through the scriptures and prayer. Well, I thank you all for your patience tonight. And uh we've got one more chapter to go. And I have two more weeks and then uh pastor's coming back And uh so I I really want to thank you all for being patient with me and uh just being here. And um so let's close in prayer. Father, we are so grateful and so thankful Father, for your enabling us, enabling us to do anything for your glory and for your praise We know that you enable us to come to you and put our faith and trust in you, and you have made us your children. We carry your name And Father, with tonight with great gladness and great joy, we give praise and honor and glory to you. We thank you for your great mercy. And your wonderful grace, just as you were merciful to Israel and brought them back out of captivity, Father. You brought us from a simple life into a new life and true life, Lord. you a right relationship with you and Father we come with grateful and glad hearts for that and I just thank you tonight for each one here Lord and I pray your continued blessing upon each one And I pray that you'll be with us as we go away. Continue to watch over us and protect us and keep us safe from all harm, Lord, or accident. And I pray a special prayer for Jim and Elizabeth and the children as they travel down. I pray you'll help the vehicle to run well. Keep your uh uh protection around them from any harm or accidents. And also from the evil one, Lord. I pray you will give them great rest, a great time of rejoicing together with their family. Amen. I just pray it would be a blessed time. Pray that you'd bring them back safely. And Father, I do thank you for the goodness that you bestow upon us. May in all things you be praised. You be honored. You be glorified. And may the words of our mouth and the meditation of our hearts be pleasing in your sight. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.