Well tonight we're going to be in Nehemiah chapter nine, and um we're gonna learn a couple things tonight in Nehemiah chapter nine. And uh it really made me stop and think about my life and about looking back on my life since I've been a Christian, even before I was a Christian. And uh I've always known about God since I was little because I was taught and because of the way I was brought up. But I didn't come to know Christ till I was twenty-five years old. And uh so that was quite a while back Uh and uh but God never ceases to amaze me. And uh I am so grateful and so thankful for his great mercy and his wonderful Because I know that if it depended on my merit or my actions, uh I'd be in deep weeds. So tonight we're going to learn a little bit about Israel and uh what was going on in their history, and we are going to learn about the great mercy of God and the great compassion. and love that he has for his people and not only Israel but the church. And it kinda makes me think about, uh, as I was reading through this how it goes from what God does to what Israel does, to what God does to what Israel does. And that is a reflection even in our own lives today. What God is doing in our lives and what we are doing. with what God is doing in our lives. So it's a good uh a good lesson, uh it was for me anyway. But uh we're gonna begin and I'm just gonna read the first three verses to get us set up They had just finished uh celebrating the uh Feast of Tabernacles, and uh so now it's two days after that, and we come back together again as a people And this time they separated themselves from the um people of the world. So if you've got your Bibles and want to open up to chapter 9 of Nehemiah, we will look at verses 1 through 3 at the beginning here. And it says Now in the twenty and fourth day of this month, the children of Israel were assembled with fasting and with sackcloths and earth upon them. And the seed of Israel separated themselves from all strangers and stood and confessed their sins and the iniquities of their fathers. And they stood up in their place and read in the book of the law of the Lord their God. One fourth part of the day, and another part of the day they confessed. and worshiped the Lord their God. Let's uh open in a word of prayer real quick. Father, we thank you so much. Thank you for your goodness. Thank you for your mercy. Thank you for your grace. Thank you for your word. Thank you for Jesus and what he has done on our behalf. Thank you for your Holy Spirit. Thank you for the protection that you keep around us, Lord and how you have allowed us to go places and bring us back safe. Father, we are grateful from the bottom of our hearts, Lord, and thankful for your goodness to us. And Father, I would ask tonight that your Spirit would do the leading and do the teaching. And I pray, Father, that you would guide my lips Forgive me for any sin that I have done, Lord, and cleanse my heart and prepare me for this lesson. And Father, I do thank you for all who come tonight And I pray that in all things you will be glorified and lifted up, and that we will go out of here changed, Lord, from when we came in, with something that we learn tonight from your word. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. So here we are two days after the uh celebration of the Feast of Tabernacles, and um we find the people of Israel now separating themselves from all the other peoples. Now this must have been a little tough because as we look forward We're going to see that a lot of them had already intermarried and and whatnot. And we learn a great lesson about that. We're going to learn about it anyway, uh, as we get further into the book. But um about Being unequally yoked. And God definitely did not want Israel intermarrying with the other nations. And uh anybody know why that was? Why was God why would God say that Why would he not want them intermarrying, Carol? Because they were going to lead them astray back to their false gods. Exactly. Because they would lead them astray and take them back to their false gods. So God did not want them intermarrying. Well You know, this has been going on with Israel throughout. And uh they would get clean and then they get dirty, and they get clean and then they get dirty. But anyway Here uh we're finding that uh this must have been a little tough time, but uh anyway they separate him separated themselves from the people. And I don't know that it was necessarily from their wives, but most likely That might have happened, but uh I think it was more about the people in the land. And uh so they stood up there and um they came And they were going to have a solemn time. And this was going to be a time when they would be uh dressed in uh sackcloth, which is a burlap type material And uh they had uh soil and dirt and dust that they would put on them. This was a sign acknowledging um this uh Mourning, a sign of mourning against their sin and all, and as they're learning this, as they are hearing the Word of God for the first time, a lot of them And some of 'em are being reminded to the older folks. But uh anyway, one fourth part of the day they read God's word and the other fourth part of the day they were confessing their sins and their father's sins And uh reading in the book of the law, Ezra and uh the Levites, as we move on to verses four through six, it says that then stood up upon the stairs of the Levites, Jeshua and Bani and Cadmeel and Shabanani. Buni and Sherebiah, Bani and Shania, and cried with a loud voice unto the Lord their God. Then the Levites Jeshua and all these others stood up and called out to the people and told them to stand up and bless the Lord your God forever and ever. Blessed be thy glorious name, which exalted above all blessing and praise. Thou, even thou, art Lord alone Thou hast made heaven and the heaven of heavens, with all their hosts, the earth and all the things therein, the seas and all therein there, and thou preservest them all, and the hosts of heaven worship thee. Here's a great time here of the people learning and confessing who God is. And I really love this part. They were acknowledging here the sovereignty and the majesty of God in this prayer. And uh they were actually acknowledging the one true living God. And we see that here when he says, Thou art Lord alone. God is sovereign. He is the one true living God. And He's also the creator and sustainer of all life. He says that thou hast made the heavens and the earth and all these things, and he said, Thou preservest them. And that gives us great hope, knowing that God is the creator and sustainer. He not only created and sustains the earth and the everything staying in motion out in the universe and all, but he also created you and I. And he sustains us. Even uh he sustains what's going on, what we see going on around us uh this week. He's in the midst of it. He knows what's going on. He is in control. And even though it may look like everything's out of control. But he also here they talk about God, they they acknowledge God's majesty He's exalted above all blessing and praise. And to me, this is a beautiful acknowledgement of the God that we worship. And I wonder Uh when we pray, I know I find myself I'm more asking God for this, apologizing to God for that. Oh I mean that's a major part of my prayer. God I I I need this, I want this. I'm praying for them, doing this. I never thought about it, but you know it's amazing here how everything started out with the praise and admonition of g I mean uh praise and uh uh exalting God. And I think that is a good thing. And it's not uh also As I think about that, it's not so much that God doesn't know who he is, but I think when we do this, we are reminding ourselves of the great God that we see. Serve, the great God that loves us, and to remind ourselves of His mercy and of His grace and His great love and the things that He's done. And I think that is a great way uh to pray to God. is to acknowledge and recognize. And God loves that too. It's praise for him and his glory and all that he has done. But it I think it's more of a reminder to us who God is. And what he has done. And I think sometimes we get so caught up in everything else that when we pray, we're praying for everything that we need and want and want to see happen. And we forget to acknowledge And after a while I think that um it can cause us to lose focus on who God is And his greatness and especially his mercy. When you go through a trial and you're not that close with what you're hearing here, it's harder to go through the trial than to know and understand that God is merciful. And there's a couple of verses in here we're going to read as we go through it. But I really love this acknowledgement of God. And one of the things that we learn here in the scriptures, and that they are learning also, is that a careful study of God's word should always remind us of our lowly position. That God is exalted And we are his servants. The position that we hold before God. And I think as we carefully read and study God's word, we find that. to be true. And our sinfulness, his holiness. But the one thing that we find in it too, which is joyful to me, is the plentiousness of his salvation. What he had done to give us salvation. And I think that we sometimes might take that lightly, but mourn over our sin, but rejoice in Him because He loves us. And I think of uh first John four ten where it says, Herein is love, not that we love God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. God in himself sends his only son to be the propitiation, to take care of the wrath that he had against us And he puts it upon his son. There's no greater love than that. In John fifteen, thirteen Jesus said, Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends And he reminds us there that you are my friends if you what? Yeah, if you do what I ask, if you c keep my commandments. And w why would that be true? If you love someone, you want to do what's pleasing to them. We love our wives, we love our husbands, we want to do what pleases them most of the time. But um and I think that uh really rings true here. Christ makes that clear to us that um No greater love hath any man. He laid his life down for us. And we are his friends if we put our faith and trust in him And I'm always again amazed at God's grace. And you know, I was uh thinking about when a lot of times when people ask me how I'm doing, uh the first thing that comes out of my mouth now is better than I deserve. And uh which is very true And uh but there's two ladies that work at Highs in my neighborhood and every morning I'm up at four thirty. I go there, they're up at two thirty in the morning getting that place ready, getting the coffee made and everything, and they open at five. And so I go in there early in the morning. A lot of us early workers go in there and get coffee But the lady and I, uh the two ladies that are there, always talk about how you doing, how you doing, and so my answer most of the time was better than I deserved Well the lady picked up one lady that works casual, she picked up on that. Well this morning she asked me how I was doing. And I said, uh, I'm doing uh you know, fair to midland. She said, Oh, it's not what you deserve. And it's kind of funny that she remembered it. But uh but I think about that and it's true. And I you know, now it's becoming a habit to say it, but it is the truth and I know that I am doing better than I deserve, even when I'm sick. So having a right view of God, and you see that here in the beginning of chapter 9, there's a right view of God pictured here. And we're going to read 7 and 8 and uh follow along if you would. Thou art the Lord the God who didst choose Abram, and broughtest him forth out of Ur of the Chaldees, and gaveest him the name Abraham. And found his heart faithful before thee, and made us a covenant with him, to give him the land of the Canaanites, the Hittites, and all these other countries, and the Gergeshites. I say to his seed, and hast performed thy words, for thou art righteous. So we find here in verses seven and eight. We see again them acknowledging God's sovereignty. God chose Abraham. Abraham did not choose God. God chose Abraham. And what we see here is that not only did God choose Abraham, there has to come a time in Abraham's life when he does have to choose to follow. As we all do. But the choosing came from God. He is sovereign in his choosing. But he chose Abraham here. And uh he also uh chose to make a covenant with Abraham And uh we find that in Genesis 12, uh one and three, one through three, and also in fifteen, seventeen, twenty-one. And some of the promises that he made. And what does the name Abraham mean? Anyone know? Yeah, you're close. Father of many nations. He's the father of nations, that's what it was. Abraham So that's why God changed his name, because he made the covenant with him, and he would be the father of many nations. And God also uh found him faithful. And when He says this at the in and it says here in um the last part of that, to give them the land. In other words, they took the land away from these other countries and God was going to place his people in there. And he says, I say to his seed, which he means he was given it to Abraham's seed, and has performed thy words, for thou art righteous. So here we find that God is faithful to his word, and uh it proves his righteousness. when he is faithful to God's word. And do you know that that same reflection is upon you and I? When we are obedient to God's word, it is doing what's right. And we have no righteousness of our own, only Christ's righteousness, and we know that. But when we're doing right, that righteousness is reflected out And it's because of Christ and what he's done. So we move on to verses 9 through 23. Now we're not going to read all the way through there, but what we find in verses nine through twenty-three, God's word reminds Israel of the great exodus and also uh of them being brought out of slavery in Egypt. And he also reminds them of the forty years of their wandering in the wilderness And this is a part where there is a pattern that goes on throughout Israel's history. And I wonder if that pattern uh pattern could be in our own lives. I think it does happen in the church in uh the church as a whole. Um, not necessarily even the well the pr I'm gonna say the professing church because there's uh churches all over the country that profess Christ. But we will see here that they're probably a lot like Israel was. And it says there the pattern we have here is God's response, the people's response. And that is still going on today. And here we find in verses 9 through 15 God's goodness And it talks about the afflictions of the fathers in Egypt. God heard their cry, he brought them out. He brings them through the Red Sea. He shows them signs and wonders with Pharaoh and all the uh things that he brought upon him and uh how he dealt proudly against Israel so he shows um his power and uh it says in verse ten that uh so didst thou get thee a name. He's talking about God here. God had a name of being all powerful, almighty, and the one true God. And it is to this day it says. And he uh divided the sea before them And he threw us the enemy in the deep. So he's reminded them of all these things that God did and his greatness and his goodness to them. He led them through the uh uh wilderness for forty years with a uh cloudy pillar in the day and a fire at night and uh gave them light in which way they should go And uh he came and spoke to them at Mount Sinai. He came down and spoke to Moses and gave them the law and right judgments and true laws and good statues and commandments And he made known to them the holy sabbath. And it goes on and he gave the law to Moses, thy servant. And he gave us them bread. Remember when they were in the wilderness, they got bread from heaven, the mannah. And then he gave them water out of a rock which caused uh Um Moses not to be able to go into the promised land because he did it wrong, but still they got the water. And then he talks about how um God had brought them into the land to possess. And then we find in verse 16 the response. But they and our fathers dealt proudly and hardened their necks. and hearkened not unto the commandments of God, and refused to obey, neither were mindful of thy wonders that thou didst among them. I'm thinking about that, you know I'm I'm thinking back, looking back, and I think if I saw the Red Sea parted by the Putting that w pole down in the water, I'd remember that. And I would be telling my kids, hey, this is what happened, man. And you go on with that, you know, but here they forgot about it And then they got to the point where they didn't want to go into land, so they wanted to get a appointed captain to take 'em back into the slavery that God just brought 'em out of. That was their response That was their response. And we think about it now and we're saying, man, these people, what's wrong with them? And then it says, but thou art a God ready to pardon, gracious and merciful Slow to anger, and of great kindness, and forsook them not. So God did not forsake them. There were some that stayed in there and died in that wilderness, but he still brought the people that he promised Abraham to do. He still kept his word and he brought 'em in. He could have just destroyed 'em all and started out. Like he was gonna do one time if you remember. Yea, and it says, uh When they had made them a molten calf and said, This is thy God, that thou brought thee up out of Egypt, and wrought great provocations, yet thou in thy manifold mercies Listen to this. Forsookest them not. In the wilderness the pillar of cloud or day and the fire at night to lead them. And he says, Thou gavest them thy good spirit to instruct them, withheld not thy manna, and gave them the water Yea, for forty years did thou sustain them in the wilderness, so that they lacked nothing, even though they were being uh judged in that wilderness God provided for them. It says that they lacked nothing. Their clothes never waxed old, and their feet did not swell. Can you imagine that forty years wonderful? And moreover, thou gavest them kingdoms and nations. And he goes on to talk about the pro uh the lands that they possessed, and their children also multiplied, and as the stars in heaven, just as he promised Abraham. Remember that? And uh so he brought us them into the land concerning which thou had promised to their fathers that they should go in and possess it. So the children went in and possessed the land and it goes on about that and they kick all these people out and God gives them all this and he goes to verse twenty-five and says they took strong cities and a fat land and possessed houses full of all goods. Wells digged, vineyards and olive yards, and fruit trees in abundance, so that they did eat, and were filled, and became fat, and delighted themselves in thy great goodness. Nevertheless Verse 26. They were disobedient and rebelled against thee, and cast thy law behind their backs, and slew thy prophets. Which testified against them to turn to thee, and they wrought great provocation. God was sending people, even at the time they're rebelling, to Bring them back to him. And they wanted to put him to death. Therefore thou deliverest them in the hand of the enemies. And he goes on, he goes on down, he says, But after that they had rest, they did evil again. So it was this the pattern that we see between Israel and God. And it comes down to thirty-one, verse thirty-one. It says, Nevertheless For thy great mercy's sake, thou didst not utterly consume them, nor forsake them, for thou art a gracious and merciful God. And it says in verse 32, now therefore our God, the great, the mighty and terrible God, who keepeth covenant and mercy, Let not all the trouble seem little before thee that thou hast upon us, on our kings, and on our princes, and our priests, and on the prophets, and on the fathers, and all the people since the time of the kings of Assyria. So he's talking about the captivity there. And he says, how be it thou art just in this I like. This is a true confession. How be it thou art just in all that is brought upon us, for thou hast done right, but we have done wicked And I think about that here and you think about these people and all that I mean they're this is coming to light to them here in this time. And uh It says that uh I think when they were confessing their sin that they were seeing that God's judgment was just. And that's one thing that I liked about when um Uh Enrique was preaching a couple weeks ago and he talked about the side of Christ that we don't like to see. But aren't you grateful that God is perfect in every way, that he is righteous, that he is holy, that he is just, and that he is uh the one who will judge. Because he will judge rightly. And so I I'm very grateful that God is who he is. I'm grateful that He's sovereign and I'm grateful that He's almighty and all powerful and all wise and all knowing. Otherwise he would not be God to me. He would be another person to me. And so I'm thankful for the fact that God is holy and that he is righteous, that he is just And as we look at both uh sides as Enrique was bringing out in uh Revelation. So we move on, and uh one of the things that we find here We get down to the near the end of the chapter and we see where Israel is now uh been confessing their sin, they've been seeing God's goodness and all. And uh it came to the point that they were going to, in verse thirty-eight, it says, and because of Because of all of this, because of all that they had just learned from God's Word, because of all that they're learning and understanding and recognizing their sin and all that All of this we make a sure covenant and write it, and our princes, Levites, and priests shall seal it to it. Here is what's going on here. They're confessing their sins, and now they're going to make a covenant with God that they're going to do. Right, they're going to obey him. How many times have we done that with God? We've sinned and done something over and over. We go back and we ask God's forgiveness. Yeah, God, I'm gonna do it right this time, and we fall right back into the same And I think about um people who are not as apt to stay close to God's word have that problem and that's struggle more so than those of us who do keep in God's word. And I will tell you, even keeping in God's word, there are times in my life when there are things in my life that aggravate me, make me mad, and I go and confess it to God and say I don't want to do that anymore. I want to turn away from it and next thing you know I'm back with it. And it's a hard thing. But one of the things here Oh, that is encouraging. When we are confessing our sins, it is good for us to notice the mercies of God. I think it's very important that we notice the mercies of God God. And it's not that it gives us an excuse to continue to sin, but the the thing is that it should do, it rather should encourage us not to sin. God is merciful. No matter what I have done, I can go before Him. He says, Come boldly before my throne of grace and receive mercy and grace when in time of need. And He tells us to confess our sins and He's faithful and just to forgive us. So as we are confessing our sins, I am reminded of the mercies of God, not so I can excuse to do away and do what I want to do again, but more so that I would be more grateful, more humble, and have an attitude. uh that is grateful, a grateful attitude. And I've heard that prayed in here about the gratefulness that we have for God and His mercy. and his grace. And so as we see and learn here of God's goodness to Israel, his faithfulness, his mercies, His patience and his provision. All these things that we see in God should encourage us to desire not to sin instead of just taking it lightly. Israel took it lightly. They came to the point where they just disobeyed. And they didn't even uh acknowledge uh his word and his commands. And uh when God would send uh someone there, have you ever had a Christian that was out of fellowship? and you try to sit down with them and share God's word with them and sometimes they don't want to hear it. They know because of the guilt they have that you're right but they don't want to hear it. I've uh had some issues with my son in his younger days and he was he thought he was wiser than most. And uh he was pretty sharp in knowing God's word, but there was a time before he got saved that uh he was very uh um he would act like he knew God, but he didn't didn't know God and I knew he didn't know God. And uh but he would always get upset when I would try to bring something to him that was coming right out of Scripture, and he would get upset with me about it. And uh but there came a time in his life that uh God uh brought him to his knees and uh he received Christ and him and his girlfriend at that time both received Christ the same night and uh they called us up crying on the phone uh about what had happened and how they asked God to forgive 'em and uh it was amazing what God did in their lives and both of them. They got married real quick, the pastor recommended Don't be living together. Let's go get married now. And uh they're still together today, uh, in New Hampshire. They have a little son. But I remember the times it was hard to tell him him and share you you had to use God's word you because if you just said you need to do this, it don't mean nothing to them. But when you use God's word, they can't argue with it. It's not me saying it, it's what God says. And I think he he knew all along, but uh it was just uh amazing how God uh uh used his word to save my son. And uh one of the things that he would always try to do was get Joey and I fighting against each other about what he was allowed to do and what he wasn't allowed to do. And uh so that was a tough thing. So Joey and I had to sit down and say, hey, let's get together on this so we know what we're doing. And Joey put him out of the house first. I let him back in because I was knocked because she didn't tell me she was doing it. And uh two weeks later We both agreed he had to get out of the house. And uh but that was what actually my son, if you ever ask him today, he will tell you that it was our strong faith and love for God that he would that we would put him out of the house, their only son. And uh he it showed him that uh God uh was the one doing the work and that we believed in God and our faith was in. Were we perfect parents? Definitely not. But we learned as we went. And luckily we had some great mentors around us. who uh encouraged us and uh kept us strong in the faith to teach our children. But in thinking about this now, uh I think a lot of times If we saw Israel, they didn't like it when they would hear God's word. But it's amazing here at this point in time. They're starting to learn it and they're starting to like it. They're starting to go. And I would never if you're ever going through that and working with loved ones or something, don't ever give up. There were times when it was tough for Joey and I. The toughest thing I had to do was tell my son he had to move out. And uh but it um I trusted God while he was out. in the street living and I knew who he was with. I knew his friends and uh but uh God was gracious and God was merciful. And I think God honored the fact that we stood for what was right and not falling to allowing him to do whatever he wanted. And uh so here we find Israel's response. They did not hearken to God's words, his commandments, they refused to obey, neither were they mindful of his wonders, his plagues that he put on the uh Pharaoh and the Red Sea parting and God's provisions and protections and uh giving the land to them that they didn't deserve and what we find here is that this is a specimen of human nature This is the way new human nature is. We want to do it our way. We want to do it our own way. We don't need a God and I'm going to tell you right now, the reason that we have the problems we have in this nation right now is because we have turned. our back on God. That's exactly what is going on. Most people don't want to hear it, but it's the truth. And we can see it. The morals all the morals go away. And so now who sets the moral standard? Uh these people right here, the specimen of the human nature. And so I always think about this uh thing with the gay marriage. What's gonna be next? Are you gonna be allowed to marry children? You know, those pedophiles sooner or later are gonna want their rights. They're gonna want to marry children. And then you have the other end of that, uh, you know, murder's okay for that guy, so what do we do with him? It it it's his right to murder somebody. And uh so this thing of losing the moral standard, which is God's word, always was in this nation uh at the early times. Uh our nation was set up on godly principles and God's Word. We even had it in our government buildings and stuff. But we find ourselves drifting away from that. And so it's going to be critical and important for you and I to stand for the truth and teach our children these truths So if it were not for God's mercy, we would have no hope. In light of what we've learned tonight about God and His mercy. Might our prayer be as the psalmist. I would like to turn before we close to Psalm 119. The whole Psalm of 119 is just an awesome psalm. But I'm thinking about what we were just learning tonight, and I'm looking at verse thirty three, and we're going to read through forty one. As uh the psalmist is writing here, he says to God in a prayer, in verse thirty three, Teach me, O Lord, the way of thy statues, and I shall keep it unto the end. Give me understanding, and I shall keep thy law. Yea, I shall observe it with my whole heart Make me to go in the path of thy commandments, for therein do I delight. Incline mine heart unto thy testimonies. and not to covetousness. Turn away mine eyes from beholding vanity, and quicken thou me in thy way. Stablish thy word unto thy servant, who is devoted to thy fear Turn away my reproach, which I fear, for thy judgments are good. Behold, I have longed after thy precepts. Quicken me in thy righteousness. And verse forty one, let thy mercies come also unto me, O Lord, even thy salvation according to thy word. I think that is a beautiful prayer to pray concerning what we're learning about tonight, God's mercies. And I think when we're observing, when we are confessing our sins and observing the mercy of God, it encourages us more so not to sin and to want to do what God wants us to do. And that's the prayer that's coming here. The psalmist wants God to teach him. And that's my desire too, that God will teach me, and I'm sure it's your desire. That God will teach you and encourage you and help you in these things. And uh but we n must not ever forget God's mercy. I was going to do Psalm 36. 136, which um the psalmist was writing and every at the end of each one of them and his mercies endured forever. That would have been awesome too. But uh before we close, Hebrews uh four sixteen tells us as we found these people doing. In Hebrews thirteen it says Let thou therefore um sorry, yeah, thirteen sixteen verse sixteen, um sorry, chapter four, Hebrews four. My bad. And is that the alarm clock? Am I late? Hebrews four verse sixteen says, Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. And we find also the verse in thirteen that I was thinking about was thirteen five. Let your conversation be without covetousness, and be content with such things as ye have, for he hath said, I will never leave thee, nor forsake. Israel realized that God would not forsake them, that he did not forsake them. And one of the things we learn here about Israel at this point in time They are back in their land, but they are still servants and slaves in their own land. They have uh the uh Persians over them. And so they make mention of that in there that uh they know that it's because of their sinfulness that they are under that. But isn't it amazing that they're back in their own land and they are slaves in their own land And so anyway, I hope that tonight uh you would um were encouraged about God's great mercy and his great love for us, and it would encourage us to desire more and more. uh to do what's pleasing in his sight. Israel was learning that at this point because they knew they were not doing what was right in God's sight Thank you all for being patient. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you so much for your great mercy and your wonderful grace. And Lord, what an encouragement to us to be able to come before your very throne of grace Lord, and find mercy there. Father, you are faithful to the end. You are a great God, a most merciful and wonderful and kind God. Thank you so much, Father. Thank you for how you watch over each one of us. Thank you for watching over our families. Thank you for providing for us. our every need. Father, may in all things you be glorified and lifted up. May we be reminded of your goodness each day, Father, and may it draw us more and more towards you and away from the ways of this world. We ask in Jesus' name, Amen.