Take your Bibles and turn to the book of Acts, chapter 9, this morning. Acts chapter 9, as we finish up this chapter in the book of Acts. I don't know about you, but there are many things in life that when we go to try to fix something or build something or bake something or sow something, that it's much easier to learn to do these things by doing rather than even by reading or by listening just to a simple explanation. How many of you would would would agree with that, that there are many things in life that it's just it's just easier to learn as you are doing it I think that's one of the reasons why um why we all well I don't know about all of us, but I I like YouTube a lot. Um when I want to fix something I'll tell you what, or or or I don't know what's going on w when I'm trying to figure out out how to do something, YouTube is a great great place to go. Now there's a it's a bad place to go for other things, so there's always good and bad with those kinds of things. But um but I mean it's kind of amazing. I used to when I was uh when I was younger Uh I used to try ha I used to have a Haynes manual to fix a car or a Chilton manual and you'd have to pull out the manual and have to look at all different things to change an alternator or whatever, those kinds of things. And now you can look it on look on YouTube, punch in the exact model of your car, and many times they'll have the exact uh part that that's there, and you can learn how to do everything by watching a ten-minute video And uh it's really quite amazing what you can do, but the reason that it works so well is because you get to see it happening. You get to see how it's done, and then you know if you're doing it correctly depending on which video you're watching Um that is the downside to YouTube. You not all videos are created equal. Now When it comes to God's Word, different genres of God's Word have have diff help us in different ways. I love to preach from the Pauline epistles. In fact, if you ask me what genre I pre I I I like to preach from the most, it somebody asked me that recently, and I and it really it really probably is from the epistles that I that I like to preach from the most. When Paul gives different principles or precepts or mandates or different things, it's arguments, it's all Very, very helpful. Um but when he's giving principles for serving or living out the gospel, those kinds of things They're extremely helpful, but in a different way, when we look at a narrative of Scripture and see somebody like today the Apostle Peter, and he is going out and he is living it out, we get to see what it looks like. And as we look at this passage this morning, there's a couple of things we'll notice. The first thing that we'll notice in the passage is that the subject of the passage switches from Paul to Peter. It's almost an abrupt switch in verse thirty-two, you'll see it there. Now when it came to pass as Peter went through all parts of the of the country. Prior to that, chapter 9 was talking entirely about Paul, or Saul of Tarsus rather. Now it's switched, verse 32, to this man named Peter. And there are a few things I want us to understand and to point out about this passage that will help us as we go through it. We see the switch from Paul to Peter, and that's significant for a couple of reasons. One of the reasons is because there is this theory that Peter and Paul had different doctrine. A man by the name of Hegel came up with this idea that That in any kind of historic uh historic literature or conclusions that are made about history, uh you have a thesis Then you have an antithesis, an antithesis, which is against the thesis, and then you have a synthesis. Well, he suggested that Peter had a thesis of doctrine, that Saul had, or Paul come to what will have the antithesis to Peter's doctrine that they are not in they're in conflict with each other and then the ultimate synthesis of those two doctrines he suggests is actually the Roman Catholic Church. Now, that couldn't be further from the truth. Paul and Peter are not at odds with each other when it comes to the doctrine of Scripture. Now, there is one place where Peter Peter is errant. And we find in the book of Galatians that Paul has to correct Peter, which is hard for certain church denominations to understand. An apostle could be in error, but he certainly was. But to say that Peter had one kind of theology and Paul had another kind of theology, and really it's the synthesis of those two theologies that we get our theology is something that ends up with heresy. What we see in this passage in Acts chapter 9, 10, 11, and 12 is you have Paul serving and and and highlighting on Paul's ministry, then you'll see Peter in nine and ten. Then it'll switch back to Paul and then Peter several times until you get through chapter twelve and then you see the ministry of Paul primarily from then on out. And so Acts nine through twelve serves as a a reminder to us that Paul and Peter and all the rest of the apostles, they worked together. They taught together. It was the same gospel, the same theology. And that's helpful for us to understand. They may have had different personalities. They had different giftedness within the apostleship. They had different focuses even. The apostle Saul was particularly focused on Gentiles. Peter was particularly focused on Jewish believers and Jewish people. However, you're going to see in chapter 10 that Peter is going to go and reach out to Cornelius, who is a Gentile. And you have Saul who reaches out to Jews. And so even though they have different emphases, they are all working together in the body of Christ And you see that here in this passage beginning in verses 31 through 43. The thing that you'll also see about Peter as you look at this passage is there's sort of a ministry emphasis change. Peter, before, for example, in Acts chapter 2, he is preaching to the masses, and there are thousands of people that are coming to Christ as he preaches to over 3,000 people there at Pentecost. You see other places where Peter is dealing with Anisus and Sapphira in a large group setting. But you see a different emphasis here in this passage where now Peter is going to focus on personal ministry. These are personal situations that he's dealing with. We'll see first of all that he's going to deal with it this man Aeneas. And then we'll see this woman Tabitha or Dorcas. These are personal situations that he's going to. And so the emphasis of the passage as far as our uh helping us Is really to help us to understand that God has a way for us to involve ourselves in personal ministry. And there are that we find here an example in the life of Peter. Christ builds his church in different ways, and we have said on many occasions that Christ promised in Matthew 16, I will build my church, and the gates of hell will not prevail against it. And the working out of that building we find in this passage. We find in the entire book of the book of Acts. This is God's carrying out of Christ's building of his church. through the apostles and the and other disciples as well. And so we're going to, after we, after we pray, we're going to pick up in verse 31 and we're going to see a picture of a healthy church that we mentioned last week. We're going to flesh that out a little bit more, and then we're going to see how that then ends up working out in a personal ministry in the Apostle Peter's life. And that will help us to learn how to have personal ministry in our lives as well. Let's go to the Lord in prayer and ask His help with us. Father, as we come to you this morning, we pray That as we look at your word, that you would challenge us, we we thank you for the wonderful truth that we can trust your word. That should never get old. We should never take it for granted that that in the midst of doubts and fears and trouble and disappointment and unrealized expectation and Misplaced expectations and all of the things that we struggle with in this life, that we have a firm foundation. We ought to trust your word Father, as we look at your word today, would you help us to trust what it is saying? And true trust is going to be fleshed out in application. I'm reminded of what James said. He said, Show me your faith without your works, I'll show you my faith by my works. Faith without works is dead. And for us to claim that we trust your word, but choose not to apply it is dead faith I pray rather, Lord, that you would help us today to trust your word. And even that as your word is preached, it would build our faith, because faith comes by hearing. and hearing by your word. We pray your blessing on this. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Well, we'll pick up here in verse 31. 31 provides for us what we would call a a hinge verse for the entire chapter. 31 tells us of what is happening in the churches as a result of Saul coming to Christ and no longer being the figurehead for persecuting the church. And so now we see in thirty-one it says in the churches throughout all Judea, Galai, Galilee, and Samaria had peace and were edified, and walking in the fear of the Lord and in the comfort of the Holy Spirit, they were multiplied. Now, I want to point out a few things in the beginning of this to help us to understand that Christ develops his church to his own pleasing, and we see what his pleasure is in verse 31. In other words, folks, as we look at this verse, it helps us to see a picture of what Christ is doing in his church. What does a healthy church look like? We mentioned this last week as a result of what Saul is doing in in uh and uh big and in his conversion experience and then going out and preaching all over Judea and in Jerusalem and in the outskirts of Jerusalem and all that. We then find here in this passage that as a result of that and as a continuation of the next passage that we're looking at, so this is a a hinge verse, we see But if first of all it says that all of these all of these regions that were previously under persecution now had a time of peace. There was a season of peace. And the context is talking about a season of rest from persecution. And it says, though, that there is this health that's happening as it is at peace because it is being edified. Now, certainly we can take that two ways. The word edify means to be built up, and it would be easy for us to take it as the in the familiar way of each individual being built up in the faith And no doubt that is true. But in another sense we find that the church collectively, or the churches, the bodies of believers that are meeting in various places are being built up that the Lord is building his church. This word edify means to be built up. In the book of Ephesians, chapter 2, we find an illustration given there that the church is a building. Ephesians 2. 20 says, having been built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ Himself being the chief cornerstone. in whom the whole body, building, being fitted together, grows into a holy temple, a habitation of God. In whom you also are being built together for a dwelling place of God in the Spirit. What God is doing in us as He adds to His church, as He builds His church, He is building a habitation of God, a dwelling place for himself. A dwelling place that does not reside in the building But we, as a collective body of believers, we are the building. And its goal, Christ's goal. is for us to to inhap to be Christ made visible to the world. So Christ is building his church. In 1 Peter, we actually find that 1 Peter 2, verse 5 tells us that we are living stones. And are being built up a spiritual house, a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. So this idea of being built up or the church being built up, God is adding stones, if you will. We are all individual stones. As individuals, we're stones of God's building. And our goal is to be for his pleasure. Very often, it's important for us to remember as we consider what God wants us to be as a church. to think in terms of what will please God. And very often that is not the same thing as pleasing man. In fact If we are living after the flesh and wanting what the flesh wants, it will be exactly opposite of what God is pleased, what is truly pleasing to God And as Christ builds his church as a practical application in this body of believers, we always want to be doing the things that will truly be pleasing to God. We see how the church's church advances in this passage as well. And I want to make note here, because you're then going to see this fleshed out in the life of the Apostle Peter That they were walking in the fear of the Lord, which is the opposite of walking in the fear of man, and in the comfort of the Holy Spirit. They were multiplied. The word comfort there is the word parakletos. It means to come alongside of. That is, they were being multiplied as the Spirit of God was coming alongside of them, and they were vessels doing what God wanted them to do. That is, the Spirit of God is the one that applies the gospel of the way that he wants to, in order for the church, to be multiplied in the way that would please God. And as we go through this, that's important as well for us to recognize. Before we get into this personal ministry and how we can emulate Peter in this personal ministry, we need to establish the fact that our goal is to please God by the power of the Spirit of God. The work of the Spirit of God, not to depend upon ourselves to do what only God can do. We so easily in our flesh try to do what only God can do. And to know the difference between obedience to God's work and to run consistent with his working. It is absolutely imperative if we're going to be empowered by the Spirit of God to do God's work his way so that we do not lack his supply. Now from then on in verse 32 on, we now are going to see this man Peter. And I want us to note a couple of things about this man, Peter. And to do so, I'd like to invite you to turn to 2 Peter 1. I want you to see a few things about the heart of Peter now as he is working with the churches in this passage. In 2 Peter, Peter's 2nd Epistle, I want us to notice four things here about the quality that is necessary for an effective personal ministry. You say, I would really desire to have a more effective personal ministry which God desires all of us to have. We ought not think in terms of only the pastor having a personal ministry or Or pastoral staff having a personal ministry, or maybe the deacons having a personal ministry. Now, all of us should have a personal ministry. And I want us to sh by Peter's example, I want to s I want you to see four four qualities that are necessary for effective ministry as we prepare to look at the example of Peter in this passage You'll notice, first of all, in 2 Peter 1, verse 12, it says, For this reason I will not be negligent to remind you always of these things though you know and are established to present the truth. He says, I will not be negligent to remind you always of these things. Peter had a real concern. He had a personal concern to the people that he was ministering to. This was not just a job for him. This was not just a way to put put a paycheck or something. This was he had personal concern so that he was always constantly not wanting to be negligent. in his ministry, but he wanted to be always reminding God's people of these things. He had personal concern Number two, we find in verses fourteen through fifteen of this passage that he had personal urgency. There was in Peter's ministry a personal urgency. Verse 14, it says, knowing that shortly I must put off my tent. Just as our Lord Jesus Christ showed me, moreover, I will be careful to ensure that you always have a reminder of these things after my decease. He says, I'm going to die someday. Well that's kind of morbid, Peter. Well that's true, isn't it? We all there is all there is God is is appointed for a man once to die and after that the judgment. We all have an appointed time where we will pass away. But we will go to be with the Lord if we know him as our Savior. Peter says I'm going to die one day, but before I do, I want to make sure that I have given you something to hold on to. Something that you can trust in. There was a personal urgency. Number three, there was a personal experience. Qualities that are necessary for a fur effective personal ministry. There's a there's a personal experience, verse 16. For we we did not know cunningly defies fables When we made known to you the power of the coming of the Lord Jesus, but were eyewitnesses of his majesty. It's not as though Peter was an empty tank trying to do something that he couldn't do in his own strength. He had experienced Christ And in the context here, it's actually talking about the transfiguration. He experienced the glory of Jesus Christ, and he wanted to impart Some of what he had received, he had personal experience with Christ, and he wanted to share it with them. There was this personal experience that spilled out into personal ministry. And then number four, that personal experience means nothing if there is not substantial objective knowledge, which is more important than personal experience, verse 21. For prophecy never came by the will of man, but holy men of God spoke as they were moved by the Holy Spirit. Peter clearly had personal knowledge So his knowledge was consistent with of the Word of God was consistent with his personal experience. Those are four qualities, folks, that we're now going to find fleshed out in this passage in Acts chapter 9. So if you would then take your Bibles and turn back to Acts chapter 9 and we will embark on a journey of looking at Peter as Christ demonstrates his power through him to his people. So would you notice then in verse 32 through 35, we find then that Peter is going to go to Lida. Verse 32. Now it came to pass as Peter went through all parts of the country that he also came down to the saints who dwelt in Lida. There he found a certain man named Aeneas, who had been bedridden eight years and was paralyzed. And Peter said to him, Aeneas. Jesus the Christ heals you, arise and make your bed. Then he arose immediately So all who dwelled in Lidah and Sharon saw him and turned to the Lord. Here we have Peter now is is in Lida. That's in the center center of the, uh roughly the center of uh of Israel. Not it's a little closer to the coast than the center, but it's it's it's roughly in the center. It's not far from present-day Tel Aviv. It's the old testament city of Lod And it is the place where Peter finds this man, Aeneas. I want to begin by pointing out something about Peter's ministry. Peter is involved and engaged. Verse 32 says, he is he is in all going through all parts of the country. He's going from one place to the other, to the other, to the other, to the other, until he comes to this place Lida. And it demonstrates for us at the very outside of this that Peter is Peter is a moving A person on the move. Now we're going to see some very big differences between Peter in the Gospels and Peter here. But we don't see a decrease of energy. And we don't see a decrease of that activity in the life of Peter. Peter is moving from one place to another, to another, to another, to another. Until God leads him directly to this place where of Lida, or go God is going to use him greatly. And I think that there's a principle that we can gather for us as Christians in service to the Lord. And that is, folks, that God uses people that are serving. God doesn't use usually people that are sitting on the shelf doing nothing. There are some people that say, you know, I just need to find out what God's will is for my life. I need to just figure out what God's will is. If I figure out what God's will is, then I'll do it. Folks, it does not work that way What God wants us to do is He wants us to begin where we know and to begin just to begin serving, to serve and to go a direction. It's like a s trying to sail uh to to turn a sailboat that's not going anywhere. You can't do it. It's like the old days when you didn't have power steering in a car. You remember those days? My first car, I didn't my second car, I didn't have power steering. It was a it was a uh uh Honda Civic and it didn't have any power steering. And you know, if you were not moving, that thing was hard to turn Um you had to go somewhere which made for some interesting interesting situations, but um uh in order for it to turn. And it was significantly easier if you're going somewhere. And folks, there is this there is this reality that that in order to be in God's will you need to start moving Somebody says, Well, I don't know what my spiritual gift is. Start serving. And God will direct you to where your spiritual gift is, and He'll be able to use you for His purposes. Peter was involved and engaged. Number two Very quickly then Peter was exalted exalted Christ. Peter comes to this man, Aeneas This man has been bed-ridden for eight years. Now, I just really just think about this. This man has not walked in eight years. Every single day of his life for eight years, he has been in this bed. He has not been able to take care of himself. He has totally been dependent upon uh presumably family in order to in order for his subsistence. And eight years has gone by and this man is paralyzed. We don't know exactly where he was paralyzed, whether was it the waist down or the neck down. We don't really know that. But um we know at least he couldn't walk And this man in some semblance could not move for eight years. And we find this man, Peter, says to him, Jesus, verse 34, the Christ, heals you. Now that is that is very significant significant. Jesus heals you. He comes into the room, and Aeneas is there, and he says Jesus heals you. It is the present tense. He doesn't say Jesus is going to heal you. He wants at the very outset to realize that Jesus is in the process of healing him. Now, there's a simple reason for that. Peter wanted no credit whatsoever. It's almost as though before Peter even got into the room that Jesus began the process of healing. Peter wanted absolutely no credit for this. It wasn't in his power that this man, this his personal power that this man was going to be healed. It was Jesus who was going to heal this man, who is healing this man. This is very different from how certain people certain denominations will venerate Peter as a man, the apostle of power. Peter had no desire for that. What we see here then as well, as he exalts Christ, as he lifts Christ, the next thing he does is he gives two commands. He says to Aeneas He says, first of all, look at verse 34. He says, Arise, get up. And then he says, make your bed. Now he's not talking about making your bed like kids make your bed. He's saying, make your bed for the last time. Like you're not going to need this anymore. He these are commands, these are imperatives of command here. He says, arise, this is a command, you need to arise. Now let me ask you a question. Why do you suppose that Jesus as he is or that I'm sorry, that Peter as he is there And Jesus is healing this man. Peter just doesn't like say, like flick his fingers, and the guy just jumps out of bed. Or, you know, he uses sort of, you know, Star Wars kind of thing and he goes like this and he swings swings them over to the to the side. You all know exactly what I'm talking about. Why wh why why does he do it this way? You know why? Because what we find as a pattern in the New Testament, and in particular in Christ's ministry, as he heals people, we always have the involvement of the will in the person's life. He gives a command. What do you suppose would have happened if this man would not have gotten out of his bed and walked? If he would not have arisen Then arguably, we don't know for sure, but arguably he would not have been healed all the way, or wouldn't that maybe reverse the healing. We don't have that for us, but the point here is simply this That there is always this positive volition that is necessary as Christ is going to do and wants to do what he wants to do. There is this necessity to respond in obedience. There are some times in our lives where we sort of go, I don't know why God doesn't do something. And God needs to do something here, or did God need to do something there? But we haven't obeyed. There is some area in our lives where we haven't chosen to obey him. And we don't understand why God isn't doing what God says he will do, or could do, or wants to do, but we're not actively, volitionally obeying him in an area. And you always find when God wants to do a work and when Christ wants to do a work in the life of a person, you always find throughout the New Testament, nearly every time, maybe there's an exception, I don't know of any. That he commands, rise up and walk, do this, and the person is responsible to obey. And as he places his trust in what Christ is saying and obeys, God does his work. And if you're living uh uh in the cr the Christian life and you're wondering why God doesn't do what he says he will do or God doesn't do something that you want him to do or that he could do, it is wise for us folks to do some introspections and simply ask the question, why, Lord, or what is it perhaps that I am not obeying in? Christ Peter exalts Jesus Christ in this passage And one of the key things, folks, that we need to be aware of is the result here. As Christ is lifted up, We see in verse thirty five, it says, so all that dwell in Lidah and Sharon, as a valley where Lida was saw him and turned to the Lord. Now that all does not mean everyone. It just means there's sort of a collective thing that large amounts of people did. And it says they turned to the Lord. That is, folks, that word turn is the idea of repentance. Repentance is a change of mind that results in a change of action. It's a turning the other way. We see this over and over in the book of Acts. This repentance is absolutely necessary for salvation. If you don't turn, you're not saved. Now, turning is not a work that we do in order to be saved, but when God truly saves us, we will turn. It's almost simultaneous in Scripture. The turning of ourselves toward the Lord in an act of faith and an act of repentance results in our salvation. Verse 35, we see that clearly here. And the thing that we need to really grasp here as we look at Peter's time in Lida, Is that we must learn to exalt Christ. That's the key, folks. There's anything else that we that we we glean here that it it should always be our desire To lift up Christ. John 12, 32 says, if I am lifted up from the earth, I will draw all people to myself. I will draw all men to myself. Now, I just want us to contrast this from the way that Peter was in the past. Do you remember the story? about of Peter when Jesus asks Peter, hey, who who do people say that I am? And then he says, who do you say that I am? You remember that story? And Peter answers correctly that he says, you are the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus commends him for his response. He is he is dead on. He is absolutely right. He gets it. And do you remember what happens then? Peter in his pride, Jesus says, I'm going to be going to the cross. Essentially, he's prophesying that he's going to die. And Peter says, Not so, Lord, I'm going to protect you. He wells up in pride over his right response. He moves them to a place of pride where I'm going to do what I want to do and I'm going to take care of this so this doesn't happen. And do you know what you remember what Jesus says to Peter? Get thee behind me, Satan. But we don't see the same Peter here, do we? Peter the entire time is exalting Christ Peter is consistent in his exalt exaltation of Christ. We're going to see the same thing in the next in the next portion of Scripture here. Peter is constantly exalting Christ. He is dependent upon Christ. He doesn't switch over to his flesh and try to do what only Christ can can do. It's an incredibly important lesson for us to learn. Peter is in Lida, and this is just a few miles east of Joffa. Joppa is a coastal city off the Mediterranean Sea. It's a place where there's a it's a pretty busy metropolis of a place. And uh and we'll pick up here in verse 36 and we'll see what happens in this place of Jappa. At Joppa, verse 36, there was a certain disciple named Tabitha, which is translated Dorcas. This woman was full of good works and charitable deeds, which she did. But it happened in those days that she became sick and died. When they had washed her, they laid her in an upper room. And since Lida was near Joppa, and the disciples had heard that Peter was there, they sent two men to him, imploring him not to delay in coming to them. Then Peter arose and went with them. When he had come, they brought him to the upper room, and all the widows stood by him weeping, showing the tunics and garments which Dorcas had made while she was with them. But Peter putting them all out and knelt uh and knelt down and prayed, and turning to the body He said, Tabitha arise. And she opened her eyes, and when she saw Peter, she sat up. Then he gave her his hand and lifted her up, and when he had called the saints and widows, he presented her alive. It became known throughout all Joppah, and many believed on the Lord. So it was he stayed many days in Joppa with Simon, a tenor. We have this woman whose name is Tabitha. Also, her name is Dorcas. Tabitha is the Hebrew or Aramaic rendering of her name. Dorcas is the Greek rendering of her name, and she is actually a Greek. speaking Jew, from what we can tell. A couple of things that we need to notice about this woman. She is highly commended to this passage. She is called here in this passage a disciple. Now that's not to be confused with apostle. She certainly was not an apostle A disciple is simply a follower of Christ. There were thousands of disciples at this point. But it's interesting that they that that the passage identifies her, Luke identifies her as a disciple. This word disciple is in the feminine form, and it's the only time in the New Testament, as far as I could tell, that the that the feminine form is used for disciple anywhere in the New Testament. That is, we find this woman is a is a devout follower of Christ. This is a woman that is to be is to be uh set up as an example of what a godly woman is supposed to be. I think of I think of Proverbs 31 when I think of a godly woman and No doubt this woman had many of the characteristics of the godly woman in Proverbs 31. And we find in this passage this woman is a disciple And she is one, it says, is full of good works and charitable giving. It's likely that this woman is a woman of means to some degree. She uh husband is not mentioned here, so perhaps she is a widow. And this is a woman who who it says is full of. That's that word pleira'o in scripture. It's talking about someone who is who is almost controlled by, it's someone who is preoccupied with, it is someone who is focused on. It's the same word that's used In Ephesians chapter 5, where it says, be filled with the Holy Spirit. Here she's filled with good works. She is just occupying her life with good works. You find that actually as a command in scripture of widows in in 1 Timothy and Tit and Titus, Paul says they need to be focused on doing good things. We find this man We find this man, or this woman, rather, Tabitha, who is certainly a woman who is involved in meeting the needs of others She has many acts of kindness. When Peter comes into the room and shows uh the the people show her, the other widows that are around her, show her uh uh uh show him rather all of what Dorcas has made, Tabitha has made. In the way of clothing, she is a woman who has found her spiritual gift and is using it. Romans chapter 12, verse 7 says, uses this this this spiritual gift of ministry. Let her let it let us use it in our ministering. That was Dorcas. First Corinthians chapter thirteen verse four it says love Suffers long, love does not envy, love does not parade itself, is not puffed up. There's this woman who loves people. And this woman is full of the spirit of God with love and joy, peace, long suffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness. This is the kind of woman that we're talking about here, and we find in the text that this woman dies. That is, this woman goes home to be, no doubt, with the Lord. She is gets sick first and then dies. There seems to be a kind of a kind of an idea that it's sudden They know that Peter is over in Lidah close by, and so they call for Peter. There's two men that go over to Lida from Joppa, ask Peter to come. Now, just think about this. There's this one woman who has actually already died. So far, Peter hasn't risen anybody else from the dead. Uh Peter's used to preaching to the masses and seeing lots of people get saved, but Peter has the Peter has the desire to help in this situation. Now, I want to say at the outset that Peter isn't helping for Tabitha slash Dorcas's sake. He's not helping for Tabitha's sake. Just let that settle in. Tabitha's with the Lord. Can we don't really know whether whether it's not clear in the text whether or not Tabitha her spirit is actually with the Lord or not at this point. We know that the general uh way of dealing with a dead body for the Jewish people was to immediately embalm and bury within the same day And that wasn't what happened here. This was three days. There was another custom probably within JAPA of of waiting for about three days in order for this to occur Uh this this woman was in holding to go into the grave. She was it was waiting for that. They were waiting for that. Can you imagine if Lydia uh I mean sorry, if um if if Tabitha did um did actually go with the Lord, like like to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord, we know that to be true. If she if if if that was exactly the the way it happened. Can you imagine the Lord saying to Tabitha, hey, look, you're gonna have to go back. I mean, uh you you you I I know you spent a couple of days here, but um but you're gonna have to go back and and you're gonna have to go back down there. Can you imagine Tabitha going What? I don't know. I I mean this is this is definitely my imagination going here a little bit and I want to be clear about that. But I I mean I could just imagine that Tabazah doesn't want to go back. I'm telling you, you were with the Lord, you don't want to go back Why did Peter uh was able to perform this and why did Christ, clearly it was Christ who did this, raise Tabitha from from the dead. Well well the wit it was to demonstrate God's power to these people. It was to remind them of the resurrection of Christ, no doubt We see that. We know that Christ did rise. It's reminiscent of when he rose Lazarus from the dead. So it may have been to be just a uh a help to these widows that were here. It was obviously to glorify God, and we see the results of it were was obviously It's going to be to uh to bring people to Christ. God's going to multiply his people through this event as well. I want you to notice a couple of things though. Number one, about Peter, Peter was available. He went. Chapter 9, verse 36, he's in Joffa. He's now going to go immediately over to over to with them. I'm sorry, he was in LIDA first. Now he's gonna come over to Jaffa and he's gonna help. So Peter was Peter was available to go from one place to another. He was available There there is just something, folks, about being available to serve the Lord. I will tell you that there have been times where there was a real need in our church And I would go to somebody and I would say, Hey, hey, I there's this need and I thought of you. The Lord I think I prayed about it a little bit, the L I thought of you, and would you be willing to do this? And they immediately and somebody has immediately said, Yeah, you know what? If there's a need there, I'll do it. Now other times somebody will say, you know, can I pray about this first? Neither one of those answers is wrong. To say, can I pray about this first? Or yeah, you know, I'll just I'll do that. I'll be available But can I tell you as a pastor there is there is a real blessing. I'm not saying again, please pray about it if you're not sure about it But if if there's just this availability to do what God wants you to do in serving, there is this blessing that comes with that. Peter, we don't see Peter spending days praying about this. Peter goes. He's available. And then we see also that Peter was prayerful. Peter gets everybody out of the room. I mean, there's mourning going on, no doubt. There is sadness and despair. All of this is gotten is out of the room, and Peter is gets on his knees in submission to the God of the universe. And submission to the work of Christ. And he prays. So before he says, he walks in and he says, in Aeneas' case, he walks in and says, Jesus, Jesus is healing you. In this case, he gets on his knees before God and he prays and asks God to do the work. In both cases, we find Peter exalting Christ And depending solely on God to do what he could not do for himself. And we're going to continue to see Peter doing that kind of thing. Peter was prayerful. He served in a prayerful way. And we see as as all of this takes place, they show him the he walks in, they show him the robes, he kneels down, he prays, they're not in the room. He's probably the only one there now. And he gives them gives Tabitha this command. He uses his her her Hebrew name and gives the command And and gives her his hand and she and she sits up. I I'm maybe I'm I'm probably reading into this a little too much, but there's this man in her room and she's waking up and like what is and sits up. You know, I can just imagine that that that was a bit startling for her. And she she then is able to, and she is healed. And what we find in the passage is she is made alive. That word is there. And and as she goes throughout the town, there are people that see that this woman who was sick and died uh comes back to life and God uses that again to bring people genuinely and authentically to himself. I want to hasten on then and move to the third point about Peter here. It's in the very final verse of this chapter, and I don't want us to miss it because I think it's important. He says here He stays with Joppa for a little while, we don't before he moves on to Caesarea in the next chapter. And it says he stays with this man named Simon, and it it mentions Luke Luke deliberately mentions it mentions his occupation. It's the occupation of a tanner. Tanner is one, of course, that deals with dead carcasses. Skins them, has to dispose of them. That's why he's on the coast in Joppa, because he's near the Mediterranean Sea and the winds from the Mediterranean Sea tend to help dissipate uh the fumes from what he is doing. This was was a very putrid occupation And it was an occupation that the Jews despised. If you did not do this in exactly a certain way, you would be guilty of defilement by Old Testament law. And although it's unlikely that the that the the occupation of Tanner was was absolutely prohibited, it's probably not the case by the Jewish, even by the rabbinical writings of this time. Uh it was certainly a place uh there was certainly lots of prejudice against those who had the occupation of Tanner. And this is where Peter stays. It shows us then, folks, that Peter had no prejudice. You know, in serving the Lord, we ought not have prejudice. Now that is not to say that we don't hold a high moral standard or the kind of moral standard that the Bible clearly describes, but there are often times, folks, throughout church history that prejudice has hindered us. In the preaching and the explanation of the gospel. We are so inclined to be prejudiced. We are so worried about what people think. We're so we we we um we make we jump to conclusions, we jump to assumptions instead of hearing the whole matter, we are we are so inclined to that Well that person really doesn't he'll never actually be able to get saved. He's he's just too far gone. Or, oh, you know, that that guy doesn't really care. He's he's from that part of the state or that part of the county or city or whatever. Folks, we ought we ought to realize that the power of the gospel can penetrate any heart. Any heart. Can save anyone and there is no one that the gospel can't reach. And if we go throughout our ministries and we have personal ministries with people, but those personal ministries are have prejudices against them. Then we will not be able to effectively minister. We won't be able to love people. The Bible says that God Himself is not a respecter of persons. And if we would have a respecter of persons, we have a higher moral standard than God. Which is just sinful. So God we see in the life of Peter now Peter is not done with this problem, by the way Peter does the right thing in staying with this man who shows great hospitality to him, apparently, this man who's a tanner. Peter in the next chapter is going to have a hard time with another kind of prejudice when it comes to eating meat that was previously declared as defiled. And God is going to have a deal with Peter on that. And we find in Galatians that God is going to have to deal with Peter on this issue of prejudice that Paul Paul brought to his attention as well. So Peter's not finished with this. But right now, as Peter serves Peter is a man who has no prejudice toward this man, and he is able to serve with freedom as a result. Now, with all this in mind, we then need to just move and ask ourselves and just summarize all of this. Folks, what we have here is an example from Peter on effective personal ministry. A ministry that God is using to build his church, a ministry that God is using to glorify himself and to please himself And I want to begin, first of all, by noting the fact that you and I need to have a clear picture of the church that Christ is building as we serve him. And that was verse 31 where we saw that. We need to understand that it is our des it ought to be our desire to please God with our church that everything we do ought to be have this picture in our minds. of a place where the Spirit of God is working to edify his people, to multiply the people according to his work with his gospel, and to do it in a peaceful manner. This is the kind of picture that God wants us to have. In verse 31. And we ought not lose sight of that picture. We so easily impose what we want on a church or what we want on a ministry rather than looking at what God wants on that ministry. But I also want to, rather than make statements, I want us to ask the following questions about and really apply them to our personal ministries. If you know Christ as your Lord and Savior, you ought to have a personal ministry. You say, I don't have much of a personal ministry. Well, ask God for one. And get and start moving toward one. If you're a mother, you have a personal ministry with your kids. If you're a dad, you have a personal ministry with your wife and kids. If you're a mother also, you have a personal ministry with your husband as well. There are all kinds of personal ministries, but it ought to extend as well beyond beyond the the nuclear family into into life and into the church. There ought to be, we see clearly here that this is God's working in his church There ought to be a place of personal ministry, and we ought to ask these questions. And I want to just raise these as questions, and they follow the text that we just went through. Number one And I put them I put them in first person. Number one, am I involved and engaged? Am I involved and engaged in personal ministry? It's just a question to ask. All of us ought to ask ourselves. And by the way, that doesn't mean that that's not that, you know, you think, well, well, you are. I don't even think you'd bear thinking that way, but but the truth of the matter is even a pastor can distance himself from personal ministry He could sort of say, well, I'll preach to the masses and I really won't interact and work with people individually. I'll sort of distance my it's well it's a lot easier to do that. When you when you roll your sleeves up and you work individually with people, it gets messy as we talked about last week. But we all, folks, all of us, whether you're a pastor or whether you're not We all ought to be involved and engaged in personal ministry. Number two, do I exalt Christ in my personal ministry? Am I looking to the strength of Christ, to the work of Christ, or am I looking to my own flesh and my own strength to do what I ought not be looking to my own flesh to do? Number three, am I available? Am I am I available? Number four, am I prayerful? Just simply asking these questions. These are the things that we see with Peter. There's no question about these things. Am I prayerful? And number four, or number five, rather Am I prejudiced? Do I have a preconception about people that is hindering me from serving the Lord? Am I prejudiced? Let's pray together. Father, as we come to you this morning, we thank you for your word. We thank you that it is Christ who we see building his church through through his people. And we, Father, as the people of your p people, want to be personally involved in ministry And it's hard, and it's messy Father, there there is great work that can be done, multiplying kind of work that if we will faithfully work with the people that you've given us to work with, that God can, Lord, you can do great things through us. Bring many people to Christ. So I pray, Lord, that you'd help us certainly not to be discouraged by this message, but to be challenged. To be encouraged and instructed about personal ministry. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.