If you've not read Pilgrim's Progress, y outside the Bible, it's probably the most important book to read, I think, for the Christian life. It's just an ex just excellent to read and read more than once Um but uh in Pilgrim's progress, remember the so so I had to actually look up how to pronounce this to make sure I was right. So how do you pronounce in the the S L O U G H of the spond? He says slog. Okay, it all right, see this is why I look it up. It's Slew. Okay? It's slew, like through, but slew instead of through. Okay? So it's the slew of the spawn, which I looked up, so don't try to argue with me about it. Um and and that's what it is that's what it is. Okay. So do you remember the slew the slew of the spond in in Pilgrim's Progress that you now know how to pronounce and never did before? It It we go through those times, the slew of despawn, we go through those times where there is discouragement and even to the point of despair And what I want to do tonight is if you read through this passage in 1 Corinthians chapter, or 1 Kings, chapter 19, you're actually going to see that the theme of this chapter is God's way of restoring people who are in discouragement. You're going to see two things. You're going to see a man who is deeply discouraged, and we're going to see Elijah is. I mean, discouraged in this text is really kind of an understatement. And then also you're going to see God, His God, who comes to Him. And what we want to see tonight is to see how our loving, merciful God comes to us in times of discouragement and despair. Charles Spurgeon said this about discouragement and despair and even depression. He says, fits of depression come over most of us. Usually cheerful as we may be, we must at intervals be cast down. The strong are not always vigorous, the wise are not always ready, the brave not always courageous And the joy is not always happy. There may be here and there men of iron, but surely the rust frusts even these. And that really it really is true. But if anybody is saying that they they don't get discouraged, that you know they just really don't. Um uh maybe you know different people probably have different uh le emotional levels of how far they are discouraged, but at some level we all uh we all deal with this problem of discouragement And so we want to look look to see what God has for us today. I actually would like to pray again and uh um and ask the Lord to just help us as we go through this. Father, we do come to you tonight and I pray that this would be a help to your people. That we would look to you as the one who can and will restore us in times of discouragement. I pray that you would really help us to see your character in this passage. I pray, Lord, that you'd help us to see Um just how even a man of God, even uh even one who is greatly used by you, just how how plunged to the depths of despair someone can go. I pray, Lord, that you'd help us to see these things tonight and that it would be an encouragement to us. I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, as you probably know the story, you probably know 1 Kings 18 even better than 19. And in 1 Kings 18, you have a lot going on in that passage. You've got Elijah. And he is he is up on Mount Carmel and you've got all the prophets up there and of course you'll recall what happens, the the uh the the the false prophets and their they put up their altar and it and and they can't they god their gods won't won't allow the thing to burn. He puts up his altar, douses it with water, the whole thing goes up in flames and uh and by God's hand. And then he's he then puts to death all of these false prophets. You've got this big huge rainstorm that comes and all kinds of of of goings on happens. And then we come to 1 Kings 19, and let's look at the first four verses here. It says, And Ahab told Jezebel all that Elijah had done. Also how he'd executed all the prophets with the sword. Now, I just got to pause, and I just find Ahab so hilarious. I mean the guy is such a coward. Do you remember see him him running to his wife about something else? I I yeah, when he he wants a vineyard and and he can't have the vineyard he wants because it won't be sold to him. So he goes to his wife and his wife has the guy killed. I mean I I'm sorry every time I s I read this guy Ahab, what a wimp. I honestly I do I I just I just look at him like go deal with you know anyway so he goes to his wife who who says, okay, I'll take care of things, AB. Go live go go in your bed and and sleep and I'll take care of things for you. And so then verse two, then Jezebel sent a messenger to Elijah saying, so let the let the gods do to me, and more all often, if I do not make your life as the life of one of them by tomorrow, more uh tomorrow, about this time So Jezebel goes to uh sends message a message to Elijah and saying, look, I'm going to put you to death. Uh and they just uh may the quote-unquote gods, lowercase gods do to me if I don't. By the way, is the is something weird about that to you? So why didn't why didn't Jezebel just go and kill him? Like send somebody to kill him? Why is he like giving her why is she like giving him a message that that hey by the way you're gonna be dead by tomorrow. Why didn't he just go send somebody out and oh you have an idea? Okay. Because I really don't know. Go ahead. Elijah really didn't uh strike fear in the hearts of those who witnessed that could even happen in in chapter eighteen. Okay. Okay, so I I think that you know the people need to gather together as we told So so so she's sort of trying to strike fear in people or something, is that what happened in the ate when Elijah was all the prophets and did all that was done, there was fear of all those who witnessed it. Yeah. So for him for them uh for her to have it done immediately, you know, would probably be difficult. I think it's Okay. So i so okay. That's that's a fair fair possibility. I I thought it was kinda funny, but you're right. So Elijah gets scared. Now let's just pause and ask the question. Would you be scared? This woman is known for putting people to death. This is no big deal for her And and so so I frankly think I look at this and I go, I'd be scared too. So look at look look at verses three through four. And when he saw that he arose and ran for his life and went to Beersheba, which belongs to Judah, and left his servants there, servant there. But he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness, and came and sat down under the broom tree And he prayed. Now this is a little bit ironic as well. What does he pray? He prays that he would die. Does that sound a little stran like like irony to you? Like he runs from Jezebel to keep from dying And then he prays that as he's out there he would, Lord, just put me to death. I I th that that was kind of I you know, you're reading that and you're going, Okay, well And he says, and um and said, listen to what he says, it is enough. Now, Lord, take my life, for I am no better than my father's. So what do we see here? We see Elijah, he's fearful, he's scared. We're going to see some other things about him as well, but he is he is done with this situation. He's had enough. You ever felt like you're in a situation and you just go, I've had enough of this. Well Elijah, that's the way he's feeling, to the point where he's saying, Lord, just tell me, just take my life. He is really plunged to a place of deep despair. And remember, this is after a time of great victory. of God showing himself incredibly strong uh to the nation of Israel and and and I mean it's it All of what God used Elijah to do, and yet it doesn't and yet it it he he comes to this place in verse four where he is just He is just extremely discouraged. He wants to die. He had enough. He feels worthless. He feels like he's a failure. Now I think all of us at one time or another have been there. We feel worthless, we feel like we're a failure, we feel like we've had enough, like that we just don't can't go any farther, like we just don't know what to do, we feel trapped. That's Elijah. And what I want us to say, and it's it's sort of like in Psalm 31, 9 through 10, it says, Have mercy upon me, O Lord, for I am in trouble, David's saying it here. Mine eye is consumed with grief, yea, my soul and my belly, for my life is spent with grief, and my years with sighing. My strength faileth because of mine iniquity, and my bones are consumed. And listen to the kind of language that you have there Now this is the same Elijah who was who who has done many things in the past this Some food was supplied through a poverty-stricken widow in the past, and you have the resurrection of the widow's son in the past. And yet and yet he is still greatly discouraged by all this. And in Psalm in Psalm thirty one you have really several things there and you can you can write that passage down as a passage to look at what discouragement looks like. You want to know what discouragement looks like and you want to identify with that. Psalm thirty one is really a a a good passage to go to. And when we there's like three signs, if you will, in that passage of discouragement. One is when we are in distress and sorrow accompanies us. Number two, when we are overwhelmed, and sometimes we're overwhelmed with guilt, and that's actually contributing to our discouragement, but not always And then number three, when we feel that everyone else is against us. And you're going to see that as well in Elijah's life as well. Now, would you notice also here that Elijah's perspective is is it's not the right perspective. He's fearful, he's not praying the right thing. He's not he's not thinking right about this. Now the fact that he ran from Jezebel, I'm not sure. You know, I've I've heard messages where people say, yeah, he shouldn't have run from Jezebel. And God is going to ask, why are you here later on in the passage? But I'm not so sure I blame him so much for running from Jezebel. But his prayer to God at this point is really, really perplexing. It's really he doesn't have the right perspective. But I want us then to notice this about how God restores Elijah. How does God minister to him in a time of deep discouragement? And if you'll pick up in verses 5 through 8, we're going to see this. Now, I you know, you you might think, let me just pause and say, how would you deal with this? Somebody comes to you and says, Well, I just prayed that God would kill me. How would you handle it? You might be tempted, and I would but probably be very much tempted to say, What are you thinking Yeah, what what what you you're not thinking right about that. Stop thinking that way. Or or let me correct your thinking. Let me figure fix what you're thinking about. And that wouldn't necessarily be a wrong approach, but God or or I mean God would be, you know, you would think God might say, Elijah, what's your problem or something? Notice how how he comes to He comes to Elijah. Verse 5. Then as he lay and slept under a broom tree, suddenly an angel touched him. And said to him, Arise and eat. So God presumably sends an angel and says, Arise and eat. Verse six. Then he looked, and there by his head was a a cake baked on coals. And a jar of water. So he ate and drank and lay down again. Why'd he lay down after he ate and drank? Well that's actually what a lot of us do. But but he's tired, right? Why would he be tired? I mean just a m did you see what happened in chapter eighteen? Do you remember what happened in chapter eighteen? He's like running down mountains, running up mountains and running down mountains and and and and I mean The guy's he's exhausted it. He's going to say, I've served you with zeal. I really worked hard, if you will, in serving you. And he says here, and and and and how does God minister to him? He brings a cake of bread and water. And um and he cooks it, has the angel cook it, and then he sleeps lays down and sleeps. Verse 7. And the angel of the Lord come came back the second time. and touched him, and said, Arise and eat, because of the journey is too great for you. So he arose and ate and drank, the second time And he went in the strength of that four food forty days and forty nights as far as the as uh as Horeb, the mountain of God. So you have this passage that the way that God deals with Elijah in the very beginning is simply to minister to him by giving him enough food and rest in order to be able to to to minister to him in that way. It's a very gentle way of helping Elijah to come out of his place of discouragement. And I think sometimes, folks, that when we're when we're discouraged, sometimes we stay in our discouragement because we think somehow that God That either God doesn't understand our discouragement, or that God is even angry at us because we're discouraged, or that we just shouldn't be that way. And we actually make our discouragement worse when we sort of um don't accept the fact that we're discouraged. And yes, our thinking might be wrong on some things. But the way that God deals with our wrong thinking, sometimes the way he chooses to deal with it is just to gently meet our needs one at a time. Yes, Jeff? Is there some kind of symbolism to faith? I don't know. I I'm always a little careful with too much reading into the text, but It could be the preparation might be just sort of a more ministering than just here here's some manif here's here's some raw something So then you have here we pick up here in verse um verse nine and um it says and there he went into a cave so so so he's been forty days He's going up to the mountain of God, and in verse 9 it says, And there he went into a cave, and spent the night in that place. And behold, the word of the Lord came to him, and he said to him, What are you doing here, Elijah? So God now comes and says, What why what are you doing here? Now notice notice Elijah's response. Verse 10. And this is really telling about why this man has become discouraged. He says, verse 10, so he said, I've been very zealous for the Lord God of hosts. For the children of Israel have forsaken your covenant, torn down your altars, and killed your prophets with the sword. I alone am left, and they seek to take my life So he says first of all, and and I and I put this in terms of causes. What causes us to be discouraged? Well first he says Well, I've been I I I think the first cause is actually that he was emotionally, physically drained from all of the exertion of energy. I mean And you know sometimes sort of peop people kind of get the idea, well if God's empowering you then you just just keep going and going and going and going and you're never and and that's all all there is to it But when God wor when you when there is a time of of of intense ministry, there is also a time uh a need for rest. And and so you have a lot I think really you have this physical fatigue and even undernourishment, and that's really the first cause that we saw in verses five through The second cause is really actually faithful spiritual ministry. Can faithful ministry, uh zealous ministry, energetic ministry, can it drain you? And the answer is yes. And then uh this really I think um maybe gets to the heart of it. He sa he's disappointed by people That's what he says. He says uh i it's really is such exact you know, that's what he's saying, that he's disappointed by people. I know you and I have never been disappointed by anybody. But um but if we're honest we have been. And and when we are disappointed by people, it can it can really drain us, can't it? It can really discourage us. And then loneliness. He says, I alone am I I'm here, I'm alone. Um I picked up a poem what years ago that says this, I'm alone, Lord, alone. A thousand miles from home. There's no one here who knows my name except the clerk and he spelled it wrong No one to eat dinner with with with, laugh at my jokes, listen to gripes, be happy with me about uh what happened today, and say that's great. No one cares. There's just this lousy bed and slush of the street outside between the buildings. I feel sorry for myself and I've plenty of r uh reason to. That's a pretty depressing poem, isn't it? Sometimes that's really the way we feel. We have that sort of sense of discouragement. And also another cause is is a fear of the future. He's he's looking and he's saying, they seek to take my life. They're looking to they're after me. Sonia? Does that mean that is that bad? No. Is his I've been very jealous or is it his job So jealous jealous um uh in its co it's jealous or zealous in its um and its root meaning essentially means um uh singular focused and not allowing anything else to be Um exclusive. So it's a it it's an exclusive and it also has the idea of um all the way. But it's not like self fighting about it. No, that's not what he yeah, that's definitely not what he means here. Now honestly, God says that he's a jealous God. The reason that he says that is he says, I'm I have to be exclusive in your life in order for you to uh in order for us to have a relationship. You can't have me and have somebody else besides me or somebody else ab ahead of me. Um and so so jealousy in the Old Testament in the right way is not wrong if we're jealous about the right things. If we're jealous about God and and that we're not going to put anybody else uh beside him, we're gonna focus on him. him and so in this case zealous or jealous is definitely um he's that's that that is right uh what in what he's doing and he has been very very zealous for God in that way um And so um yeah. So this would have a a good jealousy idea. Yes. Not negative. Definitely. Okay. Yeah, definitely. So then we have here how does God how does God deal with this and and and and how does he continue to restore Elijah? Now, would you pick up then in verse eleven and notice what happens? Then he said, Go out and stand on the mountain and before the Lord, and behold the Lord pass by. And a great and strong wind tore into the mountain and broke the rocks in pieces before the Lord, but the Lord was not in the wind. And after the wind, an earthquake, but the Lord was not in the earthquake. And after the earthquake, a fire, but the Lord was not in the fire. Now pause. What is he talking about there? Kim? Yeah. Okay, well, um I think yes, but more specifically, do you remember what happened in chapter 18? You see fire, you see wind, uh you see these things. I didn't find an earthquake in the in in chapter eighteen, but you it But you have these these great bombastic things where you see God working. But here in this passage, remember Elijah's now been alone for more than forty days. And he is he is God is now speaking to him, and these things are passing by, but God is not in these things. Notice where he is. Verse um uh verse twelve. Um and after the earthquake, but the Lord was not in the in the fire, and the fi and after the fire a still small voice And what we find in verse 13 is that God's in the still small voice. Notice what happens in verse 13. So it was when Elijah heard it that he wrapped his face in his mantle. And went out and stood in the entrance of the cave. Suddenly a voice came to him and said, What are you doing here, Elijah? So what does Elijah do in response to the still small voice? He covers his face. Have we seen that before? Moses, we've seen that. So so what do we see there? Well we see that there is a glimpse, not all the glory of God, or he be consumed, but we see a glimpse there of of the glory of God. Where does Elijah see it? It's not in the fire. It's not in the the the wind. It's in the still small voice. And I think that what he is saying here with this, and then that actually after he sees this, then and and and he's communing with God. Then there is this command afterwards. Look at verse 14. And he said, I have been very zealous for the Lord God of hosts, because the children of Israel have forsaken your covenants torn down your altars, and killed your prophets with a sword, I alone am left, and they seek to take my life. Then the Lord said to him, Go, return on your way to the wilderness of Damascus And when you arrive, anoint Hazel as king over Syria. Also you shall anoint Jehu, the son of Zim Nimshu Nimshe as king over Israel, and Elisha the son of Shaphet of Abel of Moha Mohalah, you shall anoint as prophet uh in your place. And it shall be that whoever escapes the sword of Hazel will so basically what does he do? God commissions him to go back to anoint a king, to set things up to get working again. Now what do we learn from this? We learn a couple of things. We learn um that that th God is not always God does not always minister to us through the sensational things It's really, when it comes to ministering to us and restoring us, it's really our our store is res our soul rather is restored when we are when we are alone with God. That's really the time that God is able to minister to our soul. You think of Psalm 23, you know, it is it is amazing to me. How often when I go and visit elderly people in their homes and I ask them what psalm to read, nearly every time it's Psalm twenty-three. And there's a reason for that. Yea, though I walk the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. Thy rod and thy staff they comfort me. It is all about God being with us. And no matter what we're going through. And and what we must understand is if that if we will be alone with God and if we will allow Him to then he will restore us. He will minister to us. And a lot of times it is in the qu in the still small voice. Psalm 61, 1 through 4 says, Hear my cry, O God, attend unto my prayer. From the end of the earth will I cry unto thee. Then my heart is o when my heart is overwhelmed. Has your heart ever been overwhelmed? Lead me to the rock that is higher than I, for thou hast been a shelter for me, a strong tower from the enemy. I will abide in thy tabernacle for ever. I will trust in the covert of thy wings. Psalm 31, verses 1 through 5 says this: I put my trust, let me never be ashamed. Deliver me in thy righteousness. Bow down thine ear to me, deliver me speedily. For thou my strong rock, for an house of defense to save me For thou art my rock and my fortress. Therefore, for thy namesake lead me and guide me Pull me out of the net that they that they have laid privileged for me, for thou art my strength, and to thine hand I commit my spirit. Thou hast redeemed me, O Lord God of truth. So we we need to understand then that God is that we must faithfully follow God's leading. And Elijah then does that. He gets back up and he begins to follow the leading of God. Yes, Kim? It's interesting that verse 14 where he responds, well I didn't respond to exactly what he said in verse 10. Yeah. There's no indication that God gave him an answer specifically, but he could say Actually all the way through this it's just one simple thing. It's yeah. He says, Eat this food, take a nap, eat more food, take a nap, go to the mountain, stay in the cave, sleep in the c I mean it is it is one thing at a time. It's a good point. Yeah, for sure. Yes, Sonia? In the when you said forty days and went in the strength of that meet forty days and forty nights, you said God gives us what we we need when we need it. Does could he do this for forty days? He got up and ate and fled for forty days, or was it the one Yeah, the way I take it, I mean I'm not positive about it because I was w looking at that. I well the way I would take it is it sustained him for forty days. Which is kinda miraculous. That's that would be how how it reads. Um it could mean something different, but it that's how it reads. No. So what's our conclusion? Our conclusion is simply this. In times of discouragement, there are some times, folks, that in times of discouragement the only one that really can comfort us Now I'm not suggesting at all that we should not look to our brothers and sisters in Christ for times of encouragement But that when there is a real depth of discouragement, it there is just something about allowing God to minister to you And I can tell you from personal experience, even this week, there have uh it has been a bit of a discouraging week for for me candidly, uh, with some various things that have been going on And um and the reason I really decided to change my message is because this morning in my own time with the Lord, uh I was just burdened. I didn't sleep well that last night, candidly. Um Um I I I've been burdened for the last few days about some things and I've been praying about some things and this morning I just I I just went to my you know I uh went to my uh my office uh downstairs in my basement and and spent some time with the Lord in prayer. I listened to a devotional podcast. I read a devotion another devotional by a Puritan author and Read some scripture and I guess I was just overwhelmed with the kind of comfort and encouragement that God that God gave to me, where I was literally an hour later perfectly encouraged. I mean uh l yet the day before, yesterday, I was talking I was talking to Jeff and I said, I think I've got a I'm getting sick. And and and there's a reason for that. My family, my whole family family six so I thought I was getting it too. And uh I thought and I then I said, you know, I don't know if I'm just stressed and discouraged or if I'm sick And frankly it I wasn't sick. I I when I when I when the Lord encouraged me, when my heart was encouraged in the Lord this morning, I suddenly was fine. Now I'm not at all saying that all sickness is connected or anything. I'm not not saying that at all. But I'm simply saying that that we have to sometimes remember in times of discouragement and And I think January, February, March tend to be times where we get discouraged about things. You've got the high of Christmas and the holidays and now everything's sort of dropped out and And we need to remember that it really doesn't matter what we're going through, that God is the God of encouragement, and God is the kind of God who is merciful. who understands what we're going through, who knows the specific needs and the order in which to meet those needs. I mean God was doing some corrective things here in Elijah's thinking, but it doesn't start out that way. He meets the needs. He He restores Elijah over time. And if I can just encourage, if you're feeling discouraged this week or Or I you know there's just some times candidly where I feel like if I'm discouraged maybe there are others as well. Or or I'm going through something and I think, you know, I'm probably not the only one going through this. And so occasionally I'll change my message And I just want to really encourage you that way, that God Just by way, first of all, what God says, what happened here in God restoring Elijah. But I could say in my own personal life how God does that. He will strengthen us. He will if we'll spend time alone with him. And by the way, how many days was Elijah alone with him before he heard God's voice? Forty days And and I'll just be candid with you, sometimes, um sometimes somebody will come to me and say, you know, my I'm just not getting a lot of my out of my devotions and I'll ask how what they're doing and uh well I'm doing a fifteen minute devotional And look, I you know 15 minutes is better than nothing. But I gotta be honest with you, sometimes you need an hour I mean, or more, to just settle your heart and be quiet and not have any distractions. You say, that's not possible. I've got kids. Do what you gotta do. If you've got to get up earlier, if you've got to stay down, say stay to stay later, you know, go to bed later, whatever it is to spend significant time with the Lord, and sometimes. It's several days in a row of time with the Lord where not every day is going to be, wow, I was just really encouraged by that. Some days you're going to be convicted. Some days you're going to be instructed. It's just going to be information that you realize. It's not every day in your personal devotion that you're just going to walk away and go, wow, that was amazing. But I tell you what, if you're faithful in doing your devotions with the Lord and spending time with the Lord, there will be those days. And they will come at the time where you most need the encouragement. And so I would just encourage you that way. God is the one who can encourage us with his truth. But but in order for that to happen, really, there has to be a time alone with God And I've talked a lot about this in the last few weeks, and it just seems to be something that constantly is recurring. But just know realize this. Realize that God is good. to restore his people to a place of encouragement. If you're discouraged, then then that is understandable. And we all get discouraged. But if you'll wait on the Lord and you'll spend time with him, then if you'll then you will see him minister to your soul in such a way that he will eventually restore you. The problem is, is when we try to to do things our own way, or we think that God can't do help us, or we don't spend time alone with God. We just fill our minds with noise all the time Or there's a lot of reasons why we won't be encouraged by God. But don't allow that to happen. Spend time alone and quiet with God and let Him administer your soul. All right, and that is that is my encouragement for you today in First Kings chapter 19. I hope it will uh be something that will really stick with us.