All right. Your Bibles and turn to First Peter three tonight, and we're going to be continuing our series on the subject of parenting. And we are right now in the middle of talking about parenting girls. So 1 Peter 3 is a very helpful passage that we'll be taking a look at tonight. And I want to begin by asking a question, just when we're thinking about the contrast between boys and girls, just getting our minds acclimated to this, I only have roles uh as far as parenting. Um and but I'm curious to in your thinking What are the diff what is the difference between raising boys and girls? Like if you think of just things that would come to mind that would be differences. We've talked about raising boys already, we've talked about half of about raising girls. But what would you note to be the differences? Any differences? Yes. Emotions. Emotions. Okay, so even at that age, at that young of a I mean their kids are young, uh he she's even noticing at that age the difference between the a boy blows it off and a girl gets her emotions here. Yes Uh Nancy? She was in my case was the opposite. Okay. Yeah, I'm I'm really not sure what to say about that. Yes. She would just get mad and Steve was still in the motion, but yeah. You know, like that. So it's boy, girl, no, it's not a good idea. practical level uh trade and have differences. Okay, yes, there's definitely anatomical differences. Yes, Lisa. Okay. I will tell you that that is not the case with girls, but because I have three. Um so I know, actually. Um they uh sometimes girls don't care either. Caitlin al has always cared. But anyway, always. Ever since she was Extremely yeah. Um but uh not so with all of ours. Um I won't say who. But yes. There are different messages in the culture Girls I think I'm not there yet, but I I have a feeling that girls would have more of a difficulty struggling with body image and attractiveness, whereas guys are less likely to care and care more about acceptance in a in a different area, like am I strong enough or am I good enough? Good. Okay. Yeah, that's I I think it's fairly accurate. Now of course there is overlap with all of this. Like a guy as a teenager does care about what he looks like uh sometimes. Depends. But but um um uh but you're right. I I think I think as a whole it's a good point. What else? Boys tend to not be as tuned into others' emotions. Like they're kind of just oblivious to what's sometimes what's going on around them. I don't have a fun, but I I've been around my nephew enough in relation to my daughter. And she's not serious not sure about what you're saying, but anyway. But girls tend to be more in tune to oh, is that person upset or sad. Okay. How does that how does that affect parenting? How does it affect parenting? Okay. And it could also be frustrating when the girls care too much. She doesn't like these Oh yeah. Um yes, Stefan. Um just something I've noticed. I know um I know with I have I guess a mixture of the two, but But um acceptance from the parents, both of them do it uh are I guess wanted differently. Okay, I know I've noticed a lot, Cameron will want to accept him, but you want to sh you'll want to show mean how strong he is that he you know like as a boy, personally a girl they don't care about that, but they want me to accept in a different way. So the way they I don't mean I don't phrase it right, but the way I I think and you guys can tell me if I'm wrong about this, I think guys tend to g gain their acceptance from from their performance. Girls tend to g girls tend to feel acceptance from uh I think performance too, but uh but but affection. At least I'm thinking my girls my boys say why Yeah. Right. Or at least when they're really little. Watch me, look at me, Mom. Yeah. Right. That's a that's a good ex Yeah, yeah, yeah. Um and you don't usually have that m you have some of that as uh with girls but not nearly as much, actually when I think about. Um Keep your boys alive. Like, no, what is not good at all. Yeah. I don't really yeah, I haven't had that problem. We we don't have to keep our kids our girls alive, but um we do have to keep them from killing each other. But anyway. All right. Um I I think I think we've got at least some things as far as as far as that's concerned. And and there are differences. And that's really what we're trying to focus on tonight is what are the what are particularly things that we want to make sure that we are uh when we're parenting our girls So we'll pick up here talking about training and uh some of this I think we mentioned last week, but many women arrive at marriage only to realize that they receive training for many things but not to be a wife and mother to biblic uh uh mother and to be biblically feminine. So they they might have you know especially in our society where uh you don't go to college or it's really questionable to go to college to be you know biblically feminine. Like I know at at believe it or not the school I went to when I was in my undergrad they had a home ec major which they got rid of. Which was probably a good thing. Um uh not that there's anything wrong I mean you wanna learn those things, but It w it becomes obvious why you're going down there. The girls that were home egg majors were very uh often very interested. They were very yeah, trying to get their MRS degree, yeah. So they're very interested. But um anyway, um and so but we it it's really the responsibility of parents to train moms. to train their daughters to uh to be a wife and mother, to be feminine. Um and so that's important. Many women arrive at marriage only to realize Uh that's the exact same thing I just said. So that's uh so then pure we'll move on to purity. So let's let's talk about this a little bit How, when we talk about purity, how is it different when we're talking about girls versus boys? We need to teach them both purity. But how are you going to teach girls differently? Any ideas? Okay, so let's take what Scripture says about this. If you go over to Matthew 5, you find that it says specifically, if a man does what? He looks on a woman with lust in his heart. Okay? It doesn't say a woman looks on a man. Now, can a woman look on a man with lust in her heart? Sure. But it specifically says a man if a man. Why? Because it is more of a dentation. That is an area where men have to be really careful where they place their odds. Okay. Um girls should, but not to the extent that guys need to. Okay. And so when we're training our girls versus our guys, I I I think I mentioned this when we're talking about boys But I'll just reiterate, one of the best things you can tell your sons at a very young age, before they really understand what's going on, is to learn to look away from bad pictures and Women that are dressed in modestly and those kind of things with some discretion and when they're really you know, like anyway you gotta teach them not to be too obvious. But But it that it's very important. For girls, what are you going to teach them about the area of purity? Ladies, what what what should we teach our girls? Modesty. Okay, modesty would be one. Alright. So so we teach them to Okay, let's talk about that. Okay, so just be modest. Why? Why is it important to be modest Any ideas? Don't want to attract the wrong problem. Okay. Or the wrong guy or whatever, yeah. And that'll be a stumbling block to others. Okay, and that would be a stumbling block I we want to teach our our ch our daughters that their bodies are not intended to be plaunted and intended to be um to attract attention for wrong purposes. Uh our society is teaching that that's what what a woman's body. You look at uh w what what women's bodies uh everywhere and TV and everything and that's what it's they're teaching and we need to teach our child our daughters the exact opposite that their bodies are not intended for that their bodies one day will attract should attract one man, okay, uh you know, physically speaking. Now, on the other hand It isn't wrong for a woman for a young lady to want to be at attractive, right? So there's a difference between uh f sexually flawing your body and just being wanting to be pretty or wanting to be attractive. Yes. Well the Bible teaches that it's the N-word period. Okay. That's that's where it starts. That's what the woman should call the not the output. Yeah. Yeah, well yes you're right. That should be the focus. The focus should and that's exactly what we're gonna what we're gonna see in 1 Peter three But my I guess I would say this. It's not wrong for a young lady to want to look nice. Okay. That's that's fine. Um and it's normal actually. to do that. So purity. We can teach modesty from a very young age, explain that our bodies are not for attracting attention and are not an object to per to perfect. That's another thing. it it's not that's not something that you're trying to perfect all of the time. Uh American Idol, high school musical, all these kind of things, girls will leave will learn quickly to dress and move their bodies and to exert power over men. And that is something that we do not want to teach our girls. I want to teach them the exact opposite. Teach them what modest what modest dress looks like. And that modesty is actually more beautiful. Uh that's I think an important point actually. There is something very um beautiful about about when some when a when a w when a a young a young age m is uh i is is modest and intends to be modest in her in her address and their appearance. There's something that's very wholesome and beautiful about that. And we need to teach our children that that's the case. So purity is something that's very important. Anything else we need to say about about purity, ladies? Anything else we need to teach our daughters about when it comes to that? Yes? I will say it seems like modest dress is becoming more and more vague. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. I I don't know that you Joey. Oh no. Okay. I don't know that you've ever been able I think the I will say this. When you try to define it, you actually can run with problems. So with becoming very legalistic. But I I I do understand what you're saying as well. Um, what did I noticed especially in the last few years that I'm seeing is a rather pervasive idea is that um people are now saying that the body is not a sexual For example, like uh a woman's breast is no different than a man's breast, and it is society's fault. for making that be a sexual thing and what's the difference in if a guy can go shirtless and why can't a girl. And it's a but it's and I mean I see this not just like once or twice. I mean it is like It's a major Good point. And I you know how the I mean obviously I disagree with that torturing, but it's it's kind of we've got to teach our kids that so there's That's good good good uh insight there. So let me uh uh it reminds me of a story of um a missionary who I I was in a class in uh a missions class And she was taught that he he went he was in um uh Pacific Islands. Uh and of course if you can think of native dress in the Pacific Islands as Not a lot, basically. And she wa he was leading people, his family was leading people to Christ, and they were trying to figure out, okay, so because culturally modesty is to some degree a cultural ethic. It's how Mazdi is defined is to some degree cultural So you're not going to tell some that they live in like 95 degree weather all day. And so how do you teach them modesty? How do you teach them They were not. They were very clearly not. But where's this, where do you place the standard? How do you do that? And you know, actually he he he came uh David Utter was the guy who taught the class, good guy And he actually he he actually looked at what Scripture said and it actually says in Proverbs 5, you know what it says about husbands and what and it says that they Let your own let their breasts satisfy that that it that the wife's breasts are satisfied to her husband. And let your own wife do that. So the Bible actually identifies that as something that's different from the Bible, Proverbs 5. You can't read Proverbs 5 and think the man's breast is the same as the woman's candidly I'm feeling a little uncomfortable with this being recorded. Anyway. Anyway. Okay. But you really can't tell, but you really the Bible is pretty clear about that Okay. Um and so we do need to t teach our children that and we can teach it from the some of these things from the Bible. So what did David Utter and his wife teach those ladies cover them up. Okay? Because the Bible says that that's the that's something that's really supposed to be reserved for marriage. And so you cover them up until unless you're you know with your spouse. So um Uh so that's a good but but so I you could use scripture with some of these things. That one would be obvious uh that you can. But that's a very it's a good point, George, because I I think in our culture we are We are saying that, but you know, I don't know too many men saying that, I'll just say. Yeah, yeah, right. So anyway. Yes. Modesty can be defined differently for families within reason. Like one person child eight can be dressed modestly and none have nothing to do with wrong with the child used to be dressed modestly but not with the same like okay the the rule of okay your shorts have to come down to your the tip of your middle finger Or it must be knee length. Are both of those modest? Probably. But to child B they may say, well that's not fair, that's not modest, because it's you know, that's so within conservative groups, the definitions of modesty can be different. Sure. Are tanchinis okay or are they not? Yeah. You know Yeah. It gets interesting. Anyway. Um yeah, so I think that the main thing that you're teaching are principles of what how of how to dress and what is modest and what is not. Um I you know I don't know that we we haven't always defined it as knee links or those kinds of things Uh but really just trying to teach and teach by example, teach in in and I think too, and this this is probably for a lot of things where not specific. Is this the motive? Are you trying to attract the attention of the opposite gender? Yeah. Or are you trying to blend in with the other kids? Yeah. But I what I don't like is when like for young girls when the fashion is something that's obviously not for more mature girls like to have a choice and when parents put certain cloning um little girls I don't think it's appropriate. You know, that's maybe Okay. I I'm a little lost actually, but that's okay. What what do you mean Like a little bikini. Elizabeth's looking at me like, yeah, she's right. So whatever you're saying is right. Yeah. Yeah Right. Okay, let's move on. Um anyway, so make sure you teach your girls modesty. All right, let's move to we also need to teach our girls love. And uh see what it says here. Picking up Verse 3, it says, Do not let your adornment be merely outward, arranging the hair, wearing gold, or putting on fine apparel. By the way, it's not saying you can't do those things. It's saying that they shouldn't be a focus. Rather, let it be the hidden person of the heart. It's the inward spirit. with the incorruptible beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, which is very precious in the sight of God. For in this manner, in former times the holy women who trusted in God also adorn themselves being submissive to their own husbands. So we see a contrast, which I think Lisa mentioned already, that there's this this contrast of Inward beauty versus outward beauty and the focus, there's nothing wrong with wanting to look pretty on the outside, but the focus, if you are overly focused with the externals, if you're overly focused on how you look That is a real danger, I think, for young ladies particularly. That can be a real danger, rather than focusing on what's really beautiful to God and really, frankly, to people. um is the inward heart, yeah. But it did say don't focus only. Yeah, it's not exclusive. Yeah. So um there's nothing you know there's nothing wrong with and wrong with in fact you should teach your daughters to look nice and that doesn't go to g you know, my wife often will do that. That those two things don't match. Go back up and change and you know those kind of things. Uh and there's nothing wrong with that. But it it's the focus of the heart that really You ever met somebody that was physically physically attractive but was just had such a lousy attitude that they were ugly? You know you know what I'm saying? Or it's just like man that ugh I don't want to be around that person even though they're physically attracted. They they just have such a bad Their spirit is so and the uh honestly the exact opposite can be true, where the s the person's spirit is so has this has this purity and gentleness and loving spirit about them that they may not be categorically that attractive, but there's this there's just something that's attractive about them because of their spirit Both of those things can be true. So we want to teach our children the importance of being our girls of being beautiful inside rather than just outside. And we see that as the focus here in 1 Peter. Love is another area that we need to teach our children to, our girls to love God, to love others, and they also need to feel love themselves. Young ladies need to feel secure and protected by their fathers. This is something I think that is a bit overlooked sometimes by dads. We're so busy doing other things and we men need to be very, very, very sort of one-track mind-focused. and uh and not realize that uh a young lady needs, our daughters need, uh to feel secure I see this I can see this from personal experience. Uh my daughters at a very, very young age start wanting to feel secure. You there's this sort of desire to usually they won't want to crawl off of my lap and they they'll sort of uh sort of get in a a a a ball kind of in the Not not a ball fault. Yeah, and just sort of sort of to to to feel secure. Uh they want me to embrace them. And if we could give that as a fathers, we can give that as a gift to our daughters where they feel secure with us. That will help them when they're older to feel secure in the Lord, ultimately, and potentially with their husband as well. And so uh that's an area where I think I think we we need to it's a good area to be aware of. Uh this includes rules. Interestingly, we don't have a lot of teenagers here tonight. This one actually. But this does include roles. Okay? You know, ever uh you'll never if you ask a kid do you like rules, no kid will say they do. Actually if you ask an adult do you like rules, no I'm not sure adults will say they do But there is a sense in which if you if if you give a child or a teenager when you give them boundaries There is a sense of safety. They may never admit it to you, but there is a sense of safety that they feel. You talk to a family, you watch a family That doesn't have that's like free to be you and me whatever goes and you can do anything you want kind of a family? You know the you know the type. Okay And there they will grow up and often their kids are not, they don't feel secure. They don't know where the boundaries are. They don't know where things lie And so rules are things that help define boundaries and it helps kids and teens to actually feel secure. particularly girls. That doesn't mean we are tyrants in executing our rules. But defining boundaries and giving rules are things that does help with security. Um and we should we should try to provide it in a loving manner. Biblical femininity is a free freeing disposition. Elizabeth Elliott said this. I like quoting women on this kind of thing. Um Godwin, in this case, you would be a God of a woman. The world looks for happiness, she said, through self-assertion. The Christian knows that joy is found in self-abandonment. We read this last week. A Christian woman's true freedom lies on the other side of a very small gate. Humble obedience. But that gate leads out into a largeness of life undreamed of by the liberators of the world. So she says, so what she says is that there is a kind of humble obedience that if a woman can learn that it is actually a very freeing thing. It's exactly the opposite of what Liberate li liberating the world's you know women's lib kind of people are saying But she said there's actually far more freedom in that. What is she talking about? Can you define how would you describe what she's talking about? Okay. We already got the first Peter. Um let's look at what let's see what John John Piper says about this. He says this. He says, A mature woman is glad when a respectful, caring, upright man offers sensitive talk about a single woman uh or a married woman to her husband um a mature woman is glad when uh when a respectful, caring, upright man offers sensitive strength and provides a pattern of appropriate initiatives in their relationship. She does not want to reverse these roles. She is glad when he is not passive. She feels herself enhanced and honored and freed by his caring strength and servant leadership. You all think about that statement It's pretty quiet here actually. I I will tell you this that I I have met Mature ladies that were married and they have told me that there is a certain freedom in submissive being submissive to godly authority. But there's just sort of like, okay, I'm gonna let I'm not gonna have to I don't have to deal with this. I'm just gonna let my husband handle it. By the way, do you know what happens when wives when you play when you are submissive to your husbands to a to a husband who really is taking his responsibility seriously. That's uh when that happens, do you know what us husbands do? It puts a weight on us. Okay? It's a healthy weight. But it's sort of this sense of responsibility, like I've got to handle this. And I really don't want to mess this up. You know what happens in a marriage when the wife is is not submissive and she keeps After you know keeps wanting her way, wanting her way, and pushing her way. And you know what the guy does? Two possibilities. What are the two possible? What do you suppose a guy does if those two possible? Yeah, Joe? He shirks the end of the Okay, and one sense one one way that he handles it handles it is he just says, fine, take it. I'm out. Alright? And then you have a very passive, lazy husband. Okay? What's the other possibility? Opposite spectrum. Yeah, he keeps fighting against it. Keeps fighting, fighting, fighting. He never actually sees His his responsibility for his family. He never sees how he needs to really be wise and make good decisions and really think things through and really get the Because he's too fi busy kind of defending himself from his wife. What's that? You guys wrong now. Okay. Alright. He's really busy he's really too busy f defending himself from his wife. And so it's important to understand that there is in marriage there is a freeing, there's this freedom that comes When you have a setup where you've got a respectful, caring, upright man who offers sensitive strength and provides the power of appropriate issues. When you have that, it is, it's, it's, a wife will feel up, if she submits to it, will fill feel enhanced by it Um and and that's and so how what are we gonna teach how are we gonna teach our daughters this? How do you teach your daughters this? Okay, good. First thing is you gotta set the example on one. Okay. So what does that mean? How are you gonna set your exam set the example? Submit to your husband. It means that you're never going you're going to be very be very careful not to degrade your husband in front particularly in front of your daughters. Hopefully not at all, but particularly in front not to put them down or make them make them sound like they're something that they're not, or that kind of thing. Okay, to show respect to them in discussing things, you know, when you talk to your daughters, ladies You should be talking about how they should want to go to their fathers for advice and for counsel and he can provide wisdom for you. You need to bridge sometimes mothers and daughters have very close relationships. and the guy is not as close. And the mother can bridge the gap between the the father and the daughter. And she needs to bridge that Okay, and she needs to talk to the daughter and say to the daughter, hey, let's go let's go talk to dad about this, or why don't you talk to your father about this? This would be a good thing to get his his wisdom on. You can really, really help in those kinds of situations Aspire to be the opposite of quar a quarrelsome wife. Uh do you undercut his leadership by complaining about him with others or to his face about being late from work or a decision he made for his family. For your daughters, encourage them to affirm, not butt their father's leadership Teach your daughters to relish going to her father for counsel and for help. This is something, mothers, that you can do to help both your daughters and your husbands. Fathers Are you cultivating your relationship with your daughters so that your daughter feels the blessing of living under the leadership of a benevolent, godly man? Be a haven for your daughters. And uh the whole home and should be a haven uh for the world. So you fight out there and inside there's there's a haven in the home. Uh but That really that really that that sense of security of being a haven in the home largely does should come from the father. Okay. And uh for for your daughters. Um Biblical femininity femininity nurtures It is a freeing disposition to nurture strength and leadership from worthy men. Here we're drawing on the woman's core calling described in Genesis. She was a helper suitable for the man. Genesis 2. 18 says God said it was is not good for man to be alone. So he provided him a helper. Now here's what this is not talk. I don't think this is talking about it. Good men disagree on this. I should mention that. Some people say that this is a relational thing. Okay? That what it's talking about here is a ro is is Adam's lonely. And so he needs Eve. Um I don't think it's that. Why what might be the problem with that kind of thing? With that with that um with that idea. People, people. Okay, yeah, okay, okay, but but think of Adam. Who did Adam have? God. He had perfect fellowship with God. Okay? So it's unlikely that Adam was lonely when his fellowship with God was perfect. So I tend to think I good men disagree on it. I mean uh some people take it that way. They're talking about a relational thing. I tend to not think that. I think it's something, yes. Can I why God say it Adam's problem was not right here, I'm giving you the answer. Adam's problem was not loneliness. He had perfect fellowship with God. The problem was incompetence. Okay, so man and women are made very differently, aren't they? Okay? Complimentary. So we're complementing each other. Alright? What's that? Yeah. I'll do that. Uh wouldn't wouldn't it also be necessary for women to be creative in order to fulfill the mandate to be fruitful and water Okay, well that's part of it, sure. So You can't disagree with that. Yeah. I was gonna say the same thing, like to procreate. So Adam just procreate saw though all the other animals there was a male and a female Why would God allow him to see that and be like, oh, I don't have a female? Well, the text doesn't say that that was in Adam's mind, that he saw all that. I mean he obviously must have But that's no. That's all on that's the mixed stories. Read read the breeze. If you read the actual taxes, that's not that's not enough. That's in the stories Um, I've seen that before in like Bible movies. Um gets he looks at all the animals and he sees that there's one and another and one and another and one and another and he gets lonely and It's not in the text. Okay, but um but uh um but what did that god so God made Adam for a task which was to care for the garden and to name the animals. And Eve was to be a help meet for Adam in that task. In other words, there were competencies that God made Eve to have that Adam didn't have and she needed e a he needed Eve in order to to fulfill those the the the role Okay, does that make sense? Alright, so I think that's what we're talking about here, rather than uh relational. Yes. I have a question. If you have Adam's fellowship with God was perfect. Yeah And obviously we mean if God's perfect, but Adam would not have been probably even before sin. Oh, he was perfect before sin. Okay, so I thought you would say if maybe Adam and Eve together were then perfect, but then sin messed it all up. Maybe he wasn't obviously wasn't godlike or anything in that level of perfection or anything, but maybe at Eve was the compliment that they pushed that dynamic that God says is perfect and then they messed it up. I think. So the way I would put it is God God was perfect Adam was perfect. He was perfect all before the fall. Okay? God made them perfect. Okay? Um Adam and Eve But they were different. They were created different. So they did need each other because God created them to need each other. But the issue wasn't fellowship, I don't think, because Adam and Eve had or A Adam had fellowship with with with God for his fellowship. Does that make sense? Um so anyway, uh that would be how I would take it anyway. I mean you could just you could disagree, but but It's not gospel doctrine here. But helper in Scripture, just keep this in mind, helper in Scripture is a strong word. The vast majority of times it's used of God Himself God is the helper of Israel. In the New Testament, God calls the Holy Spirit the helper. Women do not help from a point of weakness. They help because they have tremendous God-ordained strength to do so. God has given them the abilities to be able to complete, to complement their husband. How do women help? Well there's really three ways, but you see Proverbs 31, there's all kinds of ways that deal with women's uh how a woman helps in the home, and it's a lot of stuff Ladies, you do a lot. It's obvious. You read through that passage and you see what the godly woman does and it's it's a whole lot. Women are helpers helpers to their husbands. This starts with women's very orientation They help their husbands by being oriented to them and not primarily to themselves. Women are helpers to their churches and women are helpers to the world. There there is a that that term help meet has a lot to it there. Um and and those are the ways that we find that they're they're helpful. Yes. Where would you put Uh with an well they're uh they're help they're h they're working together and teaming up with their husband to to raise the children. The position is different with children. They're mothering their children, parenting their children. I don't know that you would use the term helper in that case. It's their helper for their husband. Um but in a sense by mothering their children they're helping their husband, I guess. Um so um let's g so conclusion. We started off last Wednesday with this whole idea of the woman saying that her role should be, she says in one pop song, W Oh Man. Like she can do both be both the man and the woman. Or do you view your role as complement, uh complement you a brother in Christ? That should be the focus where there's a complimenting As we train our daughters, let's cultivate them to be women who are other-centered and seek to bring glory to God, not to themselves. May they be godly ladies who aspire to the traits and the life that God lays out for them in Scripture. Any final questions, thoughts, comments about yes? Does that mean the original man was deficient in some ways? Yes. I I don't know if he allowed him to see it or not, but he had it. Uh not sure that was screen that he called all the creatures and then after that Okay. So he wasn't perfect. No no no. There's a difference in there's a difference between sinl he was sinless. Yeah. Adam was sinless. But he wasn't he God had created just God had created Adam and Eve to have different roles. Why didn't he create male and female humans? the same time as he did for animals. Well I I I think I think that when when God created Adam for us and And he breathed God breathed his life into him, into him being his spirit, given like a a spirit born of God. And then created Eve from Adam. Okay, so it was from bone of our bone. It was a It was the flesh, I think it was two oneness aspect of right. So that that there was dark creator man and women women uh totally different than all the other creations. Yeah. Okay. Man was a special creation. And not only that it was they were uh uh created with capacity to do with God But but I think what you're asking is why would why would they why was Eve created at a different time than Well is it showing that there's a spectral immunity with the I I think so. Yeah. Well they come from both actually, but anyway. Yeah. Yeah the point. Yeah. The oneness I think is the is the point. Okay. Yes. But wasn't in in that perfect state before before they sinned, wasn't God's command to them fruitful multiply. Sure. And so he was deficient in he could not fulfill that command. And in raising children, in particular having a family and child rearing, you know, um the the father and mother aspect of God God's perfect design. Sure. Um that was that was in so if they didn't if they never sinned, that would be that's God's perfect plan absolutely was for man and woman to be together to have children and they and they need each other to complement each other in order to to Do that in God's perfect plan. But now post sin, original sin, we can still be complete and not be deficient as single individuals. And Not be incomplete without a helping. Alright, yeah, that's that point. Um Are you playing that right now? No, it's on the Apple TV that's advertising. You guys think I do that all day? You don't understand. I tie it I tie it to that aspect of God's original plan. Yeah. Or man and woman. Yeah, I agree. Yeah, remember we talked about this before, but it even it the the man-woman relationship, they're equal, they're co-equal but complementary. It's like the Trinity You have the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit are all co-equal, but they're complementary. They're distinct, but they're complementary. So with Adam and Eve, it's not as they were the whole setup was made perfect Um for sure, yeah. So the male and female is to have a family. But if God calls you to singleness, then your completion is Sure. But I don't think male and female is the i is just to have a family. I think it I I think it is to have a family, but it's not just to have a family. That's not the only purpose of it. And and that kind of goes along with that. There there can be people who are called singleists. Paul makes that very clear in his epistles. But uh you know, the original mandate to the human race was essentially I mean one, it was created to bring glory to God, but then also to have dominion over the earth, to keep it and uh specifically the garden and to multi be fruitful. multiply and fill the earth. And um just because your call to singleness doesn't remove that mandate from mankind essentially. Okay. Yeah. Sounds right. Alright, very good. Let's go ahead then and take some prayer requests. And actually I'm gonna have you