Uh on the family and particularly on parenting tonight. And I think this will be a very helpful lesson for us and give us some things to think about that perhaps we haven't thought about before. And uh it's been a little of course we've had several weeks now, I think, w since we've uh been going through this because of the holidays and things like that. And so we're how many of you all are getting back into your routine? You feel like things are getting back into sort of normal. I I I've starting to experience that again. I was I was uh um last you know, the over the holidays everything is kinda not normal. And I I like that. I mean it's it's nice to have things not normal for a while, but toward the end of the holiday season I start going, okay, I just really would like things to get back to normal, you know. And normal doesn't mean easy, but it's just Normal, you know, routine, uh, instead of just so many different things uh everywhere. So anyway, um But uh but so I uh anyway, so now we're sort of getting back to the normal routine and and now we're able to uh get back to the series on the family, which I think has been a helpful series for our church and I pray that it will continue to be healthy. So tonight we're looking we're going to be looking particularly at getting to the heart of behavior. Um but let's review a few things. Christianity, we learned several weeks ago, is inherently familial. That is, there is it when we think of Christianity, we can really not think of it apart from the idea of family relationships. For example, our how can we understand our Heavenly Father? I mean that that our Father is a relationship, a family relationship. uh a brother sister relationship within the body of Christ. How do we understand how we're supposed to respond and act with uh one another and it's brother-sister kind of uh um uh association. Um Christ and and the Father, the Trinity. How do we understand the Trinity? If you didn't have If you didn't have family terms to understand these concepts, you would have no frame of reference. And so God created his first institution. that he created when after he created Adam and Eve was was the family, marriage in the family. And he did that because that provides the foundation for everything else that he wants to teach us. And then that also as we have our families, we conduct our families individually, our di individual families, that becomes the the building blocks for how our kids learn what they're going to learn. What do they understand about our their relationship with God? What do they understand about the gospel? What do they what do they understand about who God is? What do they understand about the personal nature of God? Those kinds of things are established. They're either they're either uh established in the home, or we have a skewed view because of the home, or we have uh very little frame of reference because of our home life. But usually without any intervention from the Spirit of God or the Word of God, your concept of God often does come. From the home. Now thankfully, aren't we glad for the intervention of the Spirit of God and the Word of God in our lives that flesh those things out and correct our thinking on the on all those kinds of things? But nevertheless, it is extremely important to understand that our families do set the basis for what our kids are going to understand about the gospel and about Christianity. We want our f relationships with our children to image for the world our relationship with God. So we become as a family a light to the world of what a relationship with God looks like by our own relationship with our kids. How does God relate to us? Well, you can Ha uh an exam you can do that, you can you can show that to the world to at least some extent by your relationship with your kids. As we live under God's authority as his children, so our children need to live under our authority. And that's one of the very basic lessons that that we need to teach our kids at the earliest stages. I mean there's a lot of things tonight that we'll go over, some of which we can we can start teaching very early, but um many of the things, you know, you can't y they have to develop some before you can teach them certain things. But on the very basic level, they need to understand that God's that we live under God's authority And if they're going to live under God's authority, they have to live under under our authority. In fact, these are, I would l set it up this way, these are general goals when we're thinking about parenting, general goals with age groups, I think, that we probably would agree on. Ages 0 through 5 is really establishing our authority. That's really what you're doing. You're teaching them obedience. The main the main thing that you're teaching them from zero to five. You may be teaching some con basic concepts about who God is. Some basic concepts about the gospel, you're trying to uh work on their um lives a little bit as far as maybe learning to memorize scripture a little bit, maybe learning to sit still for a while and whatever, those kinds of things. But but basically you're teaching them obedience. Um my my my youngest daughter is older than five, she's seven, but Uh we were doing family devotions this morning and we were reading through First John two. And in First John two it actually says that we are to um The things are in the world, the lust of the eyes, the lust of flesh. You know that passage. Uh don't love the world basically, and those things are in the world. And she at at at the end she said, What what does that mean? We're in the world. Everything's in the world. Why are you know, what How can you not love the world? What's what's that about? That's a good question, isn't it? So I explained to her, I said, Well, what it's talking about is it's talking about the things that are against God, and it's talking about going wanting what God doesn't want, and wanting and and doing what God doesn't want, loving what God doesn't want. And I just said to her, you know how you know what God doesn't want and what God does want? And she said, how? I said, by what your mom and dad tell you. If your mom and dad tell you to do something, that's what God wants for you. When you want to do What your mom and dad say don't do, you're loving the world. I mean it's very basic. I mean I can't get I'm not gonna go into all the world system and the you know, Ephesians chapter two and talking about you know the Prince of power of the air. I'm not gonna get into all that. I'm just gonna simply say, hey, you got two options here. You you do what God wants or you do what you do what what you want to do and what the what the world wants you to do. And if you're not and how do you know? By what your parents tell you. And so you're teaching obedience at a very young age, versus uh uh ages zero through five. That's that's really what you're teaching primarily. When you get into ages six through twelve, now you're gonna help them grow grow in their character. Now these are general goals. We're gonna break all these things down. Yes, Jeff? In zero to five racing, it's better not to extend it. Explain why Well, you can explain to the level that they understand, but their understanding is going to be limited. I think as much as I I I think you should always explain as much as you can. And you always want to encourage them well I'll I'll take always away. You often want to encourage them to ask questions. Okay? And um for instance our devotions are are Designed to be about 15 minutes, but if my kids ask, I love when my kids ask questions, and they know I like it, right Oh sorry. She doesn't want me to do that. Anyway, um I I really do. I do I do li uh like when they ask questions and they'll ask different questions and they're you and that that's what takes that more because if they That's what takes the m more the time sometimes, or sometimes it's just fifteen minutes and then we're done. But anyway. Um but no, I think we should explain whatever they ask as much as we can. But um we're really there they're we're gonna be limited obviously by their aptitude and so we're really primarily just trying to get them to obey Um that's the prime primary thing, uh even when they don't want to. Uh of course uh six through twelve, we're going to want to help them grow in their character. What is a very simple character is just consistent obedience. So now we're going to say, okay, if you're not natural if you're not If you're not consistently obeying, 6 through 12, why? You need to develop certain characteristics. You're impatient, so you're not obeying right away Or you're selfish, or you're you need to love your brothers and sisters. You need to love so now we're c we're trying to develop character in at six through twelve And then in the teen years we really want to help them grow in their personal relationship with God. Now they're old enough to really have their own i their own relationship with the Lord, um they can pray to the Lord, they can understand that God loves them and accepts them and We want to cultivate that at this point. Um and and and sometimes and in this whole process What we really want to do is we want to live the gospel out for them and we want them to begin to grasp the gospel. And even in how we discipline them how we relate to them, how we talk with them. We want them to be able to grasp the got the gospel over time as a process. And we're learn how to do that. So the objectives that we're going to talk about tonight is really talking about the importance of the heart, and we'll get into that in a little a little bit. Then we're going to look at, we're going to offer some examples of how to aim at the heart. So how do you aim at a per even one, two, three years old, how do you aim at their heart rather than just their behavior And then we'll deal with some of the com common questions about heart-centered parenting. A lot of this concept the concepts that we're going to talk about tonight do come from the book Shepherding a Child's Heart by Ted Tripp. How many of you have read that book before? Okay. Yeah, overall that's a good book. I don't agree with everything he says, but overall it's it's uh it's it's pretty a pretty good book and a lot of these things. uh come from that. Ted Tripp illustrates in his book, he illustrates the uh he uses this illustration. He says that a lot of times parents are more are preoccupied with a kid's behavior and they're not really focused on the heart. And he said it's like taking a dead tree, an old dead tree, and putting fresh new apples on the tree without dealing with the tree itself. And so when you're trying to do with the deal with the just the behavior and you're never pointing to the actual heart, the actual person Then you're trying to fix the behavioral problem without dealing with the actual person. And really, when you do that, you're really not, you're not disciplining in a gospel kind of a way either. And and s but when you when you begin when you when you connect behavior with hard attitude that I am I'm doing what I'm doing wrongly Because of my heart, when I make that connection, and when when you when you train your children to make that connection, then they begin to realize What? Well they realize that they're a sinner. They're not right with the Lord. And it's not just they have bad behavior. There's something really wrong inside. And that opens up the opportunity for the gospel to be received. So let's talk then a little bit about the importance of the heart. The heart is the control center of behavior. So behavior reveals the heart. Proverbs 4. 23 says, above all else, guard your heart, for out of it is there are the issues of life. So it it's and by the way, I'll just say this. So When you think of the concept of a heart, in fact I think we were listen I was listening with with Caitlin today on on we were listening to a podcast and and the guy mentions this and that's a good point. When we talk about the heart In our society, what do people think about when they're thinking about the heart? Yeah, emotions. Okay. Uh my heart's telling me to do this, or I just feel like I ought to do this. I mean it it's they're really talking about emotions primarily. Um that's not the Bible word for heart The Bible idea of heart includes all three, the mind, the will, and the emotions. It's all of it. That's why the Bible says, as a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. So accord with the Bible definition of heart, you can think with your heart. Um so we make a a real distinction between our head and our heart. But the way the Bible uses the term heart, it doesn't do that. So that's important to understand as we go through this. So we're not saying this is just a matter of your feelings. You're doing this just because of your feelings. We're actually saying your thinking is wrong. leading you the right direction and your will is not leading you the right direction. And sometimes when you're talking with your kids about different things, the behavior that's wrong, you might want to point out one thing or another. Maybe the thinking is the real problem. Or maybe the feelings, you're hey, your feelings are just throwing you off real bad. You've got to understand your feelings are just deceiving you right now. Or your will. You know what? This is a will. You ever seen the difference between have you ever seen that when you're with your kids The difference between an instruction problem they just they're m they're not understanding what they oughta do versus a will problem Okay? And that you're just being defiant. You're just going against what is what pleases God. And understanding that it's a heart problem, making those connections is very important. Our parenting is often designed to control behavior, and we need to be careful about that. Not that we don't control behavior, okay, and we'll talk about that, but it it we it ought to be something more than just controlling behavior Mark 7. 21 says that what we say is a reflection of our heart, that out of the bundles of the heart the mouth speaks. And there are plenty of other passages as well that talk about the things that are stored up in our heart will overflow to what we say. And so we want to make sure that as we're parenting, we're identifying what's going on and how to parent our children where we're actually shepherding their hearts. And I'll note this also. We ought to look at our kids' behavior and it ought to be for us a guidebook for their heart. So I'm gonna I'm gonna when they because I can't see the heart, right? And you can't see the heart. But we can see the behavior, and the Bible says that what comes from out of the abundance of the heart, the mouse speaks, for example. So what comes from your behavior is your what comes from your heart is your behavior, and so you can make the connection So we should see our kids and we should make that we should make that connection. It should be a guidebook for us. And and let me ask, I'll I'll open it up this way. What keeps us from looking at our kids, at our at the behavior of our kids, as a guidebook to their heart? Any ideas what keeps us from doing that? In other words, when we see wrong behavior, what would keep us from looking at it that way? Yes? Okay, okay. So in other words, we're embarrassed by their behavior. Alright. Yeah, that's one serious pitfall. When you respond to your kids' behavior by embarrassment. You're embarrassed because of what your kids have done. Um honestly, that is a real quick way to cause rebellion in your kids, uh over especially over time. Um so so that's selfish. If I look at my behavior and I'm embarrassed by my kids' behavior, I'm actually I'm it's a selfishness that's actually happening. My own heart, my my own heart is the problem actually And it will keep me from being concerned about my kids' heart, which that's actually the real problem. Their wrong behavior, I would be concerned more about their heart, not about what I look like. Yeah, very good. Yeah. Um we may not correct because of our own issue. Okay. You ever seen that by the way you ever seen that in your parent and your and your uh uh and your kids? You see they have the same tendencies you do Uh you're all giving me blank stairs. You've got I can't be the only one that sees my uh myself and my kids. And I'll tell you what, it'll get me frustrated. And I'll be like and I remember even uh even when I was a kid, I did something wrong, I don't know what it was, and my mother got really angry. And she came back and apologized to me. And she said, I am so sorry. She said, um, she said, I I'm sorry. I she said, I I really lost it because I saw myself so much of you. And uh she was she was she admitted it enough, you know, she was willing to admit it, which was a good thing, uh that she was wrong. But um Yeah, so you do. You and sometimes we can we can sort of excuse our kids' behavior because we don't s we don't see it. Yeah. Cheryl, do you have a make snap doesn't make Yeah, we're too quick to jump on what what that is instead of the Bible says he that answers the matter before he hears it's falling to him. So we're s we're too quick. We're just answering it before we're really understanding what's going on. Laziness. Uh embarrassment is the is one and inconvenience is the other. We we behavior it was weird about we see behavior in our kids and it's really inconvenient. And I can I I have to admit to you, it's I've got three girls and when they're going at it with each other, it is very inconvenient. And it's loud. And they and they anyway, and it's really not mainly Caitlin, it's actually much more Kristen and Julie that are just Why I have a office in the basement. Anyway. Um but i I I need to say not just you guys cut it out, which is The knee-jerk reaction is just stop talking. Which I do say from time to time, I will tell you, just stop. Don't talk anymore. Like stop. You're not allowed to talk anymore. And but I need to I need to take the time. Uh and it's not just about the fact that you're driving me crazy, which does happen. But There's a heart problem here, why you you the usually it's selfishness, honestly. They're both being selfish. They both want their way. And um and so we need to take time to learn that. And if if if the only reason we correct behavior is because it's inconvenient for us, we're really not dealing with the heart of our kids And frankly, when it comes to our kids' behavior, those two issues, if if if it's embarrassment And inconvenience. If that's what our parenting style is to is to punish and discipline based upon those two things, mark it down your kids will rebel. It it it will almost definitely happen. Now it doesn't mean you can do everything right and your kids will still rebuild because why? The heart's deceitful and desperately wicked. But but kids when they get to a certain age, when they begin to see what their parents' hearts really are like um and it's really just about inconvenience and embarrassment, then we have we have real concerns there. Uh th that the that that is not what we want. All right, so what does this look what does it look like? These are some more ways that okay if you're if it's inconvenience, if it's If you're parenting out of those kinds of styles, inconvenience, or embarrassment, what is that going to look like? Well, uh let's list a few. First, bribery. If you'll be good in the store today, mommy will buy you a candy bar You ever been tend to do that with your kids? Okay, so bribery is one one one way. Random penalty. Alright, the next time you shut uh you say shut up, you're going to have to put a dollar in the jar Okay. Just this random You don't even have a jar. Or a dollar. Anyway, like they don't have a dollar. Like you said anyway. Alright. So random penalty I I and by the way, make sure you follow through on whatever penalty you you do. I mean if you have if you're gonna So I heard a one time a mother uh said, if you don't be quiet, I'm gonna throw you out the window. Don't don't say stuff like that. That's not not right. All right. Um Guilt or manipulation. It makes me sad when you disobey. You're now ruined mommy's day. Okay. Um that now I can I think you can say it really grieves me when you I I don't think that's necessarily uh when you disobey it really grieves your dad. I think you could say that and I think that Um it grieves God when we sin, right? So I don't think that's wrong, but it's not about you ruining mommy's day or you ruin I had a bad day because you did that. Okay, that kind of thing So guilt guilt and manipulation, that kind of thing. Fear of man, that's it. I've had it. You've been doing this all day and you won't listen. You're gonna get it now. Okay. Yeah. Well actually I think I think sometimes it's appropriate for the mom to say, wait till your dad gets home, but not for this reason. Anyway. Here uh mere forced obedience. Say you're sorry, share the toy, just merely forced obedience. So we must control beh behavior, but that must not be uh the whole story. Um Our kids must understand law before they can understand okay, so let's talk a little about this. I am not saying here That you don't control behavior, that you just that you just let them do whatever they want. I'm saying that there ought to be more than controlling behavior. that you there that you ought to draw uh help them can make the connection between their behavior and their heart. Yeah. Are we in the six to twelve I think this is all this is generally all of it. Now it's going to look differently based on the different uh and you and we'll when we get in examples that'll flesh out a little bit better. Um but was really just a string. Focus on obedience. Well well, but you could still say to a three-year-old that you're have that that you're having a bad heart, you're not cheerfully obeying. For example, if somebody ob disobey, if my kid disobeys Or let's say they have a bad attitude or what I could still point out attitudes, I could still point out um I could still do that. It's gonna be on a more basic level. Uh but I still can, for sure. Yeah. So you say enforced it. Obedience is not bad when it's combined with the answer, because three to three, I don't want to share. I'm sorry, you have to share. You're forcing them even though they don't want to do it Sure. No forced obedience. You're forcing them to forced obedience is necessary. But you're going to say, why is it you're going to say something to the effect of, hey, the re and and you know, three, you're probably not reasoning with them saying, why is it that you don't want to obey? You're probably saying you have your heart is not right here. You're you have a bad heart and that's why you don't want to obey. Something that that nature you or or something similar to that. Um yeah. Um At what point is a reward system appropriate or not appropriate? Um in my opinion, a reward system is good for positive things but not for infractions. Like I'm not going to I'm not going to um if if my kid goes out and rakes leaves and I want to reward them that's fine. But if my but if my if I say clean your room and they and they uh and it's an obedience thing, that's something different. I think it depends on If I'm rewarding them because they're obeying, I I think it's different than rewarding them because they they're doing something positive. They're doing something that is so Let's see how to put this. So if you have if you are if you are breaking a rule or breaking a law, I don't think reward has anything to do with that. You'd be really good until we get home and I'll give you a candy bar. That is not appropriate. Okay. Because they shouldn't be doing good because they get I mean that's actually cultivating a heart a selfish heart actually is what that's doing Um, does that make sense? Because you're now saying you're saying you're saying to them, okay, here's a selfish reason for you to obey me. Okay. So that you exactly be can be do the exact opposite of what you want to do with that. Um but to spontaneously say, I'm thankful you obeyed And here is a reward just to show I'm grateful for that. I don't I think it's probably okay. But you uh you you're training their hearts, so you you you know their hearts whether or not they obeyed because They thought maybe mom would give you a reward or not. I mean and you you want their hearts to be, no, I'm gonna obey because I'm supposed to obey because I need a police Please the Lord. And and even saying that, even at really young age, you could say, hey, that does not please God. That does not please Jesus when you do that. And so that's how it good question. Our kids must understand but so what I'm saying is what I'll say that is this. It is really important that you set a very clear standard for your kids at a very young age. Okay? Here's why. Our kids must understand law before they can understand their sin. We know that from Romans chapter 7. It says that we didn't we don't know sin except we know we know the law and we know when we've crossed the line. Sometimes parents are parents adjust their rules to the point where the kids they think, okay, the kids can obey this. No, right is right and wrong is wrong. And your kids are going to disobey. And you want them to see when they disobey. Why? Because they understand their sin when they see they disobeyed. You don't want to make it so easy for them that they never there's no law. Because if they don't know the law, they're never gonna know their sin they're never gonna understand their sin They must understand their own sin before they can understand grace. You can't understand grace unless you understand that you've sinned. Because grace is what? It's unmerited favor. Okay? So uh you uh it's unmerited. That means I don't deserve this So you can't you can't they can't understand grace until they first understand their own sin. And then another one to be really careful about, and I've seen this before. Be careful not to attempt to teach them grace by overlooking their sin. Some people think, some parents think, well, if I, you know, I just want them to understand That God is a gracious God, and so I'm going to overlook their sin. What's the problem there? What's the problem? Okay. Well they think that maybe they aren't receiving grace if they have a consequence. Say it again, I'm sorry. They may think they're not receiving grace if Okay. So like if you're doing it this way and then they get a consequence and still graciousness, they're not recognizing the feel. Good. Brad. I was just gonna say you're not acknowledging the problem of sin. Okay. Yeah. At least uh my understanding is like you have to accept accept the gift of salvation. God is forgiving it, but only if you accept the gift. Here they're not real they don't need to have that same kind of relationship in that case to have the sin be overlooked Okay, let's let me let me is grace overlooking sin? No. That's the problem. The problem is that grace isn't overlooking sin. God does not overlook our sin. He never looked overlooks our sin. What does God do? Why can God give us grace? Because Chr Christ paid the penalty for our sin. So when we over don't say This is a real temptation for parents. Well, I'm going to overlook that. I'm going to give you grace. No, you didn't. That's not grace. Okay? That's not grace. God doesn't overlook our sin. He applies our sin to Christ's account so that it isn't overlooked, so that God's justice is appeased. Right? And so I think we have a misunderstanding of grace sometimes is why we why we end up doing this. Um so how do you teach grace to your kids? Okay, we know how to teach law to our kids. Make sure you have a a standard. Let's ask the question: what is grace? Grace is unmerited favor. That's what grace is, right? That means that no matter what I do, I'm accepted by God. Is that right? Because of Christ. Is that right? Okay. Here's how you here's how you apply grace. When my child when my child uh sins, disobeys me, or whatever. And I discipline them, I spank them. I don't withhold the consequence and say that's grace. But here's what I do after I I spank them. I make sure that they understand that I totally accept them. So I give them the discipline. That's not great. You're not giving grace to your kid by withholding discipline. But then I'm going to hug them. I'm going to show what Julie does it now. When I spank Julie, which is a lot lately, she will actually come to me and she'll she she wants a hug right afterwards Why? I've heard people say that confuses the kid. Don't hug them right after you spank them. It doesn't confuse the kid. They really they get it completely You spank them because there's a consequence for sin. And then you hug them so that they understand you're fully accepting them. Okay? And I don't hug them, by the way, after they say sorry to me. I I will do that too. Okay? But I'm gonna hug them right away. I want them to know, I want my kids to know that no matter what they do, I accept them. But there's still gonna be a consequence. That's grace. Does that make sense? Alright now Could you, when they're older, could you occasionally say, you know, I am going to give mercy to I mercy is different. Am I going to be merciful to you? in this situation. And in some cases that might be. I would really shy away from that when they're young. But can you show mercy later? I think probably. But be careful with it, because it can very much look like you're overlooking sin. I think there are probably time you know you know when you know when you'll really be able to show race to your kids? When something happens, when they have some sort of infraction. that they could get the consequence, but you take it instead. And that I don't know how that doesn't happen that often, but occasionally that that kind of thing could happen when they're when they're older. that you end up getting the brunt of it instead of them. That would be a great way to show grace because that's exactly what Christ did. But we we need to understand be very careful of thinking I'm going to overlook I'm going to Teach them grace by overlooking their sin. It won't happen that way. Grace is unmerited favor. We teach them grace by helping them understand that we fully accept them despite the their behavior, but not by withholding consequences. Okay. So we uh and and when they get older then they understand that when they sin, if they know Christ is their Savior that and they've accepted the gift of Christ because they've got to do it themselves, then they are fully accepted by God as well. Um but there's still some there's still consequences for their sin. It is true That by God's grace, God does not always apply all of the consequences that we deserve when we're Christians. But we need to be careful of how we're teaching that to our kids. And it's all because God, the whole reason we understand this, the whole reason that that's true for us as adults is because Christ received all of the consequences on himself, and we understand that. Okay, so let's go through it let's let's look at some examples of how to reach the heart. How do we reach the heart? Number one And by the way, I did not come up with these examples myself. These are ones that I got from somewhere else. A one-year-old Jack is fussing about not getting to play with the dangerous utensil. He is starting to head for a tantrum. Okay, one year old we're teaching this. How do we so how what do you do? Well Do you give the one-year-old the dangerous utensil? Okay, that's obviously not the right thing. Okay. Try to distract the one-year-old with a safe toy. Not a bad idea for some children. I mean if you for some small children. Or do you gently discipline the one-year-old and speak of the ch uh child's fussy heart? God does not want us to have fussy hearts This child, like every one-year-old at heart, struggles with pride and subordination and impatient, complaining spirit. Even at this at the age, this age, we need to start speaking of the heart. Okay. So whether you use fussy or um whatever whatever you think your kids can understand. I probably just say bad, frankly. Okay. But uh uh anyway, uh that's really clear. They understood good, they understand bad. So um but but something like that to help them to understand they're making a connection with their heart. But I will say this They gotta know you accept them too. That's great. So I'm going to accept them. They need to understand I love them and I accept them, but I need to point out their fussy heart or their bad heart to them. Yeah. Gently discipline white. Uh what do you mean? Yeah, Joel will explain it to you. Okay. You you slap on the hand and you say no, don't touch that. Anyway. Okay. Um all right, uh let's see. Two-year-old. Christina is dropping food off a tray on the high seen that every kid every parent's gone through this. Drop the food, put it back in your plate, drop the food again. Ha ha ha keep dropping food. Okay. Uh rolling a Cheerio back and forth, left to right, li li that kind of stuff. Okay. Staring into your eyes while she's uh doing it. Uh we've all experienced that So what do you do? Stop being a child? No, that's not that's not the answer. It's funny. I mean that will work, but it is won't it won't And y and actually if you never feed them you don't have to change your diaper, it's a great system. No, don't don't do that. You stop them giving it Yeah, I'm not saying permanently, but um Or do you sit and feed them by hand so they have nothing to drop? Or do you give the give them food they love so much they won't drop it? These are all behavioral approaches. Or Do you thank God for giving you the food ahead of time at the time of dropping? Here's your discipline, and then explain that God ha God made the food and God does not want us to waste what He gives us We do not want to have wasteful, unthankful hearts. Okay, so it's a good, very simple explanation. We've thanked the Lord. Remember we prayed for this food? We thanked the Lord for the food before we started? Sure. Sure you can do those if you will. And you just Sure. We don't want them to we want them to be gluttoned, you know, so we gotta do it. Yeah, exactly. Don't waste don't be wasteful. Um Yeah, you could tell a two-year-old that they don't have to understand cognitively everything you say. Just start telling them things. Okay? That's wasteful. Uh that's unthankful. They can understand those concepts at two years old. I think you can, can't they? Yeah. Anyway, yeah, did you sign up for Grammy? Sure, so I'm not saying don't do both. I'm I I'm not saying you disobeyed. Okay, you disobeyed, but also I mean it's both. Yeah. Yeah, and if you start at two, then hopefully when they get to be ten, they'll still do it. with overextending. Like when they're little, they just need to obey the first time period. And I so I think there's something to go to an extreme of like ex Explaining and reasoning with a little problem. Okay. Yeah, I I I don't disagree with that. And sometimes they just need to do it because they don't I I totally agree with that. I will tell you this One of the worst punishments I've ever received as a kid was a lecture. I I'll take a spanking over a lecture. My dad would talk about it. I'm kind of joking. I mean I need to overexplain With their little like news colours, they need to learn that if you say no, it means no. Because it can be a safety issue. Yeah, I I agree. I don't think I mean it could be that sure they need to obey immediately or they're physically going to be hurt Yeah, but you could easily I mean I'm not disagreeing with what you're saying, because I think sometimes you're right. I think that's the case. But but you could easily say, you disobeyed me, that's wrong. Now here's why I told you don't do that Okay, and just say we want to be thankful for our food. It's not that hard. It's not a long explanation. It's just a very s it's a very quick explanation. I think we can we don't need to give a you're right, we don't need a long explanation, but but um But I think and and sometimes I think it's perfectly fine just to say, hey look, you disobeyed, that's wrong, and this is the consequence. Um but I think when we can we should be focusing on we should be making the connection between behavior and heart Four year old, yes. Oh then explaining do you think this if you say no to find the do you think that explaining stuff prompts the child to be Like when you explain something and they start to develop their own minds, say between ten and fifteen, and then they're like, but wait a second You said this, but I think this, you know, to prompt them to become more than a few years ago. If you're if you're heart focused in your explanation, I think that's unlikely If you're heart focused. If you're saying, hey, you have a reb uh the reason you did this is because you had an impatient heart. you had a rebellious heart, you had I mean those are the kind of things, then I don't I think that uh I I doubt you're gonna have that. Now if you're giving this long though you know, if you're other explanations that might be if you're if you're trying to modify their behavior by your explanation, then I think that's quite possible. Then they're gonna be able to then they're gonna argue back. But if your your explanation is to connect their behavior with their heart, I don't think you're gonna have as much of that. That's just my my opinion. Well we all well we all they all have this. Yeah. I mean yeah. Um And you have to know your own kids and stuff as well. Let's see. Four year old Sandra refuses to share with her sister, who is screaming her head off that the toy is hers. Okay. You could cut that oh. What are you talking? I I get it, okay. All right. Do you rebuke the older child and tell her there to placate the young younger sister? Well you would probably say placate. Tell her placate, but anyway. Tell her is that is that what you do? Oh sh just share. Share with your younger sister Okay. This is Bill Cosby approach approach by the way. No, it's not the right approach, actually. Um what's the right approach? Well Um do you sit down with both of them and talk about whether their fight is showing parts of uh uh show what's what's showing in their hearts. Or do you give the younger child a different love for uh I didn't word that right Okay, bottom line is do you talk do you sit down with both of them and talk to them and say, hey, you've got a a heart issue here. Both of you are being selfish. You don't want to share, and you should share. And you are trying to grab something that's not yours and you're both being selfish. Um I I think that's many times the best thing. Just to tell the older one to share because so the younger one will shut up is really not helping the situation in many cases. It's easier, but it's not necessarily helping. And often if the two of them can't agree on who who gets to play with the toy, do you know what happens in my house? Neither one plays for the toy, yeah that's right. They get to take it we get to take it away. Um let's see. Okay, let's go, let's move the common well we're almost uh we'll move through this quickly. Common questions about heart-centered parenting. How can I expect obedience from a heart, from the heart? After all, if my children aren't Christians, then they can't keep the law. Now we've kind of already addressed this by talking about the importance of the law Sometimes parents are um are in are they want to adjust the rules so that their kids can always follow them. And um I I would caution against that. The law of God is not easy for natural man. It's standards uh The standard is high and cannot be achieved apart from God's supernatural grace. God's law teaches us our need of grace. When you fail to hold God's standard, you rob your children of the mercy of the gospel. So understand that the answer is Yes, you want to set up law so that they can so that they can understand they can't follow it, honestly. Alright. Do I instruct them on their heart every time they disobey? And my answer to that is this. This is where this is where somebody uh this is sort of the my answer to that is this, you want to do this as frequent frequently enough that the child makes a clear connection between the heart and behavior. So I'm answering it by saying some would say yes, you usually just do it every time or most of the times. My answer is you know your kid And you should do it frequently enough so that the child is making a connection. My behavior is because of my heart. Okay, if something's wrong with my heart. And so you know you know your hopefully you know your child well enough to know whether they're making that connection or not. And if they're not, then I would increase the frequency that you're talking that you're doing that, that you that that you're making that connection for them And if they uh are, then there are certain times where they just needed to obey and and that's probably fine. Yeah. You haven't mentioned this, but is it as important to Mention to them when they do something right that their heart is correct? Well um you know if they do something nice and is above and beyond what's being constantly are telling them to bring their Bible to church and then they can get their Bible on their own and they're ready to go. You're like, good behavior, your heart's in the you know, like is it as important or is it so W n uh so the way to answer that is actually this. This might sound this does this is going to go go against what the world would say completely, but um we have bad hearts. So we don't want to teach our kids they have good hearts because they don't. So we can we can reward for good behavior. I don't have a problem with that. If they bring their Bible to church and you're we can say, good job, that's great that you're doing that, keep up the good work, those kinds of things But I wouldn't uh if they don't know the Lord particularly, I wouldn't want to connect that to their heart. This is personal my personal opinion. I wouldn't want to say, okay, you've got a good heart, that's why you did that. No, actually I wouldn't want to say that. I would just say I'm glad you did that. That's good that you did that. Um so I'm teaching them good behavior versus bad behavior, but it's the bad behavior that I'm actually pointing to their heart. The good behavior I'm simply saying Y you know, you're doing a good job with that. Because um I don't want them to get the idea that they can they can have a good heart if they do the right thing. No, it's actually going to be God's grace. Nobody can complete n fulfill their stand the the standard of righteousness that God has. So for example When at one point in Chris when she was younger, Kristen, uh I was spanging Kristen and afterwards she said, Daddy, I can't seem to stop sinning. That's exactly what you want them to say. I mean that's exact and I said to her, you're right. You can't stop sinning because your heart is not right, and we're born that way. And so you begin to teach them th that kind of thing So yeah, uh I don't I don't think I would make that connection actually. I would but uh but I think it's fine to say, hey, that's really good that you did that. That's great. And yeah. What could we add that? that it pleases the Lord when they obeyed. Sure. When they're obedient. Sure, you could say that pleases crush to obey the gospel. Sure. Sure. Yep. I think you can say that pleases the Lord um when you do obey. Yeah that's fine. Yeah. I think that's good too. Good. Um so uh let me go let me mm Hm. Okay. This is the next question and last one. This is hard work, because it will it is hard. Is parenting hard work? It is. It's really hard work actually. And you might say, Well I'm not seeing I'm I'm seeing li little fruit. I'm not seeing a lot of fruit. Can you encourage me? Well, here's what I would say about this. This has a long-term fruit, uh has long-term fruit with very little initial gratification. So this is line upon line, precept upon precept, and you're not going to get, you're not going to say, boy, my kid has just changed in two weeks because of this approach. It isn't gonna happen. Okay, I don't want to give you any false suddenly you're gonna have a perfect kid a month if you do this. You're not. You're gonna have a kid that may be more aware of his imperfections Okay, but you're not gonna have a perfect kid from the doing it and you're gonna say you it's gonna be like well I so here's what I would say present joy comes from your consistent obedience it comes from you obeying In other words, I'm going to do this with my kid. I'm going to train my child in the right way. And I'm going to be joyful that I'm obeying the Lord in doing this. I'm following the way God wants me to do this. And that's the joy I'm going to get, not from the kids' obedience. Because we're gonna we we like we like quick results. from what we do. And you won't get quick results from this. This is long term results for doing this. Um We all look forward to a day when we can joy in our children's obedience, but for now we must find our joy in the fact that we are pleased in the Lord. So we need to understand that. The other thing I would say is this is easier when parents are a team. Dads need to be to engage in this area and can offer a great deal of support by offering a fresh perspective when mom is understandably worn out. And I'll just say that just generally speaking that dads engage on uh on this. So when you come home, I always tell I always suggest this is just a suggestion in my opinion. I think dads when they get come home from work they need about a half hour to detox. They just need a half hour well, detox is probably the wrong word, but uh you know what I mean. Uh decompress. Yeah. They need a half hour to half hour to decompress. They just need to, you know but after that they need to get back in and engage in their families Okay. And understand I you know engage in what's going on because a lot of times they can bring a perspective and they could talk to their kids and about their heart attitudes. If they if if a mom says to the dad, he's been a disaster all day which he shouldn't she shouldn't say in front of the kids, by the way. Um then the dad can sort of say, okay, let me talk to him and you can do some of this coaching of, you know, why were you so bad? What did you do with your mom? Why did you disobey and and explain the hard attitude and possibly discipline as well? So It is a lot easier. It doesn't make it easy, but it's easier when you are a team. Okay, I'm over time. Let's go ahead and uh teams, you're dismissed