So you're saying in this verse it doesn't specifically say that female was created in God's image. And that men and women share that status equally. And the weaknesses of the woman are not weaknesses. Most of you don't know my grandfather. So you're actually protecting your child, your son, by learning to uh to uh teaching them uh these kinds of things. And he he he sees masculinity not as it a um not as like a right, but as a a given, a trust. They have to be trained to be attentive to others, especially those who are weaker, and to foster their growth. But you particularly need to make sure that your sons understand that as well. How are you leading your children? We are continuing our series in marriage and family and we are looking tonight at uh fatherhood and raising boys, um, but it will be very applicable for everybody here and live out as follows. Is anybody ca you could probably Zach, you you could probably speak to that. I don't know why, but people often tell me that I I I don't I guess not everybody's this way, but people often tell me that um I have an unusually good memory of my childhood. It's taken uh prime almost entirely from a lesson that was given at Capitol Hill Baptist Church on this subject. uh written by John Piper and Wayne Grudham. Um that's where this lesson is coming from. There's this story, for example, this illustr uh story of a lady who was trying to raise her child gender neutral. But you've got the Trinity, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. When it comes to gender differences. And God intends to display his image differently through men and women. It's different. And God created one with apparent weaknesses that they're fulfilled by the man, so that there would be strength there would be each other each other's strengths, yeah. Okay, and that again answers a more more just question. So, but what w what role does God intend men to play in how do we cultivate this role in boys and live it out as fathers? in ways appropriate to a man's differing relationships. I know these are great technical terms here for you tonight. When you see in the culture an adolescent being held out as a man, whether it's on sitcom or an advertisement for a movie, ask your son whether that looks like the Bible's picture of a man. for his children the good news. I think I missed letter A somehow on my on my in my notes here. That would be a good start in some cases. Um and if you could teach them that at an early age, it will help them in all err kinds of areas of their life. Substitute it for the word love in pro in um first Corinthians thirteen. That is a masculine, that is a that's biblical masculinity. is less a prerogative than a calling. Adam must give the first account to God for the moral responsibility of life. are really struggling with what is my role in leadership. and get the family out of bed on Sunday mornings, and gather the foo family for devotions, and discuss what moral standards will be required of the children and confer about financial parties uh uh priorities. Uh just to s sort of teach him how to you know, just give him a g give him opportunity to do that. And the there was a son who was older, and he just said to his son, I want you and the kid and the your brothers and sisters to go rake the leaves. Just look out for like smaller kids. You know, like in like in Sonia's case or something. I was always thinking I'm either going to influence or be influenced. So that's leadership. Are you nurturing and cherishing her as you are commanded to do in Ephesians? Okay. Like I feel like a lot of younger children, maybe mine, like ten and under, would say a mom does 'cause a mom's there all the time. But it probably might I mean equally or more, maybe the mother's gonna do that when she's around, that kind of thing. what you do. And so like retrospectively we should have made him cook when even though you guys were around because he re he's really quite pitiful. Yeah. Let's begin this way. Believe me, I was a boy. Our focus this not this morning will not be on describing observable gender differences between boys and girls, but between fathers and mothers. I I I've taken almost I didn't take everything and I did some adjustments and things, but most of the material is from that. Your illustrations, you're like talking about illustrating like when you're like seven years old and you remember this stuff. Maybe earlier, fifties maybe. for me being male. of the uh uh Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. uh 127. And so we're not we need to be biblicists here and realize that neither gender, and we've talked about this a lot, but neither gender is superior to the other But you're saying that it's implied that he created male in his image and female in his image? The word him is just a pronoun. wrote a book on this subject. This is Yeah, we y you c right, but not all weak. We're talking about differences in gender. Cook eggs and a few other things. It's the area of authority and permission. are to be doing while the man occupies the position of authority and woman submits. This is it's because of the complementary design of of men and women is also fleshed out in their activities and their role. Rather, the foundation of this differentiation is traced back to the way things were in Eden before sin warped our relationships. We're not talking about goofballs here, think dumb and dumber, or that kind of thing. Okay. Um my my mom's dad, he was a gentleman, uh a very gentle man, but he was a colonel in the army too. But he also I mean he's the kind of guy who op very thoughtful, I mean, very uh uh opened the door for my grandmother uh until he couldn't anymore. So we're not talking about um uh we're talking about a polite uh not talking about these things. It's a good thing to do, hut man men, men, uh fathers, uh when you when you're sitting next to when you're just observing roles. Netflix and then they gave it to us for f offered us for free with something else we got. So far it's but it's been pretty clean. The roles are a little weird though. But I've I'm explaining you know my wife actually I was glad I didn't even have to my wife is explaining to her to to our daughters, hey, you know something a little strange off about her? for boys of all ages, cast a vision of mature masculinity uh in your in your prayers as well for your little one. and honor women as fellow image bearers, equal fellow image bearers. W women are more uh girls are more aware of their environment and they sort of care what other people are doing around them. of their environments, being aware of what's going on around them and how what they do affects others Until I got I came to Christ and that really made a big difference. And he's aware about how his actions affect affect others. And we need to understand that in our families as husbands and and uh and and fathers Or are they going to be totally lost when it comes to that? It is not moving things forward. God says, for example, to a husband, he is to dwell with his wife according to knowledge. then there's something that's not right in the home when it comes to leadership. when if that is the case. There is a biblical masculinity problem. for this pattern of initiative while her husband is passive, something contrary to biblical masculinity and feminin uh femininity is not right. Um I know of one one situation where of and you know I'm all it's all of this is I'm just drawing from other things, but I I I know of one situation where there were several kids in the family Is he you know is he setting the example in and and leading an example? You're gonna give him guidance as he's doing those kinds of things. So let so just ask them, do you fear what people think? A man must be able to speak, to be understood, and to communicate in a way that will honor God and convey God's truth to others. Obviously, if he's a husband and a father, he's going to have to learn to do this. Frame his words, make his case when truth is under fire, and when belief and conviction must be translated into an argument. And if they're not, I better be influencing them. uh Christian school. So that kind of environment is good. Kick 'em out there and let 'em let them get it done. Um all right, let's g let's move to this. you know, putting them in those kinds of environments and seeing how they do is something that is uh that you know as they are able to is is something that they need to they need to be able to stand alone A truly masculine father is actively, deliberately, thoughtfully leading his family in God's ways. Any questions about this, leading uh with biblical masculinity and how we teach our children, our boys, these kinds of things? I think in some cases the mother is going to be able, for instance, like teaching her son to be attentive to things around them. Setting a good example for your son to do that. one off uh yeah with a babysitting. sort of but then you know, among the houses, dad in charge ideal. we weren't ne m me and my brothers never really competed to be in charge in the house. would need to actually focus on giving responsibility to those that are younger in order to give them the ability to lead. And so but like he'll admit to this too. significant shift of my responsibilities. They're different. uh in one sense or another because uh because um if you're a mother you're and you have boys you'll still be needing this Which is um I thought everybody did until people keep telling me that that's not the case. um for either boy or girl, human nature. gender inequality. And of course, boys and girls become fathers and mothers, most of them. They are complementary. Yeah. his image, okay? Men and women are not interchangeable though, and this is the thing that we need to understand. is to is to say that they you know they're they're a nice person, they've got nice hair or whatever. In God's design, the weakness of the man uh um are not the weaknesses of the man are not weaknesses So God created man with apparent weaknesses that are that are filled by the woman, that are fulfilled by the woman. talking here about lack or lower capabilities or we talking about something related to sit nature where their sit nature is they all have sit nature but somehow different where you can kind of help is a sense of benefit benevolent responsibility to lead. At the heart of mature masculinity is the sense of benevolent responsibility to lead, provide for, and protect women in ways appropriate to a man's differing relationships. But we also think in some of these other terms and we'll just kind of put that out of the way. Okay. That's not masculinity. It's okay. Yeah, yeah, it's a it's a new law. Um and so you don't remember that? I heard it immediately. Compare things to the Bible's picture of, in this case, a man. I'll ask a few more questions here and then we'll get into letter B, which is what I want to get to. without going to the notes. And by the way, is that not a problem in our age? And even the way he relates to pornography and the kind of concern he shows for his marriages for the marriages of men around him. then they're going to recoil against it because it's treating something that is an im treating image bearers as an object. Well let me just encourage you this way. But begin to teach your boy your boys how to treat your their his sister positively, how to treat a young lady positively. considering um you know when you're 30 and considering dating somebody, you can you can think about you ought to think about whether that young man is aware of his environment But you should look at that. It you it it uses a different word love. a given trust. is a sacred trust. He looked weak, but he was infinitely strong in saying no to the way of the world, so it will be again and again for mature men. As uh biblical masculinity is not passive, it's active. We want to train our boys not to demean or ignore girls ultimately uh who will be women, but to nurture them in the service of Christ. Are you the one in the home that is providing a general pattern of initiative? in our sons. We have a sister in the family obviously. Uh if your son uh another area, if your son follows the crowd, uh he'll have trouble leading his family. overcoming the natural intimidation and fear that comes from looking at a crowd, opening one's mouth, and projecting the words. Dave is not a typical CR. Are you taking time to set priorities and instruct your families? That's going to be t t very telling to the boy. Yeah, I I think that in uh ideally you're gonna have both parents doing it. That's going to tell something to the son. on him but I was also very much involved with that. Kids. Yeah. And the older children may not get as much as the younger children would know if it's better off. with us it was kind of also a l a little our dad was the pastor and so we were kind of de facto the leader of our group of friends. and that respectively they should have made him do more because he can't make eggs and he but he didn't have to because I did it and then my brother did it and so by the time it got to him it was cereal We each had our specialty. Yeah. Um if you are a young lady that isn't married yet, this will be helpful for you because you will begin to see what is wondering about this, but the truth is our world is. They are want you know they are advocating the world is advocating males, people that are born male having the choice to whether or not they want to become female and females want having the choice whether or not they want to become male and and or just gender neutral somehow, or all of these different things. teenagers uh a couple weeks ago compliment not compliment okay there's a there's a spelling difference and a very different word to compliment somebody compliment somebody Okay, right. You can't cook doesn't mean that somebody I can't either, but somebody else, another male, can't. Authority now let me say this. We've we've dealt with that. the area in which we're looking at. I think that's probably helpful. A father loving his wife biblically, this is another area, giving himself up for her, nurturing and cherishing her as he does his own body is picturing it w when you're really leading the right way, you're uh a leader is a servant, it's one who's giving himself up. Now, letter B is that whole sense. And we want to teach our child our sons particularly to respect and honor women, to treat to think of them as image bearers. So um you know when our kids you know the there's a lot of difference between boys and girls obviously okay but one of the major differences between boys and girls is girls at a very young age Men are not that you boys are not that way, are they? Biblical masculinity, we're teaching our sons to think outside of what of that truck to being aware I'm gonna play my video games and I'm gonna drive a car and I'm gonna eat a burger or whatever. Is he just focused on getting a girl? Well, husbands, are you do you have a sense of responsibility fat are do we have a sense of responsibility that we're able to pass down to our sons? Um leadership involves service and sacrifice. As a former pastor put it, we want to teach our boys to lead through nurturing. you know, wa watch out for her. Um but they don't get a pass because of their personalities. To be a man, every boy should have a number of qualities, including verbal maturity, sufficient to communicate and articulate as a man. You know, with my girls, I'm gonna be pretty protective of them when they're when they get their first job. You know, all kinds of things happen when you work with tree guys. I'm glad I asked you. her uh her her girl, her little girl, a train and said here and the girl apparently wrapped it up in a blanket and put it in a stroller. And um and actually the genders, we find that from first first up, first Corinthians seven explains this, that that the man-woman relationship we are talking to is more like God than anything else in the universe. each other fortify one another against the sins or is this purely relating to like capabilities like I can't call uh Um uh and it I you know um of course we have to be careful about this because the fact that Fathers and mothers hold out a biblical vision. um masculine, the wife. But um it's overall pretty clean. for for life, for your actions, for what you're doing. They're getting older and older and older before they're willing to actually take responsibility. When we're talking about a sense of benevolent responsibility, we're talking particularly about our relationship with other women as men uh to to regard them that way and honor them in that way. you begin it's sort of a guard against how when they're confronted with pornography, for example, which every person probably is at some point, every young man is at some point or another, when they're confronted with that And I want the truck and give me the truck. So I know as a boy I was a disaster, okay, uh young boy. So another area to consider in this whole idea of a sense of benevolent responsibility is would your wife say, you're working, fathers, you are working for good concerned for and aware of the good of your family and even when time is against you when you are busy or traveling. Especially, you know, obviously men are in most cases are physically stronger than women. Um I I think if we as men can think in those terms of leadership, that it's our responsibility in our homes. to move things forward to a goal, then that will give us an idea of what our role is. And that is part of biblical masculinity. Understand that he doesn't have to initiate every action, but feels the responsibility to provide a general pattern of initiative. It's moving things forward to a toward a goal. responsibilities as they see their like age appropriate. Okay, in the yard. What what do you suppose you'd be looking for to see good leadership and not good leadership? Yeah. Then that can get passed on to your sons. Yeah, that's actually really good. You need to talk to your son and say, look, you should not be one who's just following the crowd. Boys must have character, maturity, uh sufficient to demonstrate courage under fire. Okay? Where are you leading uh leading them? You know, following all these guidance rules you're giving, they still I feel like children would still think the most present parent is the one that does it. Um you know, if uh doesn't uh isn't attentive to his wife, isn't a tenant and just kinda does his own thing all night or whatever. sort of parent figure when the parents weren't there as well. lifestyle changes as each child comes along too. Yeah, that's true. what a m uh uh a godly man should look like by by this, so this will be helpful for you in that sense. That kind of thing illustrates complement uh how how the Trinity is actually complementary of a male sort of a misunderstanding of of the male role as being superior and sort of a reaction to that in the culture. I um I don't I can't think of a place where I can't think of anywhere scripturally where we think where we would see that the flesh or the sin nature is any different for a man than a woman. We think in terms of of masculinity being anti-masculine, so we're raising wimpy men and we don't want to do that. Here's what we're not talking about. I encourage the women to do this as well. Inherent in that is someone who is taking benevolent responsibility. begin to care for others. And I'm sure you mothers are, you know, seeing that in your sons, your young sons, and how frustrating that is. So here's a biblical distinction between men and women. Um and that really shows us uh we see that all the way through scripture, by the way, where God is God holds the leader accountable. Yanking or pulling. But it's very hard if you don't understand this concept, it's very hard to know, okay, where do I lead then? For the father to model those things and then slowly give them Sixteen and finally my dad said you need to go get a real job. That's a qu because if you're doing that with your wives, you're setting up a good example for your your boys. I I would imagine that a that um a parent would actually need to um So I think it will be helpful and uh for all of us in one way uh or another. the God's purpose in making boys versus girls, because he did. Male and female. you know, not incompetent you know incompetence basically. Are you embodying the type of self-sacrificial let me I'm I'm I'm actually this seem seems to be out of order or something here. She's she's fun. Hitting their sister, for example. Yeah, good. Um what's that let me ask anybody have any ideas? Yeah, I know of a um a one family that when the when the son was you know thirteen, fourteen years old, he just the the the father just let let the son lead the family in personal devotions every once in a while And and and and so I either and I I remember as a teenager thinking to myself, and I must have gotten this from somewhere else, but um I want to make sure the right people are influencing me. Passive fathers raise passive sons. Yes, sorry. Does anybody have and it's I I don't that's a good question. Adam was. And so how are you again showing that malevolent responsibility to your friends? Teaching us about the Trinity, in which different roles do not signal lack of equality among the persons, but instead complement one another. And and being aware, that's a real big thing for lot little boys. Or as they grow up, maybe early teens, that kind of thing. You know, more than how much. So what we're talking about is biblical masculinity, and you don't find these kinds of things involved in biblical masculinity. Well yeah I've been characterized by doing good unto others. So John Piper puts it practically. Yeah if he is he just sitting back on a you know drinking lemonade button letting everybody else do the work or is he doing the work with them? You know, the the natural thing is the oldest is going to end up leading in in a lot of cases. I have two younger brothers and a sister, and we were having this conversation at Christmas that my brothers are married in normal, so it's fine. This point is about equality. Good, good, I appreciate you pointing that out. That means you're complementing each other. So remember that John Piper said the sense of benevolent responsibility. Uh in in terms of how we interacted with our friends and how we interacted with others. Leadership involves service and sacrifice. Well part of it is you teach them as they're growing up and rubbing shoulders with friends. The elephant in the room is that I don't have boys. Of course, as you might be anticipating, we will be talking about raising girls in the future as well, either next week or the week after. So she compliments your statements hopefully. Um I uh I uh uh my family has been watching that on Netflix at Lost in Space. Am I emulating this well enough that my kid my girls will be able to identify a young man that has that in his life because they've seen it in their dad? Yeah. But uh i it as well as as the parents move on in age, when you first start out, you're a little bit poorer So just kind of get that in your mind. Like God entrusted you with being a man and it's a sacred trust that you've been given, rather than sort of this right of authority or leadership or power or Uh uh in the sense that when the when when Eve took of the fruit, he should have been able to stand up and say, Look, I and showed leadership. If you have sons. And the influences there were not good, actually. A man has got needs to be able to stand up and lead. Are you leading them tenderly, sharing yourself with them as a father does with us? Anyway, because I noticed it but I was didn't really want to say anything until somebody else did. Now it doesn't mean that women and men husband and wife don't work together on planning, but when it's always the woman that is initiating and the husband is sort of passive We don't have time to go on this here, but there are a lot of different marks of I mean I didn't actually provide that link for you. Number one, we're not talking about w we don't want men to be wimps. Masculinity is not being wimpy, it's not being a goofball, and it's not being a thug where you're domineering and sensitive, authoritarian, condescending. Whatever God gives leadership responsibilities, it's a sacred trust, not some sort of prerogative. I'm glad I put you on the spot. Is it the wife that's just doing this? Do you not feel that that's so tough though for a father like a working father and an at home mom? They're not the same. So um so we're not talking here about gender differences specific observable more we're gonna be looking at They're ten and ten they're equal and they are to complement each other. So, what role does God intend men to play, and how do we cultivate this role in boys? It's not that old yeah, weird um antiquated thing with a box and a yeah anyway. Okay. Genesis 3. Hopefully who leaves our home? There are many things that we've been talking about so far that have been specifically In fact, a lot of the cultural problems that we are finding today is a lack of understanding of this So anyway, understand that. That's still a very good uh good idea to do that. That's a very, very good idea uh to have your have your boys just looking looking look out for that. You've seen him here before on Easter or something, but most of you don't know him. You're in charge. Like at our street there's a kid who was his first day at school, one year older, so make sure he's okay, sit with him. Good. It's moving things forward toward a goal. So mommy treats his sister always telling you don't treat girls like that, you don't treat little girls like that, you don't treat mommy like that. Ask the following assessment questions. You're you're working together on that, yeah. We're really going to look more at activities and their roles and those kinds of things, which I think helps to answer Jeff's question a little bit as well. I I I think of w when I think of a a model of biblical masculinity in my life, um my dad some, but really my grandfather, to be honest with you I haven't my dad watched the whole thing through. You should pe it pay attention to what's going on there. Sure. That's going to send uh well that's what my dad did, that's what I do, that's you know. Says, every time we talk to each other as men and women, we should remember that the perpa person Authority and submission. But a responsibility a benevolent responsibility where I'm looking out for others, where I'm I want to do good to others Even if the boy is younger your boy's younger, right? Well this guy's one's good in that area, but I'm gonna go this way here. So you don't want to remove the const the idea of the distinctiveness between male and female. So um anyway, all that to say that um we need to understand that our strengths and weaknesses complement each other. But understand that only goes so far. Now, I don't. Um but with differences. They are complements that call forth different strengths in the other. John Piper writes that differentiated roles for men and women are never never traced back to the fall of man and woman into sin. Okay, anyway. Good thoughts here. That's the presupposition of this statement. Benevolent responsibility has to do with with taking responsibility It is moving things forward to a goal. So there's not that's not wrong. I can't draw from personal experience when it comes to raising boys, but of course um I I it's not a far stretch About equality is critical. Then it then him is explained male and female. I mean she this woman is pretty pretty But but but the oldest um I can I can see more there's they have this sort of natural desire to care for others around them. It is a duty and an obligation and a charge. I hope they're not totally lost. When a bo when a when a young man gets his first job to s you know, like with uh Um I was all boy. It's a classic work on that subject. Um honestly some of that is is actually the fault Think not just about how you can curb their behavior in a negative sense. I a I I remember um that uh I w I homeschooled for my first year in in high school and then my kids my parents put me in the They fit together. There so so that gives us our understanding that when we're talking about gender differences, we are not talking about He says the leadership pattern would be less than biblical if the wife in general was having to take the initiative in prayer at mealtime. Yeah. I mean it's a little spooky and scary at times, but not you know, it's pretty clean. They're not gonna grow off the same. Okay? That's a good example. 9, God says to Adam, Where are you? So God intends to display his image differently through men and women. If the f if it's the wife in the home that is doing all of these things Therefore, we should treat men and women with equal dignity, knowing that men and women have equal value to God. Getting you if you're a girl. I'm serious. Um I think a lot of it does tend to fall, especially if you have the oldest son, tends to fall We had a buddy system growing up too. They are co-equal, but they are different. And frankly, the the liberal feminism of the nineteen I don't know, how far does that go back? Um that's another area that we're that that in in leadership What does it mean by the sense of responsibility? Just go get it done. That's true. We're going to break this apart a little bit. They're like, that's a truck. I know that thug domineering thing is not biblical and it's not right. I don't know the answer to that because I was in a family of two and I have three girls, so I I don't have an answer for that one. In the in a similar vein, you also, um, depending on the age difference in in your boys, I I was one of three boys. This is usually how it's sort of framed in church. But if you have sons, how do you nurture this kind of leadership? Be very careful about that. Th those are the kinds of things that you can do. Let's go ahead and teens you're dismissed downstairs for a few minutes here. If the dad comes home and and doesn't interact with the family, doesn't They work together. There's this natural nurturing kind of thing. Um the word responsibility is is the idea of love This is an important one. So when you plan your year's events, including traditions and those kinds of things. If you don't know whether you're too passive, ask your kids. Thanks. They're always getting older and get and yeah. This is these are differences that are pre-fall. It seems as though and not just m men, but women too Anyway. John Piper writes this. A wife may initiate the discussion and planning of one of these of these, but if she becomes the one who senses the general responsibility All right. You need to hold out a biblical vision of mature masculinity for your sons. And he's pretty subservient, almost feminine. You know, and you're watching something. But think in terms of not just stop hitting your sister Beyond the context of conversation, a boy must learn to speak before larger groups This isn't my situation, but I'm curious if you had multiple boys, would it be difficult if they kind of were competing for the leadership growth potential? And uh and so I worked in carpentry and and tree work and that kind of stuff. Is it your wife just planning all these events? But but I remember being really a pain, my poor parents, okay. Notice who sent first in Genesis? So we're getting into this sort of area of leadership. I I sorry putting you on the spot. And is he considerate and courteous and caring for others and those kinds of things? And I was talking about myself as much as Jeff in that area. So that's not what we're talking about either. I I appreciate my dad when so I was working in child eventually and fellowship uh when I was fifteen and So anyway. It says, and we'll look at this, God created us in his image what? Oh okay. So and so it page is so and so. First of all, do you as a hus as a husband, if you have if you have a fear of man, okay, if you the Bible says the fear of man is a reproach and a snare They can they're they complete each other. And you have, okay, so what are the differences? I didn't have time to watch the whole thing through. Leadership does not have have to initiate every action. And so I was thinking in those kind of terms. They're like sailors. Okay. Actually a blazing is a great idea in a situation like that because you are s i it's not putting all of the responsibility on the oldest. Pretty sure my third has a whole lot more than my first at her age. We're talking about more than just that. Yes. Are you embodying this type of self-sacrificial masculinity? There might be some things missing if that yes. It's not driving somebody or forcing But there is much that is for uh specifically for one gender or another. Um we're gonna be talking though about we're not just talking about gender differences, like Our world is very confused about this. So let's look at that. And masculinity, biblical masculinity Um and and we need to share this with our sons and daughters. He is to be attentive to his wife, who is the weaker vessel. In the very first chapter of Genesis, God created man in his own image, and the image of God created him, male and female. It clearly says male was, and then it just says God created the male and the female So um or the other way around. So we're not talking about wimpy men. But in letter A, we're talking about benevolent responsibility. They're not thinking about uh that that it's just the way uh uh y uh a little a boy thinks. You need to think on your on your own. He needs to be able to articulate his beliefs and be willing to stand on his beliefs, those kinds of things. Of course, when the dad comes home, what does he do? Um and so um so I don't think I have total totally no experience in this area for that reason and So anyway. John MacArthur says this. So one of the things we're trying to raise our sons to have a sense of responsibility Anyway. Each one of my brothers, we did not follow the other. He had very specific purposes in in how why he made the genders the way he did. How do you nurture this kind of leadership in your younger sons? No, your boy's older. Are you taking time to set priorities and instruct your families? Yes, that's in the Bible. We're going to really kind of dissect this phrase, this this this um what he says here. Anyway. But the kind of responsibility, it's not just responsibility for myself Jeff? Al Moore uh said this, um Wayne Grudham, who co-founded the Council on Biblical Manhood and Womanhood, who also wrote the book Biblical uh along with John Piper. I've always thought kind of a vernacular, kind of chivalrous almost is Yeah But I think they're descriptive of some of the things that we run into when we're talking about masculinity. Yeah. By the way, young ladies here that are single, that's one of the things that you can be aware of when you're Okay? Is he delegating appropriately? If you watch your sons and your son is just kind of following the crowd, whatever the crowd does, he's just following the crowd This isn't about personality. Ask how that compares with what he sees what what the little boy, your little boy sees in daddy, or if daddy is not around, a godly man in his life. So how do we how do we nurture this? It's just more talking about the weaknesses within the gender d differences. Um They were very bad. Instead, the biblical idea is that they complement one another, by the way. Right. And and it's important to understand that. So but if it At the heart of mature masculinity is a sense of benevolent responsibility to lead, provide for, and protect women Surround her with care, warmth, guidance, to equip her to do the work of God that God has for her. Are you showing that benevolent leadership? Um so those kinds of things uh are are important. Um that was too much information. John Piper writes, such a man's sense of responsibility will affect how he talks about women. Or you're just concerned about the girl. Anyway. How do you hear of a kid growing up, how to use it? And but by what does benevolent mean? I think that is a great, a great summary of leadership It's not just the father or the son or the or the mother uh that is helping the you know and ideally that's what you're having is both working together for this You know, it and so like he'll we'll tell you now retrospectively we should have made him do more even though but it was just easier to have So we have to just figure out what is actually gender specific and what is just, you know And he's not really focused on anything else around him. Eve sinned first, but God talks to Adam first. This usually does not come naturally to boys who are interested in serving themselves. Any person. They need to learn to be aware of their environment and what how what they do affects other people. Is he doing some of the work himself? Oh definitely. So that gives you kind of an idea. I was in charge of one of the younger He told me it was pretty clean, so I'm kinda going on his thing. And you're looking out for them. The man will be uniquely called to account for his leadership, provision, and protection in relation to women. It's not a demanding demeter. Sorry. Uh you start small and you work you're wait yes. Uh husbands, how are you leading your wife? So I will be draw if I have illustration illustrations, I will be drawing from my childhood because I was a boy. But we're also not talking about thugs. Um so I I don't think it's so much I think it's more what is he doing when he is around more than Okay. But um that's that's what I kind of have in my mind. I'll give you an example of this. Prayer or um just helping with those responsibilities He's obviously there and he's guiding him, but you know, just those kind that kind of thing But the parent would actually n particularly for bo with boys. Uh somewhat reduced competition. I don't know. Or is your wife the one providing the general pattern of initiative? Um But on the other hand, I mean going to work and working a job and providing for your family is Um somebody's trying to find their phone, I guess. Anyway, so um so that kind of thing we should be doing. So so benevolent modifies responsibility. Now we're not talking about authority and submission. Jesus led his his bride to holiness and heaven on the Calvary Road Yes, science. But um and so Are you enjoying them, not just instructed in instructing them? Or ideally you should be doing it together. And I would highly recommend it act uh uh as well. So um so no, I think it's explicitly saying he's created male and female in There's a they're a there's a one each other's counter counterparts. I'm gonna go for the truck. You teach them, you know, I I don't know where I got this idea as a teenager, but I remember thinking to myself, you know, if I'm not influencing my friends, they're gonna be influencing me. They do not tell you what men and women Yeah, those are the kinds of things you're you'd be looking at. So I chose to be a leader in that environment or to stand alone, which in some cases I did. Dad was always in charge and he made sure we knew that. So let's look at this word. And what Piper is saying along with in this book, what he is saying is that when you teach your boys to regard This is biblical masculinity. What's God's big picture on gender? Compliment I just do so anyway, so I can actually remember mo a lot of my childhood as well Because they're in the image of God. These are things that God created prior to that that the fall Anyway, the in the in that in the episodes the um My wife needs to speak up a little bit apparently anyway. I goofed. Yes. Do you catch that? We're also not talking about goofballs stuck in protracted adolescence. I mean I that just seems normal to me I think and I think that's kind of what Jeff was I I think a parent would have to consciously do that. Not implied, I think it's explicit. John Piper puts it this way, at the heart of a mature masculinity Um And I immediately recognized that they were. And this is totally against what the Bible says about these things. What we're not talking about is this. I can see it in all three of my girls. And that is one of the things that I'm not sure I frankly think you teach your book your girls that too. Yeah. But So we're not going to really focus too much on the whole issue of authority and submission. That's a trust, not a right, and we should see it as men that way. Well, one may look like an apparent weakness, but it's actually allowing the strength of the other to come forward But basically the um the the have ya have you guys seen that scary lost in space Not all boys have a leader personality, sort of a strong personality. Um Like don't just think in terms of, okay, I gotta stop them from being bad. I've heard it said that if you take the name of the person you're considering and They are complementary. So And we're we are hopefully nobody has a problem with this. Is he allocating it appropriately, age appropriately? Is he I think a young man And they are So they're displaying God's image in different ways. He says that the Bible says that Ephesians But they were saying that they didn't give the younger brother enough It's also from a book on biblical manhood and womanhood. Uh uh the picture I think of of someone with masculinity What do we mean by benevolent responsibility? You have a sense of benevolent responsibility toward them. So that Generally. I'm understanding that That's probably is going to be more uh uh son a father should be doing it too And and so Well the one thing that she was bring bringing up there is that each child that comes along Um and Enrique, you can come on up. Um fathers, of course, you'll be helped by this Yeah, I'm just gonna go to the next one because it's I think that got out of order or something. Though not all men will become public speakers, every man should have the ability to take his ground uh to take his ground Gender differences are a portrait, remember this, of a gospel, of a gospel embedded in creation. Uh and we need to ask our s we need to set the right example uh in that area. Now men tend to be single focused How do I lead? Anyway. You know, and a mom's doing it. Uh leadership does not presume superiority, but cultivates and mobilizes the strength of others. So dads, men, husbands What you suppose you would be looking for if you watched your son do that Even if they were s even if they're younger than your s the sis the Now, what John Piper means is this. Or is he just kind of concerned about himself? He's he's he's actually a a a marine or a Navy SEAL Um Differentiated roles were corrupted, not created by the fall. Or, right. But anyway. This is not always the case, but generally Are you really always thinking about the good of your family? And of course Who seems to lead our home, mommy or daddy? So he gave uh she gave he probably wouldn't be offended by that. Not quite as much, no, actually. I mean he was the guy, you know, he fought in battle in two terms in Vietnam. Okay, the woman sent first. Am I supposed to lead at all, or am I just supposed to be passive? Um so even in a case where the boy is younger and the girl is older, you could still say look out for your sister. There's anyway. He he created I mean he created the image of God created him male him there We're talking about leadership here. And we need to understand that. So let's just flush that out Or if you don't have sons like I don't have sons Now let me also mention this, that this lesson I think men are really struggling, young men, Christian men even So it presupposes So we need to understand that that will be happening. Big girls, you know, it's a good balance. There's something wrong there And I mean I got So each of us had a different group of friends but we're kind of in a leadership world there in in Uh it was it was more like we we I can see it more in my older two girls than my youngest. He holds Adam accountable first. This is an interesting concept that he brings out. And so that's where of course the Bible as well as our our primary source. We need to uh share this leadership Yeah. I it did not affect me though, because I thought to myself I've got to in We just got a free subscription to Netflix because we cancelled it because we hated it and Yeah. I'll just mention that, I've mentioned it on several occasions before. Yes. When we think of benevolent responsibility first. He didn't There are distinctions We should make up the observations, we should Okay. Even if So that's what we're talking about. Kind of have him karate, hockey, look for the smaller kids and protect them, help them. No no matter how much you try to treat them the same. Hopefully I'm preaching this to the choir on this. The little kids do something small and easy, but he's definitely taking the lining chair as what we By the way, this is something that Adam didn't have So um 1960s, 70s I've taught my girls that you know as well, frankly But who is who is leading in these things? Um you know, 'cause no one wants to be in the shadow of the other one. It's a very important question to ask. Yeah. That's in biblical masculinity as well. Sometimes we are we we So yeah, we're talking about that. Uh uh so the we have different circles of trends. We see that from Genesis But anyway, so uh I can Remember when she did that yesterday the other day Who was held accountable first? Uh a a man should be learning to take responsibility. Hopefully this has been helpful and I mean, that kind of a I can do that sometime. Who's gonna take care of the kids there like what parents If you do, then No, we're not talking about but They're they're more attentive How do you teach a boy that? Um Some do, some don't. Uh people will say to me I gotta stop them from That is a Does that make sense Good treatment of guests, Lisa? Hopefully nobody here is So uh That's that's that's great. I had to stand alone Anyway My youngest, like Yes. That was another lesson and Um She she gave Who is directing in these things? But Um Yes.