And um and so uh what's not on the slide up there is a section that I we were talking about identity last week. And I did want to make sure that we did cover really the most important aspect of identity, and that has to do with the fact that we are Christians. that a single person is a Christian, of course anybody that knows the Lord is a Christian, single or not. And just identify a couple of things about that. There are some handouts here in the front from last week. Uh you're welcome to just gr go up and grab one. Um the second page here. Actually if you don't have one, you'd like one. Enrique, would you mind passing these out to me Uh the second page is what we're going to be on tonight. Um and this it this issue of who am I and particularly uh the fact that we are a Christian. And then we're going to be getting into what the gift of singleness is in Scripture, as well as what is the blessing of singleness being freedom, the the idea of freedom. And so we'll get into those different things. Um so so it is very important as we said last week that that Uh and the reason we're studying singleness before we get into marriage and family and all the rest of it is because you've got to establish a good foundation here. And there are a lot of problems that happen here in the singleness stage that if they're not resolved correctly, they end up carrying over into marriage and then into family life with children. And so that's one of the main reasons we're doing that, as well as there are plenty of people here tonight that are single. And um and and so it's just important to understand where all of this fits and what our roles are. And I just mentioned a couple of things about this idea of being a Christian. You can look at your handout there if you'd like under number five there. Um Who Am I, a Christian? God's perspective on our identity should be primary. And I'll just say this about the whole concept of identity. Identity is a very popular idea today today in talking about what you identify as and all kinds of identity. This is a big thing today. But one of the things that happens that is very That we have to establish from the very outset of all this is who our authority is when it comes to our identity. What do we consider to be the authority? And if we consider and and if we consider God's word to be the authority on what our identity is, then we be we simply look at God's word, see what it says And then we follow it. But if we but we are tempted in our culture to look at other things. And whether you're a teenager or you have an adult or uh an older adult, uh if you're single Or Mary for that matter, all of us, we've got to think biblically about our identity. In fact, it's really important as a Christian, a married Christian To realize that your identity must be in Christ first and your spouse second. That actually is important. And sometimes that uh that becomes a problem as well. So our identity in Christ. And the and what let me ask you, I'll open it this way. What are some other sources other than the Bible that we sometimes look to to to um get our self-concept or our our identity to derive our identity what are some other sources that the world or people are tempted to to draw from. Any ideas, Jeff? Working money. Okay, where your what yeah, where you work, your occupation or money? Good? Economic status. What else? Friends and family? Yeah, your friends or your family. Good, both of those. Um In fact, how your upbringing is does establish uh kind of a baseline. Um our baseline actually ought to be scripture, not even how we how we grew up But um it's very n the natural thing is to consider you know what family we grew up in will determine to some degree our identity And there are some things in our family history that we need to say, okay, that's not biblical, so that needs to be thrown out um or another things that we would retain because they are biblical. The family is one and friends as well is another one. In fact, I think as as ch people approach adolescence and in into teenage years, um that tends to be the natural way to dis determine our identity we begin to I I uh determine our identity by our friends. And and we and by what our friends value, what our friends think about, what our friends want, we we begin to think about our ourselves in light of what our friends are and maybe even comparing with our friends. That becomes becomes and by the way it doesn't just stop at teenagers. Don't we do this as adults as well? We do the same thing. We do this kind of comparing game and we start doing that as well. But let's let's take teens for a minute So what are some things, teenagers, you guys can answer these this what are some things that you would say are um are things that you find either you value or teens your age value As a result of your friendships and how that ends up impacting how you see yourself. Any ideas? I'll put sp I'll put I'll call you out. I'll put you on the spot if you don't answer. Caitlin. Give me one. Other teams are next. Um well Okay. How how are you doing school? Alright. I actually remember a day where when you did too well in school it was considered n uh nerdy and not valuable to to your peers and that was that became a problem. You want people to hide their good grades. Other ridiculousness. But anyway. What else? Okay. All right, your appearance, your clothing? Good. All right, uh what p what you wear that can become something that your friends value a certain kind of clothing and you and and so you begin to identify as Wanting to wear certain clothes so that you look good and or you look a certain way and your identity starts uh start comprising your identity identity that way. What else? Nehemiah? It's great. You volunteered because you knew I was going to pick you. Anyway, this is the case. Alright, Nehemiah. Athleticism? Okay? Uh that's that tends to be more on the on the male side than the female side probably, but athletic athleticism. Alright. Al although it could certainly be both. What else? Okay, at least we've got a few examples there on the table of things that that my friends value, therefore I want to emulate, and therefore that way it comprises my identity. How we were trained, what how we work. What's the basis of all of this so far? It's how we feel. It's our feelings. And the basis of our identity cannot be how we feel. Why? Why should we not look to our feelings to determine our identity? Why? Yes, Sonia? Yeah, because you're gonna be a wreck. Because feelings change from one day to the next to the next to the next. If you're basing your identity on how you feel about yourself Then you're going to be really unstable and a double-minded man, like James one says So our identity, if we know Christ is our Lord and Savior, our identity is something that's fixed. It doesn't change. It doesn't move around based upon how we feel. Our our identity, how who we are, is based on what two things. Somebody tell me what what two things. Anybody, teens or adults. Your beliefs. Okay, yes, correct. Your beliefs, but particularly belief in what two areas? What makes you who you are? Creation is one. How you're created, right? How are we created? In what? In the image of God. We're created in the image of God. Okay, we have relational capacity because of the image of God. We have an ability to be able to relate to God, particularly. We have an ability to know God. There's all kinds of things because God says I'm fearfully and wonderfully made. God says that that he knew me in my mother's womb. He says that he c that that he knows everything about me. There's a great truth. You are uniquely created by God to be exactly the way He wants you to be. Those things are very important. You are valuable. Why? Because you're created in the image of God, and that doesn't change. Nothing you can do to change that. And for a Christian, that's a good thing. The problem is the world wants to change it. The Bible says that we were made in the image of God, male and female. Right? So I'm made in the image of God male. Scripture says that. But what does the world want to do? Well, I want to identify what I want to identify as. You know, I know I'm a male today, but I want to be female. What? So based upon what? Your feelings, your desires, it's totally Not biblical at all. And pe really what's happening is people are making making themselves God by trying to do that. They're making making themselves in their own image. Now, the idea of identification then is creation, but then secondly, what else? It's recreation. It's the fact that we know Christ as our Savior. The fact that who we are in Christ, that we are accepted. We talked about this a little bit on Sunday morning. We're accepted in the beloved. We're loved by God. We're chosen by God. For a purpose, to do what he has called us to do. We have very clear purpose. We have very clear identity in Christ, if we know Christ is our Savior. Those are, that's our identity. And honestly, neither one of those have have much to do with our marital status. You can be single and have that identity, you can be married and have that identity. Both creation and recreation. And that has to be our identity. It's not on what we look like. It's not on what our accomplishments are. It's on who we already are, who God has already made us to be. And we do what we do based upon what we already are, not try to do what we do in order to be something. Did you catch that? This is really, really important. If you can catch this early, man, it's going to save you a lot of trouble. We are who we are in Christ, and then we do based upon who we are. We don't do in order to be something. And and understanding that is absolutely it will it will cause you to go from from unstable to stable. So very, very important. And candidly, this is something, can I just say it this way, I want my kids to understand before they're married. They're really not ready to be married until they understand this, who they are, both as a creation in Christ, a creation and a creation in Christ. And so singleness provides an opportunity for this to happen, that you can really understand and develop. this idea and understand who you are, what uniqueness you have as a creation, and what uniqueness you have in your own giftedness as a Christian, that can be developed very, very well. In some ways Perhaps even better as someone who's single. Um very important understanding. Jeff, did you have a question? Well you you just mentioned giftedness. Is that part of the Yeah. Yeah. As far as spiritual gifts, that would be part of that's what what happens when we come to Christ. So so we need to develop what those are. And a lot of most of those are mo motivational. So we have natural gifts being created, God created a certain way with natural gifts. We have mo m tends to be more motivational gifts from being uh saved. Um and we need to know to understand what those are Um so so very important to understand uh who our what our identity is, what your fundamental identity is. Some passages that you could look at, we won't take the time to look at them today, but Ephesians chapter 2 verses 1 through 6 4, 22 through 24, Galatians 3, 26 through 28, all of those passages are really really explain who we are in Christ and what our identity is supposed to be. And it allows us, even as single people, to take ownership of our faith. In other words, there is a possibility that getting married too early could shortchange that. Now it's God's business when you get married as far as as far as time frame. I'm not saying that one age is earlier than you know there are some ages that are too early, obviously. But um but understanding that there is a value here is very important. Now that then brings us to this whole concept of giftedness. And if you take your Bibles and turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 7 First Corinthians chapter seven. This really is a passage where the Apostle Paul address addresses the issue of singleness. But I will say this, he's not addressing it from a vacuum or in a vacuum. He's dress addressing it and dealing with various problems that have cropped up in the church of Corinth. And that's extremely important to understand. It's also important to understand that 1 Corinthians 7 Presupposes that marriage is is a good thing. Okay. If you read First Corinthians seven And you don't understand, and you don't take you take it isolated without looking at the rest of the Bible, it's gonna look like singleness is actually much better than being married. That's what it's going to look like. But understand that you've got a lot of revelation in Scripture prior to 1 Corinthians chapter 7. That establishes that marriage, for example, is the first institution ordained by God. You would not have a human race biblically without marriage to do it in a biblical way, anyway Okay, uh in the sense of procreation. Uh and marriage is extremely valuable to God. The Bible says the marriage is honorable in all. The Bible says that um I mean you have the great patriarchs of scr of the old testament. Many of them were married. You have apostles, many of them were married, some were single, like Paul as a w as a widower. Okay. But but Understand that you can't come in fact, that's the way it is with a lot of passages of scripture. There is a lot of chapters of the Bible that you go to, and if you isolate it uh the the topic just there, then you're not going to get the whole mind of God on the matter. That's why systematic theology, for example, is so important. Because you're taking the whole mind of God in all kinds of different places in Scripture and putting them together. You've in any matter you've got to get the whole mind of God on the matter, not just take one isolated passage. Does that make sense? And this is very, very important to understand, particularly with First Corinthians seven, because if you don't understand that, you're going to look at First Corinthians seven and you're going to find some real weird things, okay, or things that seem to be almost out of balance. But understand that Paul is arguing for singleness because singleness is not being valued in 1 Corinthians, in the in the Church of Corinth Okay, so he's arguing for it. And he's talking to several different kinds of people. He's talking to married people, single people. In first Corinthians six, he goes over the the the sin of For lack of better way of saying, of sex outside of marriage. He goes, he deals with that, and that was a problem in church the Church of Corinth. And fornication was a major problem, prostitution was a major problem, all of that was a major problem in the Church of Corinth. There were all kinds of weird beliefs that it was somehow okay, uh even as Christian some of the Christians were teaching that, and he's very clear in 1 Corinthians 6 that sex outside of marriage is not okay. Then we come to First Corinthians chapter seven, and he says, verse seven and verse one, Now concerning the things which I I wrote that which you wrote to me, it is good for a man, and he says, concerning the things you wrote to me, there is like an occasion for this But he says, it is good for a man not to touch a woman, nevertheless, because of sexual immorality. So he's actually the it's a euphemism for marriage. It's a good for a man, it's fine for a man to not marry. Nevertheless, if he does marry, uh what does it say? Sexual amount uh nevertheless because of sexual immoral immorality Let each man have his own wife and let each woman have her own husband. Now let me pause. It's not saying only because of sexual immorality should you get married. It's saying because it with in other words, sex is the the only way that it is appropri that is biblical is within marriage. That's the only way. Okay? Um Let the husband and then it says it it really addresses the marriage bed within marriage. Okay, and it says the husband needs to needs to show affection to his wife, wife needs to show affection to his husband, her husband. That needs to be a natural, normal thing inside of a marriage. It should not be that you're withholding from your wife or withholding from your husband This is something that should be natural and normal, except unless uh in times of prayer and fasting. And so this is just a normal thing that should be happening in marriage, uh uh the the physical relationship Now, with all of that then we come to verse 7. He says, For I wish that all men were even as myself. Well, let me pick up, let's back up here. Verse 6, but I say this as a concession, not as a commandment. In other words, you don't have to get married. You don't have to get married and be physical, but you can. He says, For I wish that all men were even as myself. But each one has his own gift from God, one in this man manner, and another in that. But I say to the unmarried, to the widows. So let's pause look look first at verse seven. Okay. So verse seven says that uh Each man has his own gift from God. I like the way that's phrased. Okay, that helps us. So there is a gift of singleness, and presumably there's a gift of being married too, in a sense. Each man has his own gift. There's a giftedness one way or a giftedness another way. Another thing that's interesting about this, well let's just go through a couple of principles here. What is the gift of singleness? This is the question we're asking. It is not some super spiritual, mystical, or magical ability to resist sexual relations and to reject marriage. Okay? That's not what we're talking about here Number two, it is a recognition that God has given some the gift of celibacy for a season or a few, maybe a lifetime. So this singleness is something that God has given some for a while. And some uh very it's usually it's few, but a few for a lifetime. Now, let me pause and say say this. I was studying this passage as a teenager. And uh I asked my pastor, I said, I'm trying to figure out whether or not oh teenager, I'm sorry, that's wrong. I was in college. Um I was uh probably sophomore in college. Um and I asked my pastor, I said, um, I'm trying to figure out if I have the gift of singleness or not. And he here you know what he told me? I thought this is a great application. He said you bear you bear guarantee you have the gift of sick singleness until you're married. That's what he told me. And I think that's a very, very good good application for me at that age. So uh if you're single, you have this gift of singleness until you're married. You don't have to because God has until God provides somebody for you, you assume that you are to be single That kind of an approach is an approach that is going to be very helpful to you. And it was very it's actually very helpful to me, interestingly enough. About a year after that I found Elizabeth, and but I still had the gift of singleness for three more years until I married her Now I don't have the gift of singleness anymore. Okay? So so understand that that um sometimes this is for a time, sometimes it's uh a few times it's it's for a lifetime What is a gift? Well it's a spiritually it's spiritually motive motivated for singleness to live a self-controlled life and content with what God has given. So giftedness, as I just said about giftedness with Christians, giftedness has the idea of spiritual motivation. I'm motivated a certain way. And I am motivated to be single in order to serve the Lord. That is something that I should be motivated to. Should that apply to all Christian singles? There's a sense in which it really ought to. All Christian singles should be motivated to serve the Lord single. Now, we're going to get into this a little bit more, but understand that that's the case. Some singles can choose to remain single for a season or even a lifetime. And then he has this idea, he says, those who burn should may should pursue marriage. But not at the expense of contentment and Christ and value. So look look at the passage again. And by the way, this concept has been more has been more misunderstood and misapplied in Christianity than It's gotta be the top five, frankly. Uh it really is often misapplied. So let's look at what it says. But I say uh verse eight I say the unmarried and to the widow, it is good for them if they remain even as I am. So he's saying it's good. It's not It's not it's not necessarily the best unless God wants you to, but it is a good thing, he says But if they cannot exercise self-control or uh let them marry, for it is it is better to marry than to burn with passion. Okay So what is this saying that if if they can't exercise self-control? I need to we need to understand one thing about this, the background of this. Understand that this is a church that they're all saved, most of them are saved as adults. They're first-generation Christians. They live in a very promiscuous city. That that means that we can assume that most of these Christian singles to whom he is talking are what? Or have been. They very likely have been sexually active already. Okay. Alright. They're mar they're they're adults when they're saved, most of them. They're first generation Christians, and they're in a very promiscuous city. Okay? So very likely most of them are have already been sexually active. I think it's important to understand that. And what he is saying is that if you can't come to a place where you are where you are uh able to contain, he's saying, then you should move toward marriage. Okay? Because that's the only place for you to not contain. Okay? It's within marriage. Now, this is not saying that I just can't control myself, so I better get married as quickly as I can. It's not what this is saying. Because the reality is That if you never get these drives going, then they are controllable. The issue here in the context is that these are have already been going. And he's saying that it's quite possible, even though they have been going, to shut them down. But in the case where it can't, you ought to move toward marriage, is what he's saying. There have been so many There for it one misapplication of this that I've seen m often is that men people assume men will assume that that that physical the physical sexual kind of drive is something that is a need. Now let me be clear about this. When you're not married, it's not a need. Guys, girls, single people, it's not a need when you're not married. Okay? If you read this an interesting way, uh the wrong way, you're gonna even married people are going to assume it's a need only in marriage because marriage is supposed to be that way Okay? So what I'm saying is this. If you are a content in Christ and you don't get these drives going as a teenager, There is absolutely no reason that you can't that you can't contain. The problem is is when you get the drives going. Okay, and I'm gonna get into this a little bit more in a few moments, uh more more more detail about this. But but understand that this married to burn thing is often taken Really out of context and meant to mean all kinds of things. So a young man whose hormones are going crazy He thinks, see, there's a biblical passage that says, I've got to do this physically, so I better get married as quickly as I can. Look, that is that is not what this passage is saying. So that's important to understand. Burning is not a license to jump into marriage to avoid sin. And it is not implying that marital sex solves all sexual problems. That's another problem with this. There are some men who have sexual problems prior to marriage, and they think that this is going to solve all their problems. And I can promise you that that's not what this passage is saying, and that's not the case. It will not solve all of your problems. Okay? Um uh and I just could just tell you from counseling that that is definitely the case. So understanding what this passage, we should we're pulling we we've been pulling a lot of application out of this over the years for different different different Christians uh that are really not what the passage is saying. And I and I want to make that really abundantly clear. So we're going to get into freedom of singleness yet next, but I actually think what I want to do before we Yeah, we'll do it that way. Okay. Any questions about the gift of singleness and this section? No question. Boy, you know it's funny. One night we'll have everybody's talking, the next night everybody's like quiet. That's okay though. I can talk. Alright, let's go to the next section. We're talking about the freedom of singleness. So if you look at the passage in 1 Corinthians chapter 7 and pick up here, look at verse 32 through 35. First Corinthians chapter seven. He says, but I want you to be uh without care. He's talking to those who don't know Who aren't who aren't married? He says, He who is unmarried cares for the things of the Lord, how he may please the Lord. But he who is married cares for the things of the world, how he may please his wife. There is a difference between a wife and a virgin. The unmarried woman cares about the things of the Lord, that she may be holy both in body and spirit. But she who is married cares about the things of the world, how she may please her husband. And this I say for your own profit, not that I may put a leash on you, but for what I what is proper That you may serve the Lord without distraction. The Apostle Paul is making a very important point here. He wants these singles to understand that there is this value in singleness that you can serve the Lord without distraction. Distraction. Okay. That there is an actual freedom in singleness. Now What do you think, married folks, what do you think he's saying when he is saying when you're married you have to care for the things in your marriage? What is he saying there, Jeff? Alright. You have responsibilities to provide? Definitely. What else? Yep. Okay. Give yourself to your family? Energy, time? What else? Okay. We need to look we w well how can we please our spouse? It says it right there. We've got to think about how to please our spouse. Okay. It's it's a lot. It's complicated. Every decision that you make when you're married, or nearly every decision, nearly every decision that you make when you're married affects your spouse. And when you have kids, many decisions that you make affect your kids. It is much simpler to be single. It is. There isn't any question about that. It's simpler to be single. It's more complicated to be married. Now if it's a if it's God's will, then get married. But don't get married if it's not God's will, is actually the point There is no reason to think that you're less of a complete individual if you're not married, or that you're missing out on something. No. There is a blessing to being single and there is a blessing to being married. And to understand that is very, very important. So these several principles here. He's talking here about the freedom from troubles of marriage. Did you know that there are more troubles in marriage? There are. There's no way around it. Now I'm not saying, look, I I love my wife and she is wonderful and I should say that since she's here and and I'm not I don't think my marriage is particularly troubling. Now I can go home tonight and s and sleep. Anyway, okay. But but um but there are more troubles in marriage. There isn't any question about that. Because you have sinful people trying to get together. Alright, and live together and make decisions together and do life together. There are troubles. Look, I know the Facebook doesn't the Facebook. I know Facebook doesn't show the Facebook posts, they don't show this I just love being with married to my spouse. Okay. I know when you wrote that post you're true you're honest, but sometimes you don't. Okay? All right. Just because your Facebook says how wonderful it is, doesn't mean it's always wonderful. There are troubles. I you know somebody should post on Facebook sometime. Uh I just uh my my my marriage is so burdensome. I mean just just it it's a great burden. My wife says, don't you dare anyway. Okay. A bad idea. Oh bad idea, yeah. I'm not I'm joking about that. But really really there are troubles in marriage. Freedom from pleasing your spouse. Now I'm not Here's what I don't mean. Here's what the passage doesn't mean. It's not freedom from pleasing your spouse so you can just please yourself. We're talking about freedom to be able to please the Lord. And there is, you could certainly please the Lord by pleasing your spouse. It's not like those two things are go against each other, but there is a freedom in singleness that you can go off and you can You can do whatever the Lord wants you to do, and you don't have to think about a lot, you just do it. And when you're married, you have a lot more things you need to consider. Freedom from having divided interests. When you're single, you have only your own interests. You have only the things that you believe the Lord wants you to be involved in, the things you want to do. It's it you have singular interests. When you're married, you have divided interests. Okay, you've got to you've got to consider the interest of your spouse. that they want a minivan. They don't want an SUV anymore. I mean there's things like that. Believe me I would never get a minivan if a if I by myself. Okay? I'm I I'm glad I'm thankful for our minivan, but but it would not be the my vehicle of choice Okay. But I considered the interests of my of my wife in that decision and what she felt was was ideal for our situation. I mean there's many uh many things about about being married that you you've got to consider those things. Freedom to be single is something that we find in Matthew nineteen uh ten through twelve. Well Christ talks about it. We won't take time through there for now. A freedom to dedicate your life with singular purpose to God. So there's lots of freedoms when you're single to be able to serve the Lord. Here's the only thing I'm saying, folks that are single. If God pr you you ought to be content to be free to be single, for as long as God wants you to be single That way when when you're when God provides the right one, you are making a decision from a place of contentment Rather than a place of discontentment. We all make very bad decisions when we are making decisions from a place of discontentment. If you are discontent, it is not time to make a decision. You need to w especially this monumental decision. If you're discontent, you know, like you want pizza, that's different. But if you but but uh you I'm uh a a monumental decision you need to do it as b much as possible from a place of of contentment rather than discontentment. Some concluding thoughts. God values your singleness, so should you. Understand, God values marriage. That's not in question. But in 1 Corinthians 7, we have some things to think about that the Apostle Paul has given us as to why singleness is something that we should value. You must find your identity, contentment, and freedom in Christ as a single individual. Doing so will prepare you well for whatever God has in store for you. This is really, really important to understand. I love this. Run hard after Christ. And if the Lord provides someone to run with you, then consider them. But if not, keep running. I think that is so important. As a single person, you can run undistracted hard after Christ. How do you find the right one? Don't look for the right one, be the right one, you'll get the right one. And if you will if you will run hard after Christ, then look around and see who's running with you. And if you're a guy and there's a girl running with you. Then start getting to know her and seeing if it's the right one. And if there's nobody running with you, keep running. Run hard after Christ. And be content to do that for as long as God wants you to do it. Now, what I want to do then at this point, and I we got a few minutes, but I'm actually going to ask you to take your Bibles and turn to the book of Song of Solomon because I want to make this point when it comes to singleness and marriage. Song of Solomon, I don't know that we turn to that passage all that often that book all that often. For married couples we probably should be doing it more than we sh We do. Um and we're gonna be in chapter two for a moment here. And I wanna set it up this way. Um The passage that we were just looking at encourages us to be to really consider singleness and the value of it. And it also talks about burning, 1 Corinthians 7. It also talks about sexual temptation, those kinds of things a little bit. And God says that marriage is something that's honorable. Hebrews chapter 13, for example. The question becomes how do you get from singleness to marriage? with purity. And that we're really talking about so the whole idea of dating and things. Okay. How do we go from singleness to marriage with purity. Well number one, all the way through it, you've got to be content. You've got to remain content. Paul says in whatever state I am, I'm there with the content. When you're discontent, you make bad decisions, you fall into sin, you do wrong things So so number one. Number two, this is going to surprise you. If you are promiscuous before you're married, it may very well affect your marriage negatively. Okay? Do we understand that? Does that make sense? There are some real problems that can crop up in your marriage when you are promiscuous before your marriage. I'll give you one example. Trust becomes a sometimes becomes a problem. If you're promiscuous before marriage, then you get into marriage, maybe even promiscuous with the person that you marry. Get on the other side of marriage. And you viol you you you violated a trust outside of marriage, that question then becomes, well, are you going to do that again with somebody else? That is a question that people ask. So so a lot of problems happen on the marriage side and some of them are a result of promiscuity on the other side. That's important to understand. However, just because you're pure does not mean you're going to have some sort of euphoric heavenly marriage. And it's important to understand that there is a book written by a guy who's now an apostate. It's Josh Harris, I could say goodbye. And he would he said things in the book. Some of the things he said in the book were actually good. There was no problem with them. Had some biblical principles too. But other things he said in the book were kind of like giving the idea that if you if you just stay pure. And if you just hold on and you stay pure, then you're going to have this wonderful marriage life and everything that goes with it. Physical marriage life. And that is, folks, why should we stay pure as single Christians? To please God. That's why. That's why you should stay pure. To please the Lord. That's the reason. Not these other reasons, because it may be it actually can those problems can those that can cause problems in the marriage as well. But with that in mind, I want to point this out to you That one of the greatest ways you can stay pure is to understand the wood the wisdom of the Shulamite woman in Song of Solomon. Now, would you pick up then, and I'll just note a couple of things here. Pick up in verse chapter 2. And she is talking um about her relationship with with Solomon. And she says this, like an apple tree among the trees of the woods, so is my beloved among the sons. I sat down in his shade with great delight, and his fruit was sweet to my taste. So he's she's talking about her relationship. This is not sexual yet, by the way. Talk about a relationship. It's sweet. It's something that's delightful. Verse 4, he brought me to the banqueting house. His banner over me was love. Sustain me with cakes of raisins, refresh me with apples, and then it says something else here. It moves from this sort of euphoric kind of I'm in love Okay, which is a thing, all right, which is fine in the right context. To what? Well I am love sick I was a teenager. I was going on a missions trip up to New York. Uh upstate New York. They need a lot of missions up there. But anyway, um so I was going up to upstate New York and um And uh we were doing BBSs and the guy that I was with had a girlfriend and he was away from his girlfriend and we were staying in the same room and he looked out the window and he said, Love hurts. I'm like, dude, man, get a grip. But it kinda does. She says, his left hand is under my head, and his right hand embraces me. She's actually envisioning this. She wants again to be embraced by her, by Solomon. She wants this. Okay. She's had some of it. Uh it's not it's not sexual yet. There's some physical, but she wants more of it and she's getting sick because she's not getting what she wants. There's this progression of wanting more, having, being delighted in something, but ha wanting to get more. And then notice what it says. I charge you, O daughters of Jerusalem. Who are the daughters of Jerusalem? Anybody know who the daughters of Jerusalem are? Can I put it really practically? That's our friends. That's the people that are around her. That becomes the bridal party later on. That's that's her friends. Okay? And she says to her friends By the gazelles or the does of the field, do not stir up nor awaken love until it pleases. She says, don't awaken love until it pleases. Don't arouse things. Why does she tell her friends that? Somebody have an idea why she'd tell her friends that? Don't awaken love till it pleases. What's that? Her friends are probably not married. Her friends are probably not married. Okay. So she that may be no exhortation to them. But w the evidence for the passage seems to indicate that they are into this, like with her, like they love seeing what's going on with her and her and her and and Solomon at this point. Okay. They love seeing this and they're kind of coaxing it. This happens again in actually go ahead and look at it. Chapter 3 verse 5. You see it again. She says, I charge you, O daughters of Jerusalem, by the gazelles and by the um Those of the field, do not stir up nor awaken love until it pleases. You have this again later on in the passage, one more time. Throughout the book it says, don't awaken love until it pleases. Yes. So loveistic in this context is not kind of the modern use of acting illogically but happy kind of lost in love. This is actually to a negative degree. Yes. Yeah, this is a negative degree. This is this is something where it's making her s it's it's it's making her long for culmination. of the physical. She wants it. She realizes it's not time yet. The timing is wrong. And so she is now saying, I must not awaken love till it pleases. Now what's that? She already has. She already has, and she so so the issue here is timing. She doesn't want to awaken it more than it ha more than it already has. Okay. Because it's not time. Alright? Here's the point I'm going to make. Teenagers don't awaken this stuff until it makes sense. Don't awaken it until it makes sense. When does it make sense to awaken it? Anyone can answer this. When does it make sense to awaken this stuff? Okay? Alright, at least after you're married you can awaken it for sure. You should awaken it. You know, some of you just need to wake up. It's time. Okay. But I'm kidding. But okay, so so uh that's that's the case. Okay. Is this going to awaken the idea of being in love? Again, none of this is sexual yet, but the the idea of being in love And wanting someone, and obviously the end result of that being c the culmination of all of it That one thing leads to another leads to another. There's a never-ending desire until it's culminated. Okay. Uh by it it begins when you begin to fall in love with somebody. So what does that mean? What does it mean? What could we assume if we're not supposed to culminate this until we're married? I'm just trying to logically put this together. We're not supposed to culminate this until we're married. And there's going to be this desire to culminate it. Don't get it going until when. Until you're ready to get married. Until you have the ability to get married. Until you're thinking marriage. Don't get the thing going until you're ready to get married. Okay, now I'm not saying you get married next week. I'm just simply saying you have the age and the whatever education you plan to get or whatever those kind of things. Whatever factors in there for your life and your giftedness as a single person that you've already figured out and what God wants you to do with your life, that you've already figured out, don't get this thing going. Because you're going to get sick. Emotionally, or you're going to culminate it eventually, one of the two. If there's not a culmination in marriage or a breakup, one of the two. Now from this then, do I need to set an age for when this happens? I don't need to set an age. What I've told my kids is very simply, um uh you need to be content to be single, and when you find your identity in being single, And when you find your identity in that and you you value that and when there are when there are certain steps along the way that you have that you have uh have then then we'll talk about it Now for uh for my kids, we the way this is just me, this is personal, this doesn't mean you have to do it this way. But for my kids, what I've said is un they need to at least get through one year of college. Because I want them to graduate from college. I just think it's a good idea. Okay? Now if you don't think it's a good idea, that's fine. But I wanted to graduate. So I want and it doesn't mean that you're wrong if you don't, and it's my both my parents didn't graduate from college and dad makes more money than I ever will. Okay, so that's not the issue. Okay. Um but I want to equip my kids in a certain way for them to be able to serve the Lord, and I feel like most likely that means college. So so I don't want them to get this started until until there's the ability to culminate. And I'm not saying that they should start dating even after the first year. I'm not saying okay now you can't Go out go at it. I'm not saying that. I'm just simply saying wisdom would be that you don't get this these drives going until you're what? Until you can do something with them. Okay? Until you're married. Until you can be married, until you have that option. So that is a very there is a lot of biblical understanding You've got 1 Corinthians chapter 7 that deals with singleness. You've got this passage that says, Don't awaken love until it pleases. You've got you've got all this to be put together and you have to apply it in a way that is going to be wise in how you handle things. That's why I've said to my kit my kids, look I want you, okay, well let me just do a couple of things, show you a couple things here. I'm going a little over time, but that's okay. Number one, romantic and sexual passion naturally wants culmination and free expression. It's naturally going to want that Teens and young adults must learn to embrace contentment and value singleness before they are ready to date and marry. They just need to under embrace singleness and be content with that and value it before they're ready to be to to date and be and marry. Teens and young adults must not stir up, arouse, or awaken desires until it's time. Don't stir it up until it's time. Romantic thoughts are often culminate cultivated as teens talk among themselves. This is just wisdom principles here. A lot of this stuff is juiced up. When when friends are talking among friends. Just like the Shulamite woman, she's talking with her with the daughters of Jerusalem and they're talking back and forth. I mean you can just imagine this going on. All right. Oh, it's so exciting. Okay, well, at the right time it's the right thing. Okay, there's no problem with that if marriage is in the p is in the is in the future here. Like marriage is possible. But when marriage isn't possible, we need to take the Shulamites' point and woman's point and say, Awaken not love until it pleases That's why I've advi I I have given counsel to my kids, don't talk about boys with your friends. Now you all know it. Okay. You can talk to about boys with me and they don't want to, so they'll talk to their d with their mother, which is fine. Okay. Alright, they're more they're more likely to talk with her than me, that's okay. I you know I get left out of a lot of things, but it's okay Um but but honestly, uh we need to have an open communication. Uh I'll just go to the next one. Parents must maintain an open dialogue with their kids, their teens, without fostering and awakening emotions and desires that have no way of culminating. So parents, how you talk to your teenagers is very, very important. You need an open dialogue with them where you are talking with them, but you ought not, what should you be focusing on? What should we as parents be focusing on? when it comes to our kids. Godly friends, character. Should I be saying to my hey that should I be saying to them to my should I be, oh yeah, he's really cute. He's looking good. He's you ought to go after that one. Is that a good idea? It's not a good idea. It's a bad idea. Because I'm not I don't want to wake in love until it pleases. Junior year in college, you still had time. Okay, maybe I'll do that then. Okay. Alright. That's what my dad did with me. He's like, what's your problem? Look around. Anyway, he did. All right. So um but honestly that that is the kind of thing that parents we need to be really really careful of that we're not fostering this kind of thing as teenage with with our kids. But But it's not wrong for a guy to like a girl, a girl like a guy as a teenager. That's the other extreme. We outlaw it so much that like you can't like a guy. No, there's nothing wrong. That's natural, that's normal Okay? And you should talk about it with your parent. We can talk through that. Uh that's good. But to awaken it, those things before it's time is something that is not wise. Okay. Alright, we are done with that subject for now until next week. And let's go ahead. Oh, I forgot to I was supposed to keep this open and I didn't. Hold on a second, maybe I can still k