Is where we'll start. And um we're going to get right into our lesson. If it there are a few handouts left out up up there if you need a handout, they're on the out outside of the uh the door there, although I may not have made enough. We have a good good group tonight, which is awesome. And so we are talking here about marriage. Let me back up a little bit to this particular diagram just because I think it's helpful. It is in your notes as well. And this is we talked last week a lot about having God in the center of your marriage. that that we want God to be something uh we don't want uh w it's so easy for us to focus on the horizontal issues and problems and struggles and difficulties of life and planning and scheduling and all those kinds of things. And if we're not careful, we can leave the Lord out of our marriage where we're not praying together, we're not discussing what God would want, what would please the Lord in the in the plans that we're making, what would be best uh to to serve him out of love for him and those kinds of things. And so we talked a great deal about that. And and so The this diagram pictures it well that God desires for a husband and wife to be in union with each other And that union is really ought to be held together by God as we trust Him. And often, I mean, if you if you take a secular marriage And I'll just say it this way, uh if you take a secular marriage and you you consider our culture and the fact that you do not have God holding the marriage together in our in a in a secular culture, what are the chances of it staying together anymore? I mean we used to be in a culture where there was sort of this pressure to stay together This pressure to not divorce. And sometimes it's unavoidable. But but it it's it's there there used to at least be this pressure. And now this the culture is sort of saying exactly the opposite. They're sort of saying, well, if you're not happy, just get out And of course we know that it is God's desire, if at all possible, for the marriage to be able to stay intact. And so how does that happen? Well, as we trust God, as we depend upon Him, we're not going to just depend on ourselves We're not gonna depend on uh the other spouse uh the the spouse. We're as we trust in God and rely on Him then it can keep our union together. And um so I think this is a good illustration just to keep in our minds when you when you're tempted either to rely on yourself or to to act to to To re act or react or live in a way that's not trusting in the Lord. I think it's important to understand that. Um And so we're going to move then today, I don't want to get through these. We're going to move today into laying a biblical foundation for your marriage. And uh obviously the foundation for everything is in the book of Genesis. And so we're going to be looking at verses, actually we're going to look at Genesis 1 first, verses 28, 26 and 28 through 28. And then we're also going to be looking at Genesis two in a few moments as well. Um I I will tell you that that there are a lot of really good foundational things tonight tonight. You think, well, Genesis one, I know Genesis one, I grew up in church. You're going to find some things tonight, I think, that perhaps you haven't thought of before when it comes to Genesis chapter 1 and Genesis chapter 2 and sort of the outflowing applications of this. So if you'd uh take your Bibles and turn there, we're going to read verses 26 and 27 and 28 as well. It says, Then God said, Let us make man in our image, according to our likeness. So he he's talking about the creation of man here, or the word man would be mankind here, or or humankind. Let us make man in our image according to our likeness. Let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him. Notice what it says. Created male and female, he created them. So they have different roles. They're created differently. Then God blessed them and said to them, Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth and subdue it. So he says to them together. Be fruitful, multiply, fill the earth, subdue it. Together, he says, have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the air, and over everything that moves on the earth. Um and my pages are sticking together They're really sticking. Okay. Um and so that's that's verses twenty-six through twenty 28 of this passage. Then what you're going to have as you move into Genesis 2 is you're going to have a further detailing of how this is supposed to take place. But let me begin by just pointing out a few things about about marriage and creation and what we see in this passage. First of all, men and women, women, man and woman are created in equal in dignity and value, but different roles. You see that in the passage. They're both created in what? In God's image. Okay? They're both equally created in God's image that way. So they are equal in value and they're equal in dim uh in dignity, but we clearly see also that He created them Distinct, right? He created them male and female. So they have distinct roles. One is not lesser than the other, one is not less valuable than the other. They are distinct. And they are equal in value. The complementary nature of men, what we see in the passage, just in the very outset of chapter one, is that men and women are complementary. A man or a woman together in marriage, there is complementary. Uh I'm a little too hot, I think. So um this by the way is a real debate right now in Christianity Uh the the uh the other s the other side of this is something called egalitarian, uh rather than complementarian And the egalitarian says that men and women are are equal, both complementitarian and egalitarian say that, but that their roles are not are not distinct. And you have churches now that are that how allow women in leadership and those kinds of things as a result of that. And so we we need to understand they're complementary to each other. Uh and we see that in the passage. And then we see that the imperative nature of We're going to see in this passage in chapter 2 of leaving a family of origin and cleaving as one flesh. It's very clearly in the passage, and we're going to see why that's so important. So a few things, three important concepts that we see, and they're in your notes as well, that we see from 26 through 28. Number one, that we are image bearers And we've already mentioned this already, but let's just we'll just mention this again. To be an image bearer means we are reflecting the image or likeness of another. In this case, man and woman reflect the character of God. Men and women are equal in dignity and value, so we are image bearers. So we're what we're doing now is we're just establishing the clear foundation And then we're going to build on this foundation when we get into chapter 2. Also, we are supposed to have dominion. That is something embedded in our very purpose for why God created us. He created us to have dominion. One part of being an image bearer involves serving God's as God's representatives in the Garden of Eden. We see this in the text twice in twenty-six and twenty-seven. As mankind is labeled as image bears and then shortly after is called to rule or to have dominion, twenty seven and twenty-eight. The principle here is one of stewardship. So important. It's one of stewardship. God is the owner and creator of creation. And man and woman are appointed as his divine caretakers. And that is the case as we go throughout life. God's intention prior to the fall was not that man and woman would own everything, but that they would be stewards of what God owns. And when we are saved, we're bought back, we're bought with a price, we are now owned by God, and what God gives us, we are to be stewards of what He gives us. Yes, Jeff? Can you elaborate why that might be? Greenpeace is like a variable design Yeah, I would say it doesn't because it would go in my opinion is that it would go too far. It would take ownership rather than stewardship. So so that's actually a perfect example of going too far. Now, should we be good stewards of what God's given us? Should we be good stewards of creation? Yeah, we we definitely should. But do we own it? We don't own it. And the way that they the their philosophy I suspect, I don't know that particular organization, but Their I suspect their philosophy is that not only do we own it, but we are responsible solely to preserve it as though I mean a lot of times they get into idolatry where they're just seeing creation as as God. They take the it takes the place of God. Romans one. What's that? Huh? Gaia worship. Do you remember that? Gaia worship? Mother Earth, yeah. So a lot of that happens behind there. So so in fact that is a lot of things in life If we don't learn to take if we understand stewardship instead of ownership, it really affects us. Our families. I don't own my kids. I'm stewards of what God's given me uh uh understanding stewardship versus ownership. It my you know spouses, families, everything, understanding this is so so important. Um yeah. I think they would definitely use But I think to your point it it goes into ownership because they view it as their responsibility to try to maintain it, which is greater than just stewardship. Yeah, I mean it is our responsibility to maintain it. I I almost think that they're I mean I don't know, but because I don't know the organization, but I suspect a lot of these organizations, their res they think their responsibility is to to preserve it like it's like like it's going bad and we've gotta be the the gods that we're not and do something about this. Yeah. Yeah. Definitely. Yeah. They see m they s usually see man creating God Yeah. Yeah they usually see men as as uh as mammals that are are animals and just part of the you know the top of the Top of the animal kingdom. And and frankly, sometimes now they they were the vice, like like humanity is the is the problem with with the whole world and we all just die and let the let the animals own it all or something. But anyway, yeah. Was there another question or something right here? Yeah. So dominion is a really important concept. We are stewardship's we are stewarding God's kingdom. This is essentially what we're doing. And in the very beginning, that's what God created us to do. Procreation is another thing that he clearly says that we're supposed to do. One way in which a man and woman can rule and subdue the earth is to have children. Be fruitful and increase in number. We rule the earth by filling the entire planet with worshipers, image-bearers who reflect back to God his own glory. So um he says be fruitful multiply. He says that throughout Genesis, constantly saying that be fruitful be fruitful and multiply. Ha uh and and I always tell in pre-maral counseling I always tell uh people getting married. There's good reasons why you might want to hold off on having kids for a little while, but marriage and kids go hand in hand. God said that. And he kept keeps keep saying it over and over and over again in the New Testament. And and so it's important to uh to understand that. Um So, um if you can have kids, and if you can't, then then then uh then the Lord has reasons for that and and He wants you to understand that there's other ways of stewardship as well Um then look at Genesis chapter two verse fifteen. Go ahead and turn it over there. I meant to Genesis two fifteen He says, um Then the Lord God took the man. And put him in the garden of Eden to tend and keep it. So so he took the man and did that. And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the garden you may freely eat. But the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, uh you you shall not eat uh eat for in the day you eat it, you shall surely die. Before the woman is on the scene, God puts man in the garden to work it and to take care of it. This was more than God doing this is more than doing minimal work and going home. As God's representative, Adam was called to make the garden flourish and grow, to take care of it. So that's that was a mandate to Adam before even the woman got on the scene. Now understand We know from chapter 1 that Adam and Eve are both supposed to have dominion and they're both supposed to be subduing it, all those kinds of things. But now we have a breakdown in Genesis chapter 2 of some of the roles, and we see man is given that role in the beginning. But then, chapter 2, verse 18, it's not good that man should be alone. Look at what it says here in verse 18. Lord said, It is not good that man should be alone. I will make him a helper comparable to him. Um and so he says uh or suitable would be another way of saying it. So he says it's not good that man should be alone. And there's a lot of implications about what that means. First of all, it means companionship. So God saw that that there was companionship that was needed. And God wanted uh he said, It's not good that man should not have a companion. He needs a companion and so he made woman for companionship. And he also made them to compliment, made a woman to compliment the man, to be a helper, a helper suitable for him. And that's pretty well I think most of us understand um that that's the case. So let's talk about what it is for a so we we see that the role of the man It actually says, for example, it gives Adam the responsibility of naming the animals. He's given dominion over, you know, he has this role this way. So let's talk about how the woman is supposed to be a helper suitable. And first of all, we see companionship. God saw that man was unable to fulfill the task on his own. Understand this. I think this is so important. He was unable to ful fulfill the task on his own, and he needed a partner who was complimentary to him, someone who would balance his weaknesses and strengthen his strengths. We come to understand this complementarity first by the term used for woman in the second half of the verse. helper suitable. Okay, so God underst God saw that and he created man actually to be incomplete. That is To he needed, in order to have dominion, in order to do what God wanted him to do, he knew that there needed to be uh he needed to create a helper suitable for him. In other words, there are things that a man is wired is not just simply not wired well to do. And if you s if you I mean you can ask my wife, and that's she knows that's true. Uh she will tell me I mean I I don't really know what I'd do without her. I would be a total disaster actually. So um I see that all the time in in in our in our family life, how she compliments me in that way And I think most of us men can can see that. So here's what it doesn't mean. We're going to start off with what it doesn't mean to safer. What does helper suitable not mean? It does not mean that a wife is a slave to her husband. Proverbs 31 is very clear about that. Nor does it imply that a husband can mistreat his wife in any way. So there's not that's not what we're talking about here. It's not talking about the the husband doesn't own the wife. The wife doesn't own the husband. She's not a slave to so understand that that's not what it's talking about. It does not mean that the wife never has an opinion or never gives advice. In fact, you find a lot of different places where a wife gives very good advice. And pro like it says in Proverbs 20 31-26 that the heart of her husband safely trust in her that she she advises him and sh there's this relationship in Proverbs 31 where there is clearly opinions given and advice given and h a husband is really dumb If he doesn't listen to the to the advice of his wife, but he doesn't listen to the counsel, and he doesn't listen to the cautions. That's what I f uh the cautions of his wife uh he is not being a very smart man because he is not understanding that that there there is just a certain there are certain things that a man doesn't think about, uh he's not wired a certain way, and and he needs a wife uh uh often to compliment him in those things, if God provides that. It does not mean that a wife becomes a wallflower who folds up and allows her abilities to lie dormant. I just want to be clear about that. So husbands and wives, women are incredibly talented. Men and women are both talented. And it's not as though a wife can you know, if a wife has talents in various areas or abilities in various areas. Um it's not this is not saying well she should just kind of let all those go dormant. Um so and Proverbs thirty-one, just if you read Proverbs thirty one, the pro the that that woman in Proverbs thirty one, what are some of the things that she's doing Anybody remember? Yeah, she's buying and selling property. Yeah, she rises up early before he ma her maidens and and she feeds them. Her kids and all that. She her husband is known in the gate, so she's she's helping her husband with her reputa his reputation. I mean, you got a lot she's going this is this woman is doing a lot of stuff Okay, and she's not limited, frankly. Okay? And so it's important to understand that as well. It does not mean that uh the wife is inferior to her husband. We've kind of already gone over that, but it's there's value, equal value, and that kind of thing. She is a partner, a teammate, a co-laborer in the garden. It doesn't mean the Bible does not say the woman must be oriented to her husband and not ever work outside the home. Not at all. There is nothing that precludes a woman from working outside the home. Proverbs 31 says 16. But She must always make her husband, kids, and home her first priority. Nothing wrong wrong with working outside the home, but it ought to be she needs to make her husband and her kids the first priority. In other words The reason she would choose to work outside the home would be because it best helps her husband and kids. Does that make sense? All right. So that's the important thing. So the priority is going to be different for a for a wife biblically than a than a a woman biblically than a than a man in a marriage relationship. So what does helper suitable mean? Marriage is not just about sp uh specific big decisions. But it's an entire orientation of the wife's life. The wife is engaged in every area of life with the husband, helping him to be faithful to the massive calling on his life. You've got this massive calling that God gives Adam. Frankly, he gives every man um uh a a huge calling of stewardship of whatever God has g given him. And it is the wife is to be oriented to helping her husband in that way uh engaged in every area of life. It's not just, okay, well you just stay over here, you you know, you stay in the kitchen and you know do your little duties over here and I'll and I'll go out and do everything else. That is not at all what God had in mind. They are a team working together. to accomplish those kind uh accomplish what God and stewarding what God has given them to it to steward. While the man was oriented to the task of dominion The terminology suitable helper suggests that she is oriented first to the man, not to the task. That sets up the priority in their relationships. Do you catch that? So so the man is is is uh oriented to the task of get of having dominion and of being a steward and of directing the family in the way it should go. The wife's role is to be oriented to the man in helping. Now that might that's going to look different in different marriage relationships in different contexts. But the orientation is going to be that the wife is oriented toward helping her husband fulfill their role together in having dominion over over the whatever God's given them, stewardship over what whatever God has given them. Does that make sense? Any questions about that one Yes, Jeff. So two fifteen the task that command is oriented to is embark. Stewardship yes, stewardship. Stewardship of the Well Stuart yeah, that that's what God had given him at the point. So we we see two we see chapter one, have dominion over subdue all things, I mean have dominion over the earth and So that's given to mankind. Adam particularly, okay, his job is in the garden and to make it grow and flourish. But do you run the risk of focusing too much on the task? Yes, you could. We'll get to that, but yes, certainly. This is not what we're going to say later, which uh is that a man is not it is not as though the man does not help and love his wife. It's servant leadership. Is that what you're getting at? No. But also just it can easily you can be trying to help the wife by focusing on making sure you do the task, the job outside the home. and not do enough at home to like the balance. Yeah, I think you uh you got a team and it is gonna look a little different depending on the marriage and talents and gifts and things like that. I mean there are certain things You know, for example, my wife handles the finances. Okay. Now I know what's going on all the time and we talk all the time and if there's a you know But she as far as who writes the checks, which doesn't happen that much anymore, and who pays the bills and those kinds of things and who ke she handles it 'cause she's good at it. Okay. And I'm over I'm super, you know, we're both working together, we make decisions together, but but m some w some sometimes in the marriage relationship the husband ought to be doing that Especially if like he's a CPA. Maybe he should be doing that, right? Okay. So it all depends on what the uh you know so the different roles are going to determine what that looks like in in different marriages. Um but This is really just talking about generally the orientation. Does that make sense? It's good good to flesh that out. Any other questions or comments about this part Anybody any any women feeling like, oh, that makes me look inferior? I think I've said it enough that you're not, right? Okay? The orientation is is what we're looking at here Okay, so let's look at then some implic ooh, brother. I love technology when it works. Okay. Um So let's go on four implications from what we see from Genesis. Number one In Genesis 2, we see the the first indicators of God's desire to give men the authority to lead in the marriage. We see the task given is to a man that pro that and the prohibitions and are explained to the man before the woman was ever on the scene. So it's showing us that. Obviously we have it verified in the New Testament where it says that the head of the uh the woman is the man. Okay. Just as the father is the head of Christ. So there's uh Sonia? One question in regards to what you said, just your opinion. So if a woman is a primary breadwinner for her family, just your Christian opinion on that one based on what you kind of said where primary breadwinner. Yeah, she's the primary breadwinner and maybe the husband is at home doing the those tasks. Or you know, maybe the husband works, but she's definitely the one who works longer. hours maybe or several whatever. Is that available in your mind? Opinion? I I would struggle with that. Yeah. I I don't have a problem with women working. I think that there's sometimes like okay, so let's suppose that it can't be helped. Like the woman has more earning power than the man or something for some reason. I I don't think that's I mean that that's okay, that happens sometimes, but I think that the or the orientation is the key. Like the woman need the man needs her his primary orientation needs to be provider And the woman's primary orientation is toward the husband. I think sometimes you c I think you could have that with the woman earning more. It's a little hard. But I think that uh you you probably could have that. It would just the orientation um you you have to really be careful about the orientation in a situation like that. Um yeah I will make the Yeah, right. Yeah. I I I essentially agree. But usually the person who makes more is usually working longer and things like that. Not always though. So you just have to be careful I guess I would put it that way. All right. Um And by the way, I'll say this. I let me say this. I'm I I'm going out of the limb here a little bit, so don't it's it's my birthday tomorrow, so don't hurt me. It in a situation where you have a husband and a wife and you have two careers, okay, and and maybe both are excelling. But a sacrifice has to be made in order for the other one to excel. Which one has to sacrifice for the other to excel? What do you think? Yeah, the wife needs to sacrifice in order for the husband to excel. Okay. Because the orientation needs to be toward the husband. Okay. If it if it needs to be. And maybe there's no s maybe that that's not the case. I'm just saying that I'll I've just seen situations where that does happen. And and I've n and you y you really the orientation really needs to be that way. Okay. Um Implication number two. Although the husband is called to lead, that should not preclude him from serving his wife. This is really important. Okay, yes we talk about leadership, we've talked about him having stewardship, responsibility and all that, but we see that Christ gave his entire life for his bride, the church, and the husband is called to model Christ in that way. And so the kind of leadership we're talking about here is servant leadership. We as men ought to be serving our families. In fact, when we go to work, we ought to be doing two things. As we learn Sunday, what should we be doing? Well, we should be working to glorify God. Okay, we should be working to as unto the Lord and on the men. And then the other reason we work is to serve our families. I mean so it should be a servant kind of uh kind of leadership that we are providing for our families, uh not you serve me and I just do I just bring home the bacon, kind of a thing. That's not the model that we see in Scripture. Implication number three: the marital relationship has a structure to it, not hierarchy. Okay. There's a structure, not a hierarchy. The husband and wife have complementary roles in which authority is exercised and help is both needed and freely given. Okay. So there's authority But there's comp there is you're a team, you're working together, you're you're it's not a a hierarchy, depending on how you d define those terms actually. But Uh this is not a five-star general standing one level higher than four than a four-star general, but a husband holding his wife's hand and leading her forward. You might think that the label helpmate is a demeaning statement to the woman, and yet it it says as much about the husband's need to be helped Yeah, the lesson is going to kind of point out it seems like the progressive creation of man then woman served. Yes. Yes, absolutely. Yeah. I mean no woman should feel feel less because she was the second one created. There was a need there. And it's not good that man should be alone. All right. And so uh so it does highlight that for sure. And there are I mean and you know, I'll just go I'll just go one step further and say this. Women Who don't understand that there is a unique God given role and they're trying to they're they're trying to take a man's role and not see the distinctions, they're not going to experience the value that they really have. And so it's important to understand how this this works. Implication number four, the husband is leading and the wife's helping is the shape of the marriage relationship, not just one aspect of it. So it's to shape the marriage. If you as a husband are called to lead your wife, and you as a wife are oriented toward your husband, then the structure and orientation is going to affect every aspect of your married life. It's not just going to affect important decisions, but it will pervade all areas of your life. Finances, parenting, sexuality, communication, all areas. Now there's some things that will look different depending on the marriage, but understand that this general orientation is going to affect everything. For example If a wife is handling the finances, but she can't she can't submit to her husband's leadership like they're working together and she keep and she's and it's not working because she she thinks that she just has to handle it and he's gotta be subserv then that that is gonna be a problem. Um the husband still has to lead in the finances, even if the wife is handling the finances. The truth of the matter is, if you're working together as a team, this is personal experience If you're working together as a team, I'll be honest with you, there's not that much con i at least my experience has been there's not all that much conflict. Usually Elizabeth and I agree on things. It's very infrequently I'm saying I'm saying, uh okay, we're just taking this route. You know, you're handling the finances, you're doing all the bills, you know everything, but you're just taking this route. We're just gonna take this route. Okay, yeah. I really think that is so key. The priority If you have the same priorities, if you both want to please God, if you're both using the same Bible and reading the same Bible and what it says, and you're interpreting the same Bible the same way, and you're applying it scripturally together as a ma as a marriage. And you have those priorities, it becomes kind of like a like a a pretty shallow of a pretty shallow pitch on a roof. Does that make sense? So like you have some roofs and they're like this. Alright? So you've got man's at the top. And, you know, there's this sharp pitch. But when everybody has the same when the m husband and wife have the same priorities, you have you you're gonna have a pitch to it. You're gonna ha somebody's gotta leave. Somebody's gotta call the shot when there is a disagreement or somebody's gotta leave. And there's no question biblically that the husband is still eve. But it's going to be a much shallower pitch because we're on the same we have the same priorities, we're going the same direction. That's a very, very good point. And it's really key. So those are implications. Okay, I think we are We actually have a few. Any any comments or questions about those? We're going to move after this to the whole leaving and cleaving idea. Any comments or questions about about this aspect of it though? Well there really is a hierarchy. So husband was in charge of the wife and God in charge of the whole family. So doesn't that say hierarchy Uh I think the thing I I don't like about the term hierarchy is it sounds like it attributes value based upon rank. Maybe it does. If you don't say if you take that out of it, then you don't then fine you can use that word. But but if you think of hierarchy in terms of okay, a higher rank means higher value. Then that's when you run into a problem because it's not. It's a it there's equal value. You have it's structured where one is over the other, but it's Well yeah, I'm just saying it's structure without the val without the without the value issue of of having different values. Usually when you think of a five star general, four star j you have you sort of have in your mind well the one's more valuable than the other. And I mean ar it's arguably not true, but but that's usually what you think of. So that's that's the distinction I would make Any other comments or questions about this part? Everything crystal clear? Wow, this is great. Okay Um let's then go to are you just being nice to me because my birthday tomorrow. Alright. Um let's then go to implications of leaving and cleaving. Number one. Uh I wasn't even gonna say anything about my birthday, but somebody brought some donuts in, so so you already know. Anyway. Um Number one, okay, well let's look at the passage that talks about leaving and cleaving before we go into these implications. Um and we will finish up here pretty soon. But um let's see here. Hang on one second, I need to find the right spot. Okay, look at chapter 2, verse 24. It says, Therefore man shall leave his father and mother, and be joined to his wife, and they shall become one flesh. Um so let's talk about this whole idea of leaving and cleaving. Um the the word leave basically means that that's uh it's to let the other one it it means exactly what it says. It means to leave. Uh you're constructing a new family. You've got you've got Husband and wife, they've got a kid, they get married. As soon as they get married, it is a new family unit. Okay, it is a separate family unit. Um And this is important to understand in the marriage. So the priority for when a husband marries someone, what does that mean? That means that the priority for the husband or the wife, either one. Is going to be first to who? Lord first, and then who else? Their spouse. It's not going to be their parents anymore. Okay. Let's parents come s come third or fourth once you have kids probably. Okay. But um but you you've you you you've got to understand that the priority is to the spouse now It's not to it's not to the family, yes. How do you integrate this with the concept of the value of singleness? Because here the instead of or the impetus for moving on is getting married. Yeah. But if you're not getting married, how does that how do you set up a family unit of one or when you Yeah, some of that is uh we yeah, we kind of discussed that back in in in the c when we talk talked about singleness in the beginning. Um uh it's it's much less clear. Okay. So there doesn't seem to biblically have to be a a clear break like that. Um it seems to me that it has to do with it has to it tends to be more gradual. So so and often has to do with with how much is being how much what the dependency is. What's the financial dependency, emotional dependency, those kinds of things. There isn't a clear break biblically until until marriage happens, but let's say a single person gets They're single, uh you know, they they graduate the you know they graduate from high school, they go to college. There's some little there's some separation that happens a little there. Now there's in my opinion, they're still under the parents' authority when they're at college because they're s Still kids. But anyway. Um but so I mean just walk on our college campus. I I'm I know I I I know I'm old because I walk into college campus and I was like, these are these are kids. Sorry kids. Sorry guys. Okay. Anyway. Um but that's true. Um so so there but there's you're gonna see a little separation there. Okay. Then then you're gonna see a little bit more separation uh when they get out of college and they get w working and they have their own job and they're not financially dependent. You're gonna see Separation there. If they're moving if they're not in the in the same location, if they're a different totally different location, you know, ones in California and one's in Maryland, I mean you're gonna have separation there. So I think it tends to be more of a gradual thing more than a clear defined thing. But once the marriage happens, then we have we have clear clearly it's clearly defined. I don't know if that completely answers the question. Yeah. Could you also consider how when they were And where they defy God that anyone over a certain age is not going to make it to the problem claims for ones younger than that. That were I mean that so there was a separation of responsibility for Yeah, I'd have a hard time making the connection, to be honest with you, between that and having to do with adulthood. I mean we have Well you know, we have even Galatians says that in I think it's chapter three that says that we're under tutors and governors until the time appointed by the Father. That's a little clearer, but even that's not actually the context really isn't even talking about. that I I don't know I don't know if I'd make that connection honestly Tim. Um I I have to I'd have to look at it a little closer though. What was the age? I don't remember what the age was for that. Twenty? Okay. Yeah, I don't know. That's an interesting concept. I'd have to look at it more. I'll have to give that some thought. But um Okay, I think we probably any other questions uh we're not gonna get into the implications um uh yet, but uh we'll get into that next week because I don't think we have time to finish it. Um any other questions about anything we've talked about? Oh, okay. Very good. Let's go ahead then and let me take a few prayer requests and then team, you're dismissed. I'll be down there in just a few minutes, Julie. But I wanted to cover a couple of things as far as prayer requests are concerned.