Marriage and uh particularly looking at God's original plan in marriage. Um And what I need to do is switch over to the right side. Bear with me for a minute here. And I need to hook this up. Okay. Almost there. Okay, and we are going to look at it. We're going to look at implications of leaving and cleaving. So Genesis 2. 24 tells us very clearly that a man should leave his father and mother and cleave unto his spouse, and they should become one flesh. And so now tonight we're going to look at what that means. And I I want to remind us that everything that we've been talking about in marriage so far has been pre-fall. And the significance of that is that it's really what God originally intended. It was his plan from the very beginning. And that's important because when the gospel is applied in our marriages an appropriate way, then that is what's going to recognise as the way it was prior to the fall. At least that's the result. um in in a different not not in its fullness, but in uh in some on some level. And then there's other implications that we'll see of that in a minute. But let's talk about this whole idea of leaving and cleaving. Number one implication is leaving involves putting your spouse ahead of all allegiances apart from God. Career, family, friends, hobbies, etc. In marriage, your spouse has greater priority than your family of origin. You are shifting allegiances so that your family of origin becomes secondary to your spouse. Um so let's start there. What kinds of things happen if this doesn't take place? What are some dangers that occur that that take place in the marriage? Any ideas? Yes. Really bad relations with your in-laws. Okay. You'd have some difficult relationships with your in-laws? Animosity. Okay, animosity from who? family that you're leaving. Quote leaving. Okay, that that could happen if you do leave. If you don't it decapitulates trust. Right. Yeah. Where does the leadership Okay. Yeah, so who are who's actually leading you? Yeah. Good. I mean you can't there's other principles that are gonna apply. How can a husband provide leadership? If, for instance, a wife is her allegiance is to her for free her her family rather than her spouse. Good. Alright, there are a lot of problems that can occur. when this allegiance to something else. How about let's go beyond let's go beyond family, let's go to kids. What if the spouse, one spouse or another, has more allegiance to the kids than they do their spouse What can happen there? Is that po is that does that happen? All the time. Very, very common. So what can happen there? If a spouse if one spouse has more allegiance to the kids than to the other spouse, what are some some of the things that might occur? Yes, Yvonne? Okay, yeah. Actually you do not the the the pro the the kids it ends up messing them up. Okay. Or there are problems that occur in their lives. They become as we talked about last week a little bit, they become the center of intention. And it's not there are the kids already think they're the center of attention, frankly. Okay. Yes. Would that still be a danger if you are insane on how you're rating yourself? So they would have been a good thing. Yeah, I think it can be. You might still be agree on how you're raising them, but Um if the attention is given to them more than the other spouse, then you can you can still have a have a problem. Or the priority is given. Um and on a practical level, it's just it's a day-to-day kind of a thing that will occur. Alright, let's go to the next one. Oh yes, Kristen? Well I wonder if you I believe in what you're saying, but if there's still responsibility I believe to honor your parents. Sure. Yeah, sure. It's just where where the allegiance shifts. We still biblically have a responsibility to honor our parents, but the allegiance shifts to our to our our uh our spouse. You you're creating a new family unit. Implication number two. Actually let me just mention a couple of things already mentioned here. Sep this separation can be hard for both parent and child, especially parents who are controlling and demanding, or a child who has a good relationship with both one or both parents. So there can be some struggles in the initial stages of of marriage. where where there there can be tensions. Yeah. So favoritism. Yeah, favoritism can happen there. Um Who should the spouse if you're married, let me give you this a perfect example, if you get married and and the spouse has a problem, one spouse has a problem, who should he or she go to? Yeah, go to the other spouse. Don't go to your parents. That's off that should be off limits. A good parent, if they go to unless there's like abuse or something, but A good parent, if they go to a s uh the spouse if the spouse goes to the parent, a good parent's going to say uh that's biblically based is going to say, no, you uh you can't come here with that You've got to go to the spouse, your your spouse. And if you and if that doesn't work, where do you go? Now can you go to the parent? Preachers. Yeah, go to church leadership or somebody but you're at a church. Okay. You don't you still don't go to you go to your your parents. Okay. Um that just creates a that can create so many problems to do that Or a person is emotionally or spiritually or financially still dependent on his or her parents. That becomes a real issue as well. Yvonne, did you have one? Are you saying not to get nervous advice from your parents. I'm saying if you have a problem with your spouse that you should not go to your parents. You should go to your spouse first and then church leadership next. Or your church or your s you know your pastor's wife or something something like that. Uh yeah. Um Uh unless it's a physically if there's a physical abuse situation I think that's an exception where you just get out and go where you gotta go, basically. Um yeah. I par part of the problem here, I'll just tell you so many problems with this, but part of the problem is the parent is only hearing one side of the story. They're going to be completely biased. They're not going to see the other side besides the person's side of the story. They may not even hear the other person's side of the story to know what it is. The Bible says he that answers a matter it's folly into him if he uh it's foolish to him if he answers too quickly. There there are just so many problems that occur uh when when you go to your your when you have a problem with your spouse and you go to your your um your parents with that. It's why the local one of the reasons why the local church is so important because you don't have to do that. It's just one of the many reasons. It's not primary, but you don't have to do that that way. Alright. It does not mean that the wife is inferior to the husband, by the way. We've kind of gone over that before. She is a partner and a teammate. I think that's out of order or something. That's not part of that. Let's go to the next next one. Implication number two. The idea of one flesh also suggests that in marriage there is a reorientation of priorities to make the spouse primary. So there we're reorienting our priorities. After you get married, your posture toward your towards the rest of your life life needs to change Marriage is not just one of one area of life to be balanced with others. Marriage is a c in marriage uh is the context in which you live all of life. You approach work, church, friendships, family, etc. , as a married man and woman Take career as one example. It is not the same uh to say that you approach marriage as a lawyer, teacher, architect, or whatever you do. married people are not to balance career with marriage, but approach career as a married person. Okay. So you have to think in terms of being someone who is married as you approach your career, rather than this, okay, I'm gonna I'm gonna balance between those two, the two. Because you're not, in other words, you're not compartmentalizing in that sense. Implication number three, marriage is a common grace institution The fact that marriage is established in creation shows us that marriage is good for all kinds of men and women, not just Christians. Okay. Now I'm not saying that the uh I mean we're g we're living in a day and age where if you don't have Christ and your God is not the center of everything, you it really staying married is going to be a much more difficult thing. But it is an institution ordained by God for all mankind, and there is this common grace. It's like you all familiar with the term common grace, what that means? Common grace is like the rain falls on the just and the unjust. Okay, so there are certain things in life that are good for everyone, whether you're saved or not, whether you're just or unjust, it's called common grace. And marriage is that way. It's good for everyone. Um it's not good for everyone all the time, but it can be good for everyone, put it that way. Uh marriage uh implication number four, monogamy God's parameters for marriage is for one man and one woman holding fast to one another Fidelity is well, in a fallen world divorce does happen, but God's intent is that man and woman stay together Marriage is qualitatively different a different type of commitment. It is a permanent obligation for the single adult that makes the leap into marriage scary because of its permanent nature For the married adult, it should be comforting because it means your spouse is not going anywhere. So no matter how hard things can get in marriage, your goal is straightforward. Work it out There's no thought in a in a in a in a Christian marriage, a biblical marriage, there should be no thought of I'm just gonna get out of this. Um and if you're uh if if a mar if in a marriage you're constantly thinking you've got that fight or flight kind of mechanism and you're constantly thinking, well if things get really bad I'll just flee. Um watch them get really bad. Uh because when you have a determination we're in a committed relationship, we're going to work this out. It's amazing how you decide To make it work and you figure it out. Very important to understand that. Implication number six, God's ideal parameters Um am I missing hands? Okay. God's ideal ideal parameters of for marriage are established in creation Before my I'm having problems with my computer, it's blacking out on me. Um before the entrance of the sit of the sin into the world. God's ideal parameters of marriage are established in creation before the entrance of sin into the world. All right. Um and so we need to understand that going forward. Alright, I'm gonna move forward here. God is the center of your marriage. If we see marriage biblically, we see God working throughout the story. God put man in a garden, gave him a suitable helper, God made woman and brought her to man, and God made them one flesh. So those are all some of the implications of um of this idea of leaving and cleaving. We're gonna move on now. Yes, Jeff. You mentioned guys ideal parameters were established basically before the fall. Yeah. Um but they didn't change The parameters were established prior to the fall, there are, which we're going to see here, there are um things to compensate because of the fall after after the fall. So um so no the parameters did not the do not change the The purpose and goals and all that don't change after the fall. Um how well they are Followed has changed significantly and you're gonna see that. Um good, good question. Alright, I want to ask this question at this point. What we're going to do is we're going to be looking at the fall. Now we're moving to the fall. We looked at creation. Now we're looking at going to look at the fall of Adam and Eve and how and how that works into our marriages Really how it corrupts it's a corrupting influence in our marriages. And if you think in terms of marriages that perhaps have even gone bad Why? Why have they gone bad? And so we're going to see biblically why this happens rather than some of the things that we've seen. We'll get into this a little bit. But I want to ask this question first. What problems does marriage solve? What problems do marriage solve does marriage solve In the worldly or in the I don't know. Just I I I'm just curious. I I Dave had the right answer. The answer is none. That's a trick question. It doesn't solve any problem. Yes. If you consider that to be a problem. Well it's it completes it completes um uh in in the sense of helps a man do his job. But I'm talking about if you think of a a particular okay, you have a point there, but A particular problem, like you're going through life and you got a problem, what does it solve? And the answer is, generally speaking, it doesn't solve a problem. Okay. They don't sol if you go into marriage trying to solve prob solve a problem, uh you're going to have have trouble. You're going to have multiple problems instead of a problem. That's exactly right. I was uh I I happen to be listening to Caitlin get her piano lesson today. Most of you probably know she's taking lessons from Jan Puckett. And uh I I hate she uh anyway. Sorry I'm using you again. Um so so I was listening to to Jan explain to her that you've got to get You've got to get one hand do do your scales separately. One hand first, then the other hand. Don't try to put them together until until you have them both separate, right Okay, and they're and you can do it because if you try to do that, you try to put both of them together, then you're gonna it's just gonna be a mess. That's not boy. That is exactly what happens in marriage. Uh where where you're trying to solve problems. And you haven't figured out how to be uh uh uh be a single person first and understand who you are in Christ and all those kinds of things. Then as soon as you you put marriage together with two problem people together, you got multiple problems. They multiply Okay. And so to understand that is important is important. Marriage doesn't solve problems. There is no problem that I can think of other than one of the one Jeff mentioned. that that uh that is so that is that that solves is solved by marriage. Let me ask this question What do people usually just think of any this is would be a anybody in the world anywhere what do people usually blame for marriage marriages going bad? What do you hear people say? My marriage went bad for this reason or that reason? Infidelity. Okay, infidelity, that's a very common one. Money. Money. Okay. Uh all right, what do they say about money? We don't have enough, so we got the word. Okay. What's that? They argue over everything. We we argue over everything. Okay. What else? Kids. Kids. Okay? We don't agree on the kid. What else? They're not compatible. Whatever that means. Yeah. Yes, sir. Good. Okay. That's the one I've heard before. Alright, here's the ones I've got. We grew apart. We no longer love each other. I didn't like him like who I was when I was with him or her, whatever that means. And he's not the same man or woman I dated. Those are the things that I often hear, or that you hear you might hear in whatever, uh that kind of thing, and some and the things that you said as well The truth of the matter is that none of these make any sense. Okay. None of them have anything to do with why you stay married or why you're not or why you get divorced or any of that. That's just, they're all symptomatic. And some of them don't make sense even in as symptoms, but uh they're all symptomatic of much more serious problems. Now what we need to do is just review what we went over last week to to acclimate before we get into the fall. I'm going to try to do this fairly quickly. Just four different things here to review. Number one, both men and women are made as image bearers, which means they reflect God's character and have equal dignity and value in God's eyes Image bearers are uniquely given the task of being God's representatives and stewards in the garden. Okay, so everybody is to be a steward of God of what God's given. Yes. Well, this is the first the I mean the it it would be whatever God's responsibil whatever is given to you as a responsibility. I don't know if it'd be the whole world, but it'd be so God specifically gave care of the garden to Adam. So um whatever God has called you to do That's what you're supposed to be stewarding. A God has created marriage with certain ideal parameters. Image bearers are equal in dignity and value, differences and difference in roles Leaving family of origin, holding fast and cleaving, becoming one flesh, monogamy and infidelity. God is at the center of our marriages He is the one who brings the husband and wife together, and in the words of Jesus, what God has joined together, let no man separate. Alright, so those are some of the things that we need to establish as baselines for what we're going to look at when it comes to the fall So the fall of mankind and the corruption of Christian marriages. So take your Bible and turn to Genesis chapter 2, and we're going to read a couple of these passages here And then we're going to make some comments on them. Sin enters the world. So what happens when sin enters the world? And what I want us to do is to think on two levels. The two problems that we're going to deal with tonight are what happens to my relationship with God, which is what we usually think of when we read this. But also what happens to the relationship of marriage because of sin. And you're going to see that actually in the passage as well. But look for that, both both of those things when we are reading through this. 225 first it says, and they were both naked, the man and his wife, and were not ashamed. So they started off prior to sin. They were not ashamed. There was total openness. There was total transparency. There was total intimacy. They didn't have any of those kind of issues prior to the fall. Now the serpent was more cunning than any beast of the field which the Lord God had made. And he said to the woman, Has God indeed said you shall not eat of every tree of the garden? And the woman said to the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden, but of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden, God has said, You shall not eat it, nor shall you touch it lest you die Then the serpent said to the woman, Do you not surely you will not surely die? For God knows that in the day you eat of it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree desirable to make one wise, she took of its fruit and ate. She also gave to her husband with her, and he ate. Then the eyes of both of them were opened, and they knew that they were naked, and they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves coverings. We could read more about this, but I think we know the story well enough to stop there. A couple of things we want to mention. First of all, without uh sin, Adam and Eve live with no shame. It was possible to be naked with each other and not be embarrassed by it at all. Then we see in verses 1 through 2, Satan entered the scene as a snake and asked a question that distorts God's words. So he's distorting God's word. Has God said this? Did he really say Satan is questioning God's word and motives? Must not eat and any tree. Okay? Do you really say you must not eat and Satan made what's he doing here? He's making it look like God is removing all of their freedom. This is an important point. He's making it look like God is removing their freedom. Do you know that that is the first step to rebellion? The first step to rebellion is when you believe that Whether your parents or God, somebody's removing your freedom. Somebody is keeping you from being free. That is a lie of Satan to lead you down to a path of rebellion. And that is something that that that all of us should be aware of. That kind of a thought, well somebody is hampering my freedom. That's what Satan was doing there. Did he really say this? That's the kind of thing he was doing. Verses 2 through 3, Eve corrects Satan but adds into the mix her own distortion, makes the prohibition more stringent than it than it really was. She says they were not allowed to touch the fruit. So now she's buying into the lie. Yeah, we're not even allowed to touch that thing. Okay. He's basically begin to convince Eve that yes, God is very strict and and he's not he's he's not uh he's withholding something that would really be good for you. And he's she's buying the lie by saying, Yeah, we're not even supposed to touch it. She's she's she's she's adding to what God had said. Um verses four and five. This it's so this is so weird. I'll just let you know. Like sometimes I get it on the screen and sometimes it goes black. So now it's on if I can read from here. Uh which is a lot easier. The serpent directly contradicts God again with his own counterclaims. Adam and Eve would not die. Their eyes would be opened. They would be like God, knowing good and evil. His goal is to undermine God. I'm getting that's probably a community call. His goal is to undermine God, and he does so by blatantly contradicting him. Adam and Eve are both drawn into Satan's interpretation of reality. She is drawn to the fruit, she understands it is good for food and pleases to and and pleasing to the eye. She also desires wisdom that will come from partaking of the fruit, so she partakes and gives it to her husband. Verse 7 then. Remember what the servant said in 3 through 5. Adam and Eve went beyond the limits that God had set for them. And in so doing, they simultaneously discovered their nakedness and experienced shame. They experienced shame, that's going to be an important thing to understand. They sowed fig leaves to cover up their nakedness. Their sinless existence was now gone as sin had entered into the world. Alright, so let's first of all look at two lessons that we can gather from this so far. Lesson number one: we have competing voices. That can threaten our marriages. Okay, so you've got what was the competing voice in the Garden of Eden? Yeah you've got Satan, you've got the serpent coming and whispering in in Eve's ear or however he did it. And uh and there's a competing voice. You've got God's voice that all the only voice they've heard besides each other's is God's so far. And now you have another voice entering in that's telling them something totally different than what they've ever known before. And and it's a it's a competing voice. And this happens oftentimes in marriage as well, where there is a competing voice. And this doesn't just happen from the devil, it also can happen from our flesh. And it can happen from the world. What are some competing voices from the world, the flesh, and the devil? that that contradict God's original plan, God's ideal plan, what are some competing voices that the world, the flesh, and the devil uh tell us? Okay, right. Very good. That's a that's you deserve better. That is a competing voice. Um what's that? Okay, alright. Yeah, th this is this is not normal socially or it is normal you were dealing with that. What else? Yes. Okay, marriage is not freedom. Marriage is con constricting. It's a ball and chain. Okay? That's exactly what Satan told Eve about the about the fruit. Yeah. People say you're always going to be happy. Yeah, right. Yeah. I'm I God uh yeah, I God wants me to be happy. I need to be happy. I'm not happy in this marriage. Okay, good. What else? You guys got most of it. The world tells you that your needs and happiness are the point of marriage. Why do I and a lot of people get married for to meet their needs and to be happy. And then when it doesn't work, they they have a problem. But there are competing voices telling them that it's not working or it's a problem. Um and there are lies that we tell ourselves. And frankly, any kind of sin whatsoever can become a competing voice, jealousy or Insecurity kinds of things. I mean, uh there are all kinds of things like that, and we're going to look specifically at what those are. The other amplification is our quest to be like God is something that that they began to want to do you remember what Satan told them to be like God, knowing good and evil. They went outside the parameters of what God wanted for them. So they would have knowledge that he didn't want them to have necessarily. And so how does this affect us today? Yeah. Redefining what gender means with something that's well that is a very common thing today, okay, where I'm now not made in the image of God, male and female. I can make m I can do what I want. with my image because and and control it that way. That is a very very much the case. But even in marriage, the idea that I'm going to set up my life the way I want to and my marriage the way I want to. That it has to be set up my way is essentially who set up marriage the way it's supposed to be? God did. When I'm saying I'm gonna set it up the way I want it, instead of God setting it up the way he wants it, we're trying to take his role. Um and we have to be very careful. Yes, Simon. together. That that should be your spouse that keeping things together and maybe all qualities they have. Okay. That that they should have. Oh got it. Okay. Seeing deficiencies. Oh god it's not a thing that they should have it trying to Yes. Oh very much so. Yes, very much so. Alright. He boy if only he had that. Those are all competing voices. And what happens is When those competing voices are in marriage, it will corrupt the marriage. Um and you see that beginning here, and you're going to see that in a few minutes even more. So, sin also corrupts our relationship with our spouse. Before the fall, Adam and Eve lived in harmony with one another, in complete openness and vulnerability Trusting and loving each other. After the fall, the marriage was tainted by this by self-centeredness and pride. I mean we just know that to be the truth. The Bible didn't have to tell us that. We know that, right? And it of course does tell us that there's self self-service and pride in the world. Adam and Eve did not willingly accept responsibility for the situation when God questioned each of them. Catch this, catch this. What happened Okay, you know the story well enough. Okay, what happened? Adam blamed Eve, and Eve blamed the serpent. What do we what corrupts marriage? When we're blaming the other person. That will corrupt the marriage. Instead of taking personal responsibility, I'm blaming the other person when they're not to be blamed And that is the that is a very, very common thing to do. I'm discontent. I don't it wasn't like I expected. Uh it's not the way I planned. And it's his fault or it's her fault and not taking personal responsibility and blaming. That is a very common thing that will that will corrupt the marriage. The list of possible sins that could affect your marital relationship is almost ridiculously long. Self-centeredness, pride, anger, control, self-sufficiency, self-exaltation, hopelessness. uh condescension, self-righteousness, etc. etc. I mean, I i the list is long. As image bearers, what we are meant to do is reflect back the character of God. But whenever we sin, we lie about who God is. So the more sin we have, the more. And here's the thing about it. Sin, first of all, reflects it causes problems with my relationship with God first. But the next relationship it's going to cause problems with after my relationship with God is my spouse. That's why um you need to be careful who you marry. And you need to we need to understand these kinds of things as we're getting married. That Sin prior to being married, I've only got me and God to deal with primarily. I mean, it affects other people too. Sin affects all kinds of people. But not as directly as when you have a spouse involved And so understanding this is important. The particular sin we see in Genesis chapter 3 is blame shifting. What is blame shifting? It is often an avoiding of responsibility. Catch this By casting blame on the other person. It's a way to get the spotlight off yourself when you usually should be taking ownership of the sin. In other words I blame so that I don't have to take responsibility. Prior to the fall, Adam's got clear responsibility. Eve's got clear responsibility. They know their roles. They're doing things the way that God wants them to. There's no competing voices. After the fall, they're sinful. They have competing voices in their heads. They've got the flesh and the world and the devil to deal with. They're blaming each other and they're trying to absolve themselves of their own responsibility. And no wonder, I mean, just think of this in terms of marriage. This is why marriage gets corrupted. So that's I probably should end it there. I've got lots more to say about this, but we'll we'll end there. We're going to talk about the curse, the curses and all that as well. I'm not that far away. Okay, I'm gonna I'm sorry, I'm gonna continue. Give me give me another give me five minutes. Okay, and I'll I'll be done. Look at chat Genesis chapter 3 verses 16 through 19, but don't hold me to five minutes. 16 It says to the woman, he said, I will greatly multiply your sorrow and your conception. This is the curse. This is what happened as a result of the fall. In pain you shall bring forth children, your desire shall be for your husband, and he shall rule over you. So what is he talking about here? Well, uh the words desire what do the words desire and rule mean? Beware of reading modern ideas into the terms desire and rule here. Desire does not mean wife is wanting or coveting her husband. Rule does not mean their husband is imposing dominance on his wife. Rather, desire could be better translated as controlling, and ruling could be understood as governance. So, how does this work? We expect sin to turn upside down God's ideal marriage parameters set out at creation. Eve's role of being a helpmate is reversed by the curse. She now desires to usurp Adam's leadership. And Adam will have to fight to lead his wife. Note that the connection between man and woman woman's rebellion against God and how that ruins the marriage. One of the most tragic results of Adam and Eve's rebellion against God is the ongoing damaging conflict between the husband and the wife within the marriage. So it says as a curse The woman has now a desire to usurp her role. There's this desire to control. And the man is b will have to con the curse for the man is he has to govern. Even though there is this competing conflict. And for a man, what usually happens, there's two possibilities. And it, ladies, will help you to know this. Women are men tend to either want to go one of two ways. If a woman wants to take control in the marriage, a man will often say, fine, go ahead. And he left off completely. Or he will fight back and he will try to control. Both are wrong reactions Both won't work. But that's usually what happens. Either a man becomes domineering and he's wrong for doing so, and the woman is trying to control and the man is becoming domineering, or the man takes his hands off completely and says, Fine, do what you want. Now there's a lot of issues here involved in all this. But understand that this all comes from the curse and the fall. See, the problem with a man is this. The Bible says for a man he needs to dwell with his wife according to knowledge. He does not have the option of saying, I'm going to dominate you, or I'm going to let my hand off completely. Both of those are unbiblical options. The role of the husband is, I'm going to understand you. I need to know you. I need to dwell with you according to knowledge, so that I can lead with knowledge And the responsibility of the wife is to follow her role in being a help meet for her husband, which we've already said many times is equal, not subservient. And so it's important to understand that this all of this gets corrupted because of sin and because of the fall. And if you look at marriages today If you look at the world uh I mean you can even take the world's marriages. Like you have two unsaved people and it's not working out and why? And you begin to look at what's going on inside the marriage You you it's it's amazing to see how many of even these problems are still are are are happening in the marriage. And certainly for a Christian marriage this is the case. What happened how does a Christian marriage get corrupted? This is how it gets corrupted. We have to go back to Genesis and see the foundation of everything. And then when you see the foundation of everything the way God intends it to be, then then we then begin to have to learn how to apply the gospel to our marriages. And that's what we want we need to learn how to do in the future. How is it that I apply the gospel to my marriage? How is it that because that's the that's the only thing that's going to redeem sin. And deal with sin. Not redeem sin, but deal with sin. Is by the gospel. So we want to have gospel centered marriages, and all that is going to All that is going to be to come. Any final comments or questions about this? Just some basic responses to the lesson. Just some questions to ask. What are the competing voices that you are ruining in your marriage? That are ruining your marriage. Either talk with your spouse or write out a list. What does the word of God say in contrast to these voices? What lies do you do you tell yourself and distract you from God and hurt your marital relationship? So what are lies that you're telling yourself? What ways do you act like God in your marriage? Confess this to both God and your spouse. What marital sins have hurt your relationship with God? What sin plagues your marriage? Do you see the dynamic uh described in Genesis 3? 16 in in your marriage. If so, think about how to change and break that dynamic. Take some time with your spouse to reflect on how God has been merciful to you both in response to your sin, both individual sin and sin that refects on the marriage. Think about how God how merciful God is. And it is amazing to me how merciful God is When you begin to look at the fall and how it affects our relationship with God and it affects our relationship with marriage, it's it's a wonder any of us are married. Because we're all so sinful. Okay, or are able to stay married. I mean, we're all so sinful and so selfish, and it really is only the gospel that keeps us from destroying each other or leaving each other or something. And so it uh reflect on God's mercy and his grace as well in in your marriage. Those are some good reflections to think about. Okay, now I am finished. And uh I can I don't I just don't like to leave things undone. So anyway, uh we'll go on to our next lesson uh next time on marriage. Uh