A short series on um and we're going to title it by the book that I'm going to be heavily using called Compelling Community. And I want to say at the very outset of this that many of the things that we'll be discussing and many of the concepts either come from directly from the Bible. or directly from this book. I want to say that very clearly on the outset because I'm using so much of the material from this book, in fact, straight direct quotes, a lot of them. that I need to be very clear about that, that this is not my I I put it into a PowerPoint presentation form for us to discuss and But I want to say a couple of things about the book. Number one, I would highly recommend actually purchasing the book. Um and I would also like to say that um It has really been very thought provoking to me. Certainly not every book that I read do I do start doing a series on, basically. But this one was so thought provoking for me. That uh and so applicable, I think, to where our church is in its development that I really felt like it was something that would be good for us to be able to work through and discuss. As I read the book, I I found many things that I think we are doing right. And I'm thankful for that. But there were some things I also felt as though we needed to work on. And so we'll see that as we go through the book. I want to begin by actually asking the question: what is the highest goal of the church? What is the highest goal? Okay? Glorifying God and worshiping him. Okay, glorifying God is correct. Um that and so you can't go wrong with that answer because the whole world is created to glorify God. Every Christian is created to glorify God. Families are created to glorify God. The church is created to glorify God. But if we wanted to get a little bit more I mean that's really close, but if we wanted to get a little bit more specific as to the particular role of the church, what would you say that would be? Uh okay, to make disciples. That's true. Okay, to be salt and light. Okay, any other ideas? Okay, well uh well let me yeah yes, yes ma'am. Um Paul Ron Timothy said that the church is the pillar of the truth. So I think that the church is the only that is the proclaimer of truth in the culture and among humanity beliefs. Good, the pillar and ground of the truth for sure No question about that. So let me suggest something. Between this highest goal of glorifying God, which is which the whole creation is supposed to do. And making disciples, which would include which would include being a pillar and ground of the truth. I mean pillar and ground of the truth is like the basis of making disciples. You can't make disciples if you're not um if you're not uh being the the the possessor of the truth. Between those things there is this clear purpose that's given directly for the church. Yes. Okay. That's true. To spread the gospel, we would kind of we could lump that in with making disciples or being salt and light. Salt and light is kind of closer. Yes. Okay, that's how we're going to fulfill the primary purpose of the church, is to love one another. Very good. Take your Bibles. We're going to see see this is why we take our Bibles, right? Because I want to show you this. Take your Bibles and turn to Ephesians chapter 3, verse 10. We're going to find it right there very clearly in this verse. Ephesians chapter three, verse ten. And it says this to the intent, so this is the purpose of the assembly, the purpose of the church. That now under the principalities and powers Who are the Principalities and Powers here? Principalities and powers are either talking about two different kinds of people in the New Testament, two different kinds of entities in the New Testament, talking about angels or fallen angels. In this case, it's talking about angels, right? They're still in heavenly places. We see that. He makes that clear in the next verse phrase in heavenly places. So what is the purpose of the church? Might be known by the church. This is what the church is supposed to be doing. Might be known the what? The manifold wisdom of God. The purpose of the church certainly is to glorify God. How does it do that? It displays, it does it by displaying the manifold wisdom of God. Now, how do you do that? Let's just very quickly apply that practically. It means this. That to the world and even to angels, according to this verse. It means that the that that when people observe, when the world observes the church, it ought to go, wow, that's the wisdom of God When people walk into our church building, doesn't matter but the building at all. When people walk in, they ought to be able to walk in and say Wow, that is amazing. I've never seen anything like that before. Unless they've been another local church church. But that this is the wisdom of God here. Now they wouldn't say it that way, but that or people are interacting in a small group or something, and they are s and people look at the interactions between us and the fellowship and they go, that's the wisdom of God. Yes. Does that go with the idea of being peculiar people? I I think it does, sure. That's gonna be how you do that. We're gonna we're gonna talk the whole lesson is gonna be I mean the whole series is gonna be how we do this. specifically. But I want to be very clear in our minds about what the role of the local church is. He's going to we're going to delve into a lot of details and application. But it's very and so let me just put it this way, as a pastor, when I'm looking at our church, I'm asking a question, how well are we doing this? Now I think we do it if I'm I think I'm I think I'm trying to be objective as I can. I think we do it a lot better than some churches. We at least try to preach the gospel, right? And we at least I mean we do some things well by God's grace, only by his grace, certainly by nothing of our own merit. But I think we do well with this in some ways. But let me just ask you a question. If you look at this, is it possible that we could move forward in this area? Is it probable that we could? I would suggest that we need to. We need to. And this is the this is the singular goal in my mind as I As I lead our our church, and not just me, but our other leaders in the church as well, that I want us to all be on the same page about is that if we're going to evaluate the success of our church, it's not going to be on how many people we get in here. It's not going to be on how many outreach events we do. It's not going to be on how many ministries we have on our website. It's not going to be on those things. It's got to be on How well we are displaying God's wisdom to the world through our interactions. Because the church, of course, you know this, the church is not the building. The church is not is not um it's not made up of programs or or that's not what the church is. The church is God's people. Interacting together in a way that glorifies Him. We do this through worship, and we do it through fellowship. We do it through communion. We do it through the listening, the hearing of and preaching of God's Word, which is part of worship. That's how we do it. So when we're thinking about the purpose of the church, when we say what is the highest purpose of the church, right underneath, glorifying God, because that's the purpose of everything. So how do we put this? How do we say what is the what is the purpose of the local church then? According to this passage verse? To have to be to to display God to the world. To display God. To be, another way of put it would be to be God visible, or let's put it a little bit another way, the gospel made visible That's the role of the church. If we're not doing that, we're not fulfilling the ultimate purpose of the church. The level to which we do that is the level to which we fulfill the purpose of the local church. So when we have fellowship together, God delights in that. But that is a, that's not the end in unto itself. Even when we worship together, it's not it's close to the end of the end of the end unto itself. It's probably the closest you get, right? But it's there's there's something more that God has in mind. God wants us to be the church made visible to the world. And so this book is going to really flesh out in the most practical way I've read. of any book on this subject. I've read, if you look at my library and my office, which is not that extensive, I have as much on computer as I do up there. You'll see a very large section of books on ministry. And I'll just tell you that this particular book has helped me more to understand how this is supposed to work on a practical level, and particularly what hindrances keep this from happening in a local church. Because isn't it true, folks, if this is the wisdom of God, God's going to have to do it? I want to say that at the very outset, and he's going to say that in the book. If this is the wisdom of God, God and and and it's and we're going to display the wisdom of the world, God's wisdom of the world. If we're going to be the gospel made visible to the world, we can't do that, right? It's God that's going to have to do it. It's God that is going to have to almost supernaturally, in a sense supernaturally, do that through us. But there are things in our lives and in our thinking and in our practice that could hinder that from happening. Wouldn't you want to know what those are? Right? Hopefully I'm wetting your appetite a little bit. I mean I know I I I'm telling you that this is this is really helpful kinds of things that we're going to be going through. And so let's go ahead and begin this way. You're going to just stay in Ephesians. We're going to be in and out of Ephesians quite a bit. Ephesians chapters 2 and 3 is what we're going to be looking at primarily, but we're also going to work through this as well. The first part of the book is entitled The Vision for Community. He's going to use this term community, and I just want to say that this term community and church ministry kinds of materials has become a very popular thing. And there is a lot of nonsense when it comes to this, this whole idea of community. And he is going to deal with the nonsense. I'm thankful for that. He is very biblical in how he handles all this. And you're going to see that But but there's a lot of there's a lot of stuff uh that that people throw around this term community now and I've read many several books on this. And I sort of go through and I say, you know, it's just total pragmatism. All you're trying to do is grow the church. All you're trying to do is get more people in the church. And I read through this stuff and I go, that's that's really not You know, okay, I'm not sure that's wrong, but I'm not sure it's right either. It's not particularly biblical. Uh okay, maybe uh whatever. And I throw and I and I sort of put the book aside. That's that's a lot of times uh when I read this book I said, well That's really biblical. Wow, that really follows scripture. And that's one of the reasons I just think this one is so is so helpful. So how to build, so he's gonna he is going to start off this way. He says, how to build church community without the gospel. He's starting off negatively because he is going to suggest that there are many people, but that's how they build church community. They do it without the gospel. Many churches and church leadership and church programming and church vision and those kinds of things, they're doing so, they're building community, but they're not using the gospel to build community. And so uh he starts off, before he says how to build the gospel with community, or how to build the gospel, the community using the gospel, how do you build this concept of community with the gospel, he's first going to say, how do you do it without the gospel? Number one, you start off that's kind of small. Can you all read that? Okay. You start off through similar I'll have to make it a little bit larger in the future. Uh you start off through similar life experience. Singles groups, newly married group, Bible studies, young professional networks built build community based upon demographic groupings. Okay, so that would be one way you could build community without the gospel Number two, similar identity. Cowboy churches, motorcycle churches, art churches, and the like are the gospel-believing churches with something other than the gospel at the core of their identity. Have you ever have you ever walked into a church and you go, that is just that it Yeah, they got the gospel. I mean they they say something about the gospel sometimes, but there's something really at the core of their identity that's not the gospel. That's a country church. That's a city church. That's a rich church. That's a poor church. That's a uh you know, there's all kinds of diff and and So uh so similar identity. So people are gathering together because they they have a similar identity. You see this a lot in rural areas. In in more in our area, you're going to see a little more diversity just for the sa sake of um You know, there's not that many Christians in Maryland. And so when you bump into a Christian, you just have a common bond with them, and it's like, you know, you just you real you appreciate them more. And so you learn to sort of overlook a little bit more because but when you get down in the South and everybody says they're a Christian, which they're not, but if they say they're It seems like everybody says that or you get into some rural communities, even in the north, and everybody sort of seems they're a Christian. You've got all these different churches and we're the church of this, we're the church of that, we're the church of what all these different churches everywhere. What happens is if if if they're not careful, they can become churches characterized, let's say, by three families that got together. And all their kids and their grandkids and their aunts and their uncles and their cousins and so so you have a really it's just a church that's that's that's that's based upon a couple of families that are there. That's very common in rural churches. Or a church based upon dis a disgruntled kind of a thing where it was a church split from another church or something. That's very common in other churches. We don't like the service to be ending at you know twelve thirty. We want to end at twelve so we can get to all get to all the all the you know, all the restaurants before everybody else does. And so we're gonna move we're gonna s you you think that's funny? That happens. Okay. And they've got these lists of reasons why they want to have their own church. It happens a lot of times in rural areas because it's like socially and and culturally unacceptable to go to church. To not go to church, it's unacceptable not to go to church. And so they just try to make church as best convenient as they possibly can, because they know the culture is not going to accept them not going to church. And so a whole church is built on that. I think I was pastoring one for two. Ministry teams for feeding the hungry, helping elementary school, combating human trafficking, build community based on shared passion for a God-honoring cause. Okay, so well they're the church that helps the poor. They're the church that does this, they're the church that does that. Okay. And and built on those kinds of things. Similar needs. Program-based churches build community by assembling people into programs based upon similarity of their felt needs. Similar social uh positions. Sometimes a ministry or an entire church gathers the movers and shakers into society. So those are some of the ways that you would build a church without the gospel. So he points these out and then he says, what we ha what he he has a two-fold goal for this section of his book. Number one, to recognize that building community purely through natural bonds has a cost as well as a benefit. He says, often we look at tools like the single mom small group and see only positive, but there's a cost as well. If, and you have to say if, not every single monster group is bad, but if groups like this come to characterize community in our churches then our community ceases to be remarkable to the world around us. So the world walks into a church and they see they see um uh let's say they walk into a group of people, a small group for instance, and they see that it's all Like a church is segmented in in in age age group age defined groups. And they walk into a Sunday school class and it's all it's all young couples or it's all you know, seniors or something. And so you go into these groups and you walk into these groups and you say, and they have this great bond with each other, this great commonality with each other. There's just this great, great thing going on. And they go, oh yeah, well they're the same age. They've got a lot in common. They've got the same same goals. They've got the same needs. They've got the same No, the world is not going to look at that situation and go, wow, that's amazing. That's the wisdom of God. They're going to say, no, they're getting together because they like the same thing. They have the same goals. They have the same purposes. They have the same objectives. Maybe they have the same way of doing things. Does that make sense? And so and so Community isn't based on the gospel at all. It's based upon these tertiary things that you have in common with each other. And a lot of churches, that's how they're doing it. That's why when we did when we did community home groups, the one thing I didn't want to do is age segregate them. I didn't want to say, okay, well the all this age go over here, all this age go over there. I think that's a mistake Okay. And uh churches do that a lot. They call them life groups usually. I didn't know that. I started calling our church life groups until I realized what life what life group meant and I changed the changed that I'm gonna call them life group. groups anymore. Anyway, so um so sometimes churches do that. I much rather there be a mix of di various backgrounds. and approaches to life and differences of opinion, differences of age, differences of need, differences of goals in life, all those kinds of things. You want the differences So that the thing that stands true about that is what? About that group is what? The commonality in the gospel. And so when when somebody walks in there and go, man, that person's looks like he's well off. That person looks like he's poor. That person looks like he's uh like looks like he he has a different approach than that person in child raising or whatever it is. And you walk into that sort of situation and and and they're all there's this unity and there's fellowship and an unbeliever walks in that go pfft What a d what a difference. Like why are they all able to do this? This is so peculiar, we'll use that word. Right? So he says to recognize that building community purely through natural bonds has a cost as well as a benefit He says, also to adjust our aspiration, many relationships that naturally form in our churches would exist even if the gospel weren't true. What do you think of that? Is that accurate? I don't know that that's accurate in our church. I will tell you that. I'm not sure that that's accurate in our church. I don't know that we would all be together here if the gospel weren't true. Okay, because we do have a lot of backgrounds, a lot of different approaches to things. But it is something to be careful of, isn't it? And you can have sort of certain groups within a church that has a certain way of doing things and there sort of become clicks within it. I don't think we have that either, I don't think. I hope not. Okay? But you can have that. Yes. Oh I'm sorry. I thought I saw your hand. Did you have a hand? um society we have yeah oh yeah definitely and our culture definitely has that do in our culture do the young people do young couples value the elderly Not much. Okay. Go over to China and you'll know we don't value alt valually enough enough, because they do over there. Okay. So our culture our we we've got a so our culture definitely works against us. A culture likes these uh our culture s You know, when you go into any other kind of community situation, you what you you look at and you say, okay, well what's the common bond that we have? And I think I'll fit into that group. I like that group because you know we're all homeschoolers. Or we're all Christian schoolers or we uh you know, those kinds of things. Um so we need to adjust our aspiration, he says He says, so he says this, and I I appreciate this because this is balanced. He says, these natural form things that happen in a church, he says. That's good, right, and helpful. So you're gonna have you know you're gonna have some commonalities with people in the church and you like certain things. Um in our our church, there's some people I know really like sports There are other chur people in our church that really could care less about sports. And there are um there are some people in the church that like sci-fi. And there are other people in the church that have absolutely no idea what in the world anybody would want to watch Star Trek for ever. So you have you have you have lots of that in our you have lots of that in our church actually already. But if we're not careful, all the sci-fi people can get together and just and just kind of form their own little group. I'm not saying this is happening, I don't think it is, but That's why I can use it because I don't think it's happening. Okay. Or if we're not careful, all the s the sports guys could get together and form their own little group and they could Do you understand what so so we need to adjust our aspiration. Josh. Just boiling down to where's their identity? Yes, absolutely that's what it is. That's exactly what it's boiling down to. Yeah, that's exactly what it's boiling down to. Um So he says this, that's good and right and helpful. It does happen, it's okay. But in addition, we should aspire for many relationships that exist only because of the gospel. So often we aim at nothing more than community built on similarity. I want us to aim at community characterized by relationships that are obviously supernatural. And by supernatural, I don't imply the mystical, vaguely spiritual sense in which the pop culture uses the term. I mean the very biblical idea of the sovereign God working in space and time to do what confounds the natural laws of our world. We call that the gospel, don't we? That's what the gospel does. In a gospel-revealing community, he says, many relationships would never exist but for the truth and power of the gospel. Either because of the depth of the care for each other, or because two people in a relationship have little in common but Christ. So it doesn't necessarily mean that if you don't have something in common with somebody else, uh or that you do it doesn't necessarily mean that if you do have some things in common with somebody else that you can't have a redemptive relationshi a a gospel-centered relationship. But it but you should be able to have relationships with people where the only thing that is common is the gospel. Does that make sense? Yes? I'm having a hard time understanding how uh connecting the the thoughts here because it's if these supernatural relationships Take place in the church, the church being where believers gather for worship and to be encouraged and strengthened by the Lord. Then how does the world see these relationships because these supernatural relationships are taking place here, but the world is at there So how how does that That's a great question. And also I was relating back to the verse in Ephesians three ten that says that the purpose of the church is to demonstrate display the wisdom of God Two, as you said, it starts out saying who what are the principalities and powers in this case. The angels. So I'm I'm confused about how this works displaying the wisdom to the world because the world doesn't even recognize the wisdom. Okay. So what does the wisdom of God look like to the that is the barrier, right? Like the wisdom of God is to stay in a marriage. Well that looks stupid to the world. How would you be impressed with that and say that's the gospel? Oh my goodness, that's the gospel. So let's raise that question. I think that's a good questi question for us to discuss at this point. Let's raise the question. How let's say we're having great fellowship and community around the gospel and our church and And it's not based upon just um uh natural things but but the unna the the supernatural aspect of the gospel and that's all happening. So how does that happen outside the belt walls? Yes. By having good relationships with your neighbors and the unsafe people that are in your world, whether it's at work or your neighborhood. Because um one of my close friends is actually an atheistic neighbor. And she had said to me, you know, I I don't believe in Organizability I see. She's telling Angela's sense of community that you have. She knows that we go to church basil, she knows that we want to, and she knows I have a lot of friends here and we're close and she says I see that you have something I don't have in my life. Okay. So I think by having that relationship, I don't just go, Oh, you're an idiot. I'm friends with her, I love her. We go out, we you know and I talk openly about the Lord, I talk about my church family. And so I think that's one way. Good. That is good. Very good. We're building each other up in here And it should naturally by the Spirit of God be out there with us as we are going through with Joey and our neighbors and stuff, same thing. And I think it works People who don't know the Lord at all, when they start going through something, they know that you know a God who really your life will help you house to you. So that is part of the part of the equation here. When someone First Peter talks a lot about that. So when someone goes through suffering, or they see you go through suffering. then then there's this they they're aware of their need and they they often will then be understand them they might see the sense of community as something that they need. Um so that's good. What else? Josh, did you have something? Yeah, I I I find it interesting that taking this and applying it into my house, like what happens in my neighborhood with our operating And my neighbors um would they all they all understand that we go to church every week and we have people over all the time and uh even the Sunday smoke I've had neighbors that ask, you know, you seem like you have a lot of people over on the good conversations and we invite them and they don't go or we go out of town and they say you went out of town again. What'd you do with your kids? children. So I got some great people at church and they watch my kids or whatever it is. So again I think I go to that that salt and and light and world and just illuminating God's family and how it works. It's not necessarily about what I'm doing. It is part of my responsibility of course, but it's the body working together I think the next verse kind of gives us a clue here too. It talks about uh according to the eternal purpose that God had Christ. You know, like the world looks at what Jesus Christ did and that was stupid. And he was a failure to the world. But to what the supernatural power of God and that's what we hang our hat on. That's what all our faith is basically. When you have a a garbage man who says the same thing as the CEO of the multi conglomerate as the doctor and as the the grocery clerk. They all come from different backgrounds but they all have the same testimony what Jesus Christ did for them Mm-hmm. That's supernatural. How could they all have this? How could they have that in common except for the wisdom of God in that the Holy Spirit creates the hearts and they respond? And go I don't know how it works. I don't think anybody knows how it works. All I know is it does work. I know that the gospel uh brought it about in Jesus Christ body and my heart. But that message goes out with every single person here in our walk of life and how we live and glorify God by living the gospel out of our lives with the whole Let me and this he's gonna talk about this later in the ver in the passage, but let me insert this now or later in the discussion. But let me insert insert this now. Scripture says that the world will know that we are Christians by our love one for another. Okay. That's in the uproom discourse when Christ is explaining to the disciples after he leaves how the whole thing's supposed to work. Okay. That that they're gonna know we're followers of Christ, they're gonna know who we are by our love for one another. Now that here's where I bring this up. I think the question that Linda has uh is raised is a question that has been partially answered by everybody so far. Okay? And I think it's been good. And I and I think it's all part of it, part of it. But the question has to become, how are they going to see that? How does the world gonna see our love for each other? I'm I'm I'm I'm honing it down to that particular thing now at this point. But how is the world ever gonna see that in the four walls of this building? So I I'm asking the question. Rachel. One example I think you gave was like if you She's read the book. and you ask, oh how do you know the variety room? And you might say, well actually we don't really know them, but we go to the same church and we're here to support them or the baby shower or you you brought um you know like someone brought me meals I don't really know, but they go to my church. And that's uh weird to people outside the church that you would support some 'cause it's natural to support someone and bring a meal to your best friend. So you know right. But it's weird to show up someone you really want you don't know if you're going for a wedding or their baby shower or bringing them a meal because you're a member of the same church and not because you're a child. That's a good good a good example. Well I'll use one good person in my own life. There's uh gentleman who who by choice I think he's crazy but he elects to blow my Christmas lights up and he has done this several times and my neighbors have notice this and they say who's this guy that doesn't he's just a friend from church he can he just likes to do it for me and I go trust me I they wouldn't be up if I did it. So they think that Let me give you a couple other suggesti this is good. That's this is all good. And uh but he can't know you if he knows you then he's doing it because you're that 'cause it won't work. So so um um because I've thought of that already, I'm like I'm like I could even know this guy. So um Let me just give you a couple of practical suggestions on this. And we're going to get into this more, but sometimes um we are so occupied with ministries in our church That that's all we think we've done our ministry and then we're done. It's kind of I don't know if you've noticed this, but I'm actually reducing the level of the amount of ministries we have at our church. Uh not we're not reducing everything, but I'm sort of reducing a few things. Because, but my goal is not for you to just, you know, I mean, my goal is for all of us to really think in terms of how we can get together or how we can do things with other brothers and sisters in Christ. And have that be an opportunity for people to observe us and say there's something This is God's wisdom made visible. Now they're not going to say that. They're going to say this is odd. But it's not a bad odd. They're going to say this is a good odd. This is a very attractive odd. Right? So I want to give you a couple of ideas. One of the reasons we have the community groups is exactly that reason. We gotta get we gotta make sure we're having good fellowship first and a good commonality of each other and and accepting one another and that we're our bond is the gospel and even the conversation afterwards uh in these in the in the community groups needs to be you know sent as much as possible That the bond is the gospel. During it certainly as well, that we're discussing gospel-related things. That's our bond. So that when somebody walks in there They would see that. And I hopefully they would, but that's something to really just sort of be in keep in mind. I personally believe that if we are doing those kinds of things in that setting, then God is going to su can he not supernaturally start bringing people? Can he not show I don't mean like he's going to transport them like beat me up, Scotty. I just mean that isn't he going to create opportunities for people to observe this? But also going beyond that, that you're going to go bowling with Christian with three or four Christians. But maybe you invite somebody that's not saved with you. And they see that these three or four Christians, you know, there's not a lot in common, except they all like bowling, I guess. But but You know, they're interacting with each other in a very unique way. I'm not s I've not seen that before. What whatever it is that you're doing, whether it's you're going to Little League together or how uh however you do this, there's a thousand ways But to think in these kinds of terms, to really consider this, that we need to be the church, it doesn't have to be in a program, but we need to be the church. made visible to the world. Now, it does require us to be the church, doesn't it? It does require us to have the fellowship of the gospel that is rich and true and and Clear. And so that's something some of the stuff we're gonna talk about as well. Uh Kevin. Coming up on BBS, it strikes me how important it is Yeah, good. Mm-hmm. Yeah, and so there isn't anything wrong with these ministries that we're gonna do. But we need to have a right thinking about them as we do them. Okay? And and uh and so there is a lot more to go into. I'm over time and if I don't follow my own rules then I'm a hypocrite and I'll hear about it. So yes. What's the stop nothing really to stop us then from acting the way we do towards each other within our relationships? Yeah. That's what I'm suggesting. We need to think about that. All right, let's pray and uh we'll be dismissed. Father, we thank you, Lord, just for the time that we could get together and really think through this. And I pray, Lord, that you would help us to um learn and our thinking to be provoked and our approach to life and ministry be what you would want it to be so that we can fulfill the purpose of of your church in the world. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.