Singles or what kind of relationship singles should have. The first part of this, there's two parts. The one is just relationships in the Christian life. And let me say this, that even if you're not single here, you're going to find a lot of biblical truth that's going to be helpful in our relationships uh but mm there'll be an angle toward uh the singles particularly that I think will be uh of help to us. So relationships in the Christian life, and the found let's first look at the foundation for Christian relationships, which is unity in Christ by faith. And in Galatians chapter 3, verses 20, verse 28, it says, There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free, there is neither male nor female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. And then in John chapter 20, verse uh John chapter 17, rather, verse 20, it says, I do not pray for these alone, but also those who will believe in me through their word. And then um It actually talks about oneness as well. I pray also for those who will believe in me through their message. that all of them may be one, just as you are in me and I in you. And that's verse twenty-one, I believe. And so unity is something that is really embedded in the gospel and embedded in what God Christ has for His people, people in his church, and so establishing a foundation that Christians together, that work together, that meet together, they should be unified together. And so how is that supposed to happen? Well, let's look then also at the goal of Christian relationships. And the goals should be spurring one another to greater faith, love, and self-sacrifice and maturity. So when we're thinking about when we're thinking about singles or really any uh relationship um that is uh uh between brothers and sisters in Christ, we ought to have goals in mind in these relationships. And the goal should be to help each other grow spiritually, to help each other in the faith, uh be built up of the faith, and to mature. In Hebrews 10, verse 24, it says, let us consider one another in order to stir up love and good works, that part of the responsibility that we have as believers toward one another is that we are to stir up one another. Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another, and so much the more as you see the day approaching that there ought that there is a need for each other as we anticipate the coming of Christ. There is this need for each other to stir up one another in love and good works. In John chapter 15, verse 12, it says, This is my bul my commandment, that you love one another as I have loved you. Greater love has no one than this, then the man the man laid down his life uh for his friends Ephesians chapter 4, verse 11 gives us some wisdom here as well. It says, and he himself gave some to be apostles, some prophets, some evangelists, and some pastors and teachers. Why? For the equipping of the saints, for the work of the ministry, and the way that this is structured and worded is the equipping of the saints for the work of the ministry. That is, the saints are to do the work of the ministry. Well, what is the work of the ministry? Well, it's the edifying of the body of Christ. That we are to the word edify means to build each other up until we all come to the unity of the faith and in the knowledge of the Son of God to a perfect man, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. Now let me pause here and just say this So when we're talking about singles, teenagers, uh, or young adults, and really it goes to really any brothers and sisters in Christ kinds of relationships. What barriers, what things stand in the way? Let's start with sort of teenager young adults. What could get in the way of these things happening? What what could what could stand in the way, Josh? Okay, pride certainly. Yeah. Insecurity? Okay. Actually there's a strong relationship between pride and security sometimes, but yeah. Yes. Okay. Other responsibilities? Good. Let's take pride and security and and for a minute here. Why would pride that not not that yours is invalid, it's not. Why would pride and insecurity, how would that affect our relationships with each other so that we are able to stir up to love and good works? Uh um to to to help each other uh to build each other up, to edify each other. How does pride and insecurity, just practically, how does that get in the way? Any ideas, Josh? Alright, or taking it even as encouraging but yet seeing it as critical. Good Okay, so on one hand, if someone is if there is a desire to stir up to love and good works, we might be too prideful to receive that. What else? Yeah. Okay. We might not, on the uh the insecurity side, we might not think that we can stir up anybody to love and good works. We can we do we we don't really have anything to offer in building somebody up, so why try? I I c somebody else can do that so much better than I can. Good. Um yeah, those are two ways. Uh other responsibilities is really a very valid barrier where we're just so preoccupied with Tasks and things that we're doing and that is a serious issue in our in our central Maryland culture, uh between Baltimore, DC to Baltimore, Washington. Baltimore Mo Washington metropolitan area where we're all busy and we have traffic everywhere and it's just it's just busy. Well, um we have to be aware of that and we have to learn to to to set our schedules in a way that we're not overly busy, that we're able to have time to uh show love to one another and to build each other up at the page. Josh. Yeah. So there's just because one has that proud heart doesn't mean give up No, because it's working towards that unity totally. Yeah, it doesn't mean that. In fact, uh we shouldn't. So good. Um and and it not just the unity of the faith uh uh but of the knowledge of the Son of God to a perfect man. It's talking about a mature maturity is what we're look is and to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. Rose? Well the thing that already mentioned like kind of all go back to the idea of kind of being more focused on myself and it's really hard to reach out and love people when I'm when my focus is on on myself is always gonna it's always gonna turn out not really loving them. So even if I'm kinda trying to focus on them and say, okay, I'm gonna give them But my my main goal here is still to go back to myself, my own issues. So it it's really helpful. I think that's why scripture says let love be without dissimulation, without without um hypocrisy. Because uh it's very easy for us, okay well I'll do the love thing for you know five minutes and fifteen minutes. Okay, all right, and I'm gonna go back and do what I want to do. Um but God says to give of I mean love is to give of myself. And by the way, not only Rose is absolutely right, not only is is selfishness something that is going to keep us from loving. But did you know that loving will keep you from selfishness? I mean, if if you love others, if you give of yourself to others, then it keeps you from being overly focused on self. Uh or focus on self at all actually. Um and so those two things uh are exclusive of each other. the states of course and then find the body of Christ. At what point is it that certain uh members of New Body of Christ um you keep trying to minister to them or try to encourage them the Lord and they just don't want it anymore. They just don't want it. Mm-hmm. Is there a is there a time in which you find that it's kinda like the dusty Yeah, there's a passage that I it's a good question. There's a passage that actually I can't remember the the the reference, but it talks about how to treat you know you've got different categories of people. You have categories where you have people that are um they're struggling. Uh they're not wayward. Like wayward it says warn the wayward. Okay. So if someone is straying from the faith, there's actually a an admonition to warn them. If someone is weak, it's act I think it's it says comfort the weak. I can't remember the there's a middle one. It's comfort the week, something and then um and then um does anybody know the verse I'm talking about? Um what's that? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Be patient with all men. That's the last thing actually to be patient with everyone. Um so so that verse uh wish I could I could recall it off the top of my head, but I that verse is a very helpful one. I often go to that one Okay, can you read it for us? And and we encourage the brothers, admonish the idol, encourage the vanguard, and help the weak, be patient with them all. Okay. So um so it gives it you know depending on what the situation is, it really that verse helps me a lot and okay, well, is this person wayward Okay, well then I need to warn. Is this person idle? Well I need to admonish. Is this person weak? Is it just is he just discouraged? Well I need to encompass, encourage. So it all depends on that. Now if you warn if someone is wayward and you warn them And they don't listen. Um if there's nothing that if if there is uh then sometimes there is, you still have to be patient. So you're still gonna love, you're still gonna pray. Sometimes the answer is you just pray for them Uh the the reality is that a a a genuine Christian cannot stay static forever. They're going to have to if they've been warned if it then at some point they're going to it begin to violate scripture clearly. And that's where church discipline kicks in. When it's a clear, verifiable kind of a thing. Um but that's I that verse really helps me in in in okay, well where what what's the situation here? And and and meeting the need based upon the situation. I always would prefer to assume that someone's not wayward, they're discouraged, and I give comfort first. And I assume that the issue is that first. before I just assume that they're just off and a and away with us. But that is entirely possible as well. Um does that help? Um the nature of our Christian relationships. So take your Bibles if you would. Well, you don't have to, it's right here, or you can take your Bibles of 1 Timothy chapter 5. But I want to talk a little bit about the nature of Christian relationships, and I want us to see clearly from this passage, this is going to become kind of a key passage for us in understanding how our relationships are supposed to be in the body of Christ because it draws a connection between a a a human family or a physical family and a spiritual family. First Timothy five verse one says, Do not rebuke an older man, but exhort him as a father, younger men as brothers, older women as mothers, younger women as sisters With all purity. Now that verse, he's telling Timothy as a young pastor, this is how you relate to brothers and sisters in the body of Christ. This is something that he is saying essentially that they become, when you're a Christian with other people in the body of Christ, they're your family. Now that almost might seem a little foreign to us, but in the first century, often when someone came to Christ What happened? Does anybody know? This happens in other cultures to this day as well. The church is their family now. And their own family may very well disown them. That happened in the first century, happens over in Asia. I talk you talk to missionaries ever uh I mean it And they may very well be disowned by their own family. It may be the and so that or the the entire family will actually come to Christ and they'll be part of the church family as well and it'll all you're you're all one family. And so Paul tells Timothy to, this is how you treat, you're going to treat an older older man in the faith, you're going to treat him like a father. Younger men, treat him like a brother. Older women treat them like a mother, younger men younger women treat them like a sister, yeah. But don't rebuke but exhort, so you shouldn't rebuke any rebuke in your family. Um I think his point is that that there is a certain kind of respect that you should give to someone who is who is older. That you shouldn't be quick to rebuke someone who has who is older in the faith. I would say yeah. Yeah. Um uh I guess you could I could see how you could think it it apply it's probably primarily repliant if maybe entirely uh applying the first I would actually have to see in the Greek house how it's to be sure, but probably. Um so uh Now, uh that does not mean that y if someone is sinful who is older, that you don't deal with that. I mean you you know, he as a pastor you would have to. Um but there is a the i he's really talking about the manner in which you do it. There is a manner that that is right to do uh as far as these different um these different relationships. So for most of us, most of the time, what is the m what is the very okay, let's take singles. We'll do that, do it that way. For singles, what is really applicable here a lot of times? Well, it's the fact that we need to treat our treat our family members like brothers and sisters in Christ. And we're going to learn some things about about the importance of doing that. Let's look at the passage a little bit here, or not the passage, but just some some applications of what he's saying here. First of all, what do brother and sister relations look like if they are biblically healthy? Biblical and healthy. Number one, there's care and concern, uh there's service and there's self-sacrifice. Number two, there is interest and knowledge. Okay, you know if you have a if you have a good relationship with a sibling, there's interest, there's knowledge, there's encouragement to grow spiritually, there's love. And he says there's purity here. So these are very important to go by. Now let me let me insert something in here. As far as as far as singles. There is something that could very well get in the way of this. And that is an improper dating relationship with someone in the body of somebody else in the body of Christ. Now we talked a lot about a lot of about this last week as far as the whole idea of when when to date and the the danger of it and all that kind of thing But w when s when s what does scripture say we're supposed to do with people that are not our spouses? And how we relate to them. Well, if they're are of our same gender, they're like brothers. And if they're not, they're like if they're opposite, they're they're like sisters. That's how we're supposed to relate to them Why might that be a problem in a dating relationship? Could when could that become a problem? Is it a problem? Okay, you obey your okay. You don't obey your sister, right? Okay. All right. Can we say this when we're tre t teaching our children from the ground up To relate to other b boys and girls in the church at first. And then then when they get older they're, you know, still boys and girls, but they're in adulting bodies. Okay? So then then what happens? Shouldn't how should how should Caitlin ha sorry too? How should Caitlin relate to guys her age? In the church or other other people that know Christ. As brothers. That should be the default. The default should be as a brother. Okay? Um not us not in other terms. Now, it doesn't mean that that doesn't come along, and we'll learn about that a little bit. But understand that when we are the natural, normal culture, the biblical, healthy culture in a in a local church is that we're family members and we're going to treat each other as brothers and sisters. In fact, this is such a something that is that that is is really um can be almost foreign in a local church where everybody's sort of strangers and they just have a few close friends or those kind of things Um I know of a church uh that well if you go down south you hear that this quite often. What do you hear They'll say brother so-and-so or sister so-and-so. Have you heard that before in in southern churches? You know you know that's actually happening deliberately in some churches. Capitol Baptist Church down in DC The church of all mainly, I mean it's it's a lot of millennials, it's a lot of uh younger people, they're not they're urb you know, they're urban professionals primarily, they're not southern, and they deliberately call each other brother and sister on purpose. And I actually think that is a great idea. So we should all do that. Immediate naught. I I don't know that it'll work in our culture uh up here. It could. Certainly wouldn't be wrong. Would be a good reminder that we are brothers and sisters in Christ. But it's something to understand that that's what God intends for us as a church, to have that kind of a relationship. And we need to teach our children that that is the case. The priority of our Christian relationships also is membership in the local church. Now what I've done here is I've taken an excerpt from our church covenant. We very rarely talk about our church covenant. We really should talk about it more than we do. And we probably should recite it more than we do. But every one of us who are members of this church have agreed that we are going to do this with each other. And this is what it says. We further engage to watch over one another in brotherly love. Did you catch that? That takes personal responsibility. Yes, Jeff? as father and mother. Is there a reason we ski away from that and by continuing this analysis? Yeah, actually I was thinking the same I was thinking the same thing. What's that? I was thinking I was thinking the same thing because the father aspect there's a lot of in regards to honoring what that all looks like. Yeah, we're gonna get there. I think our status, our position is brother and sister because God is our father. So if you think in terms of what are we horizontally which either well I might have an older an older in other words the first Timothy passage has to do with treatment This passage has more to do or this this the the covenant here has more to do with what our status is. So Harry could be m is old enough to be my dad, but he is my he is my brother in Christ. Does that make sense? Um so I think that's why uh but my treatment of of Harry might be that I would be a little more careful about rebuking Harry. Okay. Sorry I'm picking on you, but anyway. Brother. But anyway. Um so yes. When like where do you draw those distinctions? Is that Castle is talking about treating the older steps fathers as mothers and treating those that are like same same age, yeah. But as brothers and sisters if they're the same age, do you grow out of that like older Okay, so there's a difference between status and treatment. Okay, so what we're talking then that passage in First Timothy is talking about treatment. So treatment is different than what our position is to each other. Our position to each other is not He's he's not my father. My father is up there. Just God is my father. He's my brother. Okay, so status-wise is different. Treatment He's my older brother and it says to treat him you okay, so how do I how do I know how to treat him? Well or sorry I'm not So how do I know how to treat them? Well, how do I treat my father? Okay, well this is how I should treat my an older brother in Christ. Does that make sense? So there's a distinction based upon what is being talked about, what what the what the context is. Does that make sense? Not really. Okay. Do you think you can do you think you can still kinda still doing that father thing as well. Um do you think you could still honor the father treating him in a way that's appropriate? Probably. Well no, no, I wouldn't use the word rebuke. I think the r uh because it says don't rebuke a fault. I think you could could I think correction could happen. Sure. Sure. Timothy's a pastor. He may have to do correction. There m that might have to happen. But but I think that's a little bit different with the treat the treatment is going to be. I'm not going to be quick to to to rebuke uh Yeah, yeah. And give them more of a benefit of the doubt, you know, more of a de it's I think it's a deference thing. I think it's really that passage really has a lot to do with treatment, which we're gonna get into more later on in application But um I think it's pretty simple. You've got status and you've got treatment. Uh so so it's you know, we wouldn't call each other spiritual fathers unless I mean Paul does say son in the faith when he's when it when it's on you know, when he's led into Christ. Uh but your brothers and sisters in Christ because we have a heaven we all have one heavenly father. Um yes. I almost feel like it's uh a kind of a cultural thing where it's less of a father and more like a senior brother in a way. Like as I feel like in America we all as siblings with each other we're all kind of on an even plane regardless of age But it almost seems like okay, treat your your the older Christians debate as uh fathers when it's more of like a oh you were my elder or like senior or veter and then Yeah. I I think that's fine. I I think that the point that that Paul is making is he's he's saying to Timothy, Look, this is how you treat how you treat people. Like, okay, just think of it, first century, nobody's this everybody's first cent you know, first time doing church, okay, because everybody's saved and Christ has risen from the grave and now the church has been inaugurated and there this is in the beginning stages of how to figure this out. Well how am I supposed to relate I mean they're not h what how am I supposed to treat each other? And that's that's what the passage is is dealing with. Yeah. You could also take Just for a a baseball team. They're all baseball players, they're all on that team. However, you got some that's rookies, you got some that are veterans. And and so there they're saying the Wookiees are learning from the other one, but they're all on that team. Yeah, and we are going to look at that the we actually there's another passage that talks about that as well So let let's go ahead and just get through the let's work through this a little bit. It says to to cultivate Christian sympathy and feeling and courtesy and speech to be slow to take offense, but always ready to recon uh for reconciliation and mindful of the rules of our Savior to secure it without delay. So I just wanted to highlight the fact that that we have some very clear things that we've all agreed to when it comes to our w family relationships with each other as members of the body of Christ. Now let's look then at the single life particularly in the context of the local church. And we're building on some of the things that we've already mentioned, and then we're working our way to this. Relating to single adults of the same gender. So let's let's first look at that. Now I think there's going to be application here for uh whether you're single or not, actually. But let's just Look at this. So it's a blessing to have others going through similar life issues and struggles, life identity questions, work development and struggles, sexual temptation, etc. It is great to have others to just have fun with, to enjoy fellowship, shared common interests, to get support and encourage from, etc. And it's also great to have others to relate to who have more freedom and time with family uh families typically do. So these are all good things about singles relating to each other. But there's a negative side. Oh it'll ask the question. What is the negative side? What could happen potentially if single adults, young adults, or teenagers are only relating within their own peer group? Yes. They don't get a wider pool of wisdom and answer the issues. They're only hanging out with their their peers, um more juvenile wisdom and advice can be given compared to spending time with those older and the faith or even younger in the Facebook. That's exact that's good. Very good. Yes, Tracy. They don't learn to bear the burdens of those that are in the changes of light and people share each other's burdens regardless of how stage. Yep. Good. Yes, yeah. I always think the relationships are ahead benefits of because the older benefits from the younger interaction, both from an energy perspective and understanding new things that concern is the thing about It just I think it helps both sides. I think it was both ways, yeah. I agree with you. It's good. Uh the ones uh mention here are unless uh you're talking to a single adult with Uh here here's some things that are sort of the downfall of this and you all have mentioned good ones. Uh unless you're talking to a single adult who is a decade or two or or or to ahead of you, you generally have less wisdom available to you because you just haven't experienced certain struggles, accomplishments, and life stages. That's basically what Jared was saying. There's a particular temptation that can be attached to certain seasons of life, and to only relate to those who are struggling with the same things may make the make things worse, not better. Let me uh address this. Um this is something to really teenagers really pay attention here and not I mean really anybody It's just really important. So there are particular t temptations that occur within certain seasons of life. It bec it's more comfortable to talk to somebody who is going through the same thing you're going through. Okay? Why? Okay, you don't have to explain it much as much. Yeah, you don't. Yeah. It can be embarrassing to talk to someone who you Yeah. A lot it's less embarrassing. It is it is um it is something where you don't feel as guilty. This is an area of temptation for you. Um This is an area where, for example, uh I mean and and and when you it ends up being where you're just commiserating. Yeah. You almost find that if you tell that person And you know they're going through it. Their reply might be simply, Well until you kick your head out to keep going. Now you feel excused or not just justified or forgiven. Mm-hmm. And so then it doesn't really actually put you in a better place because the accountability is falling into the same traps. Yeah. Let me tell you let me tell you where the I'm gonna be real blunt with you because I just think I need to be. This let me tell you where this really ca uh when men have problems with pornography when teenager teenage men or young men have problems, they will often go to other young men who have the same problem. That's a terrible accountability Okay, it won't work. And the reason it won't work is because it's too easy to commiserate and to sort of excuse each other. rather than actually helping each other. Rather than actually it's much better for a young man to go to an older man in the faith who's not Maybe he struggled with a with the problem at one point or maybe he hasn't struggled with it, but go to a man who isn't struggling with it, uh who is who can help him and keep and and and hold him accountable than to, oh yeah, I struggle with it. Yeah, you yeah, I struggle. We we both struggle. It can actually be more harmful than not. And so and frankly that could go for not that's one very acute uh very uh substantive kind of thing. But in a lot of areas, teenagers struggling with um with attractions and with um just uh liking guys and girls and all th the reason I always want to steer teenagers to talking to the parents about these things rather than each other about these things is because you aren't going to get a lot of wisdom from each other because you haven't been through it yet. And actually you'll end up sort of validating each other rather than rather than actually causing a counterpoint to happen. Does that make sense? In other words, yes, Jeff. That's what we looked at last week with the Song of Solomon. Yeah. Same kind of thing, exactly. So we want to be careful about that. Um relating to those of the opposite gender in in the uh in the local church, we've already gone over this with brothers and sisters in Christ is how we should Do that. This is a very helpful thing as far as friend uh uh this I did not come up with this. This is something that I found on a friend, it's called a friendship continuum Uh this is really geared towards uh uh single adults and and teenagers. Uh I think it really uh but Uh if you look at this, um what this is talking about is there is this idea, um I remember when I was I I was in teenager and There was this idea that you should not you need to protect people of the opposite sex, you need to protect their heart Okay. So you don't want to lead them on and you need to protect their heart. Is that true? Sure it is. Yeah. Yeah, sure it is. Can that be taken too far? It can be taken too far. How can it be taken too far? Maybe it's not ownership protecting. No you just don't spend time with them. You just cut them out completely. You don't see them, you don't talk to them, you avoid them. Yeah, how are you supposed to treat them like a brother or sister in Christ if you are trying to protect their heart to the point where you just isolate yourself from them? Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Good. Yeah. But with this continuum, is promiscuous always bad? So how do you ever progress a relationship to have a lot of people? Yeah. Okay, good question. Um so so So we're talking with we were talking more about the paranoid side. Let's switch over to the per promiscuous side. You do not okay. It presupposes some things that we talked about last week. Alright. So it presupposes that you're actually trying to guard your heart until the right time. Well whatever w whatever wise time that is between you and your parents, but uh uh the right time where you should be entering into a a dating relationship. But let me let me back up a little bit. The other part of it is this. Here's where you run into trouble. And this is where this is where Probably most young men that aren't saved, they tend to think this way toward the opposite sex. I'm interested or I'm not interested. You have two categories. I'm interested in them as a possibility or I'm not interested in them as a possibility. They're not a possibility. What's the problem with that in the body of Christ? You keep thinking two. You're never treating them as a sister. You're never You can't treat them as a brother or sister in Christ if everybody you're viewing is I'm interested or I'm not interested. That is not a biblical way of looking at it at all. A biblical way of looking at it is in if they're a brother or sister in Christ My default is that I preach uh is that I treat them like a brother or sister in Christ. That's everybody I'm gonna treat that way. Okay? The problem the pr the this idea of Flirting to see if I'm interested and not f not all this nonsense that happens in single among singles a lot of times where Okay, well I'll see well maybe she's interested and I'll I'll flirt with her a little bit, see if she'll flirt with me. Maybe they're and maybe there's something there, maybe there's not. All that nonsense You're you're you are abdicating First Timothy 5. 1. You're you're basically saying it's uh you can't possibly be doing that. Now Is it possible, as a young person, to have the mindset that I'm going to treat my The girls in my uh uh that are Christians, I'm gonna treat them like sisters, and the guys I'm gonna treat like brothers. I'm going to treat them that way as a young person, and there might be an interest that develops. Is that possible? Sure it is. But that is entirely different than approaching every guy and girl with sort of a In or out or maybe or uh interested, not interested kind of a pro kind of kind of I'm attracted, I'm not attract kind of approach. That should not be the focus. Okay? And so at the at a very early age we need to be teaching our children this kind of thing. If we have if if if our and and so That's where we end up getting into the sort of sort of the promiscuous thing. When we start thinking in that those kinds of terms, interested, not interested, not considering brother or sister in Christ. Now I'm thinking in terms of how could I go after the people that I'm interested in people are not, can I narrow it down? Those kind th that's when you get into into a promiscuous kind of a kind of approach. That's entirely different than the baseline is they're my brothers and sisters in Christ And there is a interest that develops from a healthy relationship. Does that make sense? That's what I interested is in quotes. Yeah, yeah, that's my interest. Actually I probably should put everything in close. Alright, so and then then Jeff Well anyway. Uh not kids. Anyway. Yeah, good. Um any any other any other questions about this? Does this make sense? Teens, does this make sense? What do you guys think? Is this how you all think yeah. So what if, for example, um we're not supposed to be paranoid and run for the people. Yeah. So we want to not uh cut them out in time. Yeah. But what if every interaction with that person is just oh I'm interested in like it just it bombarded with this like what was like temptation where it's just like oh I just can't like I just can't really with it. Do I just flee from temptation entirely? How do I deal with that That's a really good question. How do we what's the answer guys? I'm stalling is what I'm doing here because it's a really good question. Yes, Henri. So what you described was the first three or four months of when I was interested in Miranda and I couldn't do anything about it because there was other another a friend of mine who was interested in interested in. Okay. And number one You beat him up. No. No, okay. It was a lot of prayer and trust in God. I think that that that he knew what was going on. He knew he knew my part. And I didn't know his time or his will in the matter. So it was a matter of of trusting God and praying to Him on a fairly regular basis and to try and and keep me from going too far in my mind in that in that And and the cool thing was is it it forced us to have a friendship ahead of time and sort of see each other in a real light rather than in uh modified dating which may not really Yeah. And so um I would say prayer and trust is at least the start. Good. That's good. I think also, I guess I'll say it this way. If you are in a pattern of treating if you're single and you're in a pattern of treating Guys your age as brothers in Christ and in my case, girls as sisters in Christ, well it doesn't matter. then when someone comes along that you you you you're really interested in, then you know what the you know what the pattern is and you can you can continue to treat them the same way And it doesn't and then you can pray about what what action to take, what you know if you're a man, what what forward movement to take versus um versus um not uh not knowing how to deal with it, not knowing how to handle it. The problem becomes is when you're when you when you're in this sort of interested, not interested, and you become really interested and then you You don't know even know how to relate to them anymore. Does that make sense? So I think that's part of the answer to that. I don't know if that's all the answer, but I think it's part of it. Is this more Azure kind of Moving from the too young to date to the dating age perspective. Yes. Once you're kind of in the fully maturity freedom, like you said, you see When you meet someone, I don't think it's inherently wrong to move to data in fairly quickly if there's the interest enter at that stage of life and everyone's correct. Sure. Yeah. I think that's I I I I would agree with that. Both parties in that stage. Yeah, both yeah, both partners. Yeah. Yeah, certain. Everything you're talking about is a moving forward concept. How would you advise, for instance, like paypoint she starts dating. If say she starts dating someone and there's a difference that develops, so maybe then you see something that's your your a red flag. Yeah. How do you advise a teenager to turn it backwards, back to the brotherly, sisterly relationship in a Christian way, because maybe it's someone in their church or someone they come in contact with all the time, but they they see this is not the person God has for me because of this, but maybe that person's still interested in them, but they know it's not right for them. I've got this big shotgun in my in my head, but anyway that's not right. Okay. Um so So how do you uh How do you Christian like this? Okay, well let me let me let me say this. I it does uh so much of this again does presuppose on what we talked about last week. But what I would say is that um Uh a lot of it is going to depend upon there's a reason why I don't think it's wise for teenagers to date at all. Okay. Uh because I don't think they've learned how to so since since you pointed out Caitlin she's not dating as a teenager at all. Because why? Because when you can have brothers and sisters lots of relationships to brothers and sisters in Christ, you get you you can develop a discernment And you can you can grow in your understanding of what what is what is a good brother in Christ and what is not and what is mature spiritually and what is not. So that by the time you get to the place where you can, where you sh you know, where it would be wise to consider dating, then you have a baseline for that. You sort of understand that Um and then you can have you you can make more discerning choices. I honestly can tell you that my opinion on this and You may disagree and that's fine. We're sort of wading in the area that's not straight scripture, so we're gonna have some disagreements. Um is that uh The the child that the is under the authority of the parent and really at the end of the day She needs to listen to my and my her her mother as well. She needs to follow our advice. I mean bottom line is she needs to break up if they need to break up. I mean that's you know now I think then you can go back and start treating them as a brother or sister in Christ. But they're so different in what they look I mean, they're pretty different in what they look like. in the sense of you're not singling them out, you're not doing anything alone with them. You're not um um You know, you're you're in group settings. I mean you it's just a I think it has something to do with with your level of intimacy. So um You know, there's different levels of friendships. Uh you've got acquaintance level, it's the weather. You've got opinion level, you've got feelings level. So there's at least three. I think there's four total my missing one. But basically you don't want to talk about feelings. Uh you're gonna talk about opinion you can talk about opinions some But you want to stay away from expressing your feelings and going so there's certain things that you wouldn't do in a brother-sister kind of a relationship, especially after there's been any kind of dating uh going on. And I think that you're you're keeping the conversation a certain way and you're also doing it you're you're in a group setting. But that is it I won't tell you that it's not a difficult situation because it is a difficult it it's not easy. Yeah. I would add this too, like um thinking on that if if that relationship happened to become uh at their day, which again I don't encourage either, but if they're dating and they became it is sinful in their relationship in a way that was not uh shouldn't be entertaining, right? True. So Dad says hey cut it off uh daughter daughter son obey, they do cut it off. But then you as an adult or parent want to use wisdom in how much interaction has that friend friendship so called uh you allow. Because there's wisdom in not allowing that friendship to even have a a degree of rekindling Because the immaturity aspect of the child, which is what they are, can't differentiate the uh understanding of how far is a real friendship or not, because they've already established they can't understand what friendship looks like Uh yeah. I do think that that's when parental guidance comes into I think it's easier for a parent to see what makes sense for their kid when in a situation like that than it's ever going to be for it for a a a single in the situation. I think it's going to be a oh and let's say a single okay let's say a single adult that's the parents aren't around. Um I think other th this is actually going into our next but Har Harry, did you have something to say? Or Tim? Yeah. Well one thing that you know we picked up a lot of this is is Don't make allow one on one gathering. You have group gatherings and that helps very much from things going too far. Still problems with the relationship have already gone to a certain level and they're still associated with the same type of group of people. You have to have a I think a cutoff because those emotions still can Show their head. Sure. There's got to be some distance, which is which is fine. Um the next part of relation relating to this has to do with singles relating to families, relating to seniors, and relating to children. Um and so let me just mention that one of the major um One of the major passages to go to would be in Titus two where it says that the the um the younger women are or the older women are teach the younger women. So there is this and this is why some of you were sort of addressing this before. There is this idea that uh biblically that uh at least a principle that You have different stages of life and there should be there there is a real need for there to be interaction among uh different age groups. Um If you think of we don't have a lot of single adults in our church, I wish we did, and I'm actually starting to pray that we do s do somehow. We have a few, but we don't have as many as I would like. How does a single adult uh relate? Should they only relate to other single adults? No, they should be relating to other families. They should be re relating to older people. And I'll just express the sort of concern that It goes both ways. I think teenagers need to be encouraged to relate to older folks. Like me, that's older for teenagers. And older older like others, okay. But but also I think that we need to take the the uh initiative to relate to teenagers as well. It's gotta go both ways. They need to be open to it, they need to be ready for it. But very candidly, if I could just say it this way, we should not be content to stay in our own peer group. For some reason we do tend to stay comfortable in that. I why? Because we have so much to relate to. If I'm talking to if I have a family I'm talking to and they've got kids the same age as my kids, we've got all kinds of things to talk about, right? Um if they don't have kids at all, then I might have a little bit less to talk about. Um but but honestly What do we have to talk about? We got a whole Bible to talk about. We have Christ to talk about. We have our relationships in the Lord to talk about. There really shouldn't be this segmented group where you just have where you just have everybody's peer group is together and everybody that really is not there there's a lot of um I mean it's okay to have that sum For educational purposes it makes sense. So like in our Sunny school classes we have age appropriate Sunny School classes. Why? Because at different people at different levels that makes sense But uh we don't want that in all c all cases. That's why our why we don't have something called life groups. In some churches you have life groups where everybody in their own stage different their their stage of life is with each other and you have a stage of life over here. There's a reason we don't have that here. We have we have discipleship home groups that are that are broken up by geography, because then way then you have different ages m working together and fellowshipping with each each other because the commonality that we have is in Christ And we can all learn from each other in various stages. And I think that is vitally important. It's essentially what I'm kind of going through with this. I'll give you one illustration of this Um and then we need to we need to close. But um when I was young, uh we uh we had Wednesday night prayer meeting at church. And um we for most of my teenage years we did not have a teen group at all. We didn't have a youth group. Instead what we had was uh I remember there's a uh actually Harry knows him, Mr. Merson, he would uh he would uh come and he'd get he just gathered like a few of us guys, a few of us boys Uh and say, hey, come on, let's come on Jimmy, let's let's pray together. And we cut we get over in the corner or whatever. And I and he would take me. I pray I learned to pray from Bob Merson praying through a prayer list with me and I'm listening to him and praying. I developed a relationship with him uh uh and he was my Sunday school teacher. Those kinds of things are very important in the body of Christ to happen. Um and so I would encourage that. We need to actually think purposefully about that. Um it is too easy for us to naturally gravitate to the people that are in our own stage of life, that we we just have on the tip of our tongue something that's common. And there's nothing wrong with that But we need to purposefully develop relationships with people that are not in our natural stage of life that we can be a help to and that we can learn from. And the and there is, I think what I think what uh Jeff said earlier is true, there is a benefit. If you're on the older end of things, there is a real benefit to m to Sh it's not just the benefit for the younger, it's the benefit for the older too. There is an energy and a um care and those kinds of things that can be uh developed from that as well. Alright, any final comments or questions? Yes, Tim. Well it does say in the Bible for the older women teach the younger women. Yeah, to love their husbands particularly. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That kind of thing uh is something that should be happening uh as a church family and the body of Christ. And so all of this, yes, What kind of strategies would you suggest for interacting with the other thing? Oh I'm glad you asked. That's good. This is worth worth that's a good question. So are you s so let's take a young ad a young single adult that wants to get that wants to get to know a family. Okay. Is that is that is that a good example of that? Okay, good. Well I think part of it is let's take that one. If you have a young single adult one who who says, you know, I don't want to just hang around other single adults. I want to hang around I want to hang around families. Well then You know, if if you're a young man, go to a father and say, Hey, can can we hang out? Um uh There should be a real real desire to do that on on the part of a a Christian man and to so so one of the uh uh one of the uh things that happens is A single adult will say, for example, to a family, uh or they'll they'll say, well they're just they just seem so busy. The family just seems so busy. Is there some truth to that statement? There is the truth to that statement. You add on a few kids and suddenly things get really busy. But is that could that be an excuse? Yeah. And it could be an excuse on the adult the young adult side and it could be an excuse on the other other people's side. Now there is a way if a single person has more f he he always has more flexibility, I guarantee you. Okay So if they they do, then don't ask a person to go to Starbucks. If you ask my wife, if if you're a young lady and you ask my wife to go to Starbucks, She might be able to now that now that my kids are a little bit older. But five years ago, if you asked my wife to get a Starbucks, it's going to be difficult. But if you said, can I come over and hang out with you That that's a total that's a that's something entirely different. Why? For obvious reasons. It's in the home, they've got the kids, I don't you don't have to to deal with that. So so you have to think somewhat creatively about that, as far as okay, what makes sense there. Um but that's not the only um Uh but but is that is that kind of answering your question? Yeah, just I mean just different tactics you can make it less awkward than just, hey, can we hang out? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. Um we learned We dealt with the young adults a lot. So the pri one of the primary roles Jeff had. And we encourage our young adults, so we're talking in their twenties probably, and maybe college age, so we can really ex To in order to build those relationships to serve. Yeah, good, good. So maybe it's not as convenient to just hang out and have a cup of coffee. You know what? Can I come help you? your house. Can I come help you do something? And yes, you know, on the on the young adult part it would take more self it was self sacrificing. But those relationships you build as you as you serve, those are the things that we're going to do. That's very good. And even in getting involved in ministries in the church, I mean if you get involved in any You know, if you get involved in the A B ministry, for example, you have to deal with Pat. But other than that, um, you have different age groups in there. Okay. Um so even or or whatever I uh he just is back there so I just picked on that one. But there's different you so that's that's uh those kind of things is good. Jeff I also say leverage church activities like the men's breakfast or various retreats or community community day, any of those kind of things where they're gathering people you can develop conversations that give you an idea of how you can relate to them more closely. Good. Yeah, very, very good Okay, let's go ahead then and take some prayer requests very quickly. Teams, you're dismissed. And let me go ahead and take some prayer requests here.