As this larger paper here and then this this handout is specifically for tonight and very likely we will be going over um this next week as well. I want to just m uh invite your attention to this the back of this as well. Oh. Huh, never mind. That's funny. Well, there was supposed to be a bibliography on back. I'll give that I'll give that to you next week. The double-sided didn't work. So anyway, next week you'll get a bibliography with all kinds of uh good resources to get on it uh to uh to look at Um I will say that I don't at all uh pretend to be an expert on marriage and family because I've only been fifteen years into it. And uh many some of you have been into it long you know, a lot longer than that. But I do stand on the shoulders of books of people that really have been through it a a lot longer, and more importantly the authority of God's Word, which which is obviously our sole authority for faith and practice So um, but I think hopefully we'll be able to learn together as well through through some of this. So there's different topics there, three major sections. We're going to talk about singleness first. And then marriage and then parenthood. Now, I'll just say this. You say, well, why would you start with singleness when you're dealing with marriage and family? And the answer is, first of all, we'll we'll look at that. uh to some degree, but also uh really uh we're live uh a lot of the of the problems that married couples face Actually, they started before they were married. Their roots were actually prior to marriage, when they were single. Not everything, um, but a lot of times that happens and you can kind of see when the foundation wasn't right in singlehood. We're going to talk about identity, for example, tonight. When that wasn't established correctly in single in when you were when they're in singleness, then problems rose, you know, five, six years into marriage or fifteen years into the marriage as a result of really not establishing the right foundation. And so that's important for us to understand. And that's why it's so important. how this tracks from having sort of cracks in the foundation and then how they bleed over into into marriage Um we're going to look at three s three major topics uh within subjects within singleness. That's identity, which I think is Crucial. Giftedness. What does it mean to have the giftedness of single singlehood or singleness? And then freedom. And so that's I think going to be important for us. So why on why singleness? Well, for hundreds of years, the general trend was that most uh everyone left their family in origin of their uh for one primary reason to get married and establish their own family unit Studies show that in the 19th and first half of the 20th century, single adults made up up uh typically 5% of the adult U. S. population. 3% never married and 1% divorced or 1% widowed. While an overwhelming number, 95% were married. However, that's changed. So today, somewhere around 45 to 46 percent of the adult U. S. population Um that's from five percent to forty-five percent of the adult US population is now single. So you have an extreme increase in singleness. Uh and so it's really important to address it. Yes. I think it probably includes all of all of them. Uh single, never been married, sing divorced, widowed, w widowers. That's you can check out unmarried. org is the is where these where the numbers uh come from. So uh you can get more details on that. So why the change? Well, a lot of factors contribute to the change. There's an average the average age of first marriages uh Uh were the early twenties in the nineteen fifties and now they're the late twenties in the nineteen nineties and later uh now it's probably thirties Um the rise of divorce and cohabitation more uh and more never marriage than ever before, and much greater mobility of adult children. Long gone are the days the child takes the family business and lives in the same town as the parents. So it's very unusual for that to be the case. It's it happens more in this area because you do have s uh a a lot of jobs in this area, a lot of a lot uh s so that's possible in this area. But um still often they go to college, they get married, they move away, right, Josh and Julie. I mean that's that's that's typical uh now. Um, I'm very atypical that I bought my dad's house. You know. Like n doesn't happen. It's not something I actually ever planned either. But anyway, so that's not not not really normal anymore. It's much more normal to move away. So, why a class on singleness? First of all, we need to understand that singleness matters to God And Christianity's, meaning the biblical approach to singleness is actually revolutionary. And you'll see what I mean in a minute when we look at 1 Corinthians 7. It is very counter-culture. And we'll see that. There was one thing I wanted to mention here in defining it. Maybe I define it later. In case I don't, I'll just mention this. We're going to look at 1 Corinthians 7 and what we want to do is just look at a brief overview of this of this text. It's going to deal with a lot of different issues. We're not going to get detailed into the text. It's not going to be an exegesis of the text, but we're going to look at the different issues. But just to give you an idea of the problem, if you don't take a scriptural understanding of singleness, is Webster's dictionary, do you know how it defines singleness? It defines it as unmarried. Now think about it for a minute. What's the problem with that definition? Okay, well I hadn't thought of that. But uh that's true. But probably it says unmarried adult in some dictionaries. Okay, but yeah. Yeah. It's defined by what you're not. I mean the definition itself leaves you wanting, like, oh, I guess I'm less than complete here. Um But the Bible doesn't do that with singleness. First Corinthians seven doesn't do that with signalists. It doesn't define it as as what you are not. So we're going to go through First Corinthians seven and we're going to see that that Paul has a lot of really He values singleness a great deal. So let's look at the passage and we'll pick up here. We'll first look at uh 770 uh seven one through seven. And I'll just say this that the issue that he's dealing with here is the idea of asceticism. We've talked about that before, but it's the idea of isolating yourself and um having a higher spiritual plane of of mysticism or whatever and and s and and denying yourself physical pleasures, that kind of idea you put those things together and the idea could come up that it's actually more spiritual to to uh to be single than to be married, or more spiritual, to not participate even as a married person in sexual relations That those are the kinds of things that you come up with when you start going down the that those roads. I mean Christ said to deny yourself, but he didn't mean to deny yourself in this way. So Paul is is dealing with this problem in verses 1 through 7. He begins by saying, Now concerning the things which which you wrote to me, it is good for a man not to touch a woman, or sometimes it's translated not to marry a woman. Nevertheless, because of sexual immorality, let each man ha have his own wife, let each uh and let each woman have her own Let the husband rent her to his wife the affection due her, and likewise unto the wife to to her husband. The wife does not have authority over her own body, but the husband does. And likewise the husband does not have authority over his own body, but the wife does. That's by the way a novel concept at this point as well. Do not deprive one another except with consent for a time, that you may give yourselves to the fasting and prayer and come together again so that the so that Satan does not tempt you because of your lack of self-control. But I say that this is as a concession, not as a commandment, for I wish that all men were even as as I myself. But each one has his own gift from God, one in this matter manner, and the other in that So he says, if you in verses 1 through 7 he basically says it's good for a man not to marry, but it's also fine for a person to marry. He doesn't say it's a command to marry. He says it's a concession in his mind to marry because In his mind, in Paul's mind, he actually values singlehood as a very special thing where he can totally devote himself to the Lord. There's a there's a so in other words, and he vo he sees and the bot scripture sees singleness as a time of freedom where you're not encumbered by the burdens of marriage and family, and you are able to direct, you are able to focus in on pleasing God solely and completely. without some of the other encumbrances involved. That is a very different idea than Webster's definition unmarried. This is he puts a very positive uh light on singleness. It's valued. Yes. Well if we read the whole the whole uh first Corinthians seven, we'll find that that's not the case. Um he's now he's later on going to point out uh other things uh as well. So we'll get there. Um that that was that is by the way, this is a passage I I understand my understanding is this is basically where they get the ideas of of uh not understanding this passage correctly, this sort of idea of asceticism. If you think of a Catholic priest or a nun going, that's asceticism. I mean that's what that is basically. And then they f and they get some of the they actually misinterpret some of this And that's how they get get their uh their approach. Um but you'll see in the passage he's gonna he's not going to he says in the passage, uh he basically look what looks at as if Paul it is better. and for the sake of serving God. He w he wishes people were like him. But then he he backs up a little here and you'll see that in a minute. out. Like he looks at it as privilege because it frees him to be sold out. To serve the Lord. Without any handcuffs. Yeah. So we've got to keep that single Absolutely. Um verses eight and nine uh he says, But I say to the unmarried and to the widows, It is good for them if they remain even as I am. But if they cannot exercise self control, let them marry, for it is better to marry than to burn with passion. So he says, okay, I I you know there's va real value in people remaining single so that they could serve the Lord with all their hearts without having it being covered encumbered. uh by families and marriages. He says, but not everybody, essentially, I'm just sort of paraphrasing here, but not everybody is called to singlehood. He says there is there is there is uh some are and some aren't and if you aren't then and you're inclined toward marriage then you should go that direction Okay And we're going to talk more about problems uh I I I I gotta be honest with you. Seven, eight, and nine have been misinterpreted and mis applied. So often it's it's unbelievable how often it's been it's been misinterpreted and misapplied. We'll get back we'll get to that uh later. But I'm just trying to go through so you get an overall an overview here. Verses ten through eleven to the married. What does he say? Now to the married I command, yet not I belie but the Lord, a wife is not to depart from her husband. But even if she does depart, let her remain unmarried or to be reconciled to her husband, and a husband is not to divorce his wife. So he says to the married, stay married. Bottom line. Single? Consider staying single unless you're supposed to be married. This is basically what he what he's saying. If you're married, stay married. Verses twelve through sixteen. To the married with unbelieving spouse, stay married if they're willing, but if they leave, let them go. But to the rest I say, not the Lord, uh not the Lord say And by the way, when he keeps saying this, he's not saying this is my opinion, it is not a command. What he's saying is the Lord did not address this specifically. So he says he begins in chapter one, I'm sorry, verse one, now concerning the things which uh I wrote uh which you wrote to me And everything that he's saying he's sorting he's basing it on what the Lord has already taught in Matthew nineteen and Mark ten and other places like that. Now he is saying, Well the Lord has not addressed this so uh Christ meaning the Lord when he was on earth, so I'm gonna address this now. And so he says in verse 12, And to the rest I, not the Lord, say, If any brother have a wife who does not believe, and she is willing to live with him, let him not divorce her. And a woman who has a husband who does not believe, if he is willing to live with her, let her not divorce him. But the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife. And the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband. Otherwise your children would be unclean, but now they are holy. But if they if the unbeliever departs, let him depart. A brother or sister is not under bondage in such cases, but God has called us to peace. Now I I can't get into all the details of this or we'll never get through it. But Bottom line, if you are unmarried, I mean if you are married to an unbelieving spouse, stay married. But if the unbelieving spouse departs, then you're you're uh permitted to let them go. 712 through 24 is he says, don't feel that your earthly status needs to change when God calls you to be a Christian. So there was a problem with this. Look at verse um Well you see verses twelve through four twenty-four, we've already looked at verse sixteen. Um you sort of see some of that in in that passage, but pick up in verse um pick up in verse sixteen. Or how do you know a wife, uh how do you know uh oh wife whether you will save your husband, or how do you know a husband whether you will save your wife? Not talking about saving uh in the way that we would think of it only Christ could do that, we know that, but be an influence on them. But as God has uh verse seventeen, seventeen through twenty four, but as God has distributed to each one as the Lord has called each one, so let him walk. And so I ordain in all the churches. Was anyone called while circumcised? Let him not become uncircumcised. As anyone called while uncircumcised, let him not be be circumcised. Circumcision is nothing and uncircumcision is nothing, but keeping the commandment of God is what matters. Let each of each one remain uh in the same calling in which he is he was called. Were you called while a slave? Do not concern Be concerned about it, but if you can be made free, rather use it. For he who is called the Lord while a slave is the Lord's freed man. Likewise he who is called while free is Christ's slave. You are brought with a price and do not become slaves of men. Brethren, let each one remain with God in the state in which he is called he was called And then seven twenty-five through twenty-three, he's gonna talk now. We won't take the time to read those, but he talks to the virgin or those who betrothed, talk he talks to the the fathers and says uh if they need to be married, let them marry. If not, it's okay for them not to be married. Um it's basically it's up to you, dads. And then verses twenty-nine through forty to the widows, they are free to remarry if their husband dies, but should only marry a Christian. Okay. So that's that's the basic overflow uh overview. He he he values marriage. He values singlehood. If you're a widow, stay a widow if you can. If not, then marry. If you uh he's don't think that because you're a Christian, you need to change status necessarily because of that. So he gives us sort of an overall an overview, an overall picture of marriage and singleness and widowing widow and all those different statuses or positions in in this chapter. So what we want to then move to is particularly we're talking about singleness here, and we're talking about the concept of identity. And it's absolutely important for us to understand that that in order for a marriage to be a solid marriage, a solid Christian marriage, The first thing we've got to do is establish our identity in Christ. The single person should not should think in terms of his identity or her identity being in Christ. He is complete in Christ. That has a lot of implications to it. But if a person believes that he is not complete until he's married or she is married, uh you're going to actually it's actually going to create it could potentially create problems in the marriage. We've got to understand that you are complete in Christ. Um and if you are already married and you when you were single you didn't have the right approach to that, then there's a there's a sense in which you've got to understand that you are your identity is in Christ, it is complete in Christ. um even after you're married. Now that doesn't mean that you change your status. Paul's very clear about this. But um but we do need to understand our identity in Christ. So So a definition of singleness. Someone who is not married is Webster's definition. How about this definition? Those in our church community, those in the church really, who have the opportunity and freedom to use their gifts in undivided devotion to the Lord. That's a biblical definition of singlehood. Look at verse thirty-five of this chapter. He says, And this I say for your own profit, not that I may put a leash on you, but for what is proper, and that you may serve the Lord without distraction. Okay. So God's view of singleness is it's to be valued. It is something that we are to value. It's something that you can serve the Lord with undivided devotion, with singleness of heart, undistracted, and unencumberment. There is a freedom to singleness. Okay. Now I'm not suggesting all you married people have no freedom. Um like I'm not trying to convince you to n l like loathe your s your your status. But it is important for single people to understand that they are there is a valuable time in their life that they should not they should not waste Um they should use it. I I have to tell you that those who are single adults particularly or teenagers you know, up to ad uh up to adulthood, older teenagers, you have maximum freedom and minimum responsibility. And you think I got lots of responsibility I got school and I've got I got my parents' respon y you believe me. You you do not have a lot of responsibility. Okay, and I'm not trying to be harsh, but there is a freedom that you have. And enjoy it, but use it for God. Use it to serve the Lord. Focus on Christ. And uh and understand there are some that are so single that are they're so they're single but they want to be married so bad. It's like if I could just hold on until I get married. And they they sort of put their life on hold until they just could find the right one to marry, and then they'll be living. Before is death and after is life. That is not at all what Scripture says. Now let me ask you this question. Do do does our typical church culture help or hinder in this area? We often hinder. Well how do we hinder in this area? Yes. The near deification of marriage. The near deification. That's a strong way to put it. Yeah. Okay. Yes, Tracy. I think a lot of things are family activities or there are opportunities to minister together as a family That's a good point. And we want that, but but to have it exclusively or to have it in such a way where where singles don't fit in is is an issue. Yeah. Yeah. Lack of responsibility we give, good. Yeah. That's very true. Yeah. Honestly, it's hard to understand in some senses because I'm I agree with I don't disagree with you. But uh I think to myself, man, I'd love to have a few more single people around here. I mean somebody I actually like when when when Zach when Zach and Jacob came back from college They immediately called me or texted me or something and said, Could can how can we help? What can we do? Contacted Harry and said, What can we do? What can we and got involved in some of the kids' classes. Right away they jumped in And it was like a relief. I mean it was like there there I mean it really um there's a real value in in single in singleness and so we are definitely not doing well and we're not consistent with what scripture says if we're not if we're seeing single people as less than valuable or undervalued or something like that. It's it's actually nearly the opposite. Yeah, Tim. As well as you can say a married couple that don't have children. Yeah. Yeah, right, sure. Yeah, you could have the same kind of thing. Sure. Um we sometimes um get the inclin you know, we uh you ever play matchmaker? Start matching people up. Alright. Sometimes in the church we start doing that. Oh that person's single, that person's single. We could put them together and Well, maybe, maybe not, okay, but sometimes when we have that kind of thinking the way we talk, it's like they're incomplete. They just we need to get them married because because you know they're incomplete until they're married and Why that's not what scripture says at all, Tracy. And they they feel that way and we don't help in our culture um in in in in helping them to feel that way uh or uh or or going against what they would naturally feel. So we do need to rethink this. Yes, ma'am. Because there's if it's a single moment and there's no man and it's not appropriate. or maybe not to be together in a single situation or you know what I'm saying? And so um not those relationships introduced Or or even just um you know this is not good in the body of Christ. These are problems, okay? But sometimes What happens in our thinking is um uh we tend to gravitate to people of our own uh demographic of our own time in life or you know of our own kind, yeah. Okay Married with kids, married with teens, married with kids out of the house, mm old, whatever. I mean so so you I I skipped I skipped a lot there, I know. But anyway, so uh so and everybody just try tries to sort of um uh um you know go with who they know. You know the body of Christ that is really not not what we should be doing. We should we should it should be different. Yes. young woman or a widowed woman that uh married couple that the wife doesn't want her husband to help this other woman out that may need some maybe handy man work and all that. No, I'm afraid she might pull him away from me. A widow? Really? Okay. A younger widow. Okay. And uh okay. Yeah. Well the wife can go help, you know. She can hand him tools, whatever. Anyway, but uh okay. Yeah, I mean there are some c some situations like that that might that might occur. So identity. So how do we deal How do we deal with this that we really think in terms of a single person? By the way, the teenagers, this is you, okay, right? Everybody here is single as teenager. If you're not, that's weird. So so you are single and so that it this applies to you. So how do we how do we work this out? So a couple of things. Let's ask the question, well who am I? Number one, you're either an employee or a student or both Okay? And so the Bible is very clear that diligence is something that you ought to be working on. If you're here and you're single Working hard and diligence and usefulness, those kinds of things is something that you ought to be focused on. And I'll tell you why Because when you get married, you better be diligent. Because there's more work. Just just to let you know. Get married, and there's more Okay. And by the way, I went through this in my premarital counseling. I just told him it's more work. You think it's less work because you have two It's not. It's more work. They everybody doubles the work. It's it's it anyway. Okay, there's lots of work. And you add kids and it multiplies exponentially. Okay. Lots of work. Okay? Nobody you know, you're laughing, but you're not arguing. Nobody nobody's saying, I don't think that's true. Anyway. Okay. Um what's that? Oh yeah. Oh, I can imagine. She has to cook meals every day. She's gotta clean the house every day. You know, he he got he he's not eating beef and cheese anymore. He won't care so I'll tell the story like in during premal counseling. Uh they're talking about he's it like talking about what he eats every day. He's like, I'm fine with be he get he get When he was down there by himself with a with a uh in his in his apartment, he just got like this thing of beef and this thing of cheese. And that's what he ate every day I thought, man, you know, I said, you can do that now. When you're forty you can't do that anymore, buddy. Anyway. You have all kinds of problems. All right, anyway. Um Take it some a couple of things just to advise here. Number one, take advantage of your freedom. Understand there's freedom, take advantage of the freedom, focus in and serve God with freedom. Um number two, don't set such a ridiculous pace. And what I mean by that is some people this isn't this isn't usually a big problem. Well I mean what I mean by that is that some people will sit such a ridiculous pace that number three, they won't build their lives around church. This is very uncommon. This is very sad. Sometimes single people won't build their lives around church because we're not making it easy, like we're making it hard for them. You guys kind of mentioned that tonight. Okay? So sometimes it's kind of our fault. Frankly it's also it's all off often single people's fault as well. And uh and they're not really focused on that. And if they and and so here's what sort of happens. This is really unfortunate, but this is what kind of happens. You're single, you really you really don't get get intricately involved in church. You get married, you're still not intricately involved in church. Kids come along, oh I better get involved in church Then you start looking for a church that's going to work for your kids. The problem with that is that the right way, the right approach biblically is I'm discipled, and then I disciple my kids. The church's job is to assist me in discipling my kids, but it's not to do the job for me. Okay. And so I need to f I uh if you start off focusing, building your life around the local church. As a single person, if you start off that way and you're being discipled and you're discipling others in that kind of a context, then you move into marriage and you're doing the same thing. Then you move into kid with kids and you're continuing to be disciple and you're discipling others. The kids come along and then you have the bill the ability to disciple your kids. Why? Well you've been discipling other people When you're single, you're discipling other people. It is it different disciple kids than other people? It is. But there is some confluence. So if you take a a single person and another single single man, he's in his twenties disciples another single man in his twenties. Okay? Or uh maybe he's not single, maybe he's married but he's discipling a uh uh a guy in his in his twenties And he takes them all the way through the different phases of discipleship. Well, he's going to be far more equipped to take his kids through discipleship. But unfortunately what happens is we never get that's not usually a for that's not really what happens, so I would just encourage you that way. And then there is a quandary for single women. So, we've already said focus in on working hard, uh work on your career, those kinds of things. And And uh yet sometimes the question comes up for single women particularly, because a man's going to focus on his career he's biblically supposed to provide for his household. Okay. That's he's he is to be biblically the main provider. Doesn't mean his wife can't help, but biblically he's to be the main main provider. Okay, and I'm thankful for my wife that does help, so it's not at all but that's the that's the pl that's God's plan So so he knows what direction he's going, but a wife or a single woman, that's a little harder because it's kind of like, well, okay, well, do I go a direction? Uh do I not? How do I do that? And I would just say that say it this way. You should go a direction. Uh you should try to work on a career of some kind, um to be self-supporting, in case God doesn't have you to be married. But you also should be open to being married and to be willing to switch gears if that happens. Because after you're married, your role is to assist your husband. Now that may mean that you can have your have the career that you had already planned, or it may not mean that. It's up to your husband. And it's up to the family and how you guys figure that out. Very important though, so you do have to straddle a fence a little bit where you're going a direction, but you're open to turning, and you're opening to go another direction as well. Um and that's the best answer I can give for that particular quandary. Um any questions so far about the how how a single yes. Well I'll tell you when we first got in the church light, we were tending as a young couple, and we were fine just the ten It wasn't until they approached us, hey, could you help out in Sunday school? They reached out to us, you know. We didn't offer, they reached out to us, and sometimes that is mis in the church. Sure. Where the church doesn't reach out to new members. Mm-hmm. Good. One of the reasons we have a new members class so that we can acclimate and learn people's how they tick and how they work and what their gifted is is and all that kind of thing. Is uh the same one we think. It seems as if when you're talking here you're talking more about uh just legitimate stuff uh high school college level person but not necessarily with a lower composed Uh so uh two and three go together. So don't set such a ridiculous pace that you're not building your life around a local church. So singles tend to, if they're not careful, play church and and really uh full speed ahead in their career and education and other things like that or extracurricular things, fun things, all that kind of thing. And so if you set that kind of pace and you don't build your life around the local church, then you won't be able to be discipled. Yeah. Yeah, and focus is wrong, which is gonna be a problem in marriage, yes. Yeah, Brad. It's the distinction between boys, four boys and one daughter. Like you said, the the boy needs to be preparing to be primary. But the girl I think of you know in terms of father's thirty nine, who you know found find something that you could, if need be, supplement family's income. You know, as as you're raising, you know, your daughter. Thinking in those terms having her opinions in that terms. But then of course as she becomes a young adult, you know, that could change depending on, you know, if you know, she goes to college or training and um she still remembered single and she probably needs to think about career. But I think like while raising my bar. Yeah. Good. Good advice. When I was my maybe the second date I had with Elizabeth I asked her wh why she chose her majors, which were elementary education and office administration was a minor. And she said, well, she said elementary education is something I can do if I don't get married and will be helpful if I do get married. And office administration minor is I like organization, that kind of thing, and I again it it's something I can assist in in in helping m you know, my husband and the and the that kind of thing. And so um that was impressive actually to me, that you had that kind of thinking. beats um other majors that I ran into anyway where it made no sense at all. So anyway. Alright, let's move on to the next one. Who am I, a son or daughter? So not only are are you an em either an employee, student, or both, but you're also, if you're a single person, you're a son or a daughter. It seems like the biblical pattern is for a woman to remain under her father's authority until she can be given in marriage to a husband. Um that is generally the biblical pattern and generally the case in our there are except there are If a person moves if a single w woman moves away from her house and is self supporting, like moves away from her h from home and is self supporting uh likelihood is there's going to be less authority. Uh there still needs to be honor, but there would be less authority than otherwise. But generally that's the approach. Obviously biblically we know that once a person is married the authority of a parent is is not there anymore. They need to leave and they need to cleave And so you still have a responsibility to honor your parents, but you don't have a responsibility to um to obey them as authorities. Um that as a biblical pattern from just saying that was culturally their way. Um Well mm, good question. I think we would say it this way. Um A couple of things. I think culturally, uh obviously there there is that. The other thing I think is that the Bible actually says that a husband is to is to lead the wife Okay, we know that to be true. So the pattern it would seem to me that there would just be wisdom if a if a if a daughter can learn to follow her hut her father's authority. uh then she is going to be and have a relate good relationship with her father, then it the transition is going to be a lot better. So I think it's I don't know if it's in the realm of at some point it's not in the realm of right or wrong, it's in the well realm of wisdom Um obviously the monetary support is a big thing, obviously. Um I I will tell you this, it ought not be just eighteen Okay. It's not a cutoff at eighteen just because the law says it's eighteen. Alright. So um that's uh yeah. Um the other thing too if you look at the shoes. seeds in the garden. So there's a tendency, right, for maybe a woman to have to be easier to see than the Therefore it lies for hurt with them. To be able to have a man, father, figure, or husband be able to run things by, make sure that they Maybe uh a good way to go. Yeah, even if you take First Corinthians chapter eleven, the head of the woman is the man and the man the head of the man is the uh is uh the head of man is Christ. You have a pretty strong so let's say functioning in the local church, how does that work? So so you have a you know you have a pretty strong um examples in scripture of that being not only a cultural pattern, but having scriptural reference uh to it as well Not so much where you have a direct command that would prohibit a woman from being able to move up move out and have a career and those kinds of things. And you see no pro prohibit prohibition like that Um and you see no clear command like that. So there that's why I say there are exceptions to this, but the general pattern seems to be that. There's different places in scripture that that demonstrate that. Yes. Older women? Yeah. So the difficulty is in the first century everybody got married. So so I mean culturally until Paul this is so foreign for Paul to say stay s sta stay single, but culturally you don't have examples because At very young ages women were getting married, um almost almost entirely. So in Galatians you have uh a principle there that says that a man is uh that says man is under two years of governance until the time appointed by the father. You could assume then that the woman is appointed by uh it's also appointed by the father, at least that. Um and um You know, it's sort of funny. I was just listening to a podcast today of a pastor who who is pastoring in the uh in the United Arab Arab E Emirates and um he was pastor of the United States and they were talking about this whole idea of leadership in the church and the issue of actually m men being in leadership in the in the church versus women m men being elders versus women not being biblically allowed to be elders. And of course we know that's clear in scripture. But he said, you know, this is not a hard thing for people to understand outside the United States. This is not a You know, you you go to nearly anywhere else in the world and this concept is not hard. Um in the United States it seems to be a a a a cultural problem. So um so I think you got a general pattern, but again I don't th I don't think you can nail it so hard because we don't have a clear clear command. So there's a lot of things by the way that like that. Let me let me just say it this way. And and actually this is probably a good time to say this when it comes to marriage and family and all this. There are commands in Scripture, and there are examples and patterns in Scripture. Commands don't have exceptions. Unless there's contextually exceptions or something, but you know, usually not. Examples have exceptions, but the question is, do we want to be as close as we can to the to the biblical example? I was talking to somebody about church and how you how a church should function, for example. Here was the question, and I'll show you the analogy. Should a church encourage baptism before you take communion? That was the question. And should you really say you need to be baptized before you take communion? Uh answer, I said yes. Why? Well, you have the biblical example in the New Testament, and once you're saved, you're baptized, and then you're part of the church. Baptism is actually a profession of faith in the New Testament, the first century That's what the profession is. The idea of somebody being saved, genuinely saved, and not being baptized is a foreign idea in the book of Acts. So we were talking about and he said, well there's no command about that. I said, no, there's no command about it. It's just what is the generally what is the examples that we find in Scripture? What is the general pattern So it's not a matter of sin, it's a matter of wisdom when it's not a c a clear command. And what you have to do is you have to sit first say, okay, do I want to accept the general pattern and follow it Or am I only going to and consider it to be wisdom, or am I only going to really primarily look at the commands and then the rest of it I kind of do what I want? There's two ways of looking at that And if you choose to say, okay, well I want to find I want to follow the general pattern and the examples as wisdom, then that's the basis of really a lot of this discussion when it comes to singleness and family and marriage and all that Uh there are clear commands that we're just going to follow. But there are other things that we look at and we say, okay, this is this is a wise way to approach things. Jeff? Yeah. So following that pattern is dealing with Y is pretty much the only pattern. Right. So in that case it would be less following the pattern or reading into it like what Paul says and everything else that justifies people who uses a right. Well what I mean by following the pattern is is you look at you look at principles in scripture like First Corinthians chapter eleven which says the head of the woman is the man. You you look at principles like um um the idea of a of of an appointment by the father. You you sort of look at all those different things and you extrapolate from that, you put it all together and you get this you you know. Uh and you say that generally speaking this is the best approach, uh, biblically. Okay. Um Let's see. A couple of more things to advise as far as singles. Put yourself within striking distance of an older man uh of older men and women in the congregation. Uh singles, teenagers, this is so important There is a level of wisdom that you really um can't get from your own peers. For lack of a better way of saying it. In fact, it's it's really more important to have people speaking truth into your life that are not in your age group. than uh than that people are. It's really important to to to do that. And as you get older, if you stay single for longer, which is statistically going to happen more likely, remember don't just stick with people in your own age group. And the idea of elders, there is that role as well. The next section, the next part of identity here is that a single person is a sexual being. Okay. Now there's a reason we have truth trackers right now. So we're going to get into this area. Okay. So some people think of the war of world religions. This is something that Mark Devers said, he's right. Some people think of world religions as Christian Christianity's main uh competitors. Yet I think it can be fairly said that that the main competitor that Christianity faces today in the West is not Islam or Judaism, it is not atheism or Hinduism, it is eroticism and an an increasingly uninhibited search for fulfillment, fulfilling our sexual passions in whatever form we please. Now if that isn't I I don't even have to defend that statement. Just go online. Actually don't. Uh and you're gonna find that to be the case. Here are some principles. Number one, God created sex. He created sex to be something that's within marriage only. We know that biblically. But a a single person should not be ashamed for feeling like he's a sexual person. Okay. So how do you deal with this? Number one, be honest and open instead of ashamed and secretive. Now here's what I mean by that. Um it doesn't mean be honest and open with everybody and their brother. Be honest and open with the right people. Okay. But sometimes what happens as a teenager gets old as a as a a person goes from childhood to to to teenage to teenager, they have all of these feelings and desires and those kinds of things and they close up. And that is a very unbiblical, very unwise thing to do. In fact, in in Proverbs eighteen one, it actually tells us to avoid doing that. Somebody somebody can you somebody go to eighteen Proverbs eighteen one and read that? I don't have it here easily. Go ahead, Josh. And the intermeddleeth with all wisdom. Okay. So through desire a man having s uh separated himself seeks and ends up in it he ends up following after his desire into foolishness is basically what the bat what that's saying. It's a very common thing for a teenager or a young adult to sort of seclude himself and isolate himself and have all of these feelings and thoughts and problems and issues and not and not be open about them with anybody Try to deal with themselves, and here's what will happen ultimately. They will come out somewhere. And the place that they will come out Is their friends usually, uh teenagers particularly. And the problem is, is that They don't have any experience in how to deal with this. And I can't tell you enough, teenagers, when you have these kinds of feelings, number one, the feelings and the temptations even and the desires are not sinful. Now if you dwell on certain desires it's become sinful. But you need to talk to your parents about this. You need to be open with your parents. Parents, you need to ask your your kids. Talk to him. Hey, do you have these desires? This is so important because those who isolate themselves, Satan works in the darkness. He does not want things to be brought out in the light. Now I'm not when I say out in the light, I mean to the right avenues, the right places. Satan works in the darkness, and we do not want it's uh that to happen uh as teenagers. So so be very careful about that. That means uh what happens is if you uh uh in dealing with this the right way um It prepares you to be able to handle it in the right way, and then eventually it's going to help in your marriage as well. Um but I w wanna there's other things to say about that in a minute here. Be really careful about temptations that come with a sexually pure life. It is now in our culture a foreign idea that a maybe not so much teenagers, I don't know. Young adults for sure, the idea of a young adult that is not sexually active, that's not married, is a foreign idea. And yet it's a biblical idea. And and so you have to be careful about these temptations. One of the gate greatest dangers of singleness is the ability to isolate yourself. It's easy when you're married, it's hard to isolate yourself. Just let me tell you You go into bed with the same person every night, you get up with the same person every night, they're always there. I love you, babe. Um so isolating yourself is not not probably gonna be gonna gonna gonna work very well. Alright. However, singleness you can isolate yourself. You can stay in your room, you're by yourself all the time, you can go elsewhere, you do it and the more freedom you have as a single person Freedom is a gift that God's given you. So you use it the wrong way, you isolate yourself, and it's going to be uh there's going to be a lot of problems. Um Those of you who have uh we'll move on from this one. Um so that's dealing with that issue. Bottom line is uh uh teenagers particularly, make sure you are open with your parents about this. Parents, this should not be faux pas. Discussion with teenagers. This should not be all that I just I'm just not comfortable. I s I hear this. Parents I just don't want to talk about that. Get over it and talk to your kids. I mean they're gonna hear it from somewhere. Okay. So so and the kids and teenagers, you need to talk to your your parents. This is something that's Very, very important to connect with your kids on. And frankly, the earlier probably the better these days. Um Uh we we've we you know th there is something called too early, obviously. But uh you it the way as public as this stuff is now, um Airing this out of early is probably a wise idea. You don't have to get into explicit explicit details, but just opening a line of communication about this is something that is that is important. Okay, um I was not planning to end on that, but I will. So there's more positive subjects to end on, but I was not planning to. Alright. Um teenagers, you're dismissed. Good luck with that Josh.