Based upon the gospel and upon the person and work of Christ, we then are able people would be able to see us despite our despite our diversity. People would be able to see the unity that we have and say this is something that is this is something that is uh unique. And scripture of course tells us that we are peculiar people. In other words, what God desires for us to do according to Ephesians chapter 3. is to is for the whole world to be able to see uh and even the angels it says in Ephesians To be able to see this thing called the church that is made up of all kinds of people, all kinds of backgrounds, all kinds of opinions. And is able to come together, centered on Christ, centered on the gospel, and have unity in the body as a result of the gospel and of love that the gospel produces in our lives. And so where we're at now in this whole process is looking at boundaries the church must transcend. In other words, if we are going to have the kind of unity that God wants us to have, there are going to have to be boundaries that we're going to have to recognize and and make sure that they are not that they don't become barriers to unity. And in fact, instead of barriers, they become opportunity as for us to be able to reflect unity that can only come in Christ. Because otherwise these barriers would become these boundaries would become barriers. Let me illustrate this a little bit. In our world, everybody seems to want world peace. There is even talk about unity in the world. We just had this last week. What happened last week? What major of major world event happened last week? Yes, Brexit it's called. Um we we've always got to make a funny name for everything. A catchy name for everything. w when Great Britain uh uh exited the European European Union and you have all kinds of opinions on whether that was a good idea or not, uh going all over the place. And um And uh but ultimately that does not that demonstrates disunity because of differences that could not be overcome. And the reality is, outside the gospel, you are always going to have all kinds of differences, and certain differences are never going to be able to be overcome. The amazing thing about the gospel is that as the world constantly divides and constantly um uh splinters and has problems and can't get along and there's never peace. People ought to be able to observe the church And look and say, wow, that's amazing. They do have peace. They do have unity in the body. They do have love for another. Despite all of these boundaries which would otherwise be barriers, but aren't barriers because of this Now the truth is somebody came up to me a couple of weeks ago listening to this, listening to one of these, and said to me, you know, the travesty is That our American culture, we our the the church is really failed in a lot of ways in this regard. If you think of the history of this country And you think of churches in this nation, is the world's perspective that you have a bunch of groups that are unified? And have peace one with another and love each other and and that it's an amazing thing to them that they that so many people from different backgrounds, different opinions, different walks of life can can get together And can have harmony and unity. Is that the world's perspective on the church? And largely it is not. In fact, it may be even many cases the opposite of that, where the world looks at it and goes, I don't want any part of that. Because there is disunity and there is there is the exact opposite of what I'm looking for. I don't want strife. I'm not going to be part of a church. I want just you know those kinds of things. And sometimes, based upon our own existence and our own where the Lord has led us and where we have been, our own journeys, we may have felt the same way at times. And so what we want to learn to do is how to have unity based upon the gospel, the kind of unity and love that God wants us to have. Not just Not just the kind of unity that is based upon uniformity, where okay, well we all think the same thing about everything, we all do the same thing about everything. But based unity, not based upon uniformity, but based upon diversity because of the gospel sent is so central So let's let's go through these. For example, you have boundaries of age. Well, let me ask you. I gave you the first one. What are some diverse diver when you think of diversity in the church, what are some boundaries? that you would f think would be in the church that that, if not centered around the gospel, could become barriers to unity rather than opportunities to demonstrate the power of the gospel through unity. Any ideas? What would become what what are boundaries that could become barriers? Harry? Okay, occupational differences. White collar versus blue collar. Right? Good. What else? Ethnicity? Okay. You always you you do have that issue, Tony? What that can mean to be cultural differences? Sure, cultural differences in thinking Yes. Political views, good. Political views. What else? Okay, you you hit a a bunch of them. Boundaries of economics, which is sort of the same thing as occupational boundaries. You have some people that make a lot of money in the church Uh you have other people that may not make as much money in the church. That can be no problem at all, or it can become a place of of jealousy and dissension and those kinds of things. in the body of Christ. You have that problem. If you remember in the book of James, we've gone through that. You have that problem in James, don't you? And there and he deals with that. He says, don't give preference to the rich person. And it also set tells the rich person, do not mistreat the poor person. You have you have those things going on in the book of James on Wednesday nights we went through that. And so definitely have that. You have politics, which is mentioned here. Now I I put here in parentheses, or maybe it did, I don't, maybe the book does too, but probably it does. Accepting moral issues All right, so let's take this issue for example. Could politics divide a church rather than unify a church? Okay. Um and I'm gonna get real dicey here for a minute. Okay. Um could we can't okay so most of us in this room are probably political conservatives. All right, I'll use that term. What if somebody came in and they told they said, I am a Democrat? You might have to take this off the s the uh video. I'm not sure how dicey we're gonna get here. But anyway, um I am a Democrat. Could we have unity with them? Okay, we we we absolutely should have to be able to have unity with them. Okay. Now that if that bothers you, the question that you have to ask yourself is compared to the gospel How how important is the issue of party lines? You have to compare it to the gospel. It's the gospel is all-consuming. And these kinds of things are minuscule compared to the massive importance of the gospel. Now, I say accept moral issues Because if you're a Christian reading your Bibles, it would be very hard to come to a conclusion that to be pro-choice, for example. Okay, I I I don't see how you come to I would preach against abortion. And I have before when it's in application. It's murder. So I don't see how a church can unif can can uh that issue is a moral issue. It's clearly a moral issue. Very frankly, same thing with homosexuality. There is no way of getting around what Scripture says. about it. Now how we handle how we deal with it, we should be dealing with it in a right biblical way where we say firmly it is sin. But we are going to demonstrate love to somebody as well and graciousness to give us an opportunity to be able to give the gospel to them. So there is there is ways that we need to deal with this correctly. But um but I know of a church that I was in for a little while where it was I knew of someone who I highly respected, very godly man, who was a Democrat. Very godly man. Okay. To this day I have highly respect for him. You know why he was a Democrat? Uh-huh, because his family is a Democrat. He had he had a long line of Democrats. Uh there was another reason. He lived in Ireland. And uh he said, if I'm gonna do any good at all, I might as well be a Democrat so my vote counts. I can t I can vote for the the absolute I can I can vote for the alternative The best of the worst, basically, is it was his approach. Oh, that makes a little more sense. And when it came to moral issues and it came to he was actually a fiscal conservative and a social conservative But he said I could do more good to the Democrat in the state than I can as a Republican. Oh, okay. Maybe so you know a little bit more about the person, you go, oh, okay, well I don't know if I could do that, but But I can understand it anyway. So that would be an example of of why we don't want to be very careful. about about uh this where we say in our minds, um, well if I if we don't agree politically we can't have we can't have unity, except for moral issues Any thoughts on this? Do you agree? We've got to agree on this. Very, very important. And I would just say yes. Like you said, what you need to know is we don't make assumptions. We have some very good friends that violence study who are Democrats. Why? Um they can do the word like I might And on those moral issues. Um, we should have things on it because God says this is known, that in God's word there's study Yeah, we have to give people uh time to to develop the sermon in life as well for those kinds of things. For sure. So I I think I think that's that's well well said, Carol, and I and I agree with it. So we have to be careful about that. If we're going to have true unity in the body Um we're going to have to say, okay, they if they're in Christ and they love Christ and they know and they're following the Word, well the moralists they better follow because they're not following the Word if they don't. Other than that Some of these other things we need to be careful about. Boundaries and social ability. Okay, he says boundaries and social ability. Introverts versus extroverts. These are all from the book. Um do are there some people that are just introverted? Are there some people that are extroverted? Oh yeah. Okay. If you said, oh yeah, wow, you might be an extrovert. So how do you overcome that? Do you ever find as an extrovert that you think an introvert's a little snobby? Because I'm an extrovert, I'm just going to tell you. I think you I think some of you introverts come across as a little snobby. I don't think you are. I've learned that you're not. My wife is an introvert. I don't think she's snobby at all. I'm now like, you know, as you grow and mature, you you learn to be friendly even though you're not even though you're an introvert. And and and you learn to quiet down even though you're an extrovert a little bit. Okay. But but uh you could sort of these kinds of things you you sort of you don't take the first impression, say, well that's who that person is. No, if there is agreement and unity in the gospel, we need to take, we need to ign we need to those bat those what what could be what are boundaries that could be barriers, we need to Way look past them in love. We need to just pass all of them and say, no, I'm going to love that person. I'm going to accept that person. I'm going to reach out to that person. Despite maybe we would clash on other issues, or maybe we would just clash in our own personalities. And so that's important to understand. Um, boundaries and cultural backgrounds. Okay. Um I I I mean we're l w those of us who live in have lived in Maryland for a long time, it's kind of a melting pot of the melting pot. I mean we definitely have all kinds of people. I think it's great. And uh and we need to to understand though that when you have cultural backgrounds from a different pla from a different place in the country that's possible, but even more so from different countries, and I think um Tony mentioned this. You have different ways of thinking. And we need not to assume that we're just going to clash because of different ways of thinking. No, if we all if we agree on the gospel, that becomes our ba our basis of our unity. And so that's very that's important. Any other thoughts on these on these that you you can think of Yes. I think another founder could be like the family dynamic. Good. People with younger kids can gravitate to each other. Good local motors in the gravitate. Mm-hmm. Yeah, just generally yeah, that's a very good point. And so sometimes you think of and that's kind of the age, but more specifically uh family dynamic you send it you tend to say well I can have a play date for with this person. By the way, is that wrong No, it's not wrong at all. None of having things in common with other people. I like sports, this other person likes sports, come over, watch the game. Sure. Nothing wrong with these things. But when they become barriers, when we s I start saying, well, I don't want to get together with that person because he doesn't like sports, or I don't really want to develop a relationship with this person. because they don't think the same way I do or they don't have the same um they that their their kids are old and my kids are younger or whatever, those kinds of things. Um those things are are definitely or I they don't have kids at all. I mean whatever it is Um those kinds of things we do need to be very careful. That's good. I think a family dynamic also could be ones where you have a single parent household. Okay, good. Good. That's always subductive with the one Yeah, are we a church where someone who is a single parent would not be comfortable? We we need to be careful we're not. Now we don't have a lot of single parents in our church. And we're we're thankful for ma good marriage marriages. But at the same time, yeah, we do have to be we have to real realize that. I think it's a very good point. I think it's That's good. Any others? Other thoughts on this? Um this can this can really and I'm gonna this can delve into pr even opinions about things. Um what opinions I see oh I see a lot of opinions on Facebook. Okay, we all like to give our opinions on Facebook behind the screen. So what opinions is it okay to have opinions? Well sure it is. Do they ever become I don't think so. Um does it ever become could it ever become a barrier to how establishing love and a loving relationship with a brother or sister in Christ? So what kind of opinions? You guys got a medal for me here. I don't want to meddle. You guys do it. Yeah. Okay. Just the like or dislike of the person. I just don't like him. Okay. What else? Football teams are pretty important. No Yeah. Pittsburgh. Yeah. Actually we've got more Pittsburgh people back there. No one uh they're they're Steelers fans on the back. Pat you can get to know them a little bit. But not only them, because we all like we all love the gospel. Okay, so anyway. All right. Uh others. Any other any other thoughts? Yes, Miranda. Um I think especially with moms, is there a lot of parenting issues with minor differences Yeah, good. Do moms have opinions? I was just eavesdropping on a conversation this morning. Um and uh it wasn't any but you know it was like salads versus not salads or something. Right. I won't mention their names, but it was Laurelyn and Melody. Anyway. Um and uh you you you know you know Uh anyway, you know uh you you know I love you guys. Anyway, so so I mean there wasn't anything they weren't like fighting or anything, uh don't worry, but but but it was sort of this This discussion about how difficult it is to eat salad, I guess, sort of. So that was an easy, simple discussion. Okay. But sometimes you get a little more personal about things. You know, I I gotta be honest with you. Sometimes people said things to be at me about raising my kids. I'm like Who do you think you are? I mean that's the first thought. And then I have to really it takes a lot of love to go, you know what? Maybe they just really love me. And their will and you know faithful are the wounds of a friend, deceitful are the kisses of an enemy. If I'm not doing a great job with my kids, maybe they shouldn't deceitfully tell me I am And so maybe somebody would actually come to me and say, Oh, you know what? Have you realized that your kid is you you need to you you're not handling that right? Now maybe we disagree. Maybe I say, you know what, I think I am handling that right. Is it a problem? Yeah, I think so. I think with your opinions that hits on two cultural and foundation. It does. Because you get married, well you you come from a different place. You're a different generation and you raise us differently. So we have that whole discussion of whether you know one is more strict and it's It it di it's unbelievable the amount of things that you get into when you get into the issue of how how kids raise their how kids raise their parents. Sometimes I think that's what's going on, but anyway, how how parents raise their kids. Um you know, there is a lot of opinions about this. And a lot of it's rather theoretical. You get kids and it doesn't it's a little different when you actually have them. And so there's there's all kinds of issues in that. And so and I think it happens also where you you know your sense of identity to some degree is in being a father or or particularly being a mother when you're with them all day long every day and that's your like your main job. And and you can sort of have a sense of identity. Well if you disagree with somebody else in various ways about how you raise your kids It that could be a real barrier to the got to to establishing a loving relationship in the gospel. It takes a lot of love for somebody it takes love both ways. It takes a lot of love for somebody to come to you and say, Hey, have you realized that perhaps This is an area of raising your kids that maybe would be an area that you could work on. It takes a lot of love to receive that as well. And so um and so we we we need to be careful about and some of this is subconscious. Some of this is I would never consciously say, I don't like that person. Or I don't want to be around that person. I don't want to do anything. Sometimes it's totally subconscious and it's just like it becomes disinterest. It's like I'm just uh not really interested. Or or becomes uh those kinds of things. And we we we do we have to be very careful about things. You can have different opinions on this stuff. You got this whole This whole crunchy movement out there? Somebody tell me what that means. Crunchy. What is crunchy? Put Doritos on it. I don't think that's uh that's the literal crunchy. Actually I think crunchy people don't like Doritos, right? Yeah? Okay. It would be like all natural, use a lot of supplements. Organic, you know, tree hudder. Oh, we went to political now. No. Anyway, so okay. So then you have other people, you know. Um Look, that stuff, that's opinions. You can have your opinion. I can have my opinion. We can both be right or we can both be wrong or we can both it doesn't really matter. We that's not a big thing. The gospel is the big thing. That's the unity And we ought not get number one, we ought not get offended if somebody disagrees with us on that kind of stuff. And we also ought not get uh and we also not ought not We just need to love each other with this kind of stuff. And so that's very all all these things are very important. We've got to see the gospel as so massive and so powerful that it overcomes any other barrier If we agree in Christ, if we believe the same way, all those other barriers are to be taken down. Okay? The problem comes in when we're not living by the gospel You it in order for two people who have different backgrounds, different opinions, and different approaches to things to be able to live to to to dwell together, I don't mean live together, I just mean in order to be able to to get to know each other and love each other You've got to both be living according to the gospel. If one is not living according to the gospel, maybe they're saved, maybe they know the Lord, but they have hatred in their hearts Or they have jealousy in their hearts, or or those kinds of things in their hearts, it will become a barrier to live it to to relating to somebody else who has different approach different approach than you do on this. It does. So what happens is that you can't tell Tell me how I or what I should or what you think because I'm here. I'm you know I've already attained or I you know it's this idea that I'm right here wrong. And so I think when that happens in our life You're not interested in growing, you're interested in your own will, your own desire, your own movement. And so really in in effect counteracts the gospel, the grace of the of God in our lives, and how we should invite critiquing or invite accountability really sort of boils down to I was just having this discussion with my wife. Too often the body, the believers, they don't want to say things that may be challenging because they're afraid. They might hinder a relationship. Let's use the problem. Because it's not just the problem of not wanting to say, it's the problem of that person not wanting to accept or hear to grow and to challenge each other as we should in the war. Yeah. Yeah. Good. I think you're also being surrendered. In fact, the more I know, the more I realize that that's true. And so you come from that place like I don't really God's really Yeah, other than the grace of God. And so when you approach life from that, and if both people, I don't care where you're coming from, if you approach the God first, then go do something to my life and teach me something 'cause this Very good. That's extremely important reminders for all of us uh in the body of Christ. Maybe even especially me. If we seek boundary crossing love that perplexes the world around us, he says, Then some types of diversity will often speak louder than others. A church in the suburbs of Boston comes to mind Everyone might have similar skin color, but the congregation sits at the at the intersection of four towns with dramatically different class identities. So when a former addict from Weymouth spends nights and weekends spending speaking truth into the marriage of a Hingman banking executive, something is happening that perplexes the surrounding world. Um he then goes into impediments to uh uh impediments to this community. He says minus number one and he says number one impediment is ministry by similarity. What he means by this is that sometimes churches make the mistake of of trying to cause people to come together. and find commonalities by their similarities rather than the gospel, which is the centralizing, unifying similarity. For example, some some people, some churches are really big into age segregation. And so everything is is is based upon, okay, well you're in the twenties group, you're in the thirties group, you're in the fifties group. Okay, and everything is age segregated. Now, some of that's not wrong for the sake of education for kids, for example, because there are different levels, it just makes good common sense. But when it comes to adults particularly, you do have to to to continue that is sort of like, okay, well let's let's have some ministry by similarity The problem with that is that you you you really violate a what scripture what scripture says that the older to teach the younger to love the Lord and And to be faithful to him. And you have so and just generally then it's not based on the gospel. It's based upon some similarity. You'll see that the same thing where you've got the just different things that ministry people churches do to provide ministries based upon similarity. And um I don't think all of it's wrong, you know, if you want a a biker group in the church or something like biker ministry in the church, that's okay. I don't mean biker in a negative sense. I just mean bunch of people that get together and um m ride motorcycles or mountain bike or something. I mean that's fine. I mean I don't think there's anything wrong with that, but if that becomes your main focus, if that becomes something All the bikers they get together over here, all the people that like the Orioles are over here, all the people like the I mean, you you y you want to be really careful about that. Consumerism, trying to attract people through well we have this program or we have that program. You all know quite a bit about that. I try to cover that quite a bit in um our membership classes, although it has been a little while for most of you. Um invisibility by majority culture. Uh invisibility and he says basically sometimes what happens is that you have Uh the majority saying something so that somebody who has an opposing opinion doesn't even con you don't even consider it. And um I mean uh you do have to sort of go with what the majority with major decisions, but you should consider the person who's maybe not not not with the majority. Don Carson tells us this. He says, listen to this, this is striking. You will This was striking. He says ideally the church itself is not made up of natural friends. It is made up of natural enemies. That binds us what binds us together is not common education, common race, common income levels, common political politics. common ancestry, common accents, common jobs, or anything else of that sort, it is uh this is light In this light, they are a band of natural enemies who what? Love one another for Jesus' sake. That's quite striking, isn't it? Have you ever thought of it that way? Well, I go to that church because all my friends go to that church. Well, w wh what? Um now if you love people they'll become your friends. So I mean it's not if you love people in Christ it's not as though you know your enemies will become friends essentially. I remember I don't know who said this, but basically somebody I think it was it may have been Actually it may have been John Calvin, but somebody said uh uh the reason that Christ said love your enemies and love your friends is sometimes the same people. Or usually they're saying they're the same people. So I don't think he's saying that you shouldn't have friends at the church, but but you're not there just because you have these in common friendships, I think is his point. Looking at just Christ's twelve disciples. Yeah. And Matthew the fact that collector. Great, great example. Very good. And yet they somehow well were they why they get to get along? Because they were all focused on Christ. They were following him. Good. How can we foster this kind of unity? That's really the question then at this point, and we probably gonna have to save this discussion uh for another time. Um Yeah, so we're done here I guess. Any other final thoughts or questions about this? Alright, something to think about, right? This is c a little convicting, isn't it? I mean honestly, if you really read this stuff you go, wow. That's a little convicting. I I don't know if I really want to like everybody. In fact, I don't think I do, which means I gotta love them. That's gonna take some work. In fact, it's gonna take what It's gonna have to take supernatural working in our lives. We we won't accomplish this. If you have if you don't like somebody It's going to take God working in your life to teach that you to love them. And um and that is it's really important for our spiritual growth as individuals because The two greatest commandments are what? Love God and love your neighbor as yourself. And so this takes work. But also it takes supernatural intervention. It takes his working in our lives to bring us to this point. And when God does that, we then are able to see his working in our lives for us to be able to get along with people we really wouldn't otherwise get along with. When God does that, we begin to love him, we begin to to see him working, we begin to grow in Christ. And uh it's very important for us to learn to do that. All right, let's go ahead and go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we thank you, Lord, just during that that for this lesson that is clearly application from your word. We pray that you would help us in our lives to be careful about barriers of dissimilarity. that would keep us from loving and developing r uh uh intentional discipleship relationships with others in the body I pray, Lord, that rather we would see you supernaturally work in our lives so that the people that would most we would have most most dissimilarity with might we might have the most beneficial relationships with uh potentially because it's so centered on on Christ and the gospel And so teach us what this means and how to apply this to our lives. Help us to see your working. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. All right, you're dismissed. Good. Is it a cigar spell right? Nope.