And we are looking tonight, we're finally starting marriage on a marriage and family class. Eventually we needed to get to marriage. My wife said, are we going to do singleness again tonight? And I said, no, we are going to do marriage tonight. We are going to talk about marriage tonight. And so we are going to jump right into this And I want to begin by asking the question, what are some common reasons that people get married? Let's just ask that question. It could be right, wrong, or otherwise, but what are some common reasons that you've heard That people get married? Because they're told to. Okay. They're told to. So that would be like an arranged marriage. Okay. Kind of yet. Okay All right. That's an interesting way to start off. Yes, Joe. Because they love each other. Okay, they love each other. That was a little bit more along the lines I was thinking. Thank you, Joe, for bringing the conversation back to something. Normal. Okay. Uh they love each other. What else? Actually that's my first one on here, sort of. They fall in love. Okay, what else? Alright, they want to have a family? That might be number two, no. This is I have mutually beneficial arrangement. Okay. That's okay. I want kids, there's Lisa's, I want kids. What else? Don't want to be alone, okay I don't have that on here. Okay. What else? Okay. Cultural ex cultural acceptable. How about this? Have you seen this one? He or she is my soulmate. Have you seen that's all over Facebook? I uh I don't know. Well it depends if you want it to be or not. But uh I guess uh it's all pretty subjective when you're getting the Okay. Alright. So these are some of the reasons that people might suggest that uh they're getting married or they want to get married. When I do premarital counseling, the first question out of the out out of the gate I ask is why are you getting married? And it is interesting to hear what people come up with. Um let's talk about this for a minute. So if somebody says they fall in love What does that mean? All right, let's let's pause and say, can we agree that fall in love does not mean agape love? Can we agree with that? Okay, so we're not talking about agape New Testament kind of love here. What does it mean to fall in love? Okay, in fatuation. Brain chemicals. Okay. Romantic attraction. Okay. So what you're really saying, if you say I I have fallen in love, you're saying that I am I am physically and romantically attracted to the other person, right? Is that is that accurate? Lisa's not sure. She's like, I don't know. There might be more. Oh, okay. At least that, right? Okay? I'm just trying to establish a baseline. Is that is that okay? All right. So when someone says that I am physically and romantically attracted to the person. When they say that, what are they saying? And I'll give you the answer because you because you don't know what's in my head, so I'll tell you. Okay. They're saying that person can meet my needs. My emotional needs or my wants. One of the two. That person why am I getting married? Because that person can meet my emotional or physical or both or other things as well. That person I feel can meet my needs. That's essentially what they're saying. Yes? If you say we then that means me each other. Okay, the the other staff can meet my needs. Now what's the problem with that premise? You're going in right, you're going into the marriage saying, this is for me. This is what I am what's the word? This is I'm going in the marriage and I'm uh this is my what? My expectation. I'm expecting this. And a lot of times you go into marriage that way. I've fallen in love. I think that person can meet my needs. That's why I'm getting married. There Somebody will be married 15 years afterwards, they'll come to me and I'll say, Why'd you get married in the first place? They'll say, Well, we were in love. And I'm basically saying, so you thought they could meet all your needs and they didn't, right? And they'll say, Yes, that's true and I'll say to them, Well you better come up with a different reason, shouldn't you? Right? Okay. Alright. So fall in love, mutually beneficial arrangement. I want kids He or she's my soulmate, which is so subjective. It's not funny. Okay. So all of those things, are there anything wrong with these things? Is it possible that somebody I mean do people fall in love Sure. Are they infatuated? Sure. Is all of that wrong? Not necessarily. Okay. But what's the real problem here? Yeah. Is this a are any of these good reasons to get married? None of these are good reasons to get married. There's got to be something more. So when you get in the marriage, then you have these kinds of temptations. Let's talk about this a little bit. What uh we'll call them marriage-centered temptations. You want to put something in the center of your marriage that shouldn't be there. How about this one? This is the most common. Self. Okay, well if I'm going into marriage saying that person can meet my needs, then and I'm expecting certain things from that person. And you know, we're reasonable people, so we sort of say, yeah, I can give some things too, but Uh you know, I think I can meet their needs too. Uh but but I'm still going in and I'm kind of at the top and I and I uh you know I'm and I and I end up going into a marriage and it's and I'm self-centered Is that a possibility? What's gonna happen if somebody is self-centered in their marriage? Disappointment. Okay. Disappointment is gonna be the result. Always, eventually. If you're always eventually, yes. I mean obviously if the question decrees everyone's time to self-centered. Sure. Okay. I have an answer for that, but I'll I'll I'll get to it. Yeah. Um and and you don't want to have your marriage be centered on self. Okay. That's going to make okay so disappointment will be the result of a marriage that's centered on self. Okay. Um the next one is child centered. What's the problem with that? Does this happen? All of the time. Yeah. That's one major problem. The kids grow up and you don't have any reason to get married uh stay married anymore. Okay. Alright. What's the other what's another problem with child centered Yeah, they start thinking they're the center of everything. Okay, and you have instead of realizing that they're not the center of everything, they start thinking they are the center of everything, and then they grow up. And they, you know, they don't want to leave and things like that. Okay? Yeah. You're funny. I bought your house from you. All right. What's that? Yeah, I'm a home. Anyway. Okay. We'll move on to the next one. Spouse centered. What's the problem with spouse? If you are centered on your spouse, what's the problem? It's annoying. Uh what is the problem if you're centered on your stuff? Yes, Randall. You're still not gonna be able to fully mean. Okay, when you disappoint yourself, what do you call that? Frustration. Okay. Okay, that's the word for it. Okay. So self centered, you're gonna be disappointed. Child centered, you're gonna mess up your kids. Spo uh spouse center centered, you're gonna do what? Yeah, you're gonna be frustrated. You're going to feel frustration. None of these are going to work to have the center at our marriage. We cannot have it this way. Now, what I want us to do then is to so so the so what's the answer? Who should be at the center? Yeah, God should be at the center. Christ. But Jeff brought up a pretty good point. All of us to some degree or another are kind of And we want to fulfill our needs. How is it that how do we deal with that? I love this statement, and I was going to put it later on, but I wanted to put it earlier on because I want to make sure we got to it This is by Timothy Keller, by the way. Excellent book. I love this book on marriage called The Meaning of Marriage by Timothy Keller. You want an excellent book on marriage? Look up it's he and his wife wrote it together. It's an excellent book on marriage, the meaning of marriage by Timothy Keller. He says this, we should rightly object to the binary choice that both traditional and contemporary marriage seem to give us. It's the purpose of do you follow what I'm saying when he says binary, you've got he said that you only have one or two options. Either traditional or contemporary. And you'll see what these mean in a minute when we finish. Is the purpose of marriage to deny your interests? for the good of the family, or is it rather to assert your interests for the fulfillment of yourself? Okay, so he's setting up a two options. Is it one or the other? Answer. The Christian teaching does not offer a choice between fulfillment and sacrifice. Catch this. But rather mutual fulfillment through sacrifice. Jesus gave himself up. This is the gospel. Jesus gave himself up. He died to himself to save us and make us his. Now we give ourselves up to die to ourselves, first when we repent and believe the gospel, and later as we submit to his will day by day. So if you're living the gospel, you are constantly giving of yourself, and the more you give of yourself to God, the more you receive. The more you sacrifice, the more you're fulfilled. You're sacrificing the right biblical way. And then you take that and you apply it to your marriage. You go into marriage and you say, I'm going to give rather than receive. I am going to sacrifice, knowing that the most fulfilled I can be in my marriage is when both when both people are going in to sacrifice, to give. then you end up being in a very fulfilled position. It's going to be fulfilling. May not be fulfilling in all the way you w way ways you want it to. In fact, it probably won't, but it will be fulfilled fulfilling the way God intends it to be. And it and what God intends is always better than what we think or what we want. Does that make sense? I think this is so absolutely crucial to understanding how God is to be the center of our marriage and how the gospel is supposed to be the center of our marriage, and how We're supposed to live out the gospel both in our lives as Christians, but also in our marriage. And by the way, that's not my idea, is it Think of Ephesians chapter 5. What does it say? That marriage, the husband and wife relationship is an illustration of what? Remember? Good. Christ and the church. Okay? So it's an illustration of that. So these things are so important to understand. The hard times, this is what he says here, the hard times of marriage drive us to experience more of the transforming love of God. If the gospel is my focus, then the hard times of my marriage Drive me to the transforming love of God. In other words, when you go through difficult times of your marriage, God is still there and loves you, and you can know his love. But a good marriage will also be a place where we experience more of the kind of transforming love at the human level. In other words, if we're living in a good marriage, a Christian, godly marriage, then we will also experience God's tangible love as well. It's it's essentially a win-win. Why? Because we're dependent upon who? We're not dependent on self. We're not dependent upon the other s the the other spouse. We're dependent on who? When we become when when we have a God-dependent marriage and we live out that marriage as a God-dependent marriage, Then we're going to have the kind of marriage God wants us to have. And ultimately, it's never self-gratifying immediate. That's the way life is. I'll give you self-gratification, and then later on come consequences. It's the exact uh exact opposite in in God's economy. We sacrifice in the beginning. We don't have immediate gratification always. And then we have future we have future reward and fulfillment. So let's ask this question Why do we have godless marriages? Even in Christian, is it possible as a Christian, as two a couple, both are safe, is it possible to have a godless marriage? And I would argue that it is possible. So why does this happen? Well, one is our spiritual immaturity. In 1 Corinthians chapter 3, it explains this. It says, I brethren, could not speak to you as to spiritual people, but as to carnal, as to babes in Christ. I fed you with milk and not with solid food, for unto you uh until now you were not able to receive it. And even now you are still not able, for you are Still carnal. He says carnal means fleshly. You're still following after your flesh. For where there are envy, strife, divisions among you, are you not carnal and behave like mere men? Let me illustrate this in marriage, how this works in marriage. This is a little story I did not come up with myself because I'm not that creative. Here we go. Um this is uh this is a story between uh uh uh uh um in a marriage between J Jack and Jill. I did come up with a name. Okay. Which is why I'm not that creative. Okay. So Jill um They're talking about fine they have a disagreement about finances. Jill says, Do we need to think uh She says, do we need to think through what to do with our money? We've got a lot more than expected this year. Jack, that's a good question. We can contact a financial advisor at my job and see if he has any advice But it costs money to see this guy, Jill. But the money has been sitting in our account for a while. We need to do something. Jack, I know, I know. We'll go to to do something about it, but I don't want to rush Don't you trust me? We ag we agreed that I'll handle the finances. Jill, honey, I trust you, but you're not all that proactive when it comes to investments. Jack, in a sarcastic tone. Well I could name a few areas that you are not proactive that is hurting us. Jill. Stop it, Jack. That was me Jack, well it's true. Jill starts to cry, Jack's storms off, end of discussion. Okay. Is that all that unrealistic Yeah. No, it's actually probably very realistic realistic. But the real issue here is not finances. That becomes a very common thing to talk about in marriage. and a m and a common uh source of or uh source of conflict. But the real issue in this marriage is they're n they don't have God at the center They're not really thinking in terms of you say, well what does that matter? And this they're talking about investments. What is that it all matters. God needs to be in the center of everything. If somebody would have stopped and asked in this in this scenario and asked the question, what does God want us to do? What about what would be pleasing to the Lord? I mean just think about how that would change. There wouldn't be an accusation going back and forth, well, you're not proactive, well, you're not proactive. No, that's not pleasing to God. If one spouse said to the other, what do you think would please the Lord and the other one wanted to please the Lord? I mean, we now have God in the center of things So the real issue, there are other issues here, they obviously need to deal with their finances, but but there are other issues but the main issue is that God is not at the center of things. And why? Because If they don't know if they know the Lord, it's because of their immaturity. See that verse 3? Where there are men there are envy and strife and divisions, you know, Jack and Jill, they're going back and forth and they're button heads. You are carnal and have and have been behaving like mere men. You're not behaving right. And that is because you are following after the flesh, you're not following after the spirit. So that an immature Christian will end up being someone who is who is going to not be f not have a God centered marriage if they're not careful. Something they really have to work on. Yes, Signus. In what you said, couldn't the exact same argument still occur Person, even if Jack and Jill spoke and said, What's gonna please the Lord? And I said, Well let's make sure we've tied the way we're accordingly and done all that, now we should have invested properly so that we were planning planning, you know, and using it wisely, they might still come to the same conclusion that investing is the right decision. They still have the same argument on who's gonna handle it and how when are they gonna take care of the situation Uh okay. Where's Elizabeth? Come on up here. Oh sorry. Okay. Okay, so we're gonna do a little role playing here. Okay. All right. And I'm gonna have you be the immature person. So Meaning meaning meaning you can you can come at me and accuse me and those kinds of things and tell me tell me I'm wrong on the line of how I'm handling things. And I'm going to try to respond in a way that believe me, my my my role is harder, so that's why I'm giving you this one. Anyway, and I'm going to try to respond in a way. So we're going to talk about finances. Your concern because we talk about finances all the time, like every week twice or three times a week. We talked about finances we texted about finances a day, didn't we? Anyway, okay. Did you drop in different tables tonight? She is looking We did. She was looking at me like why did you call me up here? Okay. We don't really need this because I'm already in in enough trouble. Anyway. Okay. So um Well let's uh let's assume I needed to do something with the finances, I've been I've not been proactive, and you're getting after me for that because that is a quite possible scenario. Think about it. Like why haven't we called our investment company and figured out our password so we can change our Well I've been really busy, honey, but you know what? You're right. I I need to do that. Oh great. Oh that was easy. Yes, please remind me because I I I need to be reminded of these things because I'm not that bright. So would you please um text me and remind me at three o'clock tomorrow? Sure. Okay. Not that hard. Why was that wh how how did I resp what was it that I responded? What was it about how I responded that that would have been the right way to respond? It's humility. Okay. Now I could have said, what in the world? I do a lot around here. I don't have time for this. And believe me, I have responded similar to that. Okay. Okay. All right. But a godly response where I want to please the Lord is going to cause me to respond that way. I mean if in this particular scenario, you're going to have that kind uh so Jill is going to, okay, we need to do something about the finances. If Jill is if Jill really wants to please the Lord, she's not going to say, you know, you haven't been proactive about the finances. What's she going to say? Hey, do you think it would be good stewardship for us to us to uh consider uh consider doing something with our finances. Uh do you think the Lord would be pleased if we do something with that? It's not about what I want or what I think it's best about And if and if Jack is pleasing the Lord, he's going to say, you know, honey, that's a good point. I've I've not been quite uh as proactive as I should. It's going to be a totally different conversation. You might uh disagree on certain things when it comes to the finances At the end of the day, if you can't agree, and by the way, most of the time Lizards and I don't have a problem agreeing on what to do with our finances, usually Okay. Um but but if you can c if you come into conflict and it's not a you're not violating anything scripturally, okay, and you can't figure out what to do with the finances between a husband and wife, what's the answer? The husband has to leave the house. Okay. So if you can't figure it out, then the then the husband's got to be the one to make the decision. Okay. And he's also responsible to the Lord for the decision he makes. Now I'm not at all yeah, you sit down. Um now I'm not at all suggesting that uh I'm not at all I'm not at all suggesting that it it it's something that um Uh you should just it I'm not saying men should be re unilateral because you shouldn't. You know, I bought a minivan, I'll remind everybody, okay? I want to wear that one out. Anyway, but but it really is something that um that ultimately if you can't come to it it's like my dad used to say growing up. He had fifty one percent of the vote So it's not like someone's down here and someone's up here. It's just at the end of the day I I I gotta I gotta make the decision. Someone's gotta be the buckstopper for the side. Yeah. And and and God set that up for humanity. person is in sin and that's why they're not doing the right thing. Then you pray for them. You just let them well you i if you can humbly and confront them, then that's certainly acceptable to do that. And um once you confronted them and they're aware of it, then you've got to let God deal with it. It's it's out of I mean, you could also it depends on what else is going on, you could you could go uh to your pastor, okay, or something, and and th that's fine too. Um or but um that would be the what you would do next. But um in many cases you're just gonna pray and let let God deal with them. And that takes a lot of trust in the Lord. Okay. So our spiritual maturity oftentimes is why God is not the sinner. So something else. Our bel our unbelief and our selfishness So we just sort of w let into that. Why is it that often we want to take things into our own hands and we gotta deal with it ourselves and we gotta handle it ourselves? Why? Yeah, it's pride, and I'm not trusting God. I've got to depend upon myself rather than trusting God. And a lot of that has to do with it. Warning to Christians about being uh sometimes it's because there really is y maybe you don't really know the Lord. I just throw that that that's a possibility. And sometimes it's almost like you're giving in to m momentary atheism, or you really do not factor God at all. And for a Christian, that really should not be How we live, how we act, how we decide, those kinds of things. We we we should always be conscious of of God and what and and what what would please him. Jeff, did you have something? No, you have to be careful though about being too differential and not doing anything. Sure. And what uh can you give me a example? Uh trusting God to fix it. Yeah, the particular scenario where you you you fo find that your spouse is in sin, you've confronted them, you can I mean that's a m Matthew eighteen thing, you take the you go you take somebody else and you confront them that way. I mean so you would take you would go down that road depending on, you know, perhaps what it is. But what I don't want to do is try to so I don't want to sin in the process of trying to fix somebody else's sin. That's what I don't want to do. Um in fact the Bible says it's interesting, scripture says, answer not a fool Answer a fool according to a f according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own conceit. So if if we want, uh the the risk is they'll be wise in their own conceit if we don't answer them. Answer not a fool according to his folly less we be like him. So we have a if if if we if we answer a fool according to our folly, but a fool is follow according to his folly we have this risk of actually becoming part of the problem or we're like him rather than and so it is a balance. There's there is something there but oftentimes there's often times where we could we need to sit back and trust the Lord and wait on him. and pray and ask God to do what we can't do. Um so oftentimes that's the case with people. Can you shut that door death, please? Uh make sure there's somebody not like somebody's not dying, but and then shut the door. Anyway. Okay. Um Alright. So what does it look like? Let's kind of go through this. What does it look like for a husband to actively Actually I think I had some verses to look at with this Um Okay, so Hebrews, for example, says this. Hebrews three twelve says, Beware, brethren, lest there be any of you uh um An evil heart of unbelief and departing from the living God. So why do we depart from God? Why do we not think about God? What He wants is because of unbelief But exhort one another daily while it is called today, lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin. For we have become partakers of Christ if we hold the beginning of our competence instead to the end. Uh instead fast to the end. Alright, so all right, here's one one example. I know I am to sacrifice for my wife like Christ sacrificed his life for the church, but I choose not to do it. Rather than serve her, I rather fulfill my own comfort and desires. So that's the example of someone who a husband who is actively uh living in unbelief in his marriage. This is what this looks like. Um, I know I'm to engage my wife emotionally, but it's easier to avoid the hard stuff and to stay superficial. Okay. I'm not willing to engage my wife. I'm not willing willing to um dwell with my wife according to knowledge. I just it's just easier not to. Um another one I know what I want out of our marriage and out of life, so I control my wife. I tell her what to do and how to do it. I don't want God to be in charge. I want to be in charge. Okay. That would be another very overt example of this. I know I'm to confess my sins of my wife and be humble, but my pride prevents me from doing so. This is a big one. Only by pride comes contention, Scripture says. Did you know that We can't have contention without pride. So so so I I instead of humbly confessing when I've sinned against my wife, I I Uh my pride prevents me from doing that. There is a sense in which all sin finds its root in pride. But Scripture says only by pride comes contention. Um so I think depending on how you define contention, the way you'd have to c define it scripturally is that it would have to have its root in pride. Otherwise it's not really contention biblically. Um but the point is simply that that when we are contentious with each other I mean if somebody is okay, so let's let's let's take a scenario of let you use lawfulness. So let's say one spouse is being lazy and the other pro the other one is upset about that Okay. If a person says, look, honey, uh either one, doesn't matter, honey, I feel like you are You are not showing diligence. Anything wrong with that, by the way? There's nothing wrong with confronting your house your spouse on that. Okay? If you're doing it in a loving, humble manner. They say I don't care. Um did I say Sierra? I didn't say Shear. Anyway. They say, I don't care. That's kind of freaking me out. Okay. Um So so now I've totally lost my train of thought. What was that saying? Yeah yeah yeah yeah slothers. Okay. Alright. So then then what what is So you go to the person, you're humbly confront them, and they respond by saying, What? Oh you're so perfect. Oh you're so perfect? That's pride. So now you're gonna have contention. They respond by what? Not getting better. By not getting better. If they respond by not getting better, which is not responding, but um uh that's passively responding or something. Okay, if they don't get better, that's not contention. It's problems, but it's not contention. I mean if if somebody s confronts and then they just walk away. Now if the person confronts, the person doesn't get better and the person says, Well, why won't you do what I'm telling you to do? Well then there's pride. I mean I I think any either way you look at it, you're gonna end up with pride somewhere Um there might be more creative ways to motivate besides pride that wouldn't cause contention. But anyway, I think on most cases on one side or another you're gonna have pride. I think perhaps that's the issue you're It's one side or the other. It's not both you can have contention on one side, uh pride on one side and have contention. Yeah, I think that's certainly certainly possible. But there's gonna be it somewhere. Okay, wives, uh what do they what is their act of unbelief? Here's what it looks like. I know that I'm more confident than my husband. Rather than following his leadership, I'd rather take control of the situation Okay. Not belief, it's not trusting God. Do that. Okay. Yes. Is the surprise situation? Say you have something uh Um I think of an example. Say you have a a husband or a wife that is very content at their job. They like their job, they enjoy it. Maybe they don't make as much money as their spouse would like or whatever. and they say to them, Hey, why don't you try to get this promotion or something? You want to please the other person in your marriage, but at the same time maybe you are very content where you are and so you don't have you know you you feel you're very content, you don't feel the need of God's providing all your needs, you don't feel the need for something. So maybe something like that happens, then how would that it's not necessarily content But is anybody wrong in the fact that the w you know, maybe the wife or the husband, whoever has the job that they enjoy is content at it, but maybe the other person Yeah. Yeah, I I'd have to know more details about that. But but with this particular I can make up more details. Yeah, yeah. A wife is saying, I'm more confident than my husband, and then he she won't follow his leadership because she thinks she's more confident. So that's a that's a little bit different than what you're saying. I mean a lot different actually. Oh the previous one. Oh the previous one. Yeah, so it all depends on, you know, for a spouse to say, hey, have you considered taking a promotion, that's not pride. If a if a if a spouse says, you know, you better take this promo promotion or you're worthless, that's pride. I mean, it all depends on how it's be you know what's being said and and how it's being said. Um so that's one uh uh that's that's a good question though. That was previous is what you're talking about though. Okay. Um I'm yes. That's the end of that. Yeah. On either side can uh the spell uh the husband or the wife can take control just to avoid something. in a situation just to avoid the conflicts. For example, and this is just uh making tough. Uh husband that or a wife that doesn't get up in the morning to give their children are really good to anything. Um so the other one gets up and start you know making lunches, they can make ready and you know it's like it's the other one's a job, but I But you know the ones who decided to take care of that is just because we ask asked about this and if it Sure. Let me let me illustrate some I'll I'll I'll I'll give you another one. And uh you may not like how I how I answered this person. This is not in our church, you won't ever be able to know who this is, not in the state. Anyway, okay. So This looks a real situation, but it's really you're not gonna be able to figure it out. Okay, so she came to me and here was the scenario. The guy, the husband was um there were they were probably in their sixties. The husband had uh got laid off was intending to get another job, but instead he started pulling money from his 401k and didn't. Okay, just didn't get a job. Just kind of s didn't, basically. And I was she came to me and she was really upset about it. And it had been, you know, maybe a couple years actually I think that this had gone had gone on. And he was staying at home I mean they were doing fine because he was pulling from his 401k. They didn't have financial problems. She was working outside. She was working full-time. She was upset because she was having to take care take care of it. They had no all their kids were grown, so that wasn't an issue She was she was um trying to take care of things and he wasn't but uh she was upset she came to me she was upset And she was actually bitter. She was a it was really I mean obvious I actually was concerned because she was so bitter about the situation. I said, well I I gotta s I gotta be honest with you, your being bitter about it isn't gonna help In fact, the Bible says if you're bitter about it, it's going to defile many, Scripture says in Hebrews 13. So we've got to figure out, you've got to realize when you're getting bitter, and you can't be bitter toward your spouse. Very likely the spouse, by the way, didn't know the Lord, but it's not conclusive. She I said that she was still frustrated, she didn't know what to do, and I said to her, I said this, I said, look, Are you saying that he is not providing for you? She said, Yeah, basically saying that. I saying and you're you're providing for him. She said, Yeah, I'm basically saying that. I said, um, do you feel like you have to provide for him? No, I shouldn't be providing for him. I said, what would happen if you I said you have two choices here. You quit your job, then he has to work. Or you keep your job and you don't be bitter. It's your choice. It's really that simple. Because bitterness is not a good job, not uh bitterness is not not uh an option Biblically. It's not an option biblically, it'll destroy your marriage, it'll destroy yourself, it'll destroy everything. So bitterness isn't a good option here. So So you either and and she s I said I said so you you you would you could just you could quit your job and it would probably put him in a place where he would have to get a job. And if it doesn't, then you've got to figure out what to do Or you don't quit your job at all and you just and and you just be content with the situation that you're in. It's really not the worst situation in the world I mean it's not like he's being you know it's not so he's not being abusive, there's not you know there's a lot of war situations, believe me. And she came to be you know what sh so what do you think she decided to do How many of you think she quit her job? Was she a Christian? Yes. How many of you think that she didn't quit her job? Okay. Okay. She came back to me about two weeks later. She said, you know what, Pastor Jim, I really appreciate you bringing it putting it back in those terms. She said, I really consider quitting my job and I realized I'd rather just work my job and not be bitter and let God deal with it. And his time and his way. And after that, she was pretty much content to do what to do what she was doing and to be content in the situation that she was in. It was not a horrible situation. Should he have gotten a job? Yes. Should I mean why? No, as far as I know. But at the same time, what's the issue here? Well, you've got to trust the Lord. Part of the problem was she's just so frustrated and all that Okay. So is life not perfect? Life isn't perfect. Marriages aren't perfect. Not this side of heaven. And so you have to look at the situation, you have to say, okay, Paul said, whatever state I'm in, I've learned to be content. Okay, I'm not in dire straits. My kids aren't suffering. What what what do I do? Well, you just choose to be content. Or You have another option. And so so but you've got to look at things differently in order to in order to have that kind of a to t take that kind of scenario. Next one I am hurt or frustrated, so to get back at him by saying mean things or unleashing my anger. Do women get hurt? And do they get frustrated? They just want to l Sure. Men do too, by the way. Okay. Um, next one. I'm going to trust my assumptions about him more than I trust his proven character or his track rec record. He's going to trust my assumptions I'm going to nag him until I get what I want. Now by the way, I didn't come up with these, just so you know. I I pulled these from somewhere else. Okay. Yeah, the Bible does talk about that. It's better to be in the corner of a housetop than with a brawling woman, is what scripture says. All right. I better move on. Okay, number three. Number three. Trapped. Why else why el happens? And this is a big one. I think this is really Significant. Why are we do we have godless marriages? Well, we're trapped in the horizontal and we forget God's glory. Now, what does that mean? Well, marriage exists on two planes, the horizontal and the vertical The horizontal relationship was gone uh w uh is what goes on between me and my spouse, how we talk, how we love, how we argue, how we apparent, how we live together This is what Scripture refers to as the one-flesh dynamic. One goal for my marriage is unity Is that a good goal, by the way? Sure it is. In fact, Genesis chapter 2 verse 26 says it says it uses this term cleave together, so you leave your father and mother and you cleave to your spouse and the two come become one flesh That idea of cleaving is to stick together. It's like to get to stick like glue. Okay? So that's good. That's a goal in marriage. Working as a team Or as Jesus describes it in Mark chapter 10, becoming one. That's a horizontal thing and it's a good thing. However Um what happens in the day-to-day travails of marriage uh uh becomes a problem. So what happens is I get so occupied and I gotta tell you, I sometimes this is This is a fault I realize I have sometimes. We get so occupied with being a team and dealing with things on a horizontal level. and cooperating that we don't we're not vertical. We don't we don't think about how we should what our relationship should should be in God's eyes. whether it pleases the Lord, we don't pray together, those kinds of things. Um because we are so f is the horizontal a reality in marriage? Yes. But hor but the idea of marriage is to be both horizontal and vertical. Often our sinful choices and attitudes in marriage keep us entrenched in the horizontal dynamics. Are you preoccupied with your spouse, what she does, thinks, reacts, desires, acts, etc. Because the day-to-day battles of marriage are fought in the trenches, we often lose sight of the bigger things. We can too quickly forget about the vertical dimension of our marriage. So if if you work well as a team, then things and actually like my wife and I work really pretty well as a team, I think. Um and and that's good, that's a good thing. But if you work well together and you kinda work well as a team going back and forth, sometimes you can get just so caught up in that that you really Things are fine, so you really aren't cultivating your marriage on a from a vertical perspective. And this is something that is really subtle. It's something that for busy couples like Elizabeth and I, this is something we have to be really careful about Um any questions about this one? Horizontal versus vertical. Yes. Good question. Uh we're gonna cover some of that later, but I'll I'll mention it now. The real the real key to the vertical relationship is trusting God. The horizontal is connected staying connected. So I'm staying connected with w to to each other like glue. I'm cleaving. And the whole and the but the vertical relationship is in as I'm doing that, I'm still trusting God. If I lose the trust in God in the midst of trying to connect then I won't be able to I won't be able to stay connected because my reliance is going to be on me rather than on God. Does that make sense? So it it's both. Well then practically, okay, what does trusting God mean? A lot of the scenarios we're talking about is is what is where you get into that. Does that make sense? Good question. Life compartments is another one. What keeps us from having a God-centered marriage? Life compartments. These are just some examples. I did not come up with these. Sex as married man or woman. I have sex in my marriage, but I never communicate about sex, let alone talk to God about God's purposes for sex and how it relates to our marriage. Money. Just like Jack and Jill exactly wish uh it should be. Uh we can that's a four-year slip. Um we we can uh we can pursue a lot of practical principles to help steward our money, but we don't ever talk about how God relates or what the Bible says about money. So if I'm always thinking, okay, well we can invest it here and we can invest it there and that's But I'm not thinking in terms of stewardship. I'm not thinking about how God wants me what God wants me to do with the money that He's given us then then I'm not it's going to I'm compartmentalizing. You could start compartmentalizing these things and you don't have God in the center of all these things, pretty soon God's pushed out pushed out of your marriage. Yeah, sure. I mean uh nothing wrong with having uh you know, I have an office in my basement. I have I have four females in my house. I need an office in my basement. Anyway. Um so but uh but I guess that would that would kind of kind of uh kind of be the case. Uh home life Maybe I'm more interested in what what is big, comfortable, and uh secure than build building a home that has the aroma of Christ and So a career becomes a focus. This is a very common thing for a man. Under the self-protective label of providing for my family, I just become so focused on my career, always working my career, always doing this that I forget I've got other goals I've got to work on and it can become a godless marriage that way. Home life can be the same thing. I'm more interested in building a big home or secure building or those kinds of things c something comfortable than actually actually thinking about who uh having Christ in the center of our home. So how do we bring God to the center of of uh our marriage? Um trying to figure out where to I I think I better stop here. Yeah. Any questions about Um any questions about what we've talked about so far? By the way, having four women uh was a joke. I'm really thankful for all of my My family. So Toby was the only boy besides my dad. My dad's very cute sometimes, so good. Anyway. But uh I wouldn't trade it for the world. Any questions about any of this? Alright, unfortunately we're stopping in the middle because this we have to, but this is the next part of this about, okay, how do we bring God into the center of my marriage? is the next part. And we'll look at that next week. Let me let me mention this and I'll just I want to close with this. What is the reason? We talked about a lot of reasons why people get married, but what is the reason why someone should get married? Or why should they stay married? Anyone know? Yeah, yeah. To please God, to glorify God. It's because I have a firm conviction that I can serve God better together than apart. So a person teenager, you're thinking about somebody get somebody to get married to, you ought to have the firm conversion, uh firm conviction that I can serve God better with that person than a part Now here's the reality. Everybody that's married in this room, you can serve God that you're married. Doesn't really matter. You say, well, I my my spouse isn't what I expected, or it's not what I wanted it, or whatever. Doesn't matter. You can serve God in your marriage. And so and so if you have the option of staying married, you ought to stay married. Okay. Um Because and you choose to serve God in the midst of it. That's the that's essentially what First Corinthians seven is saying. If you go through the whole thing and Basically talks about singleness, talks about marriage, talks about somebody who's married and the per the person's unsaved and wants to leave. All of it is, if you can stay in that state, stay in that state. is the bottom line of that. And and so it's important for us to understand. If you say to yourself, well, and this has happened in in much counseling that I've done, marriage counseling. Years go down the road, you know, 15 years, 20 years, whatever, 30 years, and they never really established what the original reason, they they never really were clear on why they're married. I mean I literally have had people that I've talked to twenty years, twenty-five years married, and I said to them, and they're going through really difficult problems, and I said to them, why did why did you get married in the first place? And one guy looked at me and he goes, I have no idea. I mean just like that Okay. And um and I I he said, I can't believe you asked that question. And I said Okay, so we've got to figure this out. Your answer is that you could serve God better to get it apart, and now you need to explore how that's going to work. Like just establish that's where you are providentially. This is where God's put put you. Okay, let's figure out why that's true Okay, now before you're married ever, before you're married, then you say to yourself, okay, I want to find somebody that is going to be I can serve God better together the part. But once you're married, you're going to assume it's true and now let me discover how. And that is a state that's not based upon feelings, not based upon emotions and all that kind of thing. It's based upon Focusing on what pleases God, what glorifies God, what honors God, and it's not going to be, it's not going to sh shake with time and change with time, all that All right. Let's go ahead then and um let's pray about this and I I let me have uh two minutes