Uh we're gonna be meaning we're gonna be talking about a bunch of different subjects and I'm going to tell you ahead of time that there are certain some of these sub uh I'm gonna be I'm going to be dealing with all these subjects, some of which are frankly a bit uncomfortable for me to deal with. But I think I need to anyway. And because some of them are a bit uncomfortable, I'm actually going to not allow for questions uh during certain parts of this. And I'm just going to invite you what hap oh what's going on. Okay. I'm just certain I'm just going to invite you to ask the questions to me or my wife or both of us later. if you have questions. I think you may, and I think you need to you need to ask the questions and I think you need to deal you know, you you don't let them go undealt with, which I'm going to explain. But in certain cases with this first subject um where I'm going to which is biblical sexuality, I I just am would be more comfortable not. So it it's kind of like this. Um There are certain questions that I'm probably fine with answering, but there are other ones that I'm just personally uncomfortable with answering in a mixed group. And I'm not sure that your level of questi questions are going to match my level of comfortability. If that makes sense. So I think the best way to do it is there will be points in which I'll say, okay, do you have any questions? And at those points you'll be free to be able to ask whatever questions you want. When we get to other things, we're going to talk about other things as well, and then you'll be able to be freely asked questions. That said, Elizabeth and I are available to answer any questions you have later on in a different setting when it comes to this subject. All right, these are the subjects that we're going to be looking at tonight. There are four major issues. We probably won't look at all of them. You're funny, Josh. And um and uh we won't look at all of them tonight. Biblical sexuality in marriage, the blessing of children in marriage is including birth control, thinking through infertility in marriage. And forgiveness in marriage. So you know, all these are lightweight subjects that nobody has any opinions on. But um they are things that that I will just tell you in counseling and and and and experience and life and everything else. These are such areas areas that have such bearing on the health of the marriage that I can't just move on to parenting before I cover these, frankly. I actually just sort of had to think through okay, well what are some areas that we need to cover that I haven't really covered in marriage yet. And unfortunately they're all the stuff that I'm not not as comfortable with basically. Uh which is why I would just, you know, almost involuntarily not a not not uh not uh include them uh but I I do need I do feel the need to. Also of course this is not going to be a direct exposition of scripture which means you're going to hear some of my own opinions about things. You're going to have to discern to some degree what is I'll tell you when it's directly scriptural. And I always try, as we go through these kind of things, to point out when it's my opinion and when it's scriptural. I try to do my best to do that But understand my opinions are going to be mixed in with some of this. This is not, by definition, a sermon, frankly This is sort of like let's have a talk about some things that I think are absolutely necessary in marriage. And so I think we need to understand that as well. Where is my wife, by the way, speaking of marriage? There you are. Okay. Anyway, I did want her to make sure I wanted to make sure she was in here tonight uh because if there are questions later on that she's asked or the two of us are asked. I wanted her to make sure that she was here to hear what I originally said. Anyway. Alright, so we're going to begin by dealing with the issue of biblical sexuality. We'll get the hardest one out of the way first. And we're going to just we're not going to cover everything, of course, about this. And I will tell you that it's going to be fine that teams are here because I'm not going to get into details that That would be not appropriate for teenagers. Um so I'll I'll just let you know that ahead of time. Um And uh and of course the mo it's probably the the most appropriate setting for teenagers to hear something like this, why? Because in most cases your parents, you know, you're with your parents. That's that's exactly uh the most ideal. Uh and so that's that's good. All right, the biblical purp there are three biblical purposes for sex. Marriage, marital sex, there are no biblical purposes for non-marital sex, because it shouldn't happen. So biblical purpose for sex, uh, number one, is a healthy expression of intimate union. And we find this in Genesis 2. 21, it says, and be joined to his wife, and they shall become one flesh. Now that verse does not only me does not mean only is not only talk about the physical relationship, it's actually talking about the spiritual relationship as well and even the emotional relationship when it says one flesh, but certainly it does one flesh does mean coming together as one. And so it is intended to be an expression of intimate union one with another within marriage, which is why it should only be in marriage. That's important to understand. In 1 Corinthians chapter 7, verse 5, it says, Do not deprive one another except with consent for a time. Why? That you may give yourselves to fasting and prayer and come together again so that Satan does not tempt you because of your lack of self-control. What this verse tells us is that it is a normal thing within the marriage relationship, it should be normal for you to be uh for you to be physically uh coming together. And it's it's important for us to understand that. It says that you really shouldn't withhold, except for if you are in a time of prayer and fasting, where you are really so devoted to focusing on the Lord that you're you're not really even able to focus on your spouse. Um And that should still be consensual. It says uh uh uh uh except uh uh with consent for a time. So it's still a consensual thing that you would decide together to not to to spend some time apart uh physically uh to focus on the Lord But it says, be careful to come back again together so Satan doesn't tempt you because of your lack of self-control. Now let me I pointed this out before, but I'm going to point it out again. This is not saying that somebody who is not active physically is like somebody has to be in a relationship where they're physically active, sexually active. It's not with saying. It's saying that when you are sexually active in marriage, then there is a self-control issue So that's important to understand. So um so this is this is something where it is it is a healthy expression expression of an intimate union, and that is the baseline for what what the physical relationship is supposed to be. And we need to understand that that's the case. So it's supposed to be so if we are spiritually one together, we're emotionally one together, then we have a physical way of expressing that one to to uh to it with each other uh in a physical union. That's purpose number one. Purpose number two is procreation. Um that's very clear biblically that God blessed them and God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth and subdue it, have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the per birds of the air, and over every living thing. that moves on the earth. I ha my pastor growing up, when he in his sermon in his uh his wedding uh sermon, he usually preached about the same sermon every every wedding he did, and he would always start number one, marriages for procreation. And uh we're it was it was a little it was a little like, wow, this takes us out of any kind of wedding mood. It's like okay, uh this is pretty blunt, but He isn't wrong, okay. Um it was it's very clear from the very beginning that procreation is a is a and certainly uh of course sex is created for that reason. to be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth and subdue it. Um the human race will no longer exist if nobody has sex Frankly. It's just the way it is. Um except for uh other odd uh you know there are now other ways I know, like artificial insemination, stuff like that. We'll talk about that too. Uh believe it or not, unfortunately. But anyway, for now, um uh procreation is something that is clearly the case. Um Purpose number three is pleasure, okay, and that's important to understand, actually. In fact, I would actually suggest to you that in certain times within Christianity Uh this has been downplayed so much that people that even in marriage relationships people have felt guilty. for for having pleasure inside that sexual relationship within marriage. And that is that is very unfortunate. That's not biblical at all. Uh if you read the song book of Song of Solomon, you cannot get past the fact that they're having fun. Okay, that this is enjoyable And so Song of Psalm 4, 10 through 11 says, How much better than wine is your love and the scent of your perfumes? Then all spices, your lips, O my spouse, drip as a honeycomb. Honey and milk are under your tongue, and the fragrance of your garments is like the fragrance of Lebanon, and it will continue, you know, it'll say things like You know, your your neck is like the cedars of Lebanon, which I didn't know was a I mean it doesn't sound very complimentary, but apparently it was. Your hair is like a flock of goats. I mean there's a lot of things in Song of Solomon that are Like in anyway, it doesn't seem all that uh complimentary, but you know. Anyway, so uh but there are there is clearly Clearly, in the in the in the physical relationship within marriage, it is entirely it is intended to be pleasurable. So some basic principles. Number one And I'm not, again, I'm not covering everything about this, but I'll just give you some basic principles. Hebrews chapter 13, verse 4 says, marriage is honorable among all, and the bed undefiled. Number one, all marital sex should be three things. Private, consensual, and free from guilt. Private, by private, I mean it should only be with the two of you and no one else. That means visual, that means mental, that means everything. Number two, it should be ever anything you do within the marriage bed should be consensual. So there shouldn't be forcing one or the other something on somebody else. So that's number two. The rest of it is you you should be free. There should be a sense of freedom. There's no there should not be guilt. It doesn't need to be guilt. It's a marriage is honorable among all. It's an honorable thing. And it's talking about the marriage bed there. And so there is no reason to feel guilty. There should be a sense of freedom within the marriage relationship that you you have never experienced before, frankly, in any other any other kind of thing. Um and um so that's the those those three principles will guide you as far as as what this is going to what what it this is going to look like. If you have questions again about, okay, well what about this or what about that, I I will answer any qu not here. I will answer any question that you have. You come talk to me if you're a man. If you're a woman, you can talk to my wife or talk to both of us. Um we'll if you're a woman you might want to talk to both of us. She she might say, I'm going to have to punt on this one. Uh but anyway, you can certainly ask her and um so just so that you're aware of of that, um That uh is important. Um, sexual complications are common in Christian marriages. I just I I really want to bring this out. Sexual difficulties should be addressed or they can continue to be more problematic as time goes on. Biblical elts outside, I should say outside biblical help would be better, but may not uh may be needed and there is no shame in this. So what happens often in Christian there's a lot of problems that happen in Christian marriages related to this. Um but there could be a lot of frustrations, a lot of misunderstandings, um, a lot of really hard things with regard to this issue. Um and the problem is this of all issues are the peop people are the least um the least um willing to get outside help from for. And that's understandable actually. Okay? But at the same time, uh if you're going a few years and this and y and and there are still frustrations and problems and difficulties then I would act there there is there is need um and it's not there's no shame in getting biblical help. I would not recommend getting help from a secular psychology psychiatrist, particularly in this area. They will give you, they will not give you biblical advice on this and it could be really harmful actually. But um but just I have I've had people come to me, uh, and my wife with questions And I try to make it as as as you know not I try to make it as comfortable as possible. Um and I it's not I don't think people feel that it's weird after they come to me or feel strange or anything. I I don't think that's the case. Um and frankly, just so you know, I it's not like I don't know, I have a really a fairly good uh a good ability to compartmentalize, so I just You know, when we're there we think about that and we don't think about that later, basically. Just so that you're aware of that. But I but I have seen enough problems that will go on for years, fifteen, twenty years. in a marriage and then surface and then there's just it it it that it this is an area that um that becomes an issue that needs to be dealt needs to be uh dealt with. And sometimes it's it's There's a couple of very simple things and that's really all it is. Other times it's it's more, but just understanding a few things is helpful. Um This is actually really important and can really help. This next one. And just to understand that the fruit of the Spirit and Galatians 5, in Galatians 5 and 1 Corinthians 13 apply to the marriage bed. So for example, if you say love, if you think through what love is, love is patient, is kind, bonded not itself, is not puffed up, is not even easily provoked is thinks no evil. If you think through what love is in First Corinthians thirteen, that applies to the marriage bed And if you apply that, you know, patience and kindness and those kinds of things in the marriage bed, that and that alone can help you. Love, joy, peace, long suffering, good gentleness, goodness. If you think through those, those still apply to the marriage bed. And if you think through those, then then just understanding that and you and you make sure that that's happening there, that can really be a help to you. It should be applying everywhere, but for some reason, some we're so good at compartmentalizing things. that sometimes we go into certain areas of our lives we think, well that doesn't really apply anymore. And it and and then we run into we we run into problems. So that's something to consider. Number four You ought to go go to the marriage, this will help you a lot. You ought to go to the marriage bed desiring to please the other primarily rather than to get pleased primarily Um scripture says it is more blessed to give. Oh brother, what's going on? It is more blessed to give than to receive. If both people in the marriage relationship will go in to that kind of relationship and they will they will desire to please the other and to give to the other then still being able to receive. You need to be able it's just like it's just like receiving a gift. You've got to be able to receive it. Somebody gave me a gift today. Which I totally didn't expect. Okay. Um and I I wasn't expecting at all. And I'm and I and I could tell it was a gift. I actually said, How much was this? And they said, I don't know, because I didn't know it was a gift And I they said I don't know and I I could tell it was a gift and I'm like I I don't always receive gifts very well. I'm like I don't know why, it's probably pride or something. And I just need to say thank you. Okay? So you have to be able it's w it's it's loving to receive, but it's all it's most loving to focus on pleasing the other. And then as a result of that. uh then oftentimes you actually end up over time getting having more pleasure. It what just give more and you actually end up receiving more in time. And this one goes along with this. Developing a good physical relationship and marriage takes time and work for long-term results. Now this is very different than what the cult the culture's message is on this. The culture's message is you ought to, you know, it ought to be great every time and all this stuff. That's not the reality of of this. I mean, it takes work and there's long-term benefits to being patient and kind and all those kinds of things. And and if you handle things the right way, it actually w there's a development in the relationship that occurs uh in marriage. And and part of it is sort of this giving and receiving. Any in anything in life, the more you give, usually the more you receive, but it you usually receive it later than you get it So this happens to apply in in this situation as well, where if you keep giving and you keep being patient and you keep being loving over time, then then you'll end up receiving And um and it takes time. It's something that's cultivated over really uh candidly over years, really. Um and part of the problem is we're so used to We get so frustrated because we're so used to instant gratification on everything that it really causes a lot of problems in the marriage relationship in this area. Okay, and I'm done. That's it. Okay. Uh so any more now that may have been enough to provoke questions. Okay, and if it did, and if you're struggling in this area, um you do and and you're going, you know, three, four, five years of the marriage. And you're not and and and it's you're still having trouble, um uh then you should get help. Because the problem is is that a lot of these things don't solve themselves until later on. Uh I mean I don't they don't solve themselves unless that you get help. So so just understand that. So I don't have any problem if you come to me uh in the in an appropriate setting and I'll be glad to answer any questions you have uh in this area. But I'm glad to move on in a mixed setting. uh here and and it actually has been the quietest it has been probably in any any uh any Wednesday night so uh in a while, which is understandable. Okay. We're in the Yeah, that's true. Anyway I'm glad you're following it. No, I don't actually. Anyway. So actually I really like this. Maybe we'll no anyway. Okay. We're now going to move to the blessing of children. And we're going to begin by just asking the question: what does the Bible say about having children children in marriage? Number one, marriage is for making babies. I don't know how I I'm gonna make it really like really obvious. Okay. Uh because the culture is going against this and I You're just gonna start here. Now under understand, I'll just say this, that we are gonna talk about birth control. We're gonna talk about and I'm not against birth control under cer under with with certain guidelines But um but just understand that that biblically God intended marriage and childbearing to go together And I'm going to say this. I think I can open up this now. If you have questions or comments at this point, I'm really okay with that. I don't think I may Close it down, by the way, again, and say at certain points, okay, now we're going to go down to no questions, please, because they're we're going to get a little dicey at other points. But right now I'm I'm probably okay with questions. Yes, Jeff. And then Lisa. But not on the previous subject. You can't ask for the previous thing. Lisa. Yeah. Uh no, well no, because we have other we have two and three and other things. I wouldn't say that these are necessarily right. Yeah. Uh based upon our previous based upon our this is this has to do, remember, this is the question we're asking. What does the Bible say about having children in marriage? That's our question. So now we're answering that question. Okay. Um so we've talked about marriage before and talked about that the primary purpose of marriage is to glorify God, to be worshippers together, for the to uh that the wife is assisting the husband and the husband's role in the that God has given him and all of that. That's the primary purpose of marriage. Um and so this is answering this question. Yeah. So having children Marriage uh ruple multiply then put review the full put the number. The number? Okay. Uh uh number two. The marriage is the is uh for making worshippers. I think this is an important thing. Deuteronomy 6, 4 through 9 says, Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength, and these words I command you today shall be in your heart. You shall teach them diligently to your children, and shall talk of them as you sit in your house. As you walk about, walk by the way, as you lie down when you rise up, you shall bind them as a sign on your heart on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes. You shall write them on the doorpost of your heart. and on your gates. And there's route really a lot of other passages of scripture that we could go to as well. But God was not, when God said be fruitful and multiply, he wasn't just saying make a bunch of warm bodies. His goal was that you would that you would bear children and that you would train them up in the nurture admiration of the world. Now the gospel is gonna have to be, they're gonna have to receive the gospel, and they're gonna have to receive that on their own. But if you train them, there's a higher likelihood that they will receive the gospel um and than if than if than uh someone who is an adult who isn't uh raised in a child a children's home or raised in a in a in a Christian home. Um and this becomes an important thing to There are implications of this when we get into parents who can't have kids in infertility. How do you deal with that? So kind of keep that in mind that this is a principle that will have further implications. Number three, children are a heritage and a reward and a blessing, Scripture says. Psalm 127, verse 3 says, Behold, children are a heritage from the Lord. The fruit of the womb is a reward, like arrows in the hand of a warrior, so are children of one's youth. So Scripture tells us that this is something that uh is is a heritage. It's a reward, it's a blessing. And the quiver thing is so overused I didn't even include that verse in my PowerPoint. So we won't we'll just move on. I know if you go read the scripture. Yeah. You can. Anyway, verse f n number four. Um children and children are sought after after uh uh uh and celebrated. Children are sought after and celebrated. Genesis chapter 33, verse 5 says, And he lifted his eyes and saw the woman and child uh and children and said, Woe Uh, these with you? So he said, the children whom God has graciously given your servant. Um so we see that in scripture. It's they're they're celebrated. Now I'm going to very briefly so understand God's perspective on having kids and children and all of that Now, I want to address something that is this is one that I'm just going to address. What about somebody that's a couple that deliberately chooses barrenness? In other words, let's say they're not even married, they're going to get married, and they come to someone, they come to me. I was discussing this actually with a past three pastors, four pastors. And uh the this question came up. Would you marry someone if they came to you and you're doing premium counseling and they said, We are never going to have children, would you marry them? And you know all of us agreed that we would not do that. Now it's different if you can't, if there's a s a physical reason, okay, or physical reason that maybe you shouldn't. That's understandable. And we're going to talk about this is not a birth control question. We're gonna we're gonna get to that. But to just deliberately say, we're going to get married, but we're never having kids on purpose is actually a very foreign idea uh in the New Testament. Or in Scripture in the Old Testament too. It's t it's a foreign idea in Scripture. Marriage and kids just go hand in hand. And the if you're if it's not a physical reason, it would be we would be hard pressed, I'd I'd be hard pressed to hear of a reason that's not selfish And so I think we need to understand that. Sonia. Um fairness is obviously a difficult reason. What if there was some kind of anything? I guess one of the parts of the couple is Yeah, sure. That's still physical. So if there's a physical reason, yeah, so if there's a physical reason then that would be understandable. Uh I'm I'm saying outside a physical reason. What if you do not use the area or the purpose of Yeah, that's we're gonna get to that. I'm yeah. We're gonna get to that. Uh uh choosing not to have your own children. Actually we are gonna get to that, so I'll answer I I think. If I if we don't want to come we'll circle back around to it, but a remind me. Okay. Yeah. Sh sure. Right. Right. The reason why you desiring Yeah, it all goes together, right. You have a really hard time It it's happening. I'll just let you know. This is a this is something that is happening where people are get come together, they're saying they want to get married and they don't want to have kids and it's not a physical reason. Yeah. Okay, that's we're gonna get to that. That's the birth control question. Okay. Alright. So let's I think let's get to the birth control question. So what about birth control? Okay Boy, we're going through it tonight. Alright. I I'm getting them all out of the way in one and hopefully you don't hate me afterwards. Okay. Alright, so let's deal with this. And by the way, I just think it's necessary to deal with this. You say Lo I'm curious, how many of you ever discussed this in church before? Okay, like we got one. Two? Parts of it. Okay. All right. I'm not including I'm saying I'm saying just in church in general. Okay, then never mind. Okay. Okay. And the problem is is that pre-male counseling is very subjective based upon who's doing it and all of that. And so um anyway, uh I think it's necessary to go through these things. This is the right kind of a forum. I'm comfortable with I would not be doing this on a Sunday morning during a worship service. But I think that this is this to me is the right time right time to do this. All right. Any birth control, here's start this way, any birth control that is any way abortive is unethical and immoral. I'll just say it very much up front. just is. Okay? There's no if it's abortive, it's wrong. And I don't need to go into, you know, there's uh the morning after pill, there's all kinds of things like that, but it's just it's immoral. Number two, any birth control that prevents implantation of a fertilized embryo embryo is also wrong. Okay. Now, um uh because once the embryo is fertilized uh and if you're preventing implantation, you're essentially aborting. Life begins when? It begins a conception. All right, now there the so so just understand that those two things are are really wrong. Yes, Jeff. Well, um there are different kinds of birth control pills to my understanding. There's even one called a triphasic pill that has three different w different and I'm not a I've got a doctor in the room and he can correct me on any of this. But anyway, so um and and there's different ways of there's di they do different things. one of which I think is prevents implantation. So that becomes questionable in my mind, since one of them will There are other ways and then you've got I think like high estrogen I don't uh correct me if I'm wrong on this, like you have higher higher you have other options I think that may may not include preventing implantations. Is that right? Yeah. So right, good. Okay. So um and I don't I uh uh you know I don't need to go into specifics because I don't I'm not qualified to. I'm just simply saying these things are are from an from a biblical ethical perspective they're not not right. And then other methods of birth control are matters of conscience. Okay, so once we've got past those two issues We're now dealing with matters of conscience. There are going to be some Christians that have uh that have conscience issues with certain things and others won't, and we are not getting into details of all what those are. I may use general terms, but I'm not going to get into details. And then number three number four, the primary consideration. I just want to encourage you this way, the primary consideration is motive. Okay. Um after you've gotten first you know, after you've gotten past these first two things and you've your conscience is okay with it, then you have to ask yourself the question, okay. What is my motivation? Why am I withholding? So let's talk about the motive then. All right. Let me give you an ungodly example. And I did not come up with these myself. I got these from Capitol Baptist who had a series on this and I pulled their illustrations. Okay, just so you're aware. Um ungodly example. Kids are hassle And our c our our career um and our careers are going great. In fact, Jane has a concern about overpopulation. She says we can we can go off the pill later. Right now we want to enjoy money, time, leisure, etc. Okay. Uh that's an ungodly example. There's it's just selfishness. Okay. So so to go to do it for that reason, because we just like our careers and we just They concerned about overpopulation. That was interesting. But anyway, all of that, we that's those are those are selfish reasons. We just like our lives and we don't want to disrupt them. Well then, you know, really that's that's something we n needs to be considered as a a motive that's not not really it's a selfish motive. Because God says children are a blessing, children are a reward, children are our heritage, children are our are our Th so we need to understand that. Let's go then to some godly examples. Some and n and I'm not saying that each one of these you should or shouldn't do them, but these are some things that I'm just gonna say and maybe godly is the wrong word, maybe it's just Maybe I should put understandable examples. Some of you are going to go, maybe you're going to go, well, I don't agree with that. Okay. It's okay. We're not going to necessarily agree on every one of these. Just a heads up. We'll just have to agree or disagree. But and I'm not even sure I you know I think it depends on the situation, but these are scenarios where it would seem plausible to consider birth control as an option. Number one, and these are not in any any order as far as importance. Uh In thinking long-term about our overall ministry, it seems wise at this stage to hold off for a specified period of time in order to prepare. Okay. Just general preparation. We're preparing for ministry and we're and and um and we we just we think it's it's a good idea to hold off Um somebody's going through seminary or something or or whatever. Um did you have a question, Jeff? Do you think we'd have to be a more concrete contract with seminary, not We're not ready yet. Like I said, I don't know that uh it depends on the motive. I think that if your motive is just selfish, we're not ready because we like our lives. that might be a problem. If it's we're not ready cause uh we need to do s I would be asking the question, okay, well what are you gonna do to get ready? Like what's the plan? I don't know if it's a time frame, but it's uh okay, what's the plan to be prepared? And if it's And and there is a sense financially where you're never really financially ready to have kids, honestly. But um so you'd have to be careful with that one. But You could that could be a consideration, but you you want to be careful about it. Um we are deliberately delaying children for a couple of years in order to pay off debt so my wife can stay home full time Okay. I'm not saying that wives need to stay home time full time. I'm not saying that I'm just saying that if somebody chose to do this, uh that would make that would be uh it's an unselfish reason. It's sort of like I can devote more time with my kids in order and pay off debt in order to be in a better position. This is kind of in order to be a better position to provide for the children that God gives me and be a better steward for when the time comes. I think that might make sense. Okay. Um God has given us six kids and they are delight, but we are thinking of of you by the way I didn't come up with these. Alright, anyway. And there are the light. But we are thinking of using birth control because it's getting harder and harder to provide for them with the care God requires and having dub trouble feeding them and tuition costs or homeschool costs aren't going getting going to get any any lower. I think this is a reasonable thing to consider Okay. And I use six because I didn't use six. It was already there. And I thought they're picking out really uh you know a pretty good size number so that You know. But it really could be any number, frankly. If you if your thinking is, okay, you know, I really don't I I I want to be responsible and good stewards with what God has given me And I'm not sure that more is better because of that. I'm not saying whether you should or shouldn't. That's up to you and your and the Lord and your spouse and your motives. Okay. I'm just saying that that would seem to be a better that's not that's a that's not just a selfish motive. That's something that may need to be considered that that would be a reasonable consideration. Um if that makes sense. Uh God has graciously given us two children, but due to significant complications of pregnancy, we feel it is not wise to severely risk my wife's li health by having more children. I think that is probably one of the best reasons. frankly, um to c you know to to if you for your wife's health if that that's if that's an issue. Um that was uh significant issue for my mom, I think, uh in in making that decisions. She would had very, very hard pregnancies. Um and and so um she actually that so they you know she she permanently you know dealt with that. Um I don't know what's really appropriate to say and anyway. Like anyway. But um but sh she couldn't have any kids 'cause she chose to after after my sister. But um she did regret it later, um just FYI um uh but at the same time it's it was a reasonable under it was something reasonable because of physical concerns that that that the decision was made Those are the scenarios. Okay, before we get into infertility, do you have any questions that I might not answer? But if you have them you can a you can ask them. Okay. Any questions about any of these? Do they make sense? Yes, Lisa. or getting away and we can talk about better you're better off or you're better together certainly along the part. In essence you should be thinking as you're better together and as a family with children coming out. So you should already be thinking of how to I think we're getting ahead ahead of the game actually on that. I I think that b before you get married when you're ma uh that's what we're talking about, when you're a s when you're when you're trying to determine a g uh a spouse that the Lord may be the Lord's will for you to marry, you're asking a question you're asking the question Can we serve God better together than apart? In other words, a man has a a direction that God's called him. A woman is to be a help meet for her for uh him and they're trying to determine if they're a good team to be able to serve the Lord together. Um I don't know necessarily think that you're n you're I mean you can certainly factor in whether whether If children come, will this be a good thing? You certainly need to factor that. And if you if a if a woman says, well the guy's gonna be a a terrible father But I like him as a husband. That doesn't hardly make sense. Okay. All right. All right. I mean I I would be kind of like what uh you know, what? So I don't think we're gonna be go go that far. But there is a possibility that after you get married, you can't have kids. So what do you do then? So I wouldn't think in terms of exclusively, maybe not even primarily, Um okay, what will our family what will we be like with children? I think that's but we're gonna we're going to assume that that we will have children if we can. Uh does that to some degree answer your question? Okay, good. Yes, Miranda. Any questions as well? Yes, okay. Well to restate your question. Reasons for the students are not they are their own biological service. I know a couple of things do not have their own biological service or the main purpose of adopting children who are parents. Yeah. So they are going to specific they're going to be on birth control. They can have children together. Presumably, but they are going to choose to indefinitely be on birth control for their for their marriage in order to adopt. Like you know, we have a fix and we step enough, we're not gonna have our own but we have our license for our finances to adopt how much we get things. Which is a couple that I'm thinking of. They have done it. So we already have a few kids and we're going to consider holding off in order to we're going to consider not having our bi more biological kids in order to Or any so we don't have any kids. Which which is it? We have no either of those dumbness, but not with But usually not plan enough to biological so that he can not show that who needs to be a good thing. where you have the idea of indefinite birth control for that reason. Okay. Um scripturally marriage and kids go together. If God Now you could say, well, if the Lord doesn't provide kids for us, then you know God opens and closes the womb. If God doesn't provide kids for us, then we'll adopt. I I would struggle with that. I would not counsel somebody. that way. I'm just gonna this is my opinion. If you disagree, it's really okay. This is not a gospel issue. But I really struggle with whether that would be a a viable uh a viable option, honestly. However, I would feel more comfortable if they had a few kids and then said, okay. um we're going to then but to say we're going to be completely barren and just stay on birth control our whole marriage in order to have it in order to adopt. Again, I think we're still in we're, you know, it's not an in it's not a s it's not a selfish thing. That's not that's not the issue. Um but is it is it really consistent with God's plan uh in Scripture? Is that what we see? Do we see have any examples of that? Do we have any and I I I'm not I I'm not seeing that as a really great option. Honestly, I would I would probably be trying to I would not say they're in sin, because I would because you can't say that, the Bible doesn't say that. But I would be really probably encouraging them a different way. way of thinking. That is a difference when it comes to there is a difference there though when it comes to um when it comes I mean in my mind when it comes to kids that you've already ha you've already You know, you already have a few. But that's just my that's that's definitely my my my take. Yes, Jeff. What about in a marriage and I would encourage marriage to this book or one is not fair cost? Would that impact other kids? That's a good question. Um, how would it let me How was it when they originally got married? It doesn't really matter. The question is if they're in if they're in if you're in a situation because if you're two unmarried and unsafe a wife gets married and two closely blood, you can't Maybe she's gonna have to do it, but I think there's a little different. I think there's a bit so uh off the top of my head, and I need to think through this a little bit more. I think that if a husband so we we just studied 1 Peter chapter 3 yesterday or last Wednesday and in 1 Peter 3 it actually says that um uh a wife should even unsaved should submit to her husband. Okay. Um if her husband wants to have kids, I would su I would think that that that would still make sense. If he didn't, he's she's supposed to submit to him. So that may be a reason to not. Um that's off the top of my head though, I wouldn't yes. Sure. Yes. That's exactly right. Yeah. She's still she's still under the authority first of the Bible and of the Lord. Yeah. Yeah, I think it's probably wise not to. Yep. Okay. Um so that's that's off the top of my head. I think it's a fairly sound answer, but I but I I will tell you that I I hadn't really Not sure I've had that question, which is odd because it seems like a good question. But um anyway, so okay. Um Infertility. Do we have time for no we don't have time. Okay, that's good. I've I think I've had enough controversial subjects for one for one uh for one evening.