Uh those thin silver Except that um uh tonight we will have our m our evening service at six o'clock and Um uh this Wednesday night will be normal hopefully if we don't get another crazy race, not like we did last time. Um and then uh next Sunday you'll be able to hear Harry preach I'll be on vacation. So other than that, not not a lot to announce. And uh we will have new a new time like new schedule in September that we're going to try and we'll I'll be You'll be getting an email this week about that. Okay, let's go ahead then and open with a word of prayer and then uh and then we'll get started with our service. Our Father, we come to you this morning. We thank you. We thank you that you are our Redeemer. You went to great lengths to chronicle for us The creating of your people, the nation of Israel, as they as they went from a family to a nation in Exodus. And we saw your might we have been seeing your mighty acts and your deliverance. And Lord, that that deliverance from slavery Is a picture of the deliverance that we have of sin and slavery. We thank you for that, dear Father, this morning, that we can look at what happened back Then and we can be grateful for the deliverance in our lives because apart from you, we would be miserable. Our sin, we would be yet in our sins. we would be uh we would be uh headed toward uh uh hell and uh separation from you. And yet because of the great sacrifice that Christ made on the cross for us. We are able to, if we will receive it by faith, we are able to stand delivered. And we thank you for that, Lord. And I pray today as we meet together and gather this morning and assemble, we thank you that we have the freedom that we do in this state to assemble And we pray, Lord, that you would maintain that freedom. We know that other states are not having as much freedom. And Lord, we do pray for our freedom in this nation. We ask, Lord, that you would keep us free and we and and and able to be able to assemble together and to meet together, Lord, and uh and we ask, Lord That you would uh work with our government and uh various state governments, federal government, all of that, Lord, to bring about your purposes. And uh we thank you that you are in control and that you are sovereign And Lord, I pray that that today would be a day that you we would just be reminded that you are a great God that has redeemed your people and that we have this ability to gather together and to celebrate that redemption. Every single Sunday we meet together. We are meeting to celebrate the redemption that is in And if there is anybody today this morning that has not celebrated that, that they they can't celebrate it because they haven't accepted it for themselves, I pray today that they would understand Their own sin, the slavery that sin brings, the separation from God that sin results in. And I pray, Lord, that they would understand that Christ took Upon their sin on himself on and died for their sin and Lord for all of our sin and Lord that uh they need to come to you and accept you as their Savior. So Lord, I pray, Lord, today that this would be a day for for those who hear who don't know you to accept you. And Lord, we pray that all that we do and say would honor and glorify you this morning. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. And Scripture All right. Um thank you. Now I'm afraid to talk. We'll be reading from uh Psalm twenty five verses ten through verse twenty two. All the paths of the Lord are mercy and truth, to such keep his covenant And his testimony. For your name's sake, O Lord, pardon my iniquities, for it is great. Who is the man that fears the Lord? Him shall he teach in the way he chooses. He himself shall dwell in prosperity, and his descendants shall inherit the earth. The secret of the Lord Is with those who fear him, and he will show them his covenant. My eyes are ever toward the Lord, for he shall pluck my feet out of the net. Turn yourself to me and have mercy on me, for I am desolate and afflicted. The troubles of my heart have enlarged. Bring me out of my Distresses. Look from my affliction and my pain and forgive all of my sin. Consider my enemies, for they are many, and they hate me with cruel hate. Keep my soul and deliver me. Let me not be ashamed, for I put my trust in you. Let integrity and uprightness preserve me. For I wait for you. Redeem Israel, O God, out of their trouble. That more is that no The Fireball Take your Bibles and turn to Exodus chapter twelve. Thank you, Joy and Lorelyn. for that. Exodus chapter twelve. And Janet Point updated It's a blessing to actually hear prepared selection again. That it's been a while, right? And um thankful that we can do that Um thankful that my daughter is able to play. It's a blessing. So I've been already pretty blessed today. By the way, I'm pretty sure my daughter wasn't nearly as concerned about you all to her right. She was far more concerned about the two people to her left. Her her teacher was right next to her. How many people Anyway, how many how many pianists church pianists have their their piano teachers sitting right next to them during an offer time? Anyway But uh she did a great job. Exodus chapter twelve, and we're gonna be looking today at verses one through fourteen. And we're gonna read the passage. I think it's necessary for us to do this in order to really understand what's Going on here. Exodus chapter twelve. Passage says, Now the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt, saying This month shall be your beginning of months. It shall be the first month of the year to you. Speak to all the congregation of Israel, saying, On the tenth month And if the household is too small for the lamb, let him and his neighbor next to his house take Take it according to the number of the persons according to each man's need, you shall make your count for the lamb. Your lamb shall be without blemish, a a male of the first year. Take it from the sheep or from the goats. Now you shall keep it until the fourteenth day of the same month. Then the whole assembly of the congregation of Israel shall If you have a few years ago, I'm not sure if you're not going to be able to do that. None of it uh you shall let none of it remain until morning, and what sh what remains of it until the morning you shall burn with fire, and thus you shall eat it and with a belt o' on your waist Now the blood shall be assigned for you on the houses where you are, and when I see the blood I will pass over you, and the plague shall not be on you to destroy you when I see So this day shall be to you a memorial, and you shall keep it at as a feast, the Lord, throughout your generations. By an everlasting ordinance. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you this morning, and as we look at this passage, I pray Pray that you would really help us to grasp the meaning of this um of this religious practice that God had placed Into the life of the nation of Israel, and help us to understand really what this means for us today as well. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, this is the first time in the Old Testament that the Passover is prescribed for the nation of Israel. Uh this is a a ritual that God wanted the nation of Israel to practice every single year. The interesting thing about rituals uh Many though many of those who doubt and are skeptics of the Christian faith, uh, they will say something to the effect of, I I don't like church or religion or the Christian faith The ironic thing is that the very reason that they are objecting to the ritual is the very reason that Ritual is actually in place. It is actually to help God's people to actually experience uh the deliverance, to experience the redemption that is in this passage. But why how does a ritual become empty? How does a ritual become something that is just you're just going through the motion, something that is hollow Well if you think of the Passover and you think of the year after year after year that this was practiced after this was uh initially given to the nation of Israel, there were certain times it actually wasn't doesn't look like it was practiced when they were wandering for forty years. Years for example. Doesn't it look like with practice then? But you come to the time of Christ and you have the Pharisees, and now they have they have they're the epitome of empty ritual, what they do And they have all kinds of issues. They're keeping ritual after ritual after ritual. But God says, you know, you're Christ says, you're white sepulchres with dead men's bones. You are empty inside. You are actually sinful inside. The problem that the Pharisees had was legalism. And in Luke chapter 11, verse 39, it says, Now you Pharisees make the outside of the cup and dish clean But your inward part is full of greed and wickedness, foolish ones. Did not he who made the outside make the inside also? But rather give alms of such things as you have, then indeed all things are clean to you. That the reason that the Pharisees were practicing empty rituals rather than meaningful religious practices. Rituals was because of their hearts. It was actually a heart problem. Now, with that in mind, that the Passover can either be meaningfully practiced Or practiced in a very empty, hollow way. I want to make some connections for you. That you say, well, what does the Passover have to do with us? We don't practice the Passover. Actually, there is a sense in which We do. In Luke chapter twenty two, verse fourteen, we actually see a connection between three different we'll call them feasts or meals. We have this feast of the Passover in Exodus, but in Luke 22, we actually Christ is sitting with his disciples in the upper room. And he says to them, When the hour has come, he sat down and the twelve apostles with them, verse fourteen. Then he said to them, With fervent desire, I have desired to eat this Passover with you. Before I suffer. So they're eating a Passover together, and he says, For I say to you, I will no longer eat of it until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God. He's actually talking about another meal And then in verse 17, It says, Then he took the cup and gave thanks and said, Take this and divide it among yourselves. For I say to you, I will not drink of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God comes. Verse nineteen, and he took bread, gave them and broke it, and gave it to them, saying, This is my body which is given for you. This do in remembrance of me Likewise he to also took the cup after supper, saying, This cup is a new covenant in my blood, which is shed for you. And when Christ said that this cup is a new covenant in my blood, he was actually saying that the Passover of the Old Testament is now transformed into To the communion or the Lord's Supper of the New Testament. It's the new covenant that we are celebrating now rather than the old covenant. You see now that we actually have a connection with this Passover. It's actually the Lord's Supper. But I want to make a further connection for you, and it's going to become then helpful in going through this passage in Exodus. Because you're going to see how this is really very relevant for us. Another connection that I would make is actually the Lord's Supper and the Lord's Day, which is Sunday. We find this connection in Acts chapter 2, verse 42, where it says, And they continually, steadfastly in the apostle doctrine and fellowship, and the breaking of bread and prayers. Those are the four things that should happen in corporate worship on Sunday. Sundays. Doctrine, it's the preaching of the Word of God, fellowship, the breaking of bread, and prayers, public prayers. And they it says they continued in one accord, which would include seeing together in doctrine Now in Acts chapter 22, verse 7, it becomes even clearer when it says, And upon the first day of the week, when the disciples came together to break bread, Paul preached unto them So you have this passage that says on the first day of the week, they gathered together to break bread On Sundays, they would gather together to break bread. That was the Lord's Supper. They practiced the Lord's Supper weekly. Actually, they practiced it daily in some cases during during personal time. Now you may say to yourself, Well, why don't we do it every week? I don't know. Maybe we should, candidly. But it's certainly nothing wrong with it. Some denominations do do that every day. Some churches do, even Baptist churches will do it every Sunday. There's nothing wrong with doing it every Sunday. But even when we don't actually practice it, we are still assembling for the same reason Why? To celebrate the gospel, to celebrate what Christ did for us. Verse 10, it actually says that John was in the Spirit on the Lord's day. That Sunday, because of the in celebration of the resurrection of Christ, which is on Sunday, becomes the Lord's day. It's God's day, the whole thing. Every part of it. It's the Lord's day. Now let me ask you this question. Do you ever find Sunday services to be something where you're just simply going through the motions. Is ever becoming, or maybe the Lord's Supper, has it ever become something that is just empty Empty for you, or hollow for you, or just a ritual that you're doing. It's not meaningful. It's not a celebration. It's something that, okay, well, this is what I've been doing for the last 35, 40, 50 sixty some of you later more even years. And and it's just the same thing. I just do the same thing every Sunday and I just need to keep doing this and I don't know why I do it. I just keep doing it. Or maybe you feel man, I feel really guilty when I'm not there And the meaning, it's lost its meaning. And hopefully, the fact that we couldn't assemble For so for quite a few months has rejuvenated the meaning in our lives. But if we're not careful, we can still go through the ritual, the empty ritual. Well, what was the problem with the Pharisees? Why was it empty ritual for them? It was actually a heart problem. It was the internal problem of sin. They were externally They were they were good, they were doing everything they should be doing, but internally their heart was full of leaven. In fact, Christ warns uh in his word. He he warns them about that. We'll see that later on Later on. Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, which actually is hypocrisy. Now, with all this in mind, we are now going to approach Exodus chapter 12. Understanding that many of the principles in Exodus chapter 12, although we don't follow all these practices, many of the principles of meaning in the example of the chapter In Exodus chapter 12, have very direct application for us as Christians. So, how is it that these practices, these religions, this religious practice, whether it's the Passover for the Old Testament Believer, or communion and the Lord's Supper and the Lord's Day for the New Testament believer, how do these practices again become something that is meaningful? Well, I want us to understand this. this, that the reason that God put this in place was so that we would not only, that we would not only be able to read about it, but that we would be able to participate in it. And you'll see as we go along at how this works. Well, how is it that we participate in this? Well number you're gonna see we're gonna see three Three things in this passage. One, by symbolizing recreation, by experiencing deliverance, and by remembering and celebration. Those are the three things we're going to look at. By symbolizing rec recreation, by experiencing Experiencing deliverance and by remembering and celebration. We'll first pick up here in verses eleven verses one through five by symbolizing recreation. It says in the passage in chapter twelve, verse one, now the Lord Spoke to Moses and to Aaron in the land of Egypt, saying, This month shall be your beginning of the months. It shall be the first month of the year to you. Now What's interesting when we read that, something sort of stands out in the passage, the in these two verses. In fact he doesn't say it again and after Exodus at all. We do find later on in the Babylonian captivity that it's the month of Nisan. Par uh prior to that it's another month, uh uh uh uh uh uh I don't remember how I don't know how to pronounce it, but it starts with an A. Um and so and so that's the month that uh no m there's there's there's no mention of the actual month for a reason. He's wanting to get across Something more important. He's wanting to say that this becomes the beginning for you. This is the new beginning. This is the establishment of a new beginning for you. Oh Israel. And if you think of all of the old all of the the plagues that have happened before, all of them have relationships to Christ. Creation. God is using creation to judge Egypt over and over and over again. Various parts of creation God is using to judge Egypt. And now He says He's establishing with Israel a New creation. This is now Israel. Before the before it really it hasn't been a nation. This 400 years of captivity These four hundred years have actually ha have actually grown a family into a nation, and now this is a new beginning. This is a new creation, and this new creation can be summed up in one word: deliverance That's what he wants them to remember. He wants them to remember that I am delivering you from the slavery of Egypt. I'm delivering you so that you can now go and be my people and Serve me. Very important what he what he's saying here. And the very thing when it comes to the Lord's Supper, and really when it comes to just me Meeting together on the Lord's Day is that every single week we are celebrating our deliverance from sin. Well, we have this provision made. And and for you know if you've been if you've been saved for any length of time, you're gonna actually, without even me saying the whole lot, you're gonna see the symbolism here. He says there's this provision of a lamb And this provision is made. He said, You need to get a lamb, you need to have it, you need to have it uh be of the first year, it needs to be a spotless lamb. The connection is obvious of the spot spotless lamb of Christ The quality of the lamb in verse five, your lamb shall be without blemish, a male for of the first year. You may take it from the sheep. From a goat. He is now inauguring the inaugurating this new deliverance, and what we need to understand is that when Christ says that we are a new creation creation in him How do we become a new creature in Christ? If you knew Christ as your Lord and Savior, how did this happen? Because of deliverance. Because he delivered you. from the slavery of sin. Now, to really understand what's going on in this passage, I wanna I want to set it up this way. One of the things that I I I like to read a lot. Most of what I read has to do with either ministry or theology or something of the those lines. Every once in a while I like a diversion and my diversion really is history. I just enjoy history. I particularly like American history and I particularly like revolutionary history The beginning of our country. Um I'm reading a book right now that I've not gotten very f I'm reading so many other things that I I I haven't gotten very far in this book, but it's seventeen seventy-six by uh Uh uh by McCullough. Anybody read that book? Oh good. Okay, we got one. Thank you, Billy. Um it's a it's it's good. Read it. You guys should read it's good book. Anyway. Um So I didn't mean to single you out, but anyway, so um uh so I'm I'm reading this book and and uh let me just tell you it is it really is a very vivid book. But here's the thing Uh last year my wife and I took a fair fairly quick trip, but we took a quick trip up to New England and into Boston. spend a day in Boston. And up in Boston we were able to see we went to the old State House and we went to the old uh the old uh North Church and we went up to Bunker well we didn't actually go up to Bunker Hill but we saw sort of in the distance, Bunker Hill and we went to the uh uh the uh Tea Party um uh you know the Boston Tea Party all of that. And so I can tell you that because we went and did that, because we actually part you know participated in being there and experienced experience that when I'm reading this book about all of these different things that are happening in Old North Church or the troops the description of the troops in these revolutionary rag tag troops was quite disgusting actually and what they had to do and what they didn't do and they just didn't bother taking showers and all these kinds of things and you begin to almost smack And you begin and you and and the sort of the regal stateliness of George Washington as he was on his horse and he was surveying the troops and all that That there's a sense in which because I was there, I'm able to experience it in a more vivid way. By the way, take advantage. This is not this is for But take advantage of the historic we live in a such a h great area as far as history is concerned. You could go to Philadelphia, you could go to D C and Civil War uh places and different different things like that. All that to say this that because I actually have been there, there's a greater level of experience. And folks, that's what God was doing when he set this practice of the Passover feast. He did not want them to forget, but more than just not wanting them to forget Yet he wanted them to experience anew what it felt like to be delivered As they were first delivered. And that's why he lays this out and sets this. And this is the very first time they're going to practice this, but keep in mind as we go through this that this is reiterated in Deuteronomy and in Leviticus and other places. Places that this is a practice that the nation of Israel is going to do, or they're commanded to do, for year after year after year after year in perpetuity. Forever they're supposed to be doing this And of course, then we know it's transferred or transformed into the Lord's Supper now. Now, with all that in mind, look at verse 6. It says chapter twelve verse six. Now you shall keep it until the fourteenth day of the same You see you have the congregation assembling. There's a even a connection there with the Lord's Day. And they shall take some of the blood and put it on the doorposts and on the lintel of the houses where they eat it. Then they shall eat the feast on the on the night, roasted in fire, with unleavened bread, note that, and bread uh and with bitter herbs, they shall eat it Do not uh verse nine, do not eat it raw nor boiled. So it gives some explain uh explanation of what you're not supposed to do Then notice what it says verse twelve, as they put this blood on the doorpost and on the lentil, it says verse twelve, We have a promise, I'm going to pass over you, for I will pass through the land of Egypt on the net on the n Night and will strike all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both man and beast, and again all the all the gods of Egypt I will execute judgment. I am the Lord. Now the blood shall be a sign for you, the houses where you are, and when I see the blood I will pass over you, and the plague shall not be on for you Now I want you to notice some things about this passage. In verse six Uh through verse 10, how do we experience this deliverance? Number one, you are it's up on the screen already, the application of deliverance person. Personally. All of the other plagues, some of them remember when we said before that these other plagues that the nation of Israel experienced, some of them they didn't experience. Egypt experienced. Remember that? And there was this definition, there was this clearly defining line between Israel and Egypt in some of the plagues. And Israel was just protected. They were not going to have to go through those. But on this plague, this tenth and final plague, I want you to notice that Israel is not automatically protected There is something they actually have to do. They've got to apply deliverance personally. There's an application here. They've got to apply it. Now they already have it, but they've got to apply it. And there's a sense in which by application we have to initially apply salvation, don't we? We have to accept it by faith. It's not something that's automatic. It doesn't happen. But folks, there is even more something. This is something that was happening happened every single year And folks, there is a sense in which if you're going to really experience redemption over and over again, then you've got to apply it over and over again. I'm not saying that you're saved over and over again. You're saved once. But, folks, there is a way to be saved and not experience the joy of your salvation. It's like being married. You can get married. And and then never if you never do anything with your If you never spend time with him, if you never if you de you're not going to experience the joy of being married. In fact, if you go year after year after year and you never do any thing with your spouse, you're going to begin to wonder if you're you're not going to even feel married. You're not even going to wonder if you are married. No wonder with some of us as Christians, but no wonder sometimes we we we We lose the joy of our salvation. That's why David said, Rejoy restore unto me the joy of my salvation. And this ritual is intended To help us to restore unto us the joy of our salvation. And folks, the Lord's Supper is for that reason, and the Lord's day is for that reason. We come together so that we are again celebrating together the joy of our salvation. We're experiencing what we know to be true in our lives as believers. But we have to personally apply it. That means, folks, that when when our conscience And when our sense of guilt tells us that God is against us, we go back to the cross and realize that God is for us. That God has redeemed us. He has delivered us. That we make we every day of our lives in our personal devotional time with God, we remember again and anew, we experience again and anew the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. Us. Number two, how do we experience it? Number two, we anticipate deliverance. We anti Anticipate deliverance. Well, we experience deliverance. We apply it, but we also anticipate it. Now, this is interesting because because this first Passover, all of the instructions and everything took place very likely during the time during the last plague, the plague of darkness. And it's very likely it was a sort of a three-day period where all these instructions took So even prior to that, pri uh the three day priority Period of darkness, but even prior to that, they're they're they're getting ready for this prior. It's put in this place to show the significance of it. Why? Because when the angel of death comes, when God comes They need to be ready. In other words, there's a sense in which they're applying deliverance before it happens, and they're because they accept it that there is deliverance. And yet they're also anticipating deliverance as well. They're looking forward to the deliverance that they're going to have. And so that's why you have this these kinds of what would seem to be so sort of strange practices like hold your staff and make sure your sandals are on your feet and your belt is you you're Your loins are girded, your belt is on your weight, like make sure all of this that you're ready to go. You're waiting, you're watching, you're anticipating. Do you know that when Christ talked about his coming again, his Second coming again. The main command that he gave is to watch. He would he'd say watch. Watch. In Matthew 24, verse Verse forty two it says, So we're supposed to watch. Well, this is actually, we find this actually in the Lord's Supper as well in 1 Corinthians chapter 11, verse 26. It says for as often as you bring eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death till he comes. When we come together on the Lord's day, we are to anticipate Anticipate one day that we will all be gathered together in heaven. That we were all we are all going to be delivered from the bondage of this earth. We look forward to the coming of Christ. Second Timothy chapter 4 verse 8 says that we are to love his appearing. We're looking forward to that day. And then finally, preparation for deliverance. Preparation for deliverance. Would you notice it says here in verses fifteen through nineteen we have some more commands? And what we're actually going to do is I'm I'm already over time so we are going to pick this up tonight and we're going to we're going to finish this up tonight. You do not want to miss tonight You look, this is so important. This is absolutely necessary. Remember, I I I don't want to you know, so I don't want to give you a guilt trip because then you'll bid follow the legalism And that will be totally, totally self-defeating. That'll be like a bad idea to give you a guilt trip. But remember, this is the Lord's day, not yours And let me just encourage you to be here tonight, if at all possible, and and and to learn, because what this is going to do is to help you to be able to really understand how it is that this this stops being an empty ritual, what we do on the Lord's Day. This is something that is supposed to be on a daily basis something that is meaningful. So let me ask this question, just in concluding. Has the Lord's day And is the Lord's Supper has it become an empty ritual for you? Or are you tempted that way? And I would venture to guess, brothers and sisters in Christ I would venture to guess that all of us at one time or another find this to be something that our flesh slides into, where it just becomes something that is an energy. And I'm not going to give you a guilt trip. If you have a guilt trip, hopefully it's the Holy Spirit, not me, because I don't want it to become a legalistic thing. That would that would totally defeat the purpose. This is supposed to be a celebration. But if you're saying to yourself, you know, I I have to admit that this is something that I often do out of empty ritual. Can I just ask you to really to really check your heart? We saw, and we're going to see more of the same Tonight, but we saw from fair from the Pharisees that the the root problem, the why was it that the Pharisees had this root problem Why is it that they practice empty rituals rather than meaningful rituals? Because of their heart. Their heart was not right. Christ says, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees. It's hypocrisy where their heart's not right. And so I will just say generally that if we are practicing the Lord's day and it's empty ritual for us, can I just say this? And I'm guilty and you're guilty if we are if we are, if we're not, then that's fine. But understand this that it's because our heart's not right. But here's the here's the here's the positive And here's the truth. Tonight, you're going to learn everything you need, Lord willing, to help your heart get right in the right spirit. In the right way, to really understand how this can be the what we need to do in order for on the Lord's day to be a day where we are coming together in celebration. For what Christ has done for us. Let's go, Lord, in prayer. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you for who you are. We thank you for your grace. We thank you for your redemption. We thank you for your deliverance. And we have already learned this morning how important important it is that when we that when we come together and worship you, when we partake of the Lord's Supper, when we do the the various things that you've commanded us to do, that we don't do them out of some empty ritual or empty religion that we do them in a way that is pure in our own hearts. And that if our hearts are pure before you, if our hearts are right before you, if we're Cl drawing near to you and close to you, then our gathering together, our assembling together to celebrate what Christ has done for us is something That is going to be sweet to us and very meaningful to us. So, Father, I pray, Lord, that you would teach us what you want us to know both this morning and this Evening, and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. This is the same. Redeem how I love the proclaiming redeem by the blood of the left Redeem through his infinite mercy, his challenge forever I am. Redeem, redeem. Redeem by the blood of the Lamb, redeem how I love the proclaim it is valid forever I am Redeemed and so happy in Jesus' name, which my rapture can tell. I know that the light of his presence Redeem, redeem, redeem by the blood of the land, redeem How my love proclaimed is thine forever. I am I team God, my blessed redeemer I take. I cannot be silent. This love is the theme of my song. Redeem, rede Any by the blood of the land, redeem I love wherever I am. We'll continue singing uh number three seventeen when I see the blood. Uh this one here I might need help on, so we'll see on Christ our Redeemer died on the cross, died for the sinner. Take all his news, sprinkle your soul with the blood of the land, and pass over you. When I see the bug, when I see the bottom, when I see the bug I will pass, I will pass over you. Chiefness of singer, Jesus will say, All Jesus promised. That he will do wash in the fountain, open for sin, and I will pass, will pass over you. When I see the bug, when I see the bug. When I see the blood, I will pass, I will pass over you. Oh great passion, oh bound with love. Oh loving, kindness, faithful and truth. Find peace and shelter under the Lud and I will pass, will pass over you Where can I see the buttons? Where can I see the buttons? Where I See the butt. I will pass, I will pass over you. Out of curiosity, um, can I have a raise of hand? Who knows that Who knows that thought? Okay, so there's quite a few. Quite a few, but I mean I that's the first for me, so thank you for bearing with me. Uh we're gonna move to three sixty-five. There is a redeemer. Thank you, all my daughter, for giving us your song And we make our spirit self the word on earth is not She does my name of all things. Treasure Slam of God was fire for Thank you, oh my brother, for giving us your son. And we think you're spiritual. When I stand in glory, I will see his face, there I'll serve my king forever. In that holy place. Thank you, oh my father, for giving us your sons. I wanna if I could, let's sing that last verse One more time but without them if we could try that. Could we do that? Um I'll wait for the the uh PowerPoint to get back to verse three. When I see Let's think about that, right? When I stand in glory, I I will see his days, there I'll serve my king forever In that holy place, thank you, O my father Forgive me, and leaving your spirit will work on earth. Father, we're so grateful for you. We thank you, Lord, for this opportunity to meet uh and In this day, your day, Father, we pray, Lord, that our hearts wouldn't be calloused, that we wouldn't become just so r regulated and routine, that we miss the God The great God who we serve, who has redeemed us, who has bought us with a price. Father, help us to see the things that are before us that steal our attention, that steal our heart. Lord, we ask that you would work in our hearts, convict us of our sin, reveal It to us that we could have short accounts that we might walk holy as you are. Father, we thank you, Lord, again for this time that we can meet together. Lord, we do pray for our country And we do pray for the states, Lord, that these freedoms that we have even right now, uh we ask that we ask that you would guard them. And Lord, may we continue Continue to meet. We thank you in your name. Jesus' name, Amen. Oh my god. Um Resident Evil.