And um it's something the Lord has convicted me about and something that I just want to make sure that we are going the right direction as far as our church is concerned and what the Lord would have us to be. That's really what we want to be. We want to be exactly what the Lord would have us to be. And Reed, could I get you to close those two doors there for me? So uh let's go ahead and review a little bit here. If In the very first lesson we went over, let's just cite again what the purpose of the church is. We know it's to glorify God ultimately. That's the purpose of all creation. But what is the purpose of the church? Any ideas? Yes. Excellent. Right. To manifest the wisdom of God, to relate to the world, even to the scripture says to the angels in Ephesians chapter 3 there. But that's how we're that's what we're supposed to do. Now let's review this a little bit. How is that supposed to happen in a church? How is that supposed to occur? There should be one word that comes to mind when we think of Ephesians, particularly chapter 3, verse 1, if you know that verse, that would help us. We we did, but um that would come sort of secondarily to this thing. That's important, but yes. It would be supernatural if spirit. make his church what he wants it to be. And and that's not wasn't what it was, but but that's that is extremely important. Let me just say that it is through unity Ephesians chapter 3, endeavoring to make the unity of spirit, to keep the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace. We see that in the passage. So how are we supposed to express the wisdom of God to the world? How are people supposed to look at us and say look at us collectively as a group of people and say, wow, there is a difference here in our in our Well, it's how unified we are, but also, as Josh mentioned, how how diverse we are in our unity, that we all can have different backgrounds and different approaches to life and different kinds of uh opinions about various things, but there's a unity in what? What is our unity based upon? Christ in the gospel. Absolutely. That's our unity. That's our focus. And so we have we can have all kinds of different opinions, different and backgrounds and we'll look at this more today, but we can we can find this unity in the gospel so that if somebody were to walk into our church and look around, they'd see all kinds of different people, different ages, different backgrounds, maybe e even different s I don't like to use the social status. We don't have that in our country technically, but you there uh on a practical level you can. Um di different opinions uh different views politically, everything. So so people walk in and go, how does this all work together? And yet it does. And people would go, wow, that's pretty amazing. What is this unity based upon? The gospel. Oh, what is this gospel? Oh, wow, we have a really open opportunity there, don't we? Okay. And so we also discuss the difficulty within our culture. Of many time many times people who don't know the Lord don't want to come into the church. It seems to be people that want that know the Lord already want to come to the church. That's not always the case. thankful for for the opportunities inside the building. But how how can we do this outside the walls of the church? How can we how can we express the wisdom of God to the world? uh as well in that way. And I think that that's important as well. We then move to some of the barriers of of having this kind of unity centered around the gospel, and he suggested some substitutes for this kind of unity And one of the major things he talks about is this comfort-based commitment that we want people to sort of be comfortable. We want people to be comfortable. That's not wrong. But But that the primary approach to getting people in the church is that they would be they would be comfortable with the surroundings and And it would just be sort of this comfortable kind of a thing rather than uh and then they would join the church based upon some other thing besides the gospel. being the most important thing. Not that you can't have other things, but the gospel be it needs to be the most important. And then and then having having Something other than what we're going to talk about today, which is called based commitment. So it's comfort-based commitment rather than called-based commitment. We went into some detail about that and the importance of having the right kind of commitment in establishing things. And we ended last week with this kind with this thought. If you're going to have the clo the clo What are, let me put it this way, what are the closest human relationships possible based on? If you have two people that are close, they have a closeness about them. We're going to expand this and say saved or unsaved. They're just close to each other. What would that debate be based on? Yes, sir? Communication. Okay, communication is very, very important. But let's say let's say um In your communication, you discover that you really just completely disagree with each other. Does that ever happen? Sure does. So what would keep two people who are communicating well that's true, you've got to have communication, you're never gonna get close. But who are communicating well but realizing they really don't agree, they flat out don't agree with each other. But would keep them close anyway. Josh? Okay. Humility is necessary. Good. This is good. This is good. That's all all correct. Enrique? Okay, common interests. Uh Pat? Okay, famil family, we're getting a little warmer there, Mr. Griffith. Yes. Okay. And they are really close to each other. Fred? Okay, try, okay, good. So so I he has an nail on the head commitment. So why do married couples, which in our culture are not staying together as well as they should, in our and and that's really uh not God's intention, but why are married couples often not staying together? They're not committed. Why are they never close? We got it all backwards. We think in our culture and the world thinks in its culture Well, we'll get really close to each other to see if we want to have some s kind of commitment. And Miss Mary is here saying, that don't work. Right, Miss Mary? Okay She's got a little experience and she knows and that's that I just I guess all in your face was very and you it doesn't work. You ha commitment comes first. You have to commit And then closeness comes as a as a result of your commitment. And so that's why anybody who's been married for any length of time knows that I was I'm far closer to my spouse. celebrated my anniversary yesterday, twelve years. And I'm much closer to my spouse now than I was, you know, the day we got married. Or we were we were together for three years prior to that. You know, we we had we did we did not do anything but and that's not I just realize that's a bad term Okay, let me explain this. We were engaged for a year living in separate houses and we were always we've always lived in separate places before we were married all the time. Okay. Um, hopefully that makes sense 'cause I did not say that enough I did not say that the right way. See I gotta be I like I'm just I'm really a I'm an innocent man living in a really bad world. But what can I say? Okay, so bottom line is um commitment though establishes the basis for closeness. And a lot of times the reason that pe that churches don't have the closeness that God wants us them to have is because they don't have the commitment to each other that they need in order to have the closeness. And the commitment is based upon trust and common interest, which the bond should be the gospel and unity and all those things. Does that make sense? Very, very important to understand and I think I think it's it's really helpful to see to see what he is talking about here. I I to me reading this book was sort of was very refreshing. I'm going, wow, this is really It's just really good. And uh and I was very thank I was thankful for it. Um let's go ahead and see what he says call call-based commitment looks like. He says A church built on the commitment of a church membership is different. Well, he's contrasting with this comfort-based commitment. It requires commitment up front. You bind yourself to a group of Christians that frankly you don't actually know that well. I mean relatively somebody joins a church and they don't necessarily know the ins and outs of everyone perfectly before they join, uh or even imperfectly before they join. Um when a person is baptized, he or she is making making an upfront commitment to follow Christ And much of that is a commitment to love other believers. So you have and that isn't that true? What is the commitment to follow Christ made up of? If you want to boil it all down, it's to love God and love others. I mean, that's the commitment. We talked a lot about the importance of in this whole concept of unity and diversity. We need to love each other. And love is a choice that we make. based upon a commitment. They are sort of synonymous here. Or not synonymous exactly, but they're they're they're they go together. Church membership attaches the general commitment to a specific group of people. Our commitment to them doesn't stem from feelings of attachment or comfort or belonging Although I hope those feelings follow. Okay, so it's not like we don't like those feelings. Those are good. We want to have a sense of commitment. We want to have a sense I mean I mean a sense of uh of belonging. I mean if you there there should be some of that there. But what's the I uh here's the key, what's the basis of that? The basis of that sense of belonging is the gospel. Agreement in the gospel. That's the sense of belonging that binds us all together that God wants us to have. And uh so your commit uh belonging uh instead it's commitment you make because doing so is part of following Christ. Okay, so that's the basis of it. Uh calling-based commitment. Uh he uh he says this in the in his book, we rec we must recognize that calling-based commitment goes against everything our culture stands for. Yet confidence in such a counterculture stance is well grounded because the Bible assures us the basic concept of authority is for our good. After all, the most basic step of repentance we all take to become Christians recognizes the absolute authority of the universe. Is a is unambiguously for our good. Talking about God being absolute authority. Every time authority is used well, it evidences the truth that becomes critical counter-evidence. to Sat Satan's life. So what he's saying there is this when you have commitment based based membership and commitment based community in a local church, we're developing community in the way that God wants us to rather than in a way that uh would be superficial. Um you it it it requires a submissive spirit one to another Scripture says, submit yourselves one to another. We don't like that word submission in our culture, do we? That is a that is like almost a bad word. And you know why? Because we have assumed that submission means Right, and less in status. Like I'm not as good I'm not as valuable because I'm submissive. And yet that's exactly the opposite of what God says. The more submissive we are to God's will, the more valuable we are to God. The more we are submissive, have a submissive spirit toward one another, the more valuable we are. to one another. And and really, of course, uh to some extent with church leadership as well. And so this is an important important to understand. Okay. So he the Bible assumes commitment that is significant in several different areas. Number one, love one another deeply and sacrificially And by definition, biblical love is that. It is sacrificial love for each other. Let's flesh that out sort of practically. What is when in loving loving let's just say let's just do this practically. What is love in a church? How do you express love to your brother or sister in Christ? How do you do that? Josh? Giving up yourself. Okay, and that is what love is, exactly. But let's let's go practically a little bit. How do you do that in a in a local church? People helping me giving your labor. Um not necessarily wanting to do but doing. Okay. Tony? Um thinking thinking the best of system cranks looking for ways to get the benefit of the doubt when frankly sometimes Okay. So that would be sort of forgiveness. Yeah, forgiveness. Okay. Good. What else Let me just be real practical. We need to know the need each other's needs. That means it requires us to know each other. And we're in a society that isolates from everybody. You know, like you go out and you do your thing and then you come to church once a week. I mean, we isolate each other. This is just the way our culture works. And God said and God says you've got to love each other. Well love each other. You've got to if you're gonna if you're gonna meet the need of someone, which is what love is Love is meeting the need of somebody else. Our greatest spiritual need, Christ met. He demonstrated his love toward us by dying for us. So if we're going to meet somebody else's spiritual need, we're going to have to know them to know what that need is. Does that make sense? It's going to require us to know them. Well, how do you know somebody? You've got to spend time with them. But let's just say practically on Wednesday night you're in a prayer meeting and you hear a prayer request. Some need that somebody expresses. Well, how do you show love? Well, number one, it's a prayer meeting, what should we be doing for the person? Okay, that's showing love, right? Or um and after that, what what what what else could we do to express love to them? Um in our prayers ask God Or do you call it on me to meet this week? Good. Okay, very good. What else? How about going and following up with them and saying, hey, how is such and such going? How is that going? How's that need uh how is that need? Just on a you know, before church on Sunday or afterwards or something. Hey how how are things going with that? I've been praying for you. Okay? That that would be another there there's all kinds of and and so all of that now if we pray and and we know we have the means to meet the need and we don't meet the need, James talks about that doesn't it? It says if you m if a brother comes to you in need and you don't meet it, be warmed and filled, go your way. You know, it's it's really a hypocritical kind of a kind of a Yeah, that's a good that is a very good I I'm glad you brought that up. What is the responsibility of a person who has a need? I think you've got to be vulnerable enough to express your needs Honestly, we all this goes exactly against our culture. But I think we've got to be able to say, look, I've got this need. And I don't mean and I you know a lot of times when we think of need we immediately think monetary. And I don't know why we always think that, but we we we do. And sometimes it is monetary. And we're not saying we're not we don't go to it's not like we go and ask for a handout to everybody we meet. That's not what we're talking about. But if there is a general need, even a financial need to ask Ask people to pray. There's nothing wrong with that. But let's go beyond financial. There's other things. Let's say you're struggling. Let's say you're struggling with parents Parenting because none of us ever struggle in parenting. Right? Okay, because we're all perfect parents. No, we do. Right? So what would be wrong with going to a brother in Christ and saying Hey, you know what's struggling this air, would you pray for me? Um yeah, Josh? is how can we be taught if we're not being involved in the learned. So really it takes the it takes the idea that we ourselves individually think we can handle Yeah good seeking out wisdom as scripture says to find it not obviously it's talking about Yeah, I think that's a good point. And you know what we young guys want to do? We want the older to teach us, but we want what we want them to say. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Oh boy. So let's move on before we get in trouble here. Um I think we're already past that actually. Um we need to assemble regularly one one another. We're doing that now, so I'd be preaching to the choir if if I uh although it it is important to to rem Remember that. Um encourage one another. Uh there there's this need for that. And actually the Bible tells us that we need to guard one another. That's kind of harder, isn't it? How what what does it mean to guard one another? What do you suppose that means? Yes, sir? Paul Eastman I think um there have been times where y you know that's this is pr I think the hardest one is gar gar I think that's the hardest one out of out of all this. It's hard because you don't want to overstep the do it in load. Yeah. Um but again if you see a brother's truck when you come alongside and uh Yeah, if you see somebody about to jump off a cliff, you're not loving them if you just let them jump. I mean that's just the reality. Uh and and so all of these things How do we build biblical community in a local church that is going to be the world's going to look and go, wow, this is amazing. and and glorify God and recognize the strength the power of the gospel. It's with these kinds of things. Because the reality is we'll never be able to do these kinds of things. if we don't if we don't know God's love for us, if we're not if we're not aware of it and think about Christ's own sacrifice for us and his love for us And his forgiveness for us. You can't forgive if you're not for if you if you're not aware of your forgiveness in Christ. You might be forgiven in Christ, but if you're not aware of it, it's hard to forgive others. You can't love very well if you are not just aware of God's love for you And so and so this is very, very so it goes so it goes both ways. We need to know what that love is in the gospel. We need to understand what How to love others, we need to we need to know what forgiveness is in the gospel. We need to then express that forgiveness to others. Those are the things that are necessary. The Bible assumes formalized commitment, just sort of uh points that out in Matthew 18, 1 Corinthians And uh he says this pity the poor church attender who never commits to obey a particular set of church leaders and instead attempts responsibility as their own shepherds, a responsibility they were never intended to fulfill. And uh but you know, it's it is something to think about. Um tur uh it it's important to realize that one of the reasons if the Lord allows us, I I I would like I I I would love to see the Lord give us more than one one pastor to be honest with you. I'd like a little help in this. Um and uh that's just my desire, uh, because I don't like the load myself I don't I don't love handling the whole load myself, but the Lord in his time will will allow that to happen if he desires Actions that clarify the responsibility new members take when they join. So So this is something that I really learned from this and and we so our membership process we have a membership process here. It's not it's not like we have no membership process like you come in one Sunday and come forward and say, Okay, I want to join and okay, you're done. Um I I know churches like like that. Down south uh I was in a I was interning in a church where That was sort of the mentality God's called me to join this church in LOA. All right, Bamber brother, let's vote on him now. Um that s sounds like Not a great thing. But um uh we have you know we have membership classes that we go through and make sure you understand our doctrine and and constitution, things like that. And uh then we vote on it and stuff. But but these are things that but sometimes, you know, once we've joined and m been a member for a long for a while, it's like we forget the commitment of membership that we've made. It's easy to do that Because we're just kind of going through life now. So he says, here's some things that'll help. Before a person joins, we ask, this is what he does he he does in in our church. Fourth person joins. We ask him or her to take six classes that explain what membership involves. We consider the truth in advertising campaign. pain so new members will understand what this commitment involves and to whom they're committing. We do do we do that? We do that already. Okay, so that's that's a that's a good thing. Before a person joins, he or she sits down with an elder or uh uh for an hour to share his or her testimony Explain the gospel and discuss what it looks like to be a member. We do that as well. I've probably not done as well with that third thing of Explaining what it looks like to be a member, but I I certainly I try to. Uh yeah, you want to have a balance with that as well. You don't want to act like it's us four no more. something you certainly want God to bring who he wants here and and so we have to sort of we don't want to give we want to be have an openness to to to to people not a closed closeness to people. And I think we have We ask each new member to understand and sign the our church covenant, a document that summarizes the biblical one another commands that I reviewed earlier in this week. Do we do that? Now we don't we don't really do that. Now we ask people to agree to follow the Constitution, but we've never had anybody we we never had some somebody read it and sign it, basically. I the only thing I can say about that is I do wonder if that would help us re sort of understand what we're doing. Now, the church covenant needs to be inherently biblical. Everything in there needs to be biblical Church Covenant needs to have something that you love that and we have a coven Church Covenant. Um but um the whole idea is I am committing to a to love my brothers and sisters in Christ here. And uh I do think that that's that's somewhat uh uh maybe a helpful practice. And he says later on that we should recite it to we we should just sort of recite the covenant to each other, you know, maybe during a church congregational meeting or during um uh what whatever w uh uh maybe communion, um those kinds of times where we can express our love to each other, express that we are unified and committed uh to commun continuing in love with each other. I thought these were very, very good suggestions. Many of them we we already do, thankfully. Formal commitment catalyzes informal commitment, he says. We continually, that's really, can you thank you. Okay. We continually update a paper copy of membership photo directory. This is something I'd like to do better with. We don't we have a church directory, but we're not really great at at updating it. But we're getting we'll we'll get there uh eventually. Um and that's nobody's fault. Nobody here it's like Nancy's like that's all that's not her fault. That's That's not Nancy's fault. That's my fault. I have not shown leadership there yet. But Nancy is coming probably. And and we do and we do have a uh church directory, but um it it it's we we need to update it uh with with pictures and things. Before we share the Lord's Supper, here's where it comes in. We asked members of the church to stand and read through the church covenant together, reminding us uh what we committed to. I think that is really a good idea. Uh what a new member when a new member joins, uh the elder who interviewed her gives him or her, I assume, gives her gives a brief synopsis of her testimony to the whole congregation. I I like this. I have not thought of this Then we ask the congregation to vote accepting the person into our church. I like this for this reason. And uh I always struggle with having somebody actually like requiring somebody to give their testimony to the congregation. Like let me if they want to, great. But some people are pretty timid about that. So we actually have them in a in a membership application write out their ch their testimony and I ask them about their testimony. But I never thought well maybe a way to do this is I could share with them there obviously here's here's what they here's what what their testimony is about and and sort of uh that's sort of a middle that's sort of a instead of putting them on a spot when they don't may not be comfortable pu speaking in public I could say, hey, here's what we talked about. This is a really neat testimony. And so anyway, I thought that was really neat and something we might apply here. One reason for the vote is to fulfill what we understand we do the vote this vote as well. Um what we understand the congregation's responsibility for the Determining who is part of the church. But another reason for the vote is that we it is a formal acceptance by the congregation to take a responsibility to fold the person uh into our family and to make our lives open to this person as relationships permit. And so um I really one of the things he talks about is this whole concept of a of a family. You know, a family needs to be committed to each other. other. And so the same thing in a church shouldn't shouldn't the bond let me ask you this question, maybe you haven't thought about it, maybe you have. Shouldn't the bond between Two family members that are unsaved be less strong than two people that are saved. That are in God's family. Shouldn't God's family and that bond be stronger? Something to consider. He then explains that community goes abroad. He gives a great illustration about this. He says, my friend Bill Anderson first started visiting our church in the in the early 60s. He wasn't a Christian at the time. He taught a popular class at Harvard University called The Madness of the Crowds. I'd like to take that class. That'd be a good class. Yeah Harvard course. The Madness of Crowds, which teach teaches concepts of mass psychology by explaining the phenomena of New England uh w New England witch hunts, urban legends, and financial panics. But a career studying crowds did not prepare him for the local church. No, that doesn't sound sound right. But anyway, um the diversity of the congregation impressed him But beyond that, the genuineness of the diverse fellowship impressed him. In his words, it was striking from the first moments I came through the door. It was clear that something special was going on. The relationships seemed not so much unnatural as highly uncommon. So I was introduced, this is an unsafe person observing this, so I was introduced to the idea of a healthy church, a concept that had before eluded me. The power of this corporate witness provoked him. It undermined the conceptions of Christianity and began the process that would eventually lead to new life in Christ. Now isn't that what do you think about that? I'm just curious, well how does that strike you? That is a great testimony. I think it exactly illustrates What what Paul is saying in Ephesians 3 when he says that the that the wisdom of that the church is to display the manifold wisdom of God to the world so that they see a difference. And what does Christ, of course, say? They'll know they're Christians by what? By their love one for another. They'll know my my they're my disciples, is what he says. The purpose of the div of diversity we see the purpose table which we've already read before in Ephesians. Very important. Ephesians chapter 3. Oh, I'm over time. My dad said he was going to remind me, but he can't because he's not here. today. All right. Um diversity mentioned there is diversity mentioned in this. I'm gonna boy. All right, we'll just stop there even though they've got a lot more to say. All right. Um so um I just want to uh express this that that We want to keep in mind what we're trying to do is think through and study how God intends for the church to be to express the manifold wisdom of God to the world. and and uh to do it in this way. So hopefully this has been helpful for us. And I am over time, so I'm going to go ahead and quit. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you, Lord, just for the time that we could spend together studying your word and principles and applications from your word today. Of course, we've been very heavy on the application end of end of things here today, Lord, but we know that these principles that we have discussed today are rooted in biblical truth And I pray, Lord, that you I just thank you for our church. I thank you for how you are developing us and growing us according to your purposes and your will. I couldn't be more grateful. I know we all are grateful for this, Lord, and uh I pray, Lord, that we would just continue to be uh what you want us to be, and that this would guide us and help us. Many of the things um I think we do we do love each other, Lord, but we can always improve in these areas. And I pray that you would help us to do that. And we pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen.