To look like and how Adam had a particular task to do in taking care of the garden and how Eve was supposed to be a help meet for him, appropriate for him, to help him with that task, and all of what God had created in the beginning, and then we find the fall and what had happened as a result of the fall. And we talked about we talked about that at length And uh some of the things that happened is marriage became uh there are different temptations in marriage. One is a self-centered marriage. Another is a child-centered marriage and another is a spouse-centered marriage, and we discussed what those look like. And we noted that really what's important because of the fall is that we want gospel-centered-centered marriages And just as a reminder of what we've gone through, we just mentioned this, that we should rightly object to the binary choice that both traditional and contemporary marriage seem to give us Is the purpose of marriage to deny your interests for the good of the family, or is it rather to assert your interests for the fulfillment of the family? And the answer is it's it's neither one of those things, that when you give of yourself, then actually you are able to fulfill what God intended and it's your best and really the the greatest joy and peace that you can have in life. is when you are fulfilling the responsibilities that God has given you to fill. And then we got into the uh corrupting the false corrupting influence on marriage. And we noted about what happens when sin enters the world and when sin corrupts both vertical and horizontal relationships. Our relationship with God and the most immediate relationship that we have if we're married is with our spouse, so it corrupts both of those. And then we noted, and take your Bibles and turn there, we're going to read these verses again, where noted the curses that are mentioned as a result of the fall. So let's pick up And see what that says, chapter 3, verse 16. It says to the woman, so we've got actually pick up before this. Look at verse 14, and we'll get the context here. It says So the Lord God said to the serpent, Because you have done this, you are cursed more than than all cattle, and more than every beast of the field. On your belly you shall go, and you shall eat dust in the days all the days of your life. And I will put enmity between you and the woman, between your seed and her seed. He shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. You have there the very first glimpses of the gospel there. Verse sixteen to the woman he said, I will greatly multiply your sorrow and your conception. So we now have These are what is going to happen to women as a result of the fall. You'll greatly marr uh uh uh multiply your sorrow and conception. Is that not the case, ladies Childbearing is hard. Okay. And that's what the Bible says. That's that's actually a result of the fall. You can blame Eve. Yeah. I don't think so. I think you're probably the talk about the same the same thing. Um Yeah, I wouldn't I would I I had to double check the Hebrew on that, but I I I I think it's basically a a parallel idea. Um Well, hm. I think it's I mean it's obviously in the concept of conception, then we have the next ver the next uh phrase that says, In pain you shall bear bring forth children. So I think it's all talking about that. Um and pain you'll bring forth children. And then it says, Your desire shall be for your husband. So there's a direct effect of the curse on the marriage. Uh uh uh the It says your desire will be for your husband and he shall rule over you. The word rule. So what do these words mean? Well desire and rule, what do these words mean? Well Beware of reading a modern idea into the terms desire and rule. Desire does not mean the wife is wanting or coveting her husband. Rule does not mean their husband is imposing dominance on his wife, rather Desire could be better translated controlling, and ruling could be better translated governance. It's basically saying that there is a temptation for women, and this is what the Bible says, so don't shoot the messenger on this. But there's a temptation uh for women to control because of the fall, and that says and he shall have governance over he the man has to has to lead despite this this strong pull for the wife to control. And um and there if you look at the fall and you look at marriages There is this this becomes a real problem of a of a corrupting influence, the false corrupting influence on marriages And a lot of the problems in marriages can not all of them a lot of them can boil down to this. Now I can tell you from a man's perspective what the struggle is, um, and that's I do not have a particularly hard struggle. My wife, before we were ever married, understood her role. as a wife who is to be a help meet for me and and she has always arranged herself under me in my leadership so I have not had the difficulties uh that others have had to some degree. I mean everybody has difficulties But it's very easy as a man to do one of two things and both are not acceptable. One is to be domineering Okay, the woman wants to control and the and the man wants to just of course stomp her out or be to be domineering, and that's not biblical at all. And the other is to sort of check out. And that's not biblical. That's why God says later in 1 Peter that you, husband, you've got to dwell with your wife according to knowledge. Because there's a real temptation for a man because of the fall to just either do one of those two things, either to try to dominate where he that's not the point of leadership at all. Just do what I say when I say it. That is not at all what leadership is, biblical leadership Um or on the other hand to just sort of, okay, well do whatever you want, I'm checking out, I'm gonna go do my thing. And so he so the husband isn't is is And is trying is n his role is to govern, his role is to lead, and the woman's role is to is the woman's temptation because of the fault is to control. So, ladies I just told you the man's perspective because of of how that works. What I'm afraid to do is tell tell the ladies' perspective. So can I'm not really afraid. The Bible says the fear of woman is a is a reproach and a snare. Actually it says the fear of a man is approaching a snare. But uh I'll apply that to mankind, including women. But um but I am curious from a lady's perspective. What is the temptation in a marriage? When you see this and when you see what the Bible says here, how would you articulate the temptation to want to control? Any ideas? Nobody wants to say nobody wants to venture. Yes, Miranda. You want to control. But I think for most women it shows up not in a desire to say, Husband, this is what you're gonna do. But use more subtle means of getting my own way, even though I would say you had to. Okay. So manipulative sort of thing. But then you had that Okay. This is a whole new world for me. Okay, yeah. Yes, Enrique. This is not the typical uh day to day experience by presentation that I know is bad and try not to do. Yeah. Good. I I appreciate that. That's Miranda, that's that's good. It's not good, but it's good. Okay. Who else? Erica? Um well thinking just in like the relevance of all of them. Yeah. Well, you know, this is my domain don't mess with you know how to run it. And that has to be difficult because because it is f I mean, my wife manages our home and I don't want to get in the way 'cause she does a lot better. I know I can't do as well as she's doing it Honestly. But there is this sort of uh but I w occasionally I do have to step in and say, honey, we gotta do things a little differently. And that would be a situation where she would have to s she could be easily tempted to say, What are you talking about? This is what I this is I'm better at this than you. Well you you know, whatever. Which is an understandable thing, which would be definitely true. Lisa. I think um from a woman's perspective who's probably gone through this to um the ultimate ending when you don't want a marriage to go Is that if the husband is not taking over the leadership role in the home, the woman will do it to but But because that's not verbal it won't work right. Yeah. Yeah, no, I I think that's a fair point. Um W uh I my experience has been, and this is not across the board, this is all this is sort of uh it's stereotyping, so you have to be careful with this. But as a as a rule, a woman Will take responsibility. In fact, a woman will often take more responsibility than she should take on Her inclination is to take on more. What what about a man? Is that the case for a man? It's the opposite for a man. Now this is goes beyond scripture. This is what I'm just saying as a man, but the intemptation is for the man to try to push if if a woman will take it, the man'll give it. Often. That's not always the case. Unless he's biblically realizing, oh you can't take that, you shouldn't take this and I need to lead and those kinds of things. I mean those are uh you know but outside of that than then a man will just say, Yeah, you want to take it? Take it. Yes. Oh sure. Yeah. Definitely. Uh we're gonna get into the believe me, we'll get into the men. But as far as leading. But no, that's a that's absolutely right. Um yes, Sonya. I think you ever heard the saying when people say like somebody will treat you as bad as you let them? It's kind of the same concept with control, but like what Lisa said a woman takes more control because maybe they feel Yeah, it is being the same concept. If somebody knows they can treat you a certain way, it's very hard to ever Yeah. That actually is true. And often when you get into that place you need a third party you need a pastor or somebody to help you. If you get in that where you, okay, I don't know how to reverse this, we know we're not quite doing things right, it really is a matter of sitting down with somebody saying, okay, let's hit the reset button here. What is this going to look like? But outside of something like that usually you go down that road, it is hard to it's hard to hit the reset button. Yeah. And what I was kinda getting at was saying that she won't do it happily. properly is that she will be frustrated and the husband will be uh resentful. Yeah because he's not doing what he should be and he sees her doing it and yet sh She's feeling like burdened or like overly burdened by taking on that musical role. So uh this is something that, ladies, we so then the question so how what is God's answer to this? So this is the curse, this is sin, and how it affects marriages. Now What's God's answer to this? Now if you just let your mind go to the Bible, to the New Testament, what would you say is God's answer to this? How is how is he going to with gospel with the gospel fix this in marriages? Any ideas? Yeah. Yeah, it's exactly right. Ephesians 5. And so that's what we're going to look at this mor this evening is uh is Ephesians 5 and let me get there. Um both Ephesians 5 and 1 Peter 3 is the other passage. We won't get to 1 Peter 3 tonight, but we'll look at Ephesians 5. So take your Bibles and turn to Ephesians 5. And you're going to find, I want, but I want us to keep it in this context. But what is the, generally speaking, what is the answer to sin? Or the answer to the fall, or the answer to the curse? What's generally speaking, what is the answer? The answer is Right, the gospel. Right. Very good, the gospel. Okay. And so when it comes to your marriage, the the answer is what? It's going to be the gospel. It's still the gospel is the answer. Then the question is, how is the gospel applied to our marriages? And that's really what's going on here. In Ephesians 5, for example, what is he going to say about the husband? Husband, love your wives as what? As Christ loved the church and gave himself for her. That's a gospel reference. And so and the same thing with it when with regard to uh wives um submit to your husbands. So let's look at this and we're gonna we're gonna read through this And and we need to understand that this a con this is within the context of living out the gospel in our marriages. And I need to get there. Alright, Ephesians 5. And we'll look at verses. We're going to read through, and what I want you to do, what I want us all to do is just be mindful as we read through this. We're going to read through the whole passage. And then we're going to make some comments about this passage and how it applies to various various aspects in our lives. Um look at verse 21. I I'm I I kind of mentioned this before we get to verse twenty one. Look at verse eighteen. Verse eighteen I think is so key, and do not be drunk with wine where there's excess, but be where which is dissipation. But be filled with the spirit. That's not by accident, by the way, that in a passage that you're going to be talking about marriage and family, before, just before that it says you need to be filled with the spirit. And I think, frankly, the reason is because if we're going to have godly marriages, we're going to it's going to be ha it's going to have to be because we are under the Spirit's influence in our lives and under his word. So it says verse 21, and I think this is a very important verse. It says what? Submitting, before it ever says wives, submit to your husband, it says submitting to one another in the fear of God. We are to submit ourselves one to another. In other words, folks, all of us are supposed to have submissive spirits toward each other. The the idea of dominating one another or Those kind of things, there should just generally be a submissive spirit, humble spirit toward one another. And then with that, verse 23 it says, For the husband is the head of the wife. As also Christ is head of the church and is the Savior of the body. Therefore, just as the church is subject to Christ, so let the wise be to their own husbands and everything. Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for her, that he might sanctify and cleanse her with the washing of the water by the word. Then he might present her to himself a glorious church, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that she should be holy and without blemish. So husbands ought to love their wi their own wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as the Lord does the church. For we are members of his body, of his flesh, and of his bones. For this reason shall a man leave his father and be joined to his wife, and the two shall be one flesh. And that's a quote from Genesis This is a great mystery, but I speak concerning Christ in the church. Nevertheless, let each of you in particular so love his wife as himself, and let the wife see that she rev respects her husband. I want to make just two general comments before we get into eight specific things here. When you look at this passage, when you think of the gospel. And the foundation of the gospel, which is in, which is where? Where's the foundation? The first three chapters of Genesis. That's the foundation of the gospel. When you look at the foundation of the gospel, and then you look at what the gospel is, that's you have creation and recreation. creation and redemption. Okay. So what is this discussing? It's discussing both those concepts. It's how do you apply creation and redemption. When it says, for example, that cr that that the head the husband is the head of the wife, it's going back to pre-fall and s and reminding us what it was supposed to be like pre-fall. And what it is like because of Christ, Christ is redeeming us. And so now it can be this way again And the same thing when it comes to um uh when it comes to a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, they'll be they'll be one flesh. It's going back to Genesis and pointing out that this was God's original intention and now because of Christ this can be a reality. Outside of Christ, this cannot work. There's no qu I can't you know if somebody asks me to give marriage counseling but they don't want the Bible, then I just say, you know, y you probably want to go somewhere else because I don't know how to do that. You uh the the gospel is the thing that's going to redeem our marriages. We in marriage we're looking at all ki people give all kinds of answers and all kinds of reasons why their marriage fell apart and why it didn't work and all those kinds of things. And at the end of it, they've got to come to the conclusion that the problem was the corrupting influence of sin. That's the problem. And the only answer is the gospel And so when we come to this, that's the case as well. And so we're going to see creation reiterated here, and we're going to see aspects of redemption redemption reiterated here as well. And of course Of course, verses uh chapters one through three of Ephesians talks a lot about redemption, about Christ and about his work and about the who we are in Christ and all that, which lays the foundation for chapters five through uh five and six. Four, five, and six. All right. So with that in mind, let's go over several different things that we're going to find in this passage. First of all, this passage is founded upon the expectation that all Christians should live in humility. So understand that. That that this is not going to give us a license give a give a license for a man to not live in humility or to to somehow live at lording over his wife. or the wife to uh this this is going everyone this is assuming that we're that there is a submitting one to another, that there is a deferring one to another, that there is a hum humility one to another. And that is such an important, just like in the gospel, what's the one quality you need in order to come to Christ? It's humility. You have to think, you have to say, there's nothing of myself, nothing in my hands I bring. I'm not, I can't save myself I am fully placing my trust on Christ. It's humility that brings us to a place where we can accept the gospel. And it's humility in our marriages that brings us to a place where we can actually redeem our marriages for God's purposes. So this all of this assumes that there is a high level of humility. Philippians 2 verse 3, it says that we ought to think of ourselves, esteem each other better than ourselves. And in marriage, it's important to esteem the other person better than ourselves. When you disagree, you ought not to think to yourself, well, I'm just so much better than the other person. Would you disagree You ought to be actually doing your best to esteem the other person better than yourself. That is a that is this is presupposing uh that kind of idea. And so that's important as well. So this passage is founded upon that, and it's very important to understand that. Let's go ahead and go on to the next one. Paul calls wives to submit to their own husbands as to the Lord. Now that's an important phrase, as to the Lord. That means then that the priority, why are you first of all, why women should you submit to your husbands It's as the Lord, because you want to please God. That's the reason. It doesn't mean, okay, I should submit to the Lord. I mean I should submit to my husband's. I should agree I should sub I should arrange myself. Submit means to arrange yourself under their leadership. I should do that because things will be so much better if I do that. Do you know that the Bible doesn't say that? It doesn't say things will be so much better if you do that. Now the truth is if they love you the way they ought to and you submit to them the way you ought to, then things will probably be better. But that's not why. Why is it the wife is supposed to submit to her husband? To please God. That's why. It's as to the Lord. And then the other thing that it that this is really saying is that, and we see that in this in Colossians, which we looked at a couple of weeks ago. That a wife's ultimate per person she's submitting to is God. She's submitting to the Lord, and the husband is delegated authority. And so if the if if the if the husband asks the wife to do something that is not biblical, it's not it's not according to what Scripture says, then biblically the wife has the the ability and should refuse. This is the ultimate authority, not the husband. Okay. And and God is the ultimate authority, uh, rather than the husband. And I think that's those are two very important things uh to understand. Um Make sure I covered most of that. Any questions about this particular we've talked a lot about the fact that this is not mean that the wife is in any way sub uh inferior to the husband and no more no more than it means that you know Christ is no more than Christ is inferior to the father because He's submissive to him. So we talked a lot about that. There's not an inferiority here that that that is uh that it's implied. Any questions, practical questions about what this means or maybe what this doesn't mean? What does it mean to arrange yourself under your husband or what it doesn't mean? Ladies, any insights into what this means? Is this hard to do? Answer yes. I mean not to tell you that. It is hard to do. You don't have to tell me that I know. Why is it how do I know that? Because of the curse, remember? The curse says it's hard to do for you. Okay, the curse says that you're go you're you're going to want to control. Okay. Lisa, do you have something? Okay. Um and so this is something that you that that is going to be a vi uh a difficult thing uh for you to be able to do Submit yourselves unto your own husbands as unto the Lord. Next, wives are to submit, Paul says, because the husband is the head of the wife. just as Christ is the head of the church. So there's this reason behind it. It's because we are to be representing Another institution, the institution of Christ with his church, which is representative to the world of who Christ is. So this is we have a there's a bigger picture in mind here than just uh than just our marriage as well. Um This does imply authority. There isn't any way of getting around it here. This is not, as Jeff said earlier, doesn't mean micromanage at all, but but it does mean that there that the husband does have authority here. Uh there isn't any way gr getting around that term for headship. It's always used in the New Testament as uh to have that kind of an idea. Um The next one. Well, any other questions on these? Next one. Husbands are loved their wives just as Christ loved the church. Now that is a tall order, isn't it? What do you think is more difficult to love your wife as Christ loved the church? For husbands to do that or for wives to submit to their husbands. All of us husbands are going, this is harder. Now I don't know, I'm not a wife, so I don't know. Maybe you you're saying the other one's harder, okay? But I'll tell you this ha I mean Who could do that? I mean, Christ gave himself completely for for us. Yes. Can I just say that? I think most husbands say or think to themselves that I would take a full way. Yeah. You know, I would I would uh uh you know I would die for my wife, I was you know, anything like that. Which would be very much like that. But in that you know, and in some ways that might be easier than the day Yeah, that's exactly right. Because it says and gave himself for her. Um and it is a day-to-day thing. And by the way, Christ's example is that because he lived the perfect life for us. It wasn't just that he died for us. He actually fulfilled all the demands of the law for us, came to earth and lived for us, gave his life his life for us As well. Yeah. But there were times when Christ got angry with the church where there's sin and stuff, correct? Uh, not the church. The church hadn't been s had hadn't started yet until after Christ rose from the grave. He did get angry at the religious leaders. He got angry at the Pharisees a lot. Um, call them white sepulchres with dead men's bones. But that's not the church. So I would say I would no, I w I wouldn't say that. Uh he doesn't mean that he doesn't he does get angry at sin. Um so he does do that, but but um since the church didn't start till after the ascension, the resurrection and the ascension, then that wouldn't really be the case. Yeah. Uh but there was there was certainly problems, uh yeah, I mean he says he's going to s you know, if if the chur if the seven churches in Revelation You know, five out of the seven, if they didn't if they didn't straighten up, they were gonna get spew them out of their mouth. Uh he said, I'm gonna spew you out of my out of my mouth. That's pretty strong language. So it wasn't that he didn't have strong language towards them. When they're gonna but there's also a matter of um lordship that the Bible never says a husband has toward his wife. Okay, so Christ is We are heads as Christ is head of the church, but we are not Lord as Christ is Lord over all. Okay? There's nowhere in the Bible that says that. Yes, Jeff. the two that you're you're looking at here. Yeah. I mean the husbands are being held to the standard of price, which is totally impossible to us to achieve. Yeah. So achieving that standard seems more difficult than the other because it's literally impossible. But that doesn't mean that it's like conceptually loving your wife is not harder than submitting. But the standards of what's for being Christ is totally across the standard yeah the level and it's going to be that we're gonna have to love Christ uh Christ is gonna have to love through us and we're gonna have to understand it's gonna be by his strength. Yes Sonia? question. So we all know Christ died for the church, and I thought the church in concept was the Christians that Christ was on earth, you know, getting his followers. Getting his followers I thought that would have been time that we all know Christ died for the church, but the church didn't exist until after he was gone. Enrique's said many husbands would die for their wives. So that's not really an example of how you need to treat your wife daily and love it and stuff. So there are a lot that stupid dying part, but there's so much more. But God if the church didn't exist, God didn't have an entire Opportunity to show all the love to the church and an example that we can use practically right for the church. And he lived for his future church. It wasn't inaugurated yet on earth. When he got angry, he got angry at the at the money at the m you know, with the money changers in the temple. That was not the church. That was Actually, he was angry at Israel, and he was angry at the leaders of Israel who was making his uh the temple of Malkri, but that wasn't the church. That was what I was trying to refer to earlier. So that's not the church. However, Christ Christ gave himself. The whole point is what this says in the passage. So let's look at the passage again. It says he hu husbands, love your wives just as Christ uh love the church. How did he do that? He gave himself for her. So the answer is what does it mean to give of yourself for someone? Does that make sense? Okay. Yeah. Yes? He also gave us an example to follow you know, how to love other serving and you know often recycled each and disserving Good point. We've got lots of examples of servant leadership. That's a that would be your point as well. uh when he was on earth. He's you know, we're not talking yeah, good point. Um so so oh husb this means, by the way, folks, that You know, it's a very immature husband that says, okay, well, I'm the head of the household, so everything's going to be my way and what I want. That is not the point. Okay? You know, um and and I I've I've heard that kind of thing from young, immature husbands before. And um and it's it's not what it that's not that's not leadership at all. Um And so and I I will say this, this is I'm going to go on a limb here. This is more my opinion than what Scripture says, so I'll just mention his opinion. My experience so far has been when a husband really loves his wife this way. Which is impossible without Christ. Wives often come around. Um not always, because they're sinful and corrupt and you know, but Um but it is it is and it is something that the ha that often is the case uh when a husband will love his wife this way Next one. Husbands are to give of themselves. Well, which we've kind of already gone over. Husbands are to give of themselves for the wi for their wives' benefit. So the so the the wife's the husband's relationship is to give of himself. uh to her. And I I would remind us of this that that I actually think it's the wife's more the wife's inclination to give up herself. than the than the husband to give of himself. So a a wife and a mother will give. They will give to their kids and sometimes also their husband to the to their own hurt. To their own lack of well-billing being. They'll just give and give and give. That is that is a wi a wife and a mom often has that inclination. A husband does a man does not as much have that inclination, not natural. So just like the Bible doesn't tell us to eat three times a day because we'll do it all we'll do it without being told. The Bible does tell us, husbands, give yourself for your wife's benefit, because we are not always inclined to give that way. Husbands aren't as much. And so we have to be reminded to do that and commanded to do that. Husbands are to love their wives as they love themselves. And so we have here what scripture says. Let's look at it here. Um, husbands, love your wives, just Christ loved the church, verse 25. And gave himself for that he might sanctify and cleanse her with the washing of water by the word, uh, and present herself uh Uh present her to himself a glorious church, not having spotted wrinkle, any such thing, but that she should be holy and without blemish. So husbands ought to love their own wives as their own hus as their own bodies He who loves his wife loves himself. For by the way, do you notice how many verses for are for the husband here? You have a whole lot more content. for instruction for the husband than you do the wife. The the greater responsibility is to the husband Verse 29, for no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as the Lord does the church. For we are members of his of of his body, of his flesh, and of his bones. So the husband's responsibility is to l is to love and to cherish. It says that the that the that the that Christ cleanses his church with the word. that indicates for a h a a husband that he is to be the spiritual leader and and take care of his wife spiritually. So there's a lot a lot there for the husband. And they're they are supposed to care for their wives the way that they care for themselves. They need to be thinking about the details of of how to care for their wives. It's very natural for a hus um for all of us to clean ourselves and to take care of ourselves. I mean that's just sort of natural. But it's very easy for husbands, I think, for men to sort of kind of be in their own little world and sort of do what they need, but not really be attentive To the needs of their wives. And this by application is sort of: I need to be attentive to what my wife needs. Does that make sense? Any questions about that? Um I I I I could think of examples of men that were very attentive to their wives' needs and um I I I'll tell you the prime example I can think of is my grandfather uh Pops, my my mom's dad. Uh he he was such a he's such a he's a southern gentleman kind of a man and uh just always attentive to her ever since I've ever known known them. I've never known, you know, since I was born. And um and that kind of atten attention, attentiveness. Um that's it's that's the that's what it's talking about there, or by way of application anyway Both husband and wife should remember that their marriage speaks to the world about Christ's relationships to his church. So there's a much bigger picture here that we're supposed to follow Christ's relationship to his church, marriage pictures that. And so it's important. By the way, when you think about your own kids. Uh Christ's relationship with his church are our marriage picture if that's what marriage pictures, then A kid, a ch children can observe the mare the parents' relationship and see sort of what a relationship is with the Lord. Okay, there's closeness and those kinds of things there. So understand that there is a much bigger picture here involved. Number eight, Paul calls wives to respect their husbands. You see that again in the passage as well. Notice what it says, the very last phrase here is, and the wife see that she she the the King James says reverence her husband Uh the New King James says, respect her husband. Respect is a good way to put it. It's the same Greek word as the word fear. But fear isn't doesn't fear is not in you know the kind of trepidation kind of fear is not implied in the passage. It's a respect. The wife see that it r to res uh wives to need to respect their husbands. Um let me ask you this question. Does that is respect In this passage is respect earned? It's not. It's not earned here. It's commanded. You need to respect your husband. Um now I'm not say obviously uh uh we any husband here is far more concerned about the weight of his responsibility at this point than than this. So there's no but no husband that should be going home saying, see you need to respect me Okay. Alright, because we gotta love like Christ love the church. So there's nobody's gonna go home l that way, hopefully. Alright. But there is you there are No, it just says that you need to respect. And um and sometimes it's in spite of their incompetence. Frankly. True. Okay. Um and uh hopefully there's enough confidence in your husband that you it's not always the case, but sometimes you're gonna have to respect in spite of it. Yeah. Is the respect your um husband similar to the children respect your parents? You don't always get it right and necessarily always In that sense, yes. In that sense, yes, but there's a much different kind of so you actually get to the children here, the next verse, children obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. Um, honor your father and mother, which is the first commandment with promise that maybe will if you live long on the in the earth. You have a much stronger Like it uses the word obey. It actually uses the word obey for the wife over in 1 Peter 3. But this path there there's a contrast here. where children your job is to obey okay uh uh and there's a command to obey actually there's never a command I don't think to for a for a wife to obey her husband submit yes So there's in other words, there's a there's a difference. It actually says in 1 Peter 3 that Sarah obeyed her husband. Doesn't listen it's not a command, it's an example. Um so that's how she respected her husband in that case. So I I think there's a difference there. I think there's a big difference actually. But in the sense that a high a wa uh a a child should obey and respect their their parent, even though their parent is going to make mistakes. In that sense, I guess I guess there would be a comparison there. Yeah, Jeff. And the only thing I can think of is children need to obey without delving into reasons and trying to understand. Correct. Submit. You can have the conversation and try to understand Right. I think that's a very good way, good distinction. Submission is to arrange yourself under So I'm gonna range myself under under, you know, the leadership you know, wife's gonna r range herself under the wheel leadership of her husband. Whereas um uh uh You know, it's really not all that complicated for m for a child. Just obey, just do uh do what you're told. I mean I don't know what else they'll say. So I think there is a big difference between the two. And uh you know, frankly uh for a wife to arrange herself under her husband. Um a husband should be leading in order for the wife to be able to do that. Like if a if a wife doesn't know how to do that because he's not lead like he's not communicating, for example. That's a very common problem in in marriages where the husband's not communicating anything, so the wife's trying to arrange herself under a vacuum of leadership. Do you know how hard that is? Some of your wives are going, yeah. Anyway, but um that that's a hard thing to do. You're you're not so uh So submission implies that there is leadership as well and that you are working together. So I think I think you're right. I think the distinction is good. Good good distinction. Okay, uh applications. Single men Well single men we haven't talked about single men okay single men wake up now okay yeah Grace just tapped Zach Grace you're next Okay all right um don't Don't wait to practice this type of self-sacrifice until you're married. Men, do you see that? Don't wait. Use your relationships now, your relationships with your parents, your siblings. your uh your uh other friends, those kind of things. Use your relationship now as a platform to practice this type of self-sacrificial living in preparation for marriage. So don't wait until you're okay, well when I get married then I'll sacrifice. Until then I'm gonna do what I'm I'm gonna do what I want. It life does not work that way. Our our desires and our our character is cultivated over time. And so we can't just say, okay, I'll turn the switch when I get married, I'll start doing this stuff. Or I'm going to learn to sacrifice what I want for the benefit of not of others and learn how to give of myself for for the benefit of others. Look for a woman who willingly follows godly authority. Uh how do you how do you know how c what does that look like? Ladies or men, how how do you tell young men, how do you how what advice would you give to young men to do to for this? How do you tell? What's that? Yeah, good How does she how does she tr how does she treat her parents? Does she arrange herself under her ha her parents? If she doesn't arrange herself under her parents, guys, what do you think she why do you think if if she if you're in a relationship with a or you one day and you know after your um graduated from college and you're dating. Imagine that you're in a relationship with your with your um with somebody and she's always talking bad about her parents. Yeah, my parents are just a drag. They're doing this and they're doing that. Watch out. Be careful. In fact, um, I had a friend, and I wasn't dating. This was before I was in college, so I wasn't dated. Um that I was kinda interested in, she was kinda interested in me. And um I was a senior in high school and um we went to a conven uh there was a uh a a a convention, uh uh ACE convention, we went to regionals and then we placed the good internationals. It was a pretty university and I kinda I kinda liked her and uh I wasn't gonna date her, but I liked her and so you know she kinda liked me, but then I was hang so I was hanging around her friends. Wasn't hanging around her. Her her her classmates, her other guys, uh that that and we were I was kind of doing s doing a few things with them and they couldn't stop talking about how domineering she was. Like man Don't want to get right close to her. She didn't they didn't use the word domineering but so ha kept talking about how she was and yeah, you guys dear Claire her and those kind she didn't t they didn't tell me to do that. They were just talking to each other about that. I'm like, really? Yeah. So I didn't go any further with that. I was like I'm I'm not not what I should've I should have been more she wrote me afterwards and I should have at least wrote her back and said, Hey, this is not gonna work. Oh um that would have been nice, but I didn't write her at all. I just blew her off completely. Anyway, uh so that was the immature part of me. Anyway, um So but that was a good uh that was a that that uh observing that was a good thing. Um I just was lazy. Um so uh say so anyway Single men. Let's go to single women before I get more in trouble. Okay. Find a self-sacrificial husband. Find somebody who's actually going to write you back when you Find it find a self-sacrificial husband, somebody who gives of themselves, somebody who knows how to give of themselves. How you tell, look at their current relationships Their relationship with their parents, their relationship with their siblings, or really are they giving of themselves, or are they sacrificing uh of themselves to other to to the people around them? Or are all or all their are they the kind of people that just want. They want to get get get get good all the time. And by the way, ladies, it doesn't matter what they do to you, in the sense of they could give to you, and you can think, well, they're giving a lot to me. They treat everybody else like dirt, but they're giving a lot to me. They're doing that for a reason. They like you. Don't go by that at all. Okay? Look at what they're doing to other relationships. If they treat you bad, then you're of course you're gonna dump them Right? Okay. But just because they treat you good doesn't mean that they're a good option for you. See how their their their how their what their relationships were are with others. Submission often will involve reorienting of your goals in life. So just understand that. You have goals in life. That's great. You ought to But understand that when you get married, you are going to have to reorient your goals. Doesn't mean that you have to throw out every dream you ever had But you are going to have to reorient your goals so that they are consistent with what God has for you as a wife and as a f as a a mother. In fact I was just at a Husbands, uh inescapable leadership. And I'll just put the other one up there too. Uh in being the head of the home, the husband is ultimately responsible for most, if not all, problems. Okay. Okay. I should probably say problem all problems in the home. But uh okay, so I does that answer your question, Jeff. Responsible for probably both. Anyway, so probab probably both. Anyway. So they're just respon the bottom line is we're responsible. That's we're ultimately responsible. And uh you can't get out of it. There isn't any way of getting out of it as a husband God has called you to be a leader of your home, which means ultimately you will stand before the Lord for w how you lead your home and how you lead your wife and how you lead your kids and what happens with now. Now There's doesn't mean that, okay, if my kids go off the deep end, it doesn't mean it's my responsibility suddenly that they like if okay, my responsibility is how I have uh what I have allowed in my home. what how I've guided them. Ultimately they are sinful and depraved and they'll and and God has to work with them individually for them to come to Christ and those kinds of things. Um but we are responsible. The husband and this is so important because the husband usually s tries to He doesn't really want to see all of his level of responsibility, and the wife will try to grab at responsibility that really isn't hers, and that causes a lot of problems So husbands, we have to understand that we will stand before the Lord for what happens in our homes and that we are ultimately responsible for those things.