Um so that's what we're defining community as. Now it's not always defined that way, and some and and there is always there's sort of this understanding of the need of community within local churches But we have discussed last week how um sometimes there can be sort of counterfeit ways of trying to put people in certain age groups or or trying to trying to put people in certain groups that they'll they'll find they'll identify with each other, but it's not the gospel they're identifying. They're identifying with the fact that they homeschool. Everybody in the group homeschools or everybody in the group Uh it could be you know it could be anything. Everybody likes water aerobics. I don't know, whatever it is. Um you you can and and that's and those are really kind of counterfeit ways of creating community. That the way, the biblical way that you're going to create biblical unity is by unifying around the gospel. But that's what we need to be doing. And Linda, who was just here for last week, she lives down in Virginia, I think. uh pointed out, you know, she sort of asked a very good question um about how how do you do that on a practical level in our day and age. People, you know Y a hundred years ago, unsaved people thought it was a good idea to go to church on Sunday morning. So they could walk into an uh and and they would walk into churches. It's not happening now. And so how do you do that practically? It's good, it's important to be able to witness on an individual level and to share Christ and to live out Christ. on an individual level with people, but there is more to our church collectively as our responsibility, according to Scripture, in collectively people observing us working together collectively. So how do we do that so that they see the unity that's centered around they don't look around and they just they say, oh well, I know why they're unified because they all homeschool. Or I know why they're unified because they all You know, like to play croquet together. No, they're all unified because of this thing that I don't understand, but they're really unified. And they have good community. Why is that? And somebody might ask the question and we say, well, it's the gospel. And that that biblically is one of the best and and if you look at the first century and the way that the unsaved people observed this thing called the local church. There are actually extra biblical writings on this that are quite interesting and seeing how they observe these people that took communion together. These people that met together and it doesn't seem that and and the government even was was looking at this going, we we don't know what to do with this. And and it was it was something that was attractive to people. Um not in a way that is like entertainment would be attractive, but something that is able there. I th it it caused them to see a need in their own lives And so uh this is something that we're sort of exploring. How can we do this better as a church? And and equally important, how can we keep, how can we guard against doing it in a wrong like counterfeit doing it basically Hopefully that makes sense. The other thing that uh it talked about is the importance of establishing relationships within the body of Christ, not based upon um what might be natural. Like you might naturally click with somebody. Um you might have a lot of natural things that you you just get along, maybe personalities get together and they and and you know you have uh you know, a choleric that that hits it off with a phlegmatic and they get along real well or something like that. And that's nothing there isn't anything wrong with that But we ought to pursue relationships within the body that aren't based upon why we just really like his personality or her person That we ought to pursue relationships or whatever other thing that we're we we like. We ought to pursue relationships based upon, hey, you know, we know we have this really strong common thing called the gospel. And we want to per pursue relationships based upon upon those things as well. Not that the other things are wrong, but that that this is something that we need to uh to uh realize um is is important Now with all that said I want to um begin and I'm gonna have to kind of move through we'll move a little faster than I did last week but I definitely really appreciated the the input as well so we'll try to find the right balance here but I wanted to start off with a statement that he makes He he's referring, we won't take the time to turn there, but he referred to a passage in Ezekiel to talk about God's glory in chapter one there. And uh then he says this rather thought-provoking He says, I would hope that our churches would dissolve into chaos the moment God removes his supernatural power. But I fear that many of us have built church community in such a way that Ezekiel's vision could come true in our own day, and we would never notice the difference. Now that is quite striking, isn't it? And if you really think about that, that's something that that that is uh really we need to think about. Are we a gospel-centered body of believers? Well, if if the power of not that's this is not possible, but if the power of the gospel was not present, would we just would it just Everything dissolved. It would all go chaoti chaotic. And uh and that's something that I don't know, it's it it was really thought provoking for me to s to to consider that. What we lose when community isn't supernatural. Number one, we compromise, he says, evangelism In John chapter 13 through actually go ahead and take your Bibles and turn there to John chapter 13 verse 35. Very quickly, I want us to just make note of this because I think it's It's so crucial to understanding this whole concept of biblical community And I want to say this, that there are some churches, and I think to some degree our church does too, practices this without knowing exactly what we're doing. In the sense that uh if you know the Lord, you you know that you understand unity, but you understand why it's there to some degree. And this sort of defines uh some of this for us. Verse John 13, 35, I think is a very important um Verse to understand. Remember that this is during the upper room discourse. Jesus is talking to his disciples. He's saying, this is how it's supposed to work when I leave. That's a really basic way of saying it, but that's basically what he's saying. And he says in verse 35, by this shall all men, okay, if you look at the Ephraim discourse, which we will in detail and a few months from now. Um the Upper Room Discourse has sort of an interplay between true disciples of Christ And who is the world? You have that all the way through there, the disciples of Christ versus the world. And he says in this passage, verse 35, all men. Which probably would include both, but certainly the world, should know that you are my disciples. Why? If you do what? If you have love one for another There there is something that how is the world supposed to know that we are Christs? How are how are we to be identified as a let's put it this way. There are all kinds of churches out there all over Maryland and the country. Well, which churches are true churches and which churches are not? Well, we would certainly want to say doctrinally you've got to have the gospel correct doctrinally. But on a practical level, which churches are true churches and which churches are just social gatherings? Well the ones who Who genuinely practice love for one another, those are the ones that God says, if you do that, you're showing you're my disciples. And so this is very, very important for us to remember. If we don't, if we build community around things that aren't supernatural, and by supernatural, we're saying the gospel is supernatural. And the work of the gospel is supernatural. We're not talking about some sort of mystical idea. Just really the gospel is supernatural. That if we don't do that, we compromise evangelism. Number two, we compromise discipleship. Ephesians 4. Verses 11 through 16 say that the purpose of of church leadership is to build people up, that we all come to the unity of the faith. And so there's this concept of unity in this passage in Ephesians 4 that leads to growth in discipleship. In other words In that passage, you have this concept, basically, that I can't really grow spiritually in the way that I'm supposed to unless I am linked up With a with a vitally linked with a body of believers. Otherwise, I'm not going to be there there is a direct connection there. And so we run the risk of compromising discipleship as well. I'm going to skip that just because it's so long. Let's ask this question, what makes community supernatural? And we're going to, I want to, this is this is quite this is this would be really helpful. Let me set it up this way. When you think of the work of the gospel, like what the gospel actually does, the results, we'll put it that way, of the gospel, they are supernatural. If the gospel works, It is a supernatural result. So what results come from the gospel that are supernatural? And don't think too hard. It's actually rather simple. What result what supernatural results come from the gospel? Any ideas? Okay, good. A realization of sin. Yes, Karen. Okay, fruit of the Spirit. Good? We're actually gonna get into that later. Good. What else? Alright, let's let's let's give you one. Forgiveness. Both receiving and giving. Okay, so let's just think about this practically. Isn't it true that when the gospel is able to to cleanse a person so that they receive genuine forgiveness from God that is a supernatural work. It's a supernatural result. And you know the truth of the matter is when an unbelief when a believer constantly, over and over, forgives another believer, that's supernatural too. Because what happens is in a body of believers, you have a bunch of sinners bumping into each other all the time. You have this in the home, don't you? Okay, you get married. Don't think you're going to solve your problems by getting married. You'll compound your problems by getting married. It's true, because now you have two sinners instead of one. Okay. I'm not saying that all marriages are a bad idea, I'm not saying that, but I I'm just saying that if you don't have a a gospel centered marriage, you're gonna you you're gonna run into a lot of problems. And so and if you add kids, then you add more sinners. Okay? And you have all kinds of sinners bumping into each other. Well, if you're gonna have a a family work well together in Christ Well, are there unsafe families that work well together? Yeah, they find something else to sort of gel them together. Okay? Let's they're the fun family. We go on five vacations a year. Or we they're the they're the family that they're all involved in instruments and they're all playing instruments. Or they're the sports family, soccer, you know, they're all up the They got other things that they're that's and I'm not against any of those things, by the way, that's not the point. I'm just saying that you can build a family over something else. You can do the same thing with the church. And what what we what a supernatural work is is whenever a bunch of sinners in a congregation are bumping into each other and there's still for there's constant forgiveness. And the world goes, wow. Because I'll tell you in the workplace that doesn't happen, does it? Everybody's trying to beat each other up or trying to get one up on each other or trying to watch their bats because of each of each other. Or tr that's what that's what the that's what the world does. And so when they walk into a place where of different backgrounds and different ways of thinking and all and somehow there's this unity, it's really hard to understand. The exact opposite is true. When a church does not forgive each other. When the church does not have this kind of a spirit in it where there is a forgiveness and it does harm to the body of Christ. And it does harm to the testimony of Christ to the world. And so forgiveness both So experiencing forgiveness in the gospel and extending forgiveness to each other is a display of supernatural work of the gospel to the world. Make sense? Number two, we've already said this, supernatural love. Forgiveness is sort of sort of a uh something that you do in response to wrongdoing. Supernatural love is something you extend, not in response to wrongdoing, supernatural love is something that you extend. in a sort of a volitional positive way regardless of what they're doing. It's sort of maybe they're great people, you're going to extend love to them. Maybe they're lousy people and you extend love to either way. And of course you don't think of anybody in Christ as if you really love them as lousy people if they're in Christ, right? Because then you're not loving them. Love thinketh no evil. So those are the two things that really he says, and I agree with this, we got biblical clear, clear all over Scripture, New Testament Scripture. clerical uh clear evidence of this. That's why it says in Ephesians, which is a really has a lot of lot to say about unity, be ye kind one to another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another. Uh even as Christ for God's sake hath forgiven you, it's so even God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. And so we have that that those kinds of things in there for that reason because the whole idea is that we we we f Fulfill the vocation wherewith we are called, Ephesians 4. Which is what? Endeavor to keep the what? Unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. Then what he does, this is the next chapter in the book, and he explains that community needs to run deep. So now so now we're going to look at the how how community is supposed to, how deep it's supposed to be essentially. And he says this. There are two guiding principles he's going to suggest. And he's going to explain these. He says, regeneration precedes community. And theology precedes community. Okay, so regenerate what does he mean by that? What does he mean by regeneration precedes community? Kevin? Yes, you need to be saved. You need to know the Lord. Otherwise you're not gonna have community. Right? Okay, so so um you So that's why in church membership it's important to have a membership that knows Christ, that people are saved. otherwise and baptize that that that they identify with Christ. Otherwise you're never going to have community based upon the gospel. So this is sort of basic and I think most of us would other already un kind of understand this. Um but this is not to be assumed, which is why he explains it. In some churches, I'll just tell you, in some churches, you run into a situation where you have, you know, you come to the conclusion that maybe half the people don't know Christ. You're never gonna and maybe some of the members don't, may maybe half of the members don't, you're never gonna have community that way. And I'll just tell you that I think that was the situation I ran up to in Pennsylvania. I think probably half the people That were members up there did not really know Christ. And they they had sort of unified around this doctrinal statement they didn't really understand. And everybody went to church up there. And so you're culturally unacceptable if you don't go to church And so you have a lot of people per perhaps and I don't want to judge individuals, I don't want to s I'm not going around saying that person's say that person's not, but at the same time I began to realize that these people don't seem to want to live for Christ. They don't seem to want to the desire to love the Lord. They don't seem to want to serve Him. Uh they're not really that interested in that. And so and so you had a gr I think you had a group with a group of people up there, a good group that didn't know Christ. You're never going to have unity, right? How can you have reunion around the gospel when you don't have belief in the gospel? Theology precedes practice. And that's also important as well. We've got to, so let's just go into that a little bit, he says. Is this too small? That's okay, I think. Um many Christians believe that the that rich community is allergic to deep interest in theology. After all, theology divides, they say. Community unites, right? If you've been following what I've written so far in this chapter, you will recognize the absurdity of this assertion. Remember, our love isn't proportional to our forgiveness. It's proportional to our understanding of forgiveness. Did you catch that? What is theology? It's the our understanding of how the gospel works. If we don't know how the gospel works, it's very hard for us to practice it. Right? So, and I'll tell you, there is so much to do, there is so much involved in how the gospel works in the New Testament, none of us have arrived in understanding it all. And so he sa he explains this. Um if someone has been forgiven by Christ's supernatural sacrifice on the at the cross And yeah, that person never explores the depths of his sin and the miracle of the atonement. His love will remain tepid. It is impossible to know too much about God and His love for us in Christ If someone is into theology and not into loving others, the problem isn't that he spent too much time learning about God. It's that he's never took to heart what he's learned. In fact, 1 John warns he may not even be a believer at all. Now, let me just ask you, what do you think about that? Any thoughts on this? Makes good sense, doesn't it? Okay. And so and so if we're going to have our depth of community Is going to rely on our depth of understanding of the gospel, not just intellectually, but with our hearts, and then practicing it out in our lives. For example, I'll give you, let me illustrate this this way. How many of you, I'm just curious, how many of you were saved as a very young, as a child before the age of 12? I'm just curious. Okay. I would say you've got keep them up for just a second. I'm just okay, so half of the people here probably, all right, for the age of twelve have were saved. When you're saved that early in life, you know what's very easy for us to do, those of us who've been saved that early? Take for granted God's forgiveness. Because you know when you had like half of your life has been in sin, and then God forgives you and you get cleaned up and you start walking in Christ, it doesn't mean that you You're perfect, but you begin to walk in Christ and you begin to see God's grace working in your life, and you begin to see what it was like and what it is like now. I'll tell you what happens. You you you th those people tend to remain understanding God's forgiveness. They tend to sort of remain in understanding God's grace in their lives. Those of us who haven't, if we're not careful, we it's just easy for us to to take it for granted. And when you take for granted for God's forgiveness, if you begin to think just even for a split second, that you deserve any of what you've gotten from the gospel, you've lost the gospel. You've lost what what you did what what it means. And people that get that get really upset at other people in churches, and we don't have these problems by God's grace. I'm really thankful for this. But so I'm not this is not preventing I'm this is maybe it's preventative, but it's not I'm not dealing with problems here. I'm just kind of talking how the the opposite of what happens when you don't have this. Um when people really get upset over what somebody has done to them, well the answer to that is to say, I don't deserve anything. I'm a sinner saved by grace. I'm not deserving of anything. You know, it's pretty hard to offend somebody when you realize I don't deserve anything. It's real easy to defend somebody when you think you're deserving of something. And so in the body of Christ, this understanding of forgiveness, this appreciation of forgiveness in the gospel. This is absolutely crucial to building community around the gospel. Does that make sense? Very, very important for us to understand. So he moves now to to a pseudo-kind of commitment. The question that he sort of poses is Commitment is absolutely necessary in the local church. You've got to have commitment if you're going to have unity. It's the same way in marriage, right? If you're going to have unity in marriage, you better have commitment in marriage. If you think you're going to get out every time it's a bumpy road, you'll never have unity in your marriage. Right? That's why that's why both of us have been married, you know, for a little while, you know, a decade or something. You you sort of look at before you're married and after you're married and you go, man, t like that doesn't even compare. You sort of go before you're married, you go, We were just having fun. And and you do, I mean I if you're if you're a Christian couple, you want to make sure you're marrying somebody that uh loves the Lord and and wants to serve the Lord and that you can that that can help you serve the Lord and all that's true. There's nothing and that and the basis of a good marriage is that God that you could you could serve the Lord better together than apart. All that is good. But when you get married and when you start living life and you start What begins to sort of happen in life is you you begin to realize your commitment, how how strong your commitment is And the more you live in marriage, the more realize the more committed you realize you are. And really it's the same thing in the body of Christ. If you're going to have he he says this and he I totally agree with him. that community is based upon commitment, which is why membership is so important, he says. Because if you're saying, I am committing myself to this body of believers. Make sense? Very, very important to understand. But here's where we go wrong, he says, and I agree with this as well. I I I'm really uh agree with a lot of what he says. He says, we go wrong by making membership easy. So anybody can join. You don't even really check them out and make sure in the name of the Lord. Now we don't do that here. We we do really try our best to make sure someone knows the Lord. We have membership classes, uh everybody everyone here has gone through those and and um and so I don't think we have this problem here, although we could we could be str I I realized I could be a little stronger on un people understanding what church membership really is, understanding that you are really committing to this body. And so commitment, when you commit to a body of believers, it's like you get a bump in the road and you work through the bump. And so there's this commitment that he says is absolutely necessary in order to have true community. He says what happens is we pull people on membership too quickly, and we have instead we have something he calls comfort-based community. Or commitment, how comfort-based commitment. He says over time as people see the church community they're meeting uh meeting their needs, they become more comfortable. As they become more comfortable, they commit more deeply. As a result, our instinct is to smooth the path into the into our church and to highlight the benefits of getting further involved. Hopefully, as people settle in, they'll act like uh less like consumers and more like providers. And so I'm not at all saying that we ever want to be like this us four no more group. That's not at all what I'm saying. We want God to grow our church in the way that He wants to. w we always want to we want God to do his w have his way in our church. But so I understand that's that's there's a balance here with that. But also uh this is important I think it's a important point You're just sort of hoping that they go from being a consumer to suddenly being providers so that they can get committed and so that they can be involved. And there is a problem here. What's the problem, he says? It tells at best a half-truth about what it means to be a Christian. So it displays to others, well, it tells sort of a half-truth about what it means. And he says, number two, comfort-based commitment doesn't necessarily demonstrate the gospel's power. He says number-based commitment produces a commitment no different than a commitment to any other civic-minded organization. Now if you think about it, and if you've been involved in some other civic minded organization, um they're they're kind of uh I'm uh I'm I'm they got tons of them around here I'm sure. Um but there ought to be a significant difference between the commitment you have to a civic mind organization and the commitment you have to a local church. Right? Why? Because one is based upon the gospel. The other one's based upon upon some mutual interest. As a rule, though, we want to be good testimonies to the kind of things as well, but we want to be careful of that. Number three, relationships thrive on commitment. Relationships thrive on commitment. Any thoughts on this so far? Yes, Kevin. What are some practical ways that lack of commitment evidence itself whether intermittent or more consistently in the church. Okay. Good question. Let me make sure I understand your question. What are some ways to do that? How would you notice? Yeah, yeah. Well, I can tell you from a pastor's perspective, which isn't a bad idea. Well, let's open that question up. Can anybody else answer that question? Ask the question again, Kevin. What are some red flags in our own lives or or maybe in those we love that we see something and say, well maybe um there beak in the commitment or right now there's a warning sign, where are some things we see? Yeah yeah yeah that's a good question to pose. Yes. in general, like the twenty eighty principle and twenty percent of the people are doing eighty percent of the work. Yeah. Twenty percent of people are doing eighty percent of the work, you would see that that's a very obvious sign that you have a yes. Okay, yeah, sure. Poor attendant. Okay. What else do you think? motivation. Um commitment is based on love, really. If I'm motivated by self-love, I can love myself then I mean so so the motive behind this consumer based opposite of commitment kind of church involvement is sort of A couple possibilities. One is I'm gonna do for it and it'll come back to me. Sort of this tit for tat kind of a thing. You see that a lot. Uh I want certain benefits and I will contribute. Okay. So that's uh rather I just want to you know I I want to join with a body of believers and and love them. Um yeah, definitely a big a big difference there. Good. Yes. You're not going to join the church that's that's cleaning up the yard Sunday afternoon at church or during Sunday school or whatever they pick up. Yeah, sure. Yeah, and so some churches are like set up for that. They're sort of set up to be comfort based churches where that's they're they're consumer based and we want to be very careful about that. I think also the lack of understanding of the the idea of the church as is related with act, but those are supposed to be And if he enters the parts of the left body of right, that will answer the same thing on that. Mm-hmm. Good. Let me let me let me tell you a a very po a very prominent one that happens that to answer Kevin's question from my perspective. When you have a church where where it's comfort-based rather than commitment-based, every problem gets worse than it really is. It's like it's it's worse than it really is. Or it it um It gets exaggerated. Because people start saying, well, maybe I shouldn't be here. Maybe I need to leave. Maybe you know, and you start worry th there's sort of this it's not, okay, there's a problem, I'm committed, we're gonna work through it It's there's a problem, uh I don't know if I'm comfortable anymore. You follow what I'm saying? That's one of the things I see most instead of uh see most as uh like a symptom of a problem, it's like That that often is very, very frequent. That's very very common. Um yes. Yeah, right. Right. We're not committed in our marriages. Why would we can we commit in the local church? Very good. Yes, Lisa? Um talking about like what is the commitment is there's lack of love you know, in the church. So there's you're not receiving love? Is that what you're saying? There's just lack of love and relationships in the church. So you were saying like just a problem comes up and you know people aren't going to work through that then I think well what if the problem is essentially like foundational issue. So there does come a point. There does come a point Where where you you you're in a s there there does come a point where that you're in a situation where it's kind of a point of no return where you say Um usually um I th there there becomes clear markers Uh that indicate that that that for instance um try to say this in a tactful way because I think I understand your question. Um When there are things that are clear violations of Scripture And they and they can't and they're not addressed and they're not dealt with, and there is no way to deal with them. that that's when it becomes something where you say, okay, maybe the root maybe the root problem was sort of this comfort-based commitment. Maybe that's part of the pro like like the root problem. But it's like, okay, well I can't be committed somet to something that that where there's clear violations of scripture and it's not dealt with, then you end up saying, well, maybe maybe I'm not in the right place. So I think there is a point in a local church that is where it breaks down in the sense where where you have a marriage situation, for example, where you you're you're in it until you're you're in it. There's just Um where in a local church, I do think that would be where you would say, okay, well at some point um when there is not doctrinal agreement, where there is no there seems to be no way to get to biblical unity. And I'm not talking about perfection or total harmony, because you're not ever gonna have it in a church. Um, then there comes a point and and really when it begins to you know affect your own family, those kinds of things. Yeah. love. A loveless commitment is really more like a business venture. Right. Right. Also I was going to mention we're talking a lot about commitment and when I was reading our first constitution when I joined Um it struck me how strongly our Constitution addresses commitment. But we promise to make things right with fellow government. It does. The Covenant says that. I think when we're talking about commitment, we jump to Okay, I'll do this and I'll work on this project and I'll be faithful and move for good, but there's also other commitments like I'll be honest with my pastor and my fellow church members about my my weaknesses in Christ so they can strengthen me. And I'll commit to investing in those here and I'll commit to the community and so it's interesting you mentioned that. He says in One of the things he says, in order to remind ourselves that we're committed together, he says we ought to recite the church covenant together every once in a while. I think it's a very good idea. There's one phrase in our church covenant that's very confusing and it's caused a lot of confusion. We're going to work on that. We're going to work on that particular phrase. And probably just kind of the deacons are we're all saying let's just kind of remove it. I'll explain all that in a congregational meeting coming up here. Yeah, just reciting the the Church Covenant together would remind us of what we're supposed to ha the commitment we're supposed to have. And there is and I read through the Church Covenant recently and I I I I said, you know There's a little archaic language in there, but it's pretty solid. It's pretty it's actually pretty good as far as what it's the the what it's asking us to do to commit to. Everything it's asking us to commit to is very biblical except for one phrase in there, which we need to work on. But um um anyway, so that's really really something that I think is is uh is important and and something we can keep in mind. Calling base commit oh am I out of time? Alright, I'm over time. Okay. See I didn't have my watch today. See. See I this is a test of your forgiveness. Alright, let's pray. All right, thank you. I appreciate that. All right You'll still remind me. All right, let's pray and then uh we'll we'll move on. Lord, thank you so much for this time that we could spend together in uh in thinking of principles and application of your word. We pray that our church would be a commitment based church, Lord, as we as we seek to do the to make sure that it is. And I think we are to some extent, but I think it's an area we can we can improve on, Lord. And I pray that it we would. We pray these things We pray for the service to come that it would honor you, that we would worship you in Christ's name we pray. Amen.