I've read twelve different books over the last year on expository preaching that are available in Spanish. You're gonna either listen to God, you're gonna put him first in your life, or you're gonna keep doing life the way you want to do it. And so I worked hand in hand with Bob a couple of Sundays uh as he gave the message. I started getting a little scared because you don't know what's coming, you know, and we watched videos and I didn't know how big your liver is, but for you that don't know your liver starts about here and goes to about here. And then mine grew back into a full liver and I'm full functioning. But we don't do that now. So it's not a lack of fear, but be of good courage, because God's with you. So I'm not trying to pick on you, honey. And thank you again for inviting me to your church. that are living in the the cities that have a pretty good education. So they took this one off and they used that one to connect it in the bob. And I'll hit my life expectancy has not changed in any way. Met's here, he's a missionary and he'll explain more about his ministry and he's also uh been the recipient in a uh that is usually in junior church, go ahead and leave here after Sunday school and head down to junior church. uh brother metz is both the junior church teachers as well as the kids as long as the kids can can be still as long as they're able to do that. But it is very, very helpful. Uh he's with me all the time. You can't say no to me. uh or to use as an illustration. Mm-hmm. uh church leadership or whatever. Uh uh Baltimore Ravens fan, I'll choose well here. And it's like, when you're a pastor, are you going to give my memorized notes to your congregation? And if any guests come as well, that they hear the gospel clearly. You know, sometimes we think of the gospel as something like, oh yeah, for instance, for me when I was 13 years old, God changed my life. those things. Uh it's a little bit different to speak to ladies' groups, children's groups in Latin America, and um she speaks in the US as well. Uh I got to meet them um yesterday actually. And may it be glorifying and honoring to you, Lord. It was just me, my brother and my father. And it was just said, put me first. And it wasn't like a magic pill, everything didn't get better, but slowly and surely I grew in ministry. And he opened up the Bible, the Word of God, in every problem of my life. Um but uh an amazing woman loves the Lord, loves me, has supported me, um and we continue to grow together now, you know, so just another blessing in that. And he was encouraged by that, you know, and so we talked a little bit and and I asked him some questions of how he was doing and this and that and he told me I think he had a gallbladder attack or something. And so I'm mulling over this conversation with Bob as I'm breaking, and um thinking, man, you know, that would be something else for somebody to do, to give their liver is a miracle, the fact that your eye develops and then your ocular nerve develops and at some stage they come together and connect so that you can see. There's so many different things that are are kind of taken into consideration, the anatomy of the liver, the health of each person. They said if they knew how sick he really was, he wouldn't have been eligible. We don't think about this, but Brother Metz can tell you, there are people who cannot pick up the Word of God and read it in their home tongue, in the language that they, you know, grow up with. Do you know God can use somebody even if they're not obedient to Him? And they took care of Bob. for serving this country. I'm twenty-eight years old. That's a risk and you have to be willing to take that risk. Bob's church and other churches rallied together to meet all my financial needs so that my mortgages got my mortgage got paid and that my bills got paid and that we didn't have to suffer financially because being out of work for 18 weeks And we know that God is good. in an invisible way to touch somebody's life. She was starting to stink, so I said No, I'm just kidding. If I could give up, I would give up right now. And it doesn't matter whether I thought I had this faith to do something great. She asked me what was going on, I told her, and she said, We're gonna get you straightened out. I've been going up ever since then. uh for you this morning I see that it is ten thirty. And so we're really encouraged and uh excited about hearing both of them speak today. their normal Sunday school class. think through that a little bit more when you have a a body part that's very major that's failing. Uh so I won't speak too much. Do I look old enough to have a 42-year-old? You know, because he's about the same age as my my children. I never drank in my life and he's looking at me like he's just looking me in the eyes. Starting off working with young people, that was from 1987 to about 2000. God burdened me about the needs of Mexico City. There's a great need for someone that's qualified to go and to teach others and to train pastors and it's like, well, you know And about that time I found out that the uh liver problem that showed up when I was twenty-eight years old on blood work to speak of God's goodness through it all. So it's like okay. You know, the responsibility to correctly handle God's word to minister to people's great needs. Which means that and we produce materials that go anywhere from junior church, Sunday school, all the way up to theological curriculum, which is a new area for us. Which we now have people coming in saying, train us, you have to be careful, but you can do it. friendly. Uh I have some writing priorities and those writing priorities hmm come down under that? Yeah. And I think their religious training teaches them not to think as well. You're going to write me a 10-page paper, five pages of things to throw out because it's junk, and five pages of things to put into your ministry and remember forever. Some more qualified to speak than others. sharing our our ministry goals, sharing the needs around the world, different passages. And Joshua 1. no matter what mission he calls us on. living my own life and very small decision after s very small decision led me step by step away from the Lord. at God. and says that to me. the way I want to live life and what I want. And I didn't know where I was going. He got to talk to him and stuff like that and he had shared similar like he did this morning and you know kind of his family history and where he was at but at that time he hadn't received the liver. And so I shared when I was saying, yeah, you know, I was listening to the radio and they had this thing on there about liver donors that you can actually give like part of your liver and it'll grow back. to be a living, you know, recipient. So I came in and I talked to my wife. And if he shuts the door, don't get upset. But uh I called Johns Hopkins and they sent me a preliminary blood test thing, so I went to the lab, got my blood test done, and I got a hundred on my blood test You don't know what's going on. that are very important. I think he said, I think I gotta talk to my wife. They took 60% of my liver, and I have a scar that starts here and it goes down to here, and they take 60% of that and they put it in the recipient, and then that grows into a full liver. Uh whether it's from a seed and a plant growing or from, you know, you having children. And you know what I get to say? in our life and it's a struggle, but Jesus did it perfectly. Anybody that goes into the Armed Forces, do we have any Armed Forces veterans or anything here? You might not necessarily be in battle, but you are on guard and you're ready for action. And I believe that's what we're called to be as Christians, as followers of Christ. has not affected me other than I can't eat fried chicken, which is sad because I like fried chicken. Because the truth isn't on the externals and what it looks like on the outside. Just like encouraging someone. And we might never meet, but they took time to go to the Lord in prayer for us, you know? I don't know. I thought if I was being persecuted for Christ, would I be able to endure it? But it still broke my spirit, broke my pride, because I thought, man, I'm the spiritual guy that gives his liver, right? And I didn't have any medicine to help me with the pain. From that point on I went out, I stuck my head out the door crying like a baby, and this nurse saw me and she got the nurse practitioner and she came in and And I just want to share that with you, that God loves you and He will bring you to a breaking point just to show you how much He loves you. But it takes a total of eight weeks, but by eight weeks the liver is completely regenerated. Um I'm still strengthening in my core, um but could you then be do this again? So keep us in prayer, will you? Then we're going to have Owl come up and uh speak in the morning at in the Sunday school hour and then in the at 11 o'clock we'll have Bob Metz. And again, uh trials of life sometimes help you to appreciate what you have uh even more, even though we shouldn't need that probably. So uh just remind you of that. them and Albert is part of me. and then try to talk Don out of it or to talk him out of it. My kids were checking he and Dawn out too. So we're very, very thankful for them and how the Lord worked out. So throw that out. I get to Mexico City on this missions trip and we just had a missions conference in our church before that time. And by the time we got back from our second term, they said, Terry, your kidneys are failing, and she soon needed to start dialysis. that has top health care. That revealed I was a closet alcoholic is what it said your liver enzymes look like you're a closet alcoholic at age 28. And I don't write all the courses, but I'm responsible to see that developed. Chile, been to Peru multiple times, um Mexico City and other parts of Mexico. That means that you don't pull verses from all over to make your point. Plus, when we teach about someone else's position, if we're going to teach about why not speak in tongues, which is big in Latin America, and we will teach that. We will go and we will deal with the scriptures and we're not just gonna like make fun of Benny Hinn. and uh focusing on narrative preaching as well. Just to give you an illustration of how that could be bad if you don't do it in context, Jes Judas went out and hung himself, right? He did great. They can learn, they're eager to learn. Our staff at EBI, there's about twenty of us total on missionary staff. I'll be out speaking, Lord willing. And what he continues to do for me, and how I'm still just as needy, not to get saved all over again, but to depend on him. But oh, and uh now I can't remember your name. She doesn't usually volunteer, um, but she's willing and ends up doing a great job with it. Um so I want to say hello to them too. And that you be glorified and your name multiplied throughout the world. I have a scripture verse that's kind of the foundation for this for me, and that's Joshua 1. And that's important because this same verse is repeated ten times. got older and was a teenager. And uh I was saved as a young boy, but as a young man in my early twenties, I completely walked away from the faith. for Christ and giving him the controls of your life, the steering wheel, if you will, and letting him guide you. That was another blessing that God led me to in my life. It was just bad. Um, I don't know exactly what that looks like. Currently I work in a state prison up in New Jersey and it's a dark environment, but it is a mission field nonetheless, and I'm going to get a little more into that My pastor's wife's father had passed away and Bob got called in and I'd met him a couple times and I'd just started um kind of leading the worship and stuff in my church. transplant list. For some reason the Lord would keep bringing him to my mind. Brother Metz popped into my head, so I started praying for him and I thought, you know what, I'm going to call him. And just as I thought that, God was like, that's what I want you to do. Which is good, because Bob got a hundred on his blood test too. Long story short, we fast forward to January. Um and it's the only internal organ that regenerates. Blood is being filtered and he is producing bile and all the functions of the liver are normal and that he is healthy and he's growing stronger and stronger. You see, when someone saw Jesus heal somebody that was blind, people ran and were like, Jesus healed somebody that was blind, and he was blind ever since he was born and now he can see and how can this be? That somebody could go in and cut out and put in another man to give them life. and being a positive match are astronomical. God kept him going. God does many amazing things. Um I'm sure you're no stranger to how hard it is to uh live and try to live um without sin. But obviously, you know, they took care of him and they raised him and he learned and he grew, the Bible says in That seems pretty amazing. Probably about that long, about the size of a nail, pretty thick. And that was uncomfortable to say the least. But God's in control of this. Primary focus was not to heal Bob. Whether it's at Johns Hopkins, whether it's in Chile or the Dominican Republic, because Bob shares the gospel with somebody, or he teaches somebody who shares the gospel with somebody, if just one person comes to know you and is saved and is brought home, it'll all be worth it. Supply all those needs. So I want to encourage you to do that. Bob had shared with me that there were people in the Ukraine and in China who were praying for us. It blows your mind. They see hope, you know. Or encourage that person, buy them a cup of coffee, and say, Hey, you know, just wanted to be nice to you. life and also good quality of life. And, you know, my faith was growing. Um but I remember coming out of surgery, you know, and I remember um people around me and everything, and it been eight hours seemed like that to me Um 'cause once they got me all cut open and my liver out, then they had to put it in both. Day four was the worst day of my life, physically. I have never been in so much pain where I couldn't be still. And I was just uncomfortable. Not in an emergent situation or anything like that. I would give up. So God humbled me in that moment and broke my heart, and He He He showed me that I am poor in spirit, meaning that I got nothing to offer And he will comfort you. Because I love you. Jesus loves me that much that even though I'm in that much pain and even though I think, oh man, I can't take this, and even if I was getting persecuted, I'd give up and I can't take it anymore, he says, you know what? My grace is sufficient for you, and I love you, and I went to the cross for you. And so my strength is my my faith is strengthened. Be on mission for God like a soldier waits for a mission from the commander. 8 to 12. Be ready to act on your faith by being on mission for God, whatever He calls you to, whether it's praying for somebody, whether it's doing the right thing, young people, when your peers are doing the wrong thing or eighth maybe. And when someone makes that kind of sacrifice, uh, they're sort of gone beyond friend, don't you think? So this guy's very special. Not all the same doctrine, but well over a hundred for about a population of five hundred and fifty thousand people. Not like I graduated with my master's degree with a 4. to enter a conversation, to develop a relationship that can lead to talking about God's goodness, that can lead into the gospel. A few years ago actually. And someday maybe I'll have opportunity to share some statistics with you and just people share the gospel there. Does that scare you to think of yourself as a pastor? Do you know what it is in the United States? That's where you get the phrase, hey, you drink in the Kool-Aid, you know. way up there and he's starting a master's program now. Giving each other wet willies and all that kind of stuff while he's trying to discipline us. So generally it's on the lower end of the spectrum. And we do appreciate your prayers as we seek to keep things in balance in our lives, in our ministry. Well, yeah, I think it was November twenty-fourth, twenty fourteen, is when um I was outside raking my leaves and um But I could not get it out of my head and I'm just outside and I'm just like, man, this is crazy. And uh since I had sought much counsel with my pastor, um I see a familiar face. For us, there was a one in three chance that I would be a actual match. The fact that they took a liver, my liver, and cut it in half and put it in this man right here, and that he's alive today and his You know, that can change somebody's life. After the final notice came I had a month. to talk to people and to share the gospel with people and to witness to people about how great God is. child, completely helpless and completely dependent on Mary, his mother, and Joseph his father. I would come to church, I was listening, I was growing in the spirit, and little did I know that God was going to handpick me out of a congregation to do something. Now, you can be scared. What if it doesn't work? And I tell you this just because of how real it was. I mean Facebook was I've never seen my Facebook look like the way it did, but my wife was keeping up with things and posting things. Um and Bob was still in surgery for many hours past me. So it's non-alcoholic cirrhosis that I had. So how about a lie detector test doc? But um they also told me that in the history of their office, which is like 15, 20 years old, and they have eight doctors, there's only two people that have ever received a living donor transplant. So it's very rare. And she had a kidney transplant in two thousand it's been three years, so two thousand and thirteen of February. So we have some special shirts we just got in. And that's been a prayer of ours throughout this time. other than earthquakes, but it's a it's a beautiful city. One, uh I want to put some courses together. And in Latin America, it is really, really important if you're going to have influence. You see why I did that? We're here today to talk about what God's done in our lives recently, to use it as an outreach, hopefully to inspire you as a congregation. So I have opportunities to share that, to speak in many churches in the United States and again worldwide. Anyway, I just want to thank you so much for uh inviting me and Bob here this morning. So I'm not crazy. And God allowed me to do that in my life and it gave me great perspective because on February 2nd, 2011 I broke down and I came humbly to the Lord. And so that was kind of the beginning of my journey. In three uh Caucasian males are a positive blood type. And I don't know exactly what my match level was, but the better you are, the more of a match you are, the better it is, because it means less rejection and stuff like that for the recipient. Uh I've pursued beginning to uh be a living liver donor and Bob didn't know what to say. God gives wisdom to people to be able to do these things, but it's God's design in our human body that even allows that to happen. just after November 14th when I got the call. And so um it's important for us to share miracles with other people. As a child and growing up and then ultimately facing the cross. that he came here and he had to eat and he had to survive on this world. spirit and in stature, meaning that he had to learn just like we have to learn. Modernly now, peep people are used by God all the time. You know, to save us, and that's a modern day miracle. Alongside fear, you have to stand on the truth. is is a tremendous thing and and Bob was very burdened about that. Just like I said, you know, sharing this with you and sharing this with people at that I work with at the prison has been a great tool, but it also encourages them and it sees The first day wasn't so bad, got out of surgery, they have you in a lot of good medicine. Bob, you have anything? And uh we've been married for a long time, since nineteen eighty three. And by the time I left that week, um Terry wasn't with me that week. And uh said, dear, God's burdening me, hopefully us, to go to Mexico City, which is a big change from Lancaster County, Pennsylvania. So we have opportunity to go, and I have had opportunity, and Lord willing, starting by the end of the year again. No. And I I'm eager to do that, to build relationships. Young teenager with a very foul mouth that recently went through a divorce of my parents and other worse things than that That miracles aren't just something that we read about in the Bible, but that every day, everywhere where we look, God is doing miracles. And you know, there's many miracles around. And I say that because today, in our day and age, a lot of people don't see the miracles that are right in front of them. that although Jesus was God in the flesh, he did not defeat sin with his deity, he did it in his humanity. And we need to come together in here and strengthen one another and teach one another so that we can go out to the world prepared for battle, prepared to be on mission to God. And nothing will make you cry out to the Lord than being in that state. Right? Anybody else? in a liver transplant. We'll show a family picture a little bit later on as an illustration of the message. That one you can believe, right? Because, you know, we deal with people with cirrhosis of liver all the time. Okay. Um I I've had students it's like, whoa man, he's a smart dude. Does that mean God can't use them in pastoral ministry? So those are skills we wanted to teach. So we're excited about opportunities. and um troubled and heading toward worse trouble and hanging around guys that have done jail time and and God rescued me. my liver partner, uh the opportunity to share his testimony. ensure you that to actually give your liver you actually have to go through a psychological evaluation. I talked to my pastor about it and he gave me very sound advice. And i this has really impacted my life because like I said I work in a prison. I told my boss, got off from work and everything like that. I did not know if I was going to make it through this. Um I was saying God uses in unexpected ways, and sometimes they're big things like living donor, right? Because there is no lack of trouble or turmoil or hurt or pain out there in that world. I was um I was at my local gastroenterologist who had recommended me for the transplant list, and he told me, he said, you know what, we talk about you all the time. God's been very, very good to me. And the Lord got us there with only a year of deputation, and we were able to serve there for ten years, and it was an absolute joy, other than traffic and corrupt police. mentally uh for the mission that God had called me to. And we think that's the gospel, and it is the gospel, but the gospel should influence me now. It was just bad. 25 million people in the metro. Now, a lot of that is Pentecostal charismatic belief. So we do all the research and we'll talk more about that some other time. Like our church in Pennsylvania never used the guitar when I was growing up, but do we expect maybe that we'd use a guitar in Mexico? Where are our students? But let's teach them all we can about how to handle God's truth and minister to people. Heavenly Father, I just want to submit to you and your will, and I want to ask you to use me as a vessel. What did He want from me? It's pretty incredible. They get their Bible, they have the Holy Spirit, and they have much less equipment than pretty much probably any church member here. We want curriculum that has three goals. But I did that and I I meant it sincerely in my heart and I said, God, I don't want to be in control anymore. This book has all the answers in it, and it is living, and it's alive, and it has the power to change lives. And uh share with others what God is doing. All the teens will stay, all the kids and teens will stay in here. So we're excited. And it sort of translates as Independent Baptist Press for publishing. But that's pretty much my background leading up to uh what gave what brought me to the point of donating my liver. And I'm trying to remember it. just because now some of the things are coming out, some of uh the pain pumps and this, and they're switching you over to like actual pill form medicine and stuff. Our making prayer requests wasn't for healing or lack of pain or successful surgery, although we appreciate those prayers. Okay, so we did, and then you know it's more acceptable here now too, and my son will be playing for special music using the guitar. Many in Latin America, and Latin Americans have told me this as well, and I've seen it and read it, the top Latin American country is about the 50th percentile in educational testing. Um but it's the small price to pay, you know, in the long run. We'll see about that. Mary. But other than that, it was an absolute joy. God taught me immensely through this journey. I guess it's different depending on the person. some techs and others that we've invited to come out today. Go and do ye likewise. Probably not. And I really didn't think too much about it at that time. Our salvation is a miracle. God is still using people as well. He uses moms and dads, friends and pastors, church members, anyone who is obedient, and even those who are disobedient. What am I thinking? And now I'm crying all by myself because not because of me in my saddest state, but because And I want to introduce, he won't like this, but my youngest son Caleb. 9 says, Have not I commanded thee, be strong and of good courage. Whether it's praying for somebody, encouraging someone, being by their side, sharing the gospel with someone, praying for missionaries and things like that I'm on anti-rejection meds. Um do you think really if I'm developing a theological curriculum for Latin America and one of our coursewriters is uh Just a b and a brilliant guy. And um but God blessed me with an amazing woman uh that walked in the doors of the church that he led me to, and I didn't realize that that was my wife and or was going to be my wife. God kept his numbers in the range so that he could receive this liver. Um is the percentage of growth in the Christian church in America and Canada. I felt hot. But even before that time the Lord was redirecting us. So on that day, uh I went back to the church that I was at as a youth and I talked to my youth pastor and he said, I have a decision to make. And it's encouraging to know hundreds or thousands of people. But everybody else, basically everybody else, is in here for Sunday school. I'm going to be sipping on tea because I have a sore throat. It's like um your liver's in bad shape and it's gonna get worse quickly. But we yeah, we want to deal with the scriptures, theological integrity. But I'm telling you, I'm going around and telling people, God gave me a liver Another thing God will do is He will teach you through using you. That I would sacrifice my comfort for my Lord. Now if you want to talk about the World Cup, that might work. I was yelling, what do you want from me? I said, We gotta talk. And um statistically it's one in one hundred thousand to be a perfect match for the ant antigens. And he was there. Cultural sensitivity. Good morning everybody. I didn't know what it was going to look like. Hi Mary. Um you know in the military, and pretty much everybody knows, when you go into the battlefield So junior church normally lets out in the middle of the service to make more room for seating uh for possible guests. Johns Hopkins Hospital is one of thirty places in the U. So we had a a difficult life at times, but God was good. Um but that came back as a positive match too. You know? God called me to do this. But it's part of the story and it's important because I was left for the first time in the worst state that I'd ever been in, and I was completely alone. Yes? I do want to briefly introduce you to some people that are very special to me. No, you're not old enough for that either. God is good. And God can use them to bring us back to health and healing. Let's deal with the scriptures and let's be kind and let's be honest with the word of God. He changed my life. He doesn't just have good attributes, he is the very embodiment of good. You know? And the truth is this world is hurting. He would have still been good. And we'll talk a little bit about that a little bit later on. It's in the plans the next six weeks at missions conferences. And he repeated it three times. You know, I got my whole life ahead of me. And he came right alongside that and said, But I love you, and I went to the cross for you. I look forward to hopefully keeping in touch in some way, email or Facebook, or even with Bob coming back again, you know, and uh and sharing things with you. Like you know, we don't want to be related to them forever. And I thought, man, that's crazy. If there was a button, I'd hit it. But God brought me to the deepest, darkest place to show me one thing, how much he loves me. People don't sign up for that very often. And in my mind was Santiago, Chile. And God has done that. How do they think? So I just want to encourage you also to be fervent in your prayer. And it's not doing me any good, so I want to give my life over to God. My wife was such a huge blessing. And then I was talking to the missionary and he's said, What are you looking for? But for instance, the first course I taught, somebody said, hey, just tell me what's going to be on the test. I'm sorry to single you out. I have a lot of speaking opportunities. To teach them to think. What's then? Um thankful for the opportunity to be here and there are times I'm just thankful for the opportunity to be alive, which I probably should be, right? And um then I became a young man and I moved out of the house and I got a job and I was going to college and I was Could be missionary work like Brother Metz here, or it could be pastoring or counseling or teaching. But the fact of the matter is that God uses people all the time. But he changed my life through this process. How long do we never think and grow back? Yeah. It's not that they can't think. That can impact somebody's life. Maybe you see somebody they come to church, they look down, or maybe where you work, you can tell something's going on with somebody. Day two got a little worse. Some do graphic design for different publications. We want to invite Al to come and speak and to share something and that God would use that in your lives as well. Help me to remain humble as you have taught me. She's a nurse that I knew from Hopkins. I'm sure many people who have seen battle were scared, but they were on mission and they knew that the mission had to get done. I am 100%. Um but uh what I want to do is I want to give you uh kind of like a little bio real quick on me and my story and I'm gonna go through that and um Um so I grew up in a uh Christian home. And every time I think about him, it would be I'd be on my way to work in the morning or something. And we'll let him share his perspectives as to why would you be, why would you do something like that is very, very rare. God used Terry's health to redirect our ministry. I was at Camp Calgary with my wife. What do you want from me? But God used that divinely too, because my wife got lost in Baltimore. Is that another phrase in the Bible? February second, twenty eleven was a miracle for me. God also uses us in invisible ways. And before, you know, he let me know that he was interested in in being a donor for me as after trying to talk him out of it I'm a pastor, okay? Which is really hard and diverse because you might have some people in Latin America But potentially, and he also did a great as my creative teaching course that I taught. And um a couple years after that, um, well actually before that I met my wife, Dawn. Every part of this he's got a plan for. And um which is good. I was actually on my way to Camp Calvary at a men's retreat, so um but I'm a match. I'm I'm good to go now. They said your surgery date is December fourteenth. I would start sweating and then I'd be freezing cold and hot and cold and hot and cold and they couldn't do anything. I know when I went back they said I'm good. 0, but I did okay and God gave me the opportunity to study and uh and Lord why not me? Have a neat picture with Dr. Uh so that's important. And then I've also taught him places where they have an eighth grade education at the most, and many have a fifth grade education. We want to teach. And you know what? What does that mean? I know, but I am. We'll take this off. Um it's a privilege to be here. Um my mom was not present when I was a young boy and I had some issues um with trusting women and I had had two failed relationships where they had cheated on me and Um we're both A positive and um just some statistical data for you. God is good because He took care of me physically. And the truth is, no matter what happens, even if God takes me home, what a glorious way to glorify Him and be taken home. And relationships are important everywhere. I also had to give up my gallbladder as part of the surgery, the way the anatomy works and stuff like that, which No. And he said, I don't know God's will for your life, but I know this. He can use them for His will and purpose. And so now I only have one line feeding me. And we also have a living donor here as well, Albert Brehm In Lancaster County, there are there's probably over a hundred churches to preach the gospel. I don't know the exact numbers. What if something happens? It wasn't. And even if I died, he still would have been good. I didn't need to. And there's a very important fact here that I want to share with you and that is that Jesus did not do that out of his deity. And the team at Johns Hopkins, they said it's low, it's not, but we have to tell you, we have to tell you that there is a risk of death. You're a few months older than Jeremy, is that right? But God used my wife's health need. So there's some historical context there. And that we think about the gospel too and how it impacts our lives even today, or how it should. And um I sat her down and I told her and she said, Okay, you know, well we'll just pray about it and follow the Lord. So everybody that I worked with knew what was going on. We're to learn and grow. I'm poor in spirit just like everybody else. I was humbled by that, and I remember now that I am poor in spirit and that he loves me and he died for me. My main prayer request leading up to surgery, and I know that you folks prayed, that I thank you for that. Alright, I'm going to trust God. In fact, sixty percent of my liver is brand new. He doesn't look like me either, but you'll see that a little bit later on as well. Um do you really think that you know the Ravens winning the Super Bowl is an appropriate illustration for uh Colombia? I've taught quite a few students that are much more brilliant than than I am. I just want to say thank you for inviting me here. And we talked about it for a little bit and then um we got off the phone and I went back to raking my leaves. And I went to that cross because I love you and I hung there and I died. I had a lot of trouble. Bob came to speak at our church again. The only other organ that regenerates is your skin. I can't do this anymore. I'm back to work. Yeah. Um just life in general is a miracle if you know what goes into life. He also uses us at unexpected times. He's he's in this. Um so does anybody have any questions real quick? Because in that in Latin America, the gospel's flourishing much more than here. And he did great. So I had him read a book that was a little bit controversial and I said, you for philosophy of ministry class. In your name I pray. And like nothing I ever experienced before in my life, I had a very calm and very clear voice in my head. And it stopped me in my tracks. That's a miracle. We see this in the Bible all the time. You know, that's fear. And I thought, man, this is nothing compared to what's coming. The truth is what his word says and what we know about him I'm just kidding. I'm thankful for the opportunity to be here today. Cheryl. So I just called him out of the blue and you know he thought you know something was up ministry-wise, but I just told him, I just want to talk to you, see how you're doing. Not there's probably a hundred churches that preach the gospel, maybe more. I just want to say thank you for your service. What when how long did that was in for twelve hours, so Um I I could use the verification here. That's something you should learn as a missionary. And I was just like, that was a weird thought. Especially if you use it as a tool to share the gospel. Christ going to the cross. I might have messed things up. I wanted that. It's tea. Much nicer than Mexico City. But that's our current ministry and God's given us many, many opportunities. Well, it's a little bit difficult, and it might take more time to prepare them, but I'll tell you what, they're going to do better in ministry in the jungles of Mexico than I would ever do. But it was exciting to see you walk in. Uh we thought, well, you know, this is gonna be a long term relationship if he does something like that, so we want to make sure that he likes my kids I was able to teach there already. And now I have the opportunity to serve in a ministry called Editorial Baltista Independiente. Uh one on expository preaching, one and two. They can. He went to the Word, and he showed me that there's an answer in here that God has for you and your problems and your struggles and whatever they are. And uh they use an ultrasound and they stick it in, they literally take like a core sample of your liver. A little while later my wife came back and from that point forward And I wasn't even his family. But people share the gospel. It's a process. We were doing a couple's retreat. Why am I thinking that, you know? But uh God was good and he brought us through. But we have four children, and they range in age from 42 to 20. Dagger, the liver surgeon, transplant surgeon. We're going to edify one another, but we're ready to be on mission for God at a moment's notice. You don't feel a whole lot, you don't remember a whole lot No, I'm not a drunk. But uh they now enjoy each other and keep in touch and uh Helbert and Don are part of our family. Today I'm not here as much as a missionary, but I wanted to introduce just a little bit of what we do. So there's antibodies and stuff like that that they have to check for, and there's six really crucial ones. And as things got closer I got a uh it's called a liver biopsy, they take a needle It'll be worth the pain that I'll go through. I'm going to trust God. My liver levels are perfect. And um got out of the hospital in time to have our family celebration on I think it was January sixth. And people that we're becoming friends with. Uh any some printers that really don't go and speak. And I will never forget the day I was going down the highway where I live, and I was literally hysterically crying and yelling And I said, No. I got a wife. And it's it's amazing to hear something like Bob said, point eight you or zero eight, you said, is the You know, so but uh first night wasn't so bad until later in the night. Pain started coming, you know, started feeling some things. Well, thank you so much for hearing me this morning. If someone disagrees with us some on some area We have four other, five other courses being written right now, and I'm responsible to edit them, to help with teacher notes, to make sure they're theologically correct. I'd sown a lot of bad seeds and I had to reap the harvest from that. You see, I was a young man sitting where you're sitting in my church. Um I faced death. I was literally just squirming in bed, trying to get some sort of comfort. And I started to cry because I knew in that moment and time I called her. Um it scares me to think of myself as a pastor sometimes. We want theological integrity. You deal with a passage within its context. Um Pat and Cheryl, I I got to meet them And so I got to know him a little bit, you know, and um So I was like, oh wow, that's exciting. I tried to research it, but apparently there's no hard data on it. And you know what? We perhaps will have some doctors to visit a little bit later on if there's not a liver transplant. That's what cults do. So we're trying to write with cultural sensitivity and educational impact. So that's also very, very important. And um I do want to go to the Lord in prayer first, so won't you bow your head with me? My dad always opened the Bible and taught us. He's gonna use this. She slept by my side every night, but she hadn't had a shower. But no, she she wanted to go to the hotel and she wanted, you know, to just, you know, get cleaned up and, you know, kind of relax a little bit. Let's put 'em together. This is a first, I see some familiar faces here, Josh and Julie. Be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed, for the Lord thy God is with thee whithersoever thou goest. That call comes in to move in or to do this or to do that and action is taken immediately. He was sitting there hoping, please no dad. He said, that's unusual. There are invitations more than we can do to go and actually train. I've discovered that uh through our hospital stay. Amen. But um it was a journey for me, for sure. Like God is amazing. That is a miracle. He uses you to pray for us, to give us strength. And um so we want to give some of that background later on in the in the message Um I have half of his liver, which is now a full liver. I have had the privilege of serving as an assistant pastor for 13 years in my home church in Lancaster, Pennsylvania. It's just that many have not had opportunity. His liver was so bad, but God Meeting my wife was a miracle. And he had to apply it to his life just like we have to apply it to our life. I'm going to trust God. So what's the math for that? But I ate it once and I got sick and I don't want to do that again. I give up. And he said, you wouldn't believe how many people tell me that and I smell alcohol in their breath. She was visiting family in Minnesota because later on we were going to lead a couple's wilderness trip in Canada I mean I was hysterical and all of a sudden this very calm, very clear voice comes into my head And that was only five years ago for me. He um led me to a church where I became very close friends um with my pastor who discipled me for two years. But as the uh months grew on and whatnot, um Or what if the doctors mess up? It was a desire. People that you don't even know. Is that what you understand, too? Um it actually takes longer to heal the muscle and everything like that that they cut through. He said, Well, we need people to share the gospel and church planters, but that's starting to happen more and more Same as in Canada. So I said, okay, I'm going to start walking by faith. But it's scary. And that's a miracle that God would speak into my mind to tell me to do something like that and then actually bring it to fruition Right? He used it to heal Bob and hopefully to give him many, many years of I will just make a point of reminding that us that reminding everyone that for junior church, I'm going to have everybody S. And I'm up up on top of the Latin American Tower where on a clear day, which doesn't happen very often in Mexico City, you can see the whole city. So educational impacts. I haven't had any kids yet, you know? And what we're going to be doing down there is that we're going we've already got it set up basically that you'll be able to participate in the service back there from junior church with the video and everything. If you would like to take the lid off and smell it and sip it, it's tea. And that's just common in Latin America. And I say that because it's a very important. Moses, Joseph, Jesus, even Continue to pray for people. that does it, and they do 12 a year on average. And if it wasn't for them taking care of him, he would have died just like any other baby would die without care. In that moment in time Sharing what God's been doing in our lives. Very, very strong and very important to know that we should be of good courage and that God is with us. We invited him over, I sat him down, I told him And I felt like a celebrity. Thoroughly, thoroughly enjoyed it, but while leading a missions trip to Mexico City with some of our teenagers, It's a beautiful city. And I should reflect on what Jesus Christ did for me. And even if Bob didn't make it, he still would be good Now I wasn't in that situation, and I'd like to think that maybe if I was, I'd have more strength. I cannot. Venezuela, you have to be very, very careful, but you can do it Way too much trouble It's a miracle. And I call it a mission because I believe that's what it is. This is a big thing, but I'm going to trust him. Um so we're thankful for our family and uh thankful for extra family that we now have. And then you're going you have officially cirrhosis and we're recommending you for a transplant liver. Um but as you teach 'em Or should you learn how to evaluate and think and interpret scriptures on your own? And and I think I was thinking that I was thinking it, but I don't think I was thinking and I think God was putting the thought in my mind But the rating priorities are several. I'm thankful for the opportunity to tell people what Christ has done in my life. Why would someone do something like he did besides insanity The odds of just some guy saying, Hey, I think I'll be a liver donor Right? And like Brother Metz said earlier, my So God can use prayer And I don't say that, I'm not trying to hurt Bob's feelings or anything like that. I'm crying. I was told that the majority of it happens in the first two weeks. Younger than Jeremy. Okay, so cultural sensitivity. That wet willie illustration didn't catch some of you didn't catch that, right? So I'm very, very thankful for to be here, for the opportunity to be here with you. Speak through me, Lord, into the lives of these people. I was living for the world, seeking pleasures of the world, and I had no time for God First of all, my wife Terry. I've never drank in my life. I want you to lead my life. And so I told people And uh Albert will be well Bob's gonna come up and introduce everything and sort of set the setting up and everything And I went back to raking my leaves. So um My wife is developing some sermons that she can not sermons, studies. And I passed I was raised by my father and And so as I started this mission of moving forward and being a living donor, there are a lot of times where I was faced with fear, oh my goodness, what's going to happen? Except for the three through five year olds, they'll go ahead and head back. And they have world there's a Johns Hopkins outreach in Santiago, Chile. Um anyway, so um And sometimes they're little things. She has an inherited kidney disease, polycystic kidney disease. And I can't remember your name. And then you have to go get fifty blot vials of blood drawn and they do all kinds of tests with that. It's scary. God used Jesus This is probably my biggest point as I close this morning. But God is good. And then after she was healing, I was thinking, you know, maybe we can go and live in a clean Latin American city. And I am the director of theological curriculum and pastoral training. But the depth of understanding, the pastors have absolutely no training, most. You walk by faith and you trust him. God enveloping himself in flesh, coming to this earth, being born helpless. My primary focus was God if you reach one person If you can wrap your head around that. I mean I grew in faith along the process all the way up until I got into the emergency room or the operating room. It's a one-time deal. So uh that's actually a plus. And there are just so many opportunities to use what God has allowed or sent in our lives. There are there are countries where the gospel is growing at a rate of six percent a year. And they're excellent. So we want to have theological integrity. But I have I'm asked to go to Latin America as much as possible. 9 I have a brother who is retired Air Force family, many family members, but thank you so much. We got cards from people we didn't know. But they say that's all I need. Almost thirty-three years. Although that would be hard not to do. So Bob touched on the fact that I might be crazy, but I And I think it was And people think that nothing ever happened to him, that he never got a scraped knee or anything like that. Just talked to one this week and um Prayer requests are listed there for you. Um and they take Um this Bible here is a miracle. Um I was not prepared. It'll be worth the financial difficulties, which subnote by the way, another miracle Praying for someone, my heart was touched. And it broke my heart because in that moment in time I said What's that mean? When I go to Mexico City, do you expect me to do some things a little bit different than I would do here? Um And doing it all without sin. For instance, if there is somebody on the medical staff who doesn't know the Lord or they don't live after the Lord or anything like that, but they took care of me. And I say that kind of lightheartedly, but I really mean like the amount of people who were rallied together praying for us. God, just help me. I hope it was a blessing to you. That's something I'd I love to study That's what we're trying to do. The very process We're gonna go ahead and just start off back there for junior church. And uh we went to church and I was involved in Sunday school and then youth group and everything as I greet I was reminded though yesterday, I pulled a muscle, I think, on Friday. Oh well that developed into cirrhosis and I found out um I'll memorize all the notes. I was informed that there may be some people who are actually watching from another area Um Because the whole point of that is God made it possible. And even if he didn't even if he didn't I'll have opportunity to go teach modular courses in different Latin American countries, including including Cuba. Six percent a year. Sometimes that doesn't happen. I'm well physically, but God is good because Bob and I had a chance. You know, what if something happens and I bleed out on the table I'm going to In fact, when I met with him the first time, you know, and he told me I had cirrhosis, I said, how's that? There you go, Jim Jones, right? And Lord, I just ask if there's anyone here that needs ministering to, Lord, that you touch them, be with them. And um it changes with you know race and male or female and everything like that, but Um And it's literally right outside these walls. He said, No, you're you're good. That's like a phrase from the Bible, correct? This body is amazing. And so then 18 weeks later when I came back, everybody's asking questions. So uh you know, and and but They take my temperature, tell me I'm fine. And I hung on that cross, and I could have, just like that, gotten down and given up. That's all I have. I had to be healthy, Bob had to be healthy enough. I was a troubled There's a difference between salvation and taking up your cross daily and living. And I want to tell you that God is still doing miracles. Um so we had him down and said, hey, check out our family and Carrie on one side, I'm on the other side, her wearing her pink shirt, me wearing my blue shirt that says And I think that's just a wonderful opportunity that we have. That is heartbreaking. Would you please just give rid of the pain? It was for opportunities. I don't consider myself brilliant, but I thank the Lord I have a good education. And it is it is a modern-day miracle. What if something happens to me? And Caleb is twenty. Yeah. And sometimes experiences of life that God allows us to go through help us to understand Um but I do believe God's called me to ministry. Now this time Bob didn't know what was going on. Um but you know certain things like that. And these miracles are a great and important tool for us to share the gospel with other people. Your liver has two main arteries that feed it like this She's that means you need to stand. Five of them I'll probably recommend as required reading So we all pretended we were four year olds and you know And you know, I really didn't have the time to connect with him. So Bob, don't eat fried chicken. Being an encouragement to somebody can be a huge blessing to them. But I wasn't He'll be preaching for us. About one That's a little hard. I mean if you take that over fifteen years, everybody's saved. I just want to share a few prayer requests, ministry goals, and plans. Uh at that moment in time when they told me that I was a match and that that things would progress from there And uh thank the Lord for my wife. And um so And if he opens the door, you walk through it by faith. That is a miracle. Which wasn't so hard. Um It's all by grand design. We got gifts from people we didn't know. He did it out of his humanity. So it's very, very rare. He uses people like the staff at Johns Hopkins to take care of people, right? I was uncomfortable. But what we're seeking to do is develop curriculum that others can use. Uh but he got me through it. And then educational impact. And he said, yeah, yeah, that's true. Um Um Life is amazing. No? I'm not doing that. And if God says, I want you to give your liver, you say, all right, here I go. What's going to happen to my wife? Alright, Brother Metz, would you come at this time and uh present uh everything from here? Um But 25 million people? So if God says share the gospel with that person or pray for that person So you read Just a normal day for me. But If you're old enough to remember Jim Jones and the cult that he had, and they all drank the Kool-Aid. And relationship building. And day four was my low point. Our firstborn is 30. Well over a hundred I've been taught in ways that that was not happening. He was on the I felt nauseous Thank you again for your prayers for us. And um The hard part came after the surgery. You know? But they will be participating in the service and they'll be able to listen to It's about five pounds He had no idea That's not just medicine Yeah. We have a commitment from a doctor that we're getting very, very close to. I do it all over again, but I just want to tell you, worst day of my life. And in conclusion, I just want to say Um but yeah And uh that's our youngest of four. And there's another miracle here too, because when they took Bob's liver out, I had some anxiety and And then I had this thought. Anyone want to translate that? Day three got even worse. Thank you, dear. Prayers from people that we didn't know Okay. Is like that a forbidden thing? Actually I'm on the list Um and y you do tend to But finally, uh November And then I felt the call to ministry. And All these things, right? That's crazy So Yeah. And so So he was helpless Um We'll fly through these And he must be, you know, special. And Like But remember he came as an infant. And they're pastoring. Want to introduce Albert and Don And this is where my heart broke. Um I want to give I've been praying for ya I was Um It's very professor.