Well, I don't mind saying that. um a little nervous about handling God's word. And uh so I gotta stand right in front of the pulpit instead of walking around because the new thing they have comes down to your side and I I'm nervous enough I don't need that little thing dangling out there reminding me. So I hope you can hear this morning and uh One of the things the title of the message is Peculiar People and it comes out of chapter two of Titus And the world today doesn't quite use the word peculiar much anymore. They would use a uh word like uh maybe strange or odd or maybe uh that person Or uh maybe they're kind of uncommon. And the kids they would all say they're kind of weird. And uh Joey and I were coming this morning down to pick uh Miss Mary up and it was a gentleman walking carrying the weights exercising. And right when we got there, Joey's pulling in the road, the guy comes out in the middle of the street and he's holding up there laughing And I'm thinking to Joy, I said, That guy's kinda odd. We had to go around to get around him. I don't know what uh was going on with him, but it was it was kinda strange But anyway, the world certainly would not use peculiar when it comes to Christians. Yet God decides to use this word. And so what people would use today concerning Christians would probably be words like they're religious fanatics or they are extreme white ring uh right wingers. or they're fanatics, they're uh old fashioned. Or they may even use the word hypocrites, which they love to do. They'd love to trip us up. But God here in Titus 2. 14, God states that he gave himself that he might redeem from all iniquity, all sin. And purify unto himself a peculiar people. Get this last part. Zealous of good works. We see that all through Titus In other words, those who truly believe in the gospel of Jesus Christ, those whom He gave His life for, to redeem from all of our sins, all of our iniquity. And to sanctify or purify us unto himself are a peculiar people. We are a peculiar people. The people who are peculiar to God, they belong characteristically and exclusively to God. That's what makes us peculiar people. We are characteristically peculiar. And exclusively belong to God. And they are to be zealous of good works. And if you look all through the Bible, we are saved to serve God. And if you have a moment, I'm going to turn to Romans chapter 20, Romans 8, chapter 20. We all know this passage, but I just want to get a glance at it to kind of give us a uh thought of what we're talking about here. And verse 28 of chapter 8, it says, And we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are called according to his purpose. For whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate, and to be conformed into his image of his son. That he might be the firstborn of many brethren, moreover, whom he did predestinate, them he also called and whom he had called, them he also justified, and whom he justified, then he also glorified. Now if you would look over at verse 38. Paul says here, for I am persuaded that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature shall be able to separate us from the love of God Which is in Christ Jesus. This is important for us to see here what Paul is telling us. So before we get into Titus chapter 2, I'm going to need some help from God, so let's go to Him in prayer and then we'll get started. Father, I am deeply humbled. That you would allow me the privilege, Lord, to present your word this morning. And I know, Father, that in me there lieth no good thing. And Father, I am seeking for you. Your guidance. I'm asking that your Holy Spirit would work mightily in our hearts, that you would guide and lead this uh teaching this morning, and that in all things you would receive all the glory and all the praise in Jesus' name. Amen. So if you would turn to uh the book of Titus, and we are going to be in chapter 2. Now here we've already uh read ahead a little bit about this and just a brief introduction. Titus was considered Justice Timothy as one of Paul's sons in the Lord. And also the fact that he has allowed or Or encouraged Timothy or and Titus both to be overseers in the church. And here it is what is taking place in Crete. Now the island of Crete uh is a place where When they were doing the when they had the Pentecost and uh Peter was preaching the gospel and he was preaching in different tongues, well some of the people from Crete were there and heard the gospel in their tongues. And so it's believed by some that Crete might have been one of the earliest churches established. And uh the fact that they heard the gospel in their own tongue And now here we have Paul had gone there and ministered and he's leaving Titus there as an overseer and his job was to uh organize the church and get leaders set up and uh teach And so on. And uh so the Cretan reputation that we see here is in Titus 1. 12. They were always liars, they were evil beasts, they were slow bellies. Which meant they were lazy. Even the Jews that lived there became corrupt by them. And so you see what Titus is up against. And it's like you and I today and what we are up against in our lives and in this world and in this church. And so Paul gives Titus some great instruction. In chapter one he really mentions about the qualifications of leadership. And he goes through that, and he also warns against these false teachers which were mostly of the circumcision. So we know what was being taught there. was Christ plus the law probably. But then they were doing it also for their own gain. So we see what he's up against. So Titus here, Paul Titus was instructed to teach in verse 1 sound doctrine. Sound doctrine is what makes you and I peculiar people. Unlike the world, which is never satisfied, it always is ever changing from one thing to the next. And uh whatever the latest fat is, whatever the close is going to be this year, the world follows after all these things. They are so unstable and unstable. They live by the uh lust of the flesh and the lust of the eyes and the pride of life. And so in Proverbs 29, verse 18, it states: where there is no vision In other words, instruction in God's Word. The people perish because they are deprived of moral restraints. But he that keepeth the law is blessed So you see here that the world has no plumb line. It has nothing. We have God's truth and we know what's truth. We know how to live. and these people in the world do not. And so this is the issue that comes up here, that they uh live by the uh ways of the world. And there were people in this church from the Caretians who were a really worldly people. And uh so it was going to be a great task uh for Titus. So Paul gives him a lot of really good instruction. But it was important for him to have his doctrine straight as it is today for you. Ephesians four fourteen that those who would be uh tossed to and fro, they don't have sound doctrine because they're listening to everything and doing everything or tossed to and fro. And we were talking a little bit about deception this morning in our own. Sunday school lesson and how people will use deception to try to gain what they want. And they'll say one thing that they're this or the for that and then when they get what they want they're some So we see that a lot in the world today. Paul begins here with instruction to the older men. Older men, listen up I am with you. Older men were to be sober. In other words, to be sober means to be self-restraint. Or to be in self-control. And as we look at the word sober, the various powers bestowed by God upon man are capable of abuse. And this is the warning we're getting here. David is a great example with Bathsheba. David was a great king who loved God. And I think he loved God to the day he died. But he came to a point in his life, God had given him the kingdom and he was doing well until he was on the roof one evening and looked, where he ought not have been looking, instead of using self restraint and turning away and going back. He stayed there, and then it led to his uh losing that uh desire and power that God had given him. And uh so um the right use of self-restraint for us demands that we have this Controlling power over our will with the operation of the Holy Spirit. As we know and we read this morning, we have received God's Holy Spirit. It is in us and it gives us that power. But the thing is to use self restraint also is part of our responsibility to use it. And uh under the operation of the Holy Spirit. In other words, we are to govern our passions and desires that enable us to be conformed to the mind of God. And sober or self-control is man's uh response to God's will. And what he learns from God's word is properly put into practice. Let me give you an example. Um turn over to uh 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, and we're going to look at verse 3 and start there. But it says here in Thessalonians chapter 4 Chapter 4, verse 3. This is the will of God. It's very clear that this is the will of God, even to our sanctification, that we should what? Abstain from fornication, that every one of you should know how to possess his vessel in sanctification and honor. Not in lust and concupence, even as the Gentiles who don't know God. So we have a responsibility given very clearly here. It is the will of God, and the fact that we are to use this And then it goes to verse 7. It says, God had not called us unto uncleanness, but unto holiness. And he therefore that despiseth despiseth not man, but God, listen to this, who hath given unto us his Holy Spirit. So when we decide that we don't want to do, we don't want to use self-restraint, or we don't think that's right, we are actually going against what God says. God is the one that makes the rule. God is the one that sets down truth. And so as we see this here, self-control, again, is man's response to God's will. So if we read that passage there, we should know exactly how to put that into practice. But if we don't use self restraint, we will not be able to do it. David did not use self- Self restraint, as we seen, what happened to him can happen to you and I. So we have this responsibility. So then he tells us on down that this older man is supposed to be grave, uh reverent, honest and uh dignified and he's supposed to be temperate, which is pretty much the same as uh being self-control, but it's more towards sober-mindedness. Be careful in what we're thinking and how we're thinking. And then he goes to the other pa um part of it and he says that we are to be sound in faith. Older men are to be sound in faith. If you have your Bible and turn over to Hebrews chapter five. Verse 14 it says, But strong meat belongeth to him that is full of age, even those who by reason of use have s of Who by reason of use have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil. And so he's talking about here to be sound in faith, we live from faith to faith. When things come into our lives as And uh temptations and all those things, we are not to be tossed to and fro. We are not to be, as James said, double-minded. We are to be single-minded And so having this sound faith is something that we learned throughout our lives. And that's why he's mentioning the older men here. The older men have experienced more than the younger. And so that's why he's pointing this out that our faith should be sound by the time we are at our age. Although we still have weaknesses and we still have things in our lives, but we should be sound in our faith because of what we have gone through And using all the times that we have had our senses exercised by trusting God through what we went through Then the next time it comes up, we're a little stronger in our faith because we saw what God did in the last trial we went through. So not only that, but let me show you something about a man who is not sound in faith. A man who is not sound in his faith, first of all, he is not convinced in his heart that God's way is the best. He's not convinced. And he treats God's word like human advice and always retains the option, get this, for disobedience. He always wants that option He struggles between his feelings and what he thinks is right. He struggles with the ideas of the world, watching too much of the world, and he struggles with God's commands. And in this he is tossed to and fro. as we found over in Ephesians four fourteen. Sound in charity, he says. They are to be sound in charity. Sound in love. A love for God and a love for our neighbors. It's the two greatest commandments. And then you can also look into uh First Corinthians thirteen when you talk about being sound in love. I mean we can do all these great things. I can stand up here and preach the word to you, but if I do not live it In my life, I'm just a bunch of noise. And I will tell you, I was very convicted, very convicted as I was studying this and what has been taught uh to me and areas that I know that uh I need to work on. So I'm hoping that God would be doing the same thing for you. But sound in patience, he says. And if you have your Bibles, Romans chapter 5 is a good passage that I would like to read to you Romans 5, 3 through 5. And not only so, but we glory in tribulation also, knowing that tribulation worketh. Patience and patience experience and experience hope. And hope maketh not ashamed, because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts By the Holy Ghost, which is given unto us. Again, we see the evidence of the Holy Spirit being there in our presence to empower us. We are sealed by that Holy Spirit Spirit. God loves us. Nothing can separate us from that. So anytime that we go through challenges in life or struggling with different things in life, it doesn't mean God does not love you. But why don't we take this and make it Sound faith for ourselves. And I think here about patience. Patience perfects Christian character. Patience perfects Christian character. We can fly off the handle in a heartbeat. We can do things that we ought not to be doing because we're not being patient and waiting on God, or we are not patient with our children, or we are not patient in different areas of life. Patience perfects Christian character. It's a good thing to be working on. But this thing of being sound and what he says here that um Knowing that tribulation worketh patience. We have to be patient. We have to wait upon the Lord when we're going through a trial. It's not going to happen and be over in one night in most cases. And we struggle through it, but when we get through it, we look back. That experience that we had, we were patient waiting on God helping us. And not only that, but we experience this hope, this love that God has. Put it in our hearts. We love God more when we see ourselves get through the other side, don't we? Don't our doesn't our love grow more? Doesn't our faith grow stronger when we get through something that we've been struggling with? struggling with for years or even just health issues or uh family issues. Now he moves on here um in Titus chapter two. We're back there again I found this one interesting, but he uses the word here, the aged women likewise. So this is going to come down through every age group Likewise, what I said to the older men, what I'm saying to the women, what we say to younger ladies, and what we're going to say to the younger men, it's all coming together. that we are likewise, and they are to be in a behavior as becometh holiness. Behavior that becometh holiness. Not false accusers, not slanderers or gossipers. It was a besetting sin of some older folk in the day And uh I probably shouldn't do this, but I'm gonna do it anyway. Uh there was a movie out several years ago, way back. Some of you may have seen it and you're probably wondering why I'm bringing it up here. But there was a movie called Steel Magnolis, and it was about these women. And And uh from the south. And you had the older ones, you had uh middle aged that had daughters and uh on and down. So it was kind of a funny uh scenario that they had, but I remember them always talking about everything thing and about others. And they were out one evening, I I don't I think it was at one of the ladies' houses, but they were talking and this older lady makes the statement. She says that um If you can't say nice something nice about someone, come sit next to me. Kinda shows you what her mindset was and where her heart was She wanted to gossip. She wanted to know these things so she can spread it all around. And she was the older one of the group. Now I'm not going to pick on you older ladies. I know we don't have anyone in here like that, but it's a warning to us to be careful. Uh this was the one that struck me interest uh struck my interest here. Are not to be given to much wine. I didn't realize older women drank much wine. But I do understand that they were in Crete. Crete was that way. The older women and the men. They drank a lot. So I understand it here, but it was kinda funny when I thought about I don't know anybody. And my My circle of older folks that drink a lot of wine. A glass of wine, yeah, but anyway, it's a besetting sin, and the Cretans had that problem. And that's why it's mentioned here I believe And to be addicted to much wine, if it is much wine, which he says, then that means that they are slavery to that wine or slavery to sin. And we know what God said So now these older ladies are also supposed to be teachers of good things. In other words, influencing for good the younger women by precept and example. Speaking here of God's Word, truths that we have learned as older ladies or older men, things that we have learned from God's Word, and live out by example. This is going to be the theme all through this chapter. We live by example. The little nuggets and nutrients, as Pastor Jim uses them, which help us to grow more and more. These are the things that we are to be teaching the younger ladies. And here, what are these precepts and examples? Well he brings them out. But it may, but I think it's more of a self-restraint. And to love your husband and your children. Now you're gonna need a lot of self-restraint if you're married and you have a husband. And you have children. Would you not agree, ladies? I know my wife uses a lot of self-restraint for me. She's a blessed Blessed woman though, I am very thankful for her. And also these women are we are to teach them to be discreet and being discreet, pure from every fault, another word And how you carry yourself. They are to be keepers of the house. And as I think of the keepers of the house, I am going to take you real quickly to the best definition I can find. And that's in Proverbs 31, and we're going to look at verse 11 through 31. In Proverbs 31, verse 11, it says, The heart of her husband doth safely trust in him. her so that sh he shall have no need of spoil. I trust my wife with everything I have. And I am grateful for that. I know that she will handle it well. And says here that she would do him good and not evil all the days of his life. This is what we are to teach the younger lady. And here it says that seeketh uh she seeketh wool and flax and worketh willingly with her hands. She's busy, not a busybody, but a busy worker. 'She is like the merchant ships, she bringeth her food from afar, she's always well stocked in the pantry, takes care of the groceries. She rises also while it is yet night, and giveth meat to her household, and a portion to the maiden She's up early. She's taking care of the household. She considereth a field and buyeth it, and with her fruit of her hands she per planteth a vineyard. She's a gardener. She girdeth her loins with strength, and strengthen her arms. She perceiveth that merchandise is good. Her candle goeth not out by night. She layeth her hands to the spindle and her hands to the staff She stretches out her hand to the poor. She reaches out forth hands to the needy. She is not afraid of the snow. For her household, for all of her household, are clothed with scarlet. She maketh herself coverings of tapestry, her clothing is silk and purple. Her husband is known at the gates, when he sitteth among the elders of the head. of the land. I think of that one and I think that is an awesome testimony of a wonderful wife at a husband can stand among the brethren and his wife builds him up, not tears him down down talks behind his back. But he has a good reputation with the men because of his wife's treatment of him. She maketh fine linen and selleth it and delivereth girdles unto the merchant Strength and honor are her clothing, and she shall rejoice in time to come. She opened her mouth with wisdom. Women are very wonderful. And in her tongue is the law of kindness. She's very kind. She looketh well to the ways of her household and eateth not the bread of idolness. She's not a lazy like we see in the Cretan people. Her children rise up and call her blessed, and her husband also, and he praiseth her. How many times you get a card, a birthday card from one of your children, and they write Many daughters have done virtuously, but thou exceedest all. Excellest all. Favor is deceitful. Example of a good wife at home, being that person that is a keeper of the home. Good and obedient to her husband. Now why why is all of this Why is this important for these older ladies to teach the younger ladies and the younger ladies to be doing this? Why is it important? The Bible tells us right here And he says that the word of God be not blasphemed. In other words, what he's saying is so that no reproach may be cast upon the gospel of Jesus Christ through the inconsistencies What does that mean? If we are inconsistent in our lifestyle and you have folks over, and all of a sudden there is not that hospital. Hospitable attitude of the wife or the husband, as far as that goes. It is causing some inconsistencies in what we say about God. It's a reproach that we bring upon his word. And so to blaspheme, here it says, is to be evil spoken of. So if someone leaves after they've been to your home and you've not been very hospitable or things have gone on that we're not orderly in all these things. They're gonna be talking those Christians aren't much different than we That Christ they serve. He doesn't make a whole lot of difference to them. So on and so forth. Now he comes to the younger men. And he says to the younger men, again he uses the word likewise Like what he just said about the younger ladies, the older ways, and the men. We are to exhort them to be sober-minded. And uh we know what sober-minded is. In all things showing thyself a pattern of good works in doctrine. And in this doctrine there should be no corruptness, and we also should have gravity, which we talked about, and since Sincerity and sound speech that cannot be condemned. Truthfulness, according to the scripture, is what we're talking about here. What we believe and know about God's Word, how He Instructs us to live. This is important for us, and we should have that kind of speech when we talk to our neighbors, when we talk at work. It should be automatically coming from us because of our relationship with Jesus Christ. Christ and what he has done on our behalf and what he is doing. And if we are staying true to being what Paul was mentioning here being sober, being grave, being temperate, sound in faith and charity, if we are doing these things. The thing is about this, brothers and sisters, is this. We have to purpose in our heart to do this. It don't come natural, but we have to purpose it ahead of time. And so when we are going through our day, we normally will pray in the morning for God's guidance. I do it from my work. place. And by the end of the day I take inventory, I see areas where I need improvement. And I work on that the next day. But the thing is is that what we say must match what we do. There was a statement made in one of the commentaries. It says, All teaching is useless. All teaching is useless to the world. Unless the teachers examine Confirms his word. So many people lie today. So many people are deceiving us and in the world. So why is this important May I remind you, because we characteristically and exclusively belong to God. Characteristically, we are the picture of Christ as we walk. And that's why we started the home uh studies, so that we can invite others in as we study God's Word. Word. And I find that to be a little difficult at times, but uh it is a responsibility we should take, not only just to have fellowship and time with brothers and sisters in Christ, but inviting others in that they might see this difference in our life. So that we do not compromise the Word of God is why This is important. When those who oppose God's truth, when they try to accuse you of being a hypocrite or a right one Religious fanatic, they will find themselves ashamed. They will find themselves not only ashamed, but they'll find themselves convicted because what they accused you of is not true. And they see it when they come to know you. And I think of uh they can say no evil thing about you. That's embarrassing to them. I think about when uh we were studying Job and how Satan came before God and accused Job that the only reason that Job was worshiping God was because everything that God gave him. He was a rich man. He had a good family. He had everything So God said, okay, take it all away. Don't touch his life, but take it all away. Now I can imagine when Satan came back a second time, okay. So they that's not it. Maybe it's if you take away his physical Okay. Again. Now you tell me that at the end of this chapter, or at the end of this book of Job, Satan is convicted because he could not His accusing was not true. Some of us in here are struggling with things that are going on right now in our lives, where people are accusing us of things that are not true. And so we need to keep that focus upon Christ, that He loves us, that He is there, and He wants us to use this opportunity to glorify Him and to be that pro um peculiar person. Then he goes on to talk about the servants, which I think more of work people, uh uh us in the workplace because I think it's important. There are some things here, some truths. We are to be obedient to those over us. If our company or our boss wants us to do something that's not outside of God's uh what we would be convicted as being wrong. If they want us to steal something, we know we're not going to steal something. But if they want you to build something and do something something, we go do it. And we should. And we should do it wholeheartedly. And we should do it with great joy. We should be a good steward. We shouldn't be stealing time. We shouldn't be stealing merchandise or anything from our uh employers. We are to be honest. We are to be truthful. We would be different. And people will see it. And we are to show good faith. I like that point. And he mentions that here. He says, but showing all good fidelity, that they may adorn the doctrine of God, our Savior, in all faith. things. What does it mean to adorn the teaching of God? It reveals who God is, it reveals his goodness to us. And it is revealing that we truly are his children. And there is something different. causing a conviction in their heart that maybe they see the lack in their own life and might call upon Christ for that. So I'm going to read verses eleven through fourteen before we finish. I think this is an important part. For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men Teaching us that denying ungodliness, worldly lust, that we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world Looking for that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior, Jesus Christ, again, who gave himself for us. That he might redeem from all of our sins, redeem us from all of our sins, and purify unto himself a peculiar people, zealous of good works. Peculiar people. We characteristically and exclusively belong to God. That's what makes us peculiar. And what makes us more peculiar is when we are a living example of what God says we are. We can't live one thing And say another. We got too much of that going on right now in the world. So how are you to live in the world today? He tells us to be sober, to be righteous and godly, looking for that blessed hope. comes to take us home. What will I be doing? What will I be doing? Will I be that obedient one? Will I be living what God Says that I am to be living. What I say I believe about his word. How are you living? Are you living by the word? By deed? By example? On purpose, we live by example. It has to be on purpose that we do this. Remember, we are peculiar people, zealous of good works, because of what Christ has done Matthew Henry, I always like to quote him. He had a quote that he said, Let us inquire whether our whole dependence is placed upon that grace which saves us, which pardons us, and sanctifies us. And the further we are removed from boasting of our own things, our own doings, our own good works, and trust So when we are having good things going on in our lives and we're doing what we're supposed to be doing And we don't boast about our goodness. We boast that Christ was good to us. That He has given us direction and ability to do this. The more zealous, and it says here that we We would glory in Christ alone would be the more zealous we shall be about abounding in real good works. Saying that I am a Christian is not enough today. We have millions saying they're Christians. It's just not enough, brothers and sisters. Matthew 5, 14 says, you are the light of the world. We are a peculiar people. You are the light of the world. And he says, listen to this, 5. 16, let your life so shine before men that they may see your good works. And why? So that they glorify your Father in heaven. It's not that you are somebody great, but the fact that we serve a great God. One who loves us, one who died for us, one who has called us and chosen us to be a peculiar people. So we belong to God Let's close in prayer. Father, I thank you for your word. It is powerful. And Lord, I am thankful for the convictions that you brought upon my mind. And I pray, Lord, that anyone here today, Father, who may not quite know for sure, that they belong to you, that you You have died for them. Maybe something is going on in their life. I pray, Father, that you might, by your spirit, speak to their hearts today. And Lord, I pray that In all things. They will turn to you. And Father, I think about each one of us, brothers and sisters in Christ. We are your church. We are a peculiar person. People. And we ought to be zealous of good works. So, Father, I pray that you will remind us throughout the week. Throughout the week, whether or not we can say that we live by example of your word. So, Father, I ask that you be with us as we go. our way today. I pray you'll keep us safe. And I pray that Lord we would have a desire, a new and fresh uh desire in our hearts to share you with others. Lord. And I do praise you and thank you for enabling me this morning. I thank you for each one here, and I pray, Father, that you will send us out with your blessing in Jesus' name. Amen.