We are going to be reading from Philippians chapter four, looking at verses ten, I mean, yeah, ten through thirteen. Chapter 4, verses 10 through 13. But I rejoice in the Lord greatly, that now at last your care for me has flourished Not that I speak in regard To be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need. I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. very thankful for the opportunity to uh preach this morning. Been looking forward to it now for um actually a number of months. Pastor J Jim was well ahead of the times and told me about this, I think, back in either December or January. And um so I appreciate the uh opportunity l always love being with you all uh in this in this way. Um so Philippians four not unfamiliar territory passage can either be life changing or course setting in your life in in many regards. You know, it is true that you don't have to interact with people too long before you would find that someone is complaining Is that true? And maybe the someone is yourself, honestly, right? Complaining, goodness, we talked about, you know, COVID nineteen and the pandemic and so forth. Well there's an epidemic of complaining In fact, it seems as though so many people live in a solid state of discontentment If you are in a workplace, you can see this among your co-workers. If you're home full-time, you can see this in your own children. Children, perhaps. No one has to be taught how to be discontent. Adults and children alike, we all seem to be naturals when it comes to complaining. You know, in in the workplace, I feel like if people worked as well as they complained, they'd be better workers In fact, I think that if complaining could be made a profession, there would be many people in this world that would be millionaires or multimillionaires in some cases. It seems for many that discontentment is their natural habitat. But should that be for the believer? Should discontentment be neutral or the default for a believer? We looked at our call to worship this morning, and it was Psalm 23, and in that first verse it says, The Lord is my shepherd. What's the next verse? Next part, what does it say? Shall not want. And that's an older way of saying I I lack nothing. I am sufficient In my shepherd. I don't need anything else. So, what is the definition of contentment? What what are what are the distinguishing marks of discontentment? What is the root cause of a person being discontent? Intent. We will seek to answer these questions and perhaps even more beyond that in today's time in the Word. It is safe to say, I think we would all agree that God wants his people To be content. It would be tragic to live the majority of your life unhappy, down, and frustrated. Boy, that sounds miserable, doesn't it? God is offering us more than that. He says that we can have life and we can have it more abundantly. How do we get there? How do we live a life characterized by Contentment, where contentment becomes the default. Contentment becomes the natural habitat. We can live, we'll see from the passage today that we can live content And by realizing that true contentment is a Supernatural work that Christ does. So we see here in verse 10, we'll start there. It says in verse 10, But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly, that now at last your care for me has flourished. Again, though you surely did care, but you lacked opportunity. So we see here, first of all, he's referring to a gift that he received from the Philippians. We know from uh the Corinthians That this was a a gift that they did and they they sent rather sacrificially. This wasn't this gift wasn't in uh Um wasn't above what they what they already had and what they already had was enough. No, this was actually this was actually a gift that was provided to Paul in their lack, in their in in And Paul rejoices in this gift. They really had in in the time before they had this opportunity to do to do it. The opportunity that's mentioned here, though, that there was a time when they They would have liked to have given this before, but they lacked the opportunity. Commentators are kind of split as to what exactly this means Um some way the circumstances in the life of the church of Philippi or in the life of Paul perhaps prevented the church from expressing their concern and providing this gift, this One gift. Perhaps the believers had no opportunity to express their concern because of a very severe trial or severe p extreme poverty. This is mentioned in 2 Corinthians 8. And so whether whatever the factors might be, the circumstances they didn't have the ability every time to do as much as they wanted in regard to providing But you see, you'll see here in a moment that Paul is bringing this up, not in the sense that he's trying to encourage them. Or so forth. He's grateful for it, but he's about to say that whether that he got a gift from them or not, he doesn't need it. And that's not that sounds kind of rude, and especially perhaps in our in our uh in if you're given a gift and a present and you say, Oh thanks, but I didn't need that. Okay, fine. See if I give you a present again. But that's that's not really the uh that's not the temperament, that's not the the atmosphere that's going on in in the This particular thing. What Paul really is getting at is that he is rejoicing. He is rejoicing over this gift that God would work through the Philippian believers. So that at at the very last, when this gift actually did arrive, that he could rejoice in the Lord and rejoice in the How is it that Paul is rejoicing in the Lord while it is the believers in Philippi who gave the gift? You might You might think, well, you have a little bit of a little bit of a conflict there. Is it God giving the gift or is it the Philippians giving the gift? And really, it's it's both. You know, when we are ministers of God's grace, when we are giving to others, we have an opportunity to show God's love to other people. God will use sometimes supernatural means to provide for his people, but often he uses certain members of his own people to meet the need. When we give of ourselves our time, our talent, our energy, our money for the benefit of a fellow believer, we are actually then an instrument And we display God's care for others. But we we see here, this is this verse. So he's he's talking about this is all in the context of contentment And so we're seeing here that contentment begins in order to live a life that is marked by contentment. We need to understand that it is God's business to make sure that we are taken care of. Did you know that? Primarily, God is your provider. Yes, you may have jobs, yes, you may have homes, and you may have vehicles, and you may have all these things that are a part of Life, but God is your primary caretaker. He is the lover of your soul. He is the one that watches over you Do you believe right now that God is taking care of you? Do you believe He's taking care of you the best way possible? You see, a mark of discontentment would suggest that, or the thought might come up, yes, yes, I believe God is the provider. Yes, I believe God is good. Yes, but it would be better if he would do it in this way over here. Like with this car, not that car. that I have already. Or maybe with this position or in this job and not in this position in this job. Um, I had uh an opportunity earlier in the year to um to apply for a position and um you know you always try and keep your hopes down, right? You keep your expectations And I I had many profitable conversations with folks in in my place of employment and I thought, boy, this is this is trending in a certain direction. And I wonder if this might act not actually. actually happen and I had the interview, the interview was really great, and uh the next day I did find out I did not get the position. And so, you know, I I and it was through a phone call and so I hung up the phone and I was like, all right, that wasn't what I was expecting. I realized now I I thought I'd actually get it. And I mean I had You know, uh us guys, we like to do the numbers and we all figure out what we're gonna make and we're we figure out what this is gonna look like and you know we're we're we're creat that do that. And and so the first thing I thought was, well, all those numbers are meaningless now. Like this doesn't mean a thing. But then I realized, no, you know what? If If if God's not providing for us that way, God's going to continue providing for us. Even though sometimes it doesn't always appear to be enough, sometimes it It's tight, sometimes it doesn't look great. No. God is going to provide. Do we believe that God is providing for us? Is God taking care of you now? And do you believe the care that He is giving you is exactly what you need? If you don't, it can be the seed of discontentment. That starts. If you don't, those uncertainties can cause us to doubt God's care. And that can strip us of a thankful heart That can strip us of our joy and our rejoicing. You see, Paul here, as the example that we're seeing in this passage, he understood the truth about God, that God was his ultimate provider. And yes, God could choose to use other individuals, God could use supernatural means to provide for him, but either way, it was all God. And for that he was rejoicing, he was thankful. And that is where contentment starts, my friends. Contentment starts with understanding who God is, that He is the provider, and that We are filled with gratitude for his provision. Do we trust God this morning in this way? Do we believe that He cares for us? We trust him with our salvation, right? Our souls we put in his hands. Do we trust him for the day-to-day walk that we live? It ought to be so. So contentment begins with this thankful heart, this thankful heart that trusts in the Lord to provide for one's needs. But also, true contentment remains steady in spite of varying circumstances. Circumstances. True contentment remains steady in spite of varying circumstances. We see this in verses 11 through 12. True contentment really does not factor in circumstances Our happiness or unhappiness often is determined by what we are experiencing. Is it not true? Very easily we fall into this category. I mean, and we're we're human, and it's part of the human condition. What happens around us, what happens To us affects us invariably in a multitude of ways. But we're seeing from this passage that circumstances do not have to factor in To whether we are content or not. We see here first, what he's saying here is that not that I speak in regard to need. He is trying to communicate to them and he's doing this in a teaching way, not in a I don't need your gift, thanks a lot kind of way. He's saying that I don't r speak in regard to need. I am thankful, but I don't I don't speak in regard to this need that you He's trying to tell them that our friendship as one common Commentator put it, our relationship, that is Paul to the Philippians, is not a utility based relationship. Even if you didn't give this gift, we would still be friends. We would still be in Christ. This isn't a a give-take relationship. This is a give-give relationship that we have here Now it's quite possible that at this time he's he's in prison. Uh he's not a free man, and so it is likely that he was lacking some basic essential. But he did not choose to languish and and wallow in that situation. No. He was able to be content in that situation. So he says quite affirmatively, for I have learned, in whatever state I am, to be content. He has learned. So he says here this idea of learning. So this is the concept of what all of us would be would would be familiar with. It's the school of life. It's the school of hard knocks, you might say, where life beats you up and spits you out. And so And whatever we've dealt with in life, which uh I don't want to discount some of the difficulties and the things that life has brought any of our way. But it's nice to know that this is coming from a guy who really got walloped a few times, did he not? I mean Paul he did not have an easy path. The life that God chose for him after being converted to Christ. Christ was not lined with a bed of roses. He was shipwrecked, he was imprisoned, he was beaten He was stoned. The list goes on. And he says, this is the guy that says, I've learned that whatever state I am in, they're in to be content. Now it's interesting, something that that this idea of contentment brings along with it. It was a word that was used in that day. However, it is it was used in such a way that was significantly unbiblical. Like, we would not want to adopt the first century's idea of contentment. The idea of contentment back in that day was the idea of a self-sufficient man. Someone who was able by the power of his own will to resist the force of the circumstances around him. This can't touch me. None of this can affect me. I'm I'm bigger than that. I'm above that. This is all what I'm this is what I'm about. Can't And Paul is flipping this idea on its head and giving it a biblical understanding, which we're seeing here. We're seeing the beginning of because we see that first of all this can Contentment begins with thankfulness. That is completely opposite to the idea of that that they had back then. And he's stating that that these variety of things that can happen to me, they do not affect me, but it's not because of my own strength and my own weakness. So what is and I want to we're we're formulating a picture here and gathering this intel from the past And other passages, we want to we want to really hone in on what contentment and discontentment is. I'd like us to look at Hebrews thirteen verse five and six. If you'd like to turn there and go ahead. Hebrews 13, verse 5 and verse 6. What is contentment? What is discontentment? We get a little window into what this looks like here, just in these two verses. And it couples so well with the passage that we're looking at Today as well in Philippians. It says, Let your conduct be without covetousness. Be content with such things as you have. For he himself has said, I will never leave you nor forsake you. Verse 6: So we may boldly say, The Lord is my helper, I will not fear. What can man do to me? So this is very different from the philosophy of their age, their day and age. The contentment doesn't come from within, the contentment comes from From the Lord. In fact, we see here it's from the presence of the Lord. So we see here a little window into what discontentment is. Discontent At its core is covetousness. What is covetousness? Covetousness is wanting something that God has not provided. It's a desire that that goes beyond just the whimsical, oh I wish that, and then it goes away. No, it's something that is reoccurring, something that re enters your brain from time to time time and perhaps even over time grows. It's wanting something that God has not provided. We often associate covetousness and And discontentment with material things. And that certainly is true. We've been looking at that in uh the stewardship class where Harry has been teaching for the past few Sundays schools. Now, and that's come up a few times. But this can apply also to circumstances, to stations in life as well. There are many ways in which we can be covetous, not just for material things, but for position, for we can be covetous of a quiet home when we come home from work, so forth, and those types of things. I could tell you a story, but I won't. So Just happened yesterday. We have all of these things and circumstances that we may end up feeling covetous, me being discontent with. And we want it so badly. But we see here the antithesis to covetousness. He's saying here in Hebrews 13, as one of the many bullet points that he has in this Chapter, let your conduct, let your life be marked without this covetousness, without discontentment. Instead, be content with what you have The underlying theme here is that what you have already is what God wants you to have. Trust Him in that And the main factor, you might ask, well, why? Why should I be content with what I have? Well the answer that he gives here is, for he himself has said, What? I will never leave you nor forsake you. The promised presence of Christ is enough of a force in our life so that we can be Content. That promise of presence allows us to boldly say in verse 6: The Lord is my helper, I will not fear. And what can mankind do to me? If God is for us, who can be against us? factor is based on the presence of Christ. Christ with you is enough to make you content. Go back to Philippians now. Back to Philippians chapter 4. And we're seeing here that Christ in you is enough to make you content. The double help of the presence of Christ and Christ in us, and us in Christ, is enough to make us content. So then he goes on in verse 12, and he expounds on the whatever state I am. So what do you mean, Paul, by every state that you have found in Well he says. He says, I know how to be abase and how to abound. Everywhere in all things I have learned both to be full and to be hungry. Paul is describing for us the variety of circumstances. Experienced. You may think, and I wonder too, you know, he could have he could have even pushed this home even more and and talked about some of those things that he had Which he does in other places actually in other letters. Here he does not. Maybe the Philippians were already well acquainted with some of the things that he has been dealing with. during his ministry. But he describes here for us the ups and the downs of life, so that the reader, as one commentator put it, will have A clear picture of the school where he has learned to be content. He has on both ends of the spectrum learned how to be content in both situations. He says here in the first one, he says, I know what it is to be in need, and I know what it is to have plenty. I know what it is to be in need, I know what it is to have plenty. Now you might look at this statement And and me too, honestly, at first, and think it a bit strange. I understand how you have to learn to be content when there's not a whole lot But do you have to be con learn to be content when you do abound? When you have a lot? What does that look like? Which probably for the majority of us we we fall into that category, right? We fall into the category of either having enough or even abounding, where we have more than enough. We have to realize that contentment isn't just for the lean times of life, but also the prosperous times. In fact, it could be said That for some it is harder to find contentment while very rich than it is when we have very little. How is this so? Well Proverbs 16:8 actually says as a proverb, it says better is a little with righteousness than vast revenues without justice. Learning to have the attitude of contentment and po in poverty and in prosperity Is so unusual that Paul actually employs a very rare word. It's only one time here, where in some translations it brings this out. It says, I have learned the secret. I have learned the secret to being content. And this mysterious thing And it is kind of mysterious. How does one get here? Well, the problem with the the riches and the wealth and the much that we often so much enjoy is that we can end up looking to those things. To become satisfied. And that's the danger. That's why it's hard to be content with much. Because we we can fall into the trap of a measure of materialism and idolatry. And we want more. And then the thing that that satisfies us for a little while, well after a week or even a year, or whatever it might be, doesn't satisfy the same That car that we got, it lost that new car smell a long time ago, right? And now it has all these other problems. No, it's it's difficult. When those things become the object. When we when we think of the past and we think, oh, it was better when We find ourselves rolling into that discontentment when we have so much, which is it's ridiculous, yes, but it happens. It is part of the human condition. That we naturally, no matter what state we find ourselves in, are we naturally content. Contentment, as we see As the example of Paul shows us, is a learned thing. It is not peop people don't come into this world already content. No, they come into this world screaming. They they're I mean they're probably not mad, but they sound really mad when they come. You know? And and that and it just doesn't It doesn't get any better after this. No, it does. It's good, it's fine. We are not naturally content. We are quite naturally discontent. And so God allowing times of plenty and times of leanness in our lives, times of being humble, times of abounding, these are all for our benefit. Partially so that we can learn contentedness in all of those states And when it is because we have a lot, God is trying to show us that the material things that we have, the station we have The circumstances we have that we enjoy are not the reason for our enjoyment. They cannot be that. If that's the case, then it often It can become it can be a source of greed for us where we want more. Or we can become anxious because we're protecting those things. Is it not true sometimes? times when we we have something that we really like, we really enjoy, we protect it almost at all costs. Um there there are certain things that we value so much, and it's right to take care of things as a stewardship, but it can get kind of out of control at times. with certain folks. That should not be. So now you you've heard the f the phrase. You've heard the phrase I'm sure in in That's a nice phrase. I think experience is a teacher, but not the best. Not the best. Because contentment is partially learned by experience. But true contentment Contentment where it becomes the default in your life in all circumstances is not merely just learned, but it's by being in Christ. And him with you in every situation, whether we are well fed or hungry, whether we are living in plenty or in need, we see that we can learn the secret And it's that focus on the relationship with Christ. So we are left then with asking, how ultimately is this accomplished? So, okay, we've got thanksgiving, we've got thankfulness, rejoicing, and believing that God is the provider. That's the foundation for contentment. We see also that we can't fall into the trap that contentment is merely based on our circumstances. That we allow circumstances to dictate whether we are happy or unhappy. We can live above that. Christ is offering that to us. And we have the example of Paul, that someone who has learned that very thing. But how is this accomplished? I mean, we may we may think of the week that we just had. Of the week that's ahead, and we can think of a lot of things that make us rather discontent. Right? We can think of a variety of things that we don't like, that make us un happy. Do we realize that we have the option to be content through all of that? We We do. We do. How is it accomplished? How is it possible? How can someone remain content and circumstances have little to no effect Well the answer is that it is not something that we generate within ourselves. This is not something that we generate within ourselves. If it was up to us, we we wouldn't accomplish it at all. Positive thinking, relaxation techniques, they only get you so far We can make a mistake if we think that this is accomplished by only natural means. No. This does require supernatural intervention And so we see this from verse 13. True contentment comes by supernatural means. Says in verse 13, and I'm sure we could all quote it just about, I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. Now here is a very widely known verse, right? You'll see this verse all over the place in different formats on bumper stickers, on plaques, on Weights. You know, you'll see it in in a variety of places. You know, uh I didn't know this this group still existed. I remember as a as a teenager So this would have been in the nineties. We went to go see the power team. Ever hear of the power team? Anyone familiar with that? Yeah, just just a couple. Uh I didn't I thought they were gone, I hadn't heard about 'em in forever. So I looked 'em up and said, Oh and it had it had on their power team two point oh. Oh, maybe it was revitalized or whatever. What is the power team? Well the power team, they they do feats of great strength. basically. I remember um much to my amazement, remember who who who here is old enough to remember telephone books like the real ones. Okay, yeah. They were like this thick, right? Now if you happened to live in an area that didn't have a whole lot, then maybe it was this thick. But if you lived around here, it was this thick. The Power Team guys took phone books and ripped them in half. Like they were strong. They were ridiculous. They did other things that I I basically forget now But I remember that their motto verse at the time, I'm I'm thankful to say that it's not this now, I couldn't find it on their website at all now. So I I think they realized the mistake here. But their motto verse was, I can do all things through Christ who strength which strengthens me. And I think to myself, is that really what that verse is talking about? Like I look at weights and I and I quote this verse and then I l I pick 'em up. Is that really what's going on here? This verse is used in a variety of ways to m motivate people to overcome obstacles, to to get a better mentality, to accomplish what you think is like an impossible task, and maybe even just to help someone feel like they can do anything. But is that really what this verse is talking about? Are we really supposed to quote this verse before we do some kind of athletic feat? I would submit that that that that is a misuse of this verse when we apply apply it to those types of things. You know it is interesting, and I mean I don't think the translators have done a bad job or anything like I'm not a translator. So I'm not in that position. But the word things actually isn't in there in the original language. It really would just read, I can do all through Christ who strengthened me. Some translations instead of things have put this there instead. And I think that gives either one gives it a more a better understanding of the context in which This is being said, I can do all these things through Christ who strengthens me What is Paul saying? He's saying Paul is or Christ is giving Paul the power and the strength to live this life of contentment. In the midst of all the variety of circumstances. That is the immediate context, and that's what's being talked about. Paul is claiming no power in himself. Yes, he has learned contentment. But all of those hard knocks of life that he had gone through, they were all given by God's hand, right? They all came from him too. So he is not claiming any source of strength or any power in himself. All his strength is in the one who empowers him, Jesus. Paul is then therefore denying anyone or anything else as the rightful claim to be his source of strength. He is able to live The content life only through the power of Christ and His sustaining grace. It is your life in Christ that will sustain you through the very Times in life you will encounter. For us that look at this today, we our minds will only be kept in peace, in perfect peace, when our minds are stayed If we make our circumstances the dictator of our contentedness, our emotions will inevitably be like a roller coaster. We will change from hour to hour throughout any day. Why then do we become discontent What is really the root cause there? Well, we're seeing here, we go back to that first point real briefly. God is the provider. God is the one who cares. If he is the one who truly cares, we must believe that he does. If we do not believe, That he is genuinely caring for us and providing for us, then we fall into discontentment. The issue is belief. This is even Mentioned many of you might remember the study Quieting and Noisy Soul by Discan uh by Jim Berg. And he discusses there very same thing. The root cause of discontentment is Unbelief. Not believing what God does, what he says he will do, what he promises. Promises. Do you see Paul's belief in this passage? He believes in God's provision and is thankful for For it. He believes that contentment is not a circumstance-based state of mind. And he believes in the sustaining strength that Christ provides. To make him content. Paul's Savior and our Savior is enough to override all circumstances All circumstances, whether we are humbled or abounding, we can be content. in him. So let's bring this together very very quickly here and just say well we talked about this contentment. What then what then is contentment? What does it look like I put it this way: true contentment, then is this: a calm satisfaction in God, Christ being with you, and you being in Christ is enough a calm, thankful satisfaction in God. Christ being in Christ being When that is the case, when that is true about you, circumstances Can't touch you. I wouldn't say that we would respond correctly and perfectly every time, but we go back to that natural habitat. Okay. Some people, some people, their natural habitat is discontentment. Okay? And every now and then something in life will pull them out of that discontentment. And so for a little while they're content, they're happy, they they feel good. But remember the the default habitat is discontentment. So when that stops, they revert back I believe God wants us to flip that around. Our natural state, our natural habitat is contempt. And yes, circumstances and events may arise which shock us and cause us to cause our soul to be stirred and perhaps even hurt. And yep, that might draw us out of contentment, but it's only for a time. It's only for a moment, it's only for a little bit, until then we are brought back to our default habitat. So what applications then can we take home as we wrap this up? Number one, we must see God's hand of provision and care in our lives. Failure to do so results in discontent. God will sometimes use people, sometimes use supernatural means to provide what we need. And we need eyes to see this. We must believe. That God's hand of provision is upon us, that his care is real. And even if it doesn't look exactly how we would like, we must trust and believe that he knows best. This is crucial to living a life that is default to contentment. Secondly, focus on circumstances Whether in lean times or times of plenty, will lead to discontentment. Focus on circumstances. Whether there are lean times, times of not enough Or times of plenty, if we are focused on the circumstances, if we are focused on the material things, either one of those, if our focus is in the wrong place, it will invariably lead to discontention. Contentment. Either we don't have enough and we wish we had at least a little more or at least as much as they had over there or these neighbors over here have. Or if we have plenty and we have more than enough, if we're focused on that, we can still be led to discontentment because we're finding our satisfaction and gratitude in those things. And then I I finish with this one last question. One last point. Is Christ enough for you to override all circumstances in life? Is Christ enough for you to override All circumstances in life. Christ being in you is enough to strengthen you for a life of contentment. Belief in Christ, Christ being with you, Christ being in you can keep you level, calm, satisfied. Let's pray. Father, we are. We come to you and We look to you and we see a God who really does care and provide. And does so in ways that go Spectacularly above what we even ask or think so often. And Lord, I pray that these truths Would be real in our lives, real enough that we would not be marked with discontentment, but rather our natural habitat That would be contentment through the supernatural working of your Son in our lives. We praise you for these truths. We praise you that you save our souls, you keep us, you guard us, and that before you take us home, you give us the opportunity to live our The Christian life as you have laid out in your word. And Lord, we we confess that we struggle and we don't do it as best as we should Best as we could. Well, with your help, we can. Help us, Lord, to yield to your spirit. Help us to be in your word Consuming your truth, never getting enough of it, so that we can be satisfied in you. And that being satisfied in you, being content with your presence That circumstances ultimately cannot touch us or harm us. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.