One of the things that I've been really burdened about lately is that we are focusing on the right thing and that our worship is what God wants it to be, and that in God's According to God's will, we're developing a right sense of community in the body. And I'll you'll understand a little bit more what that means in a few moments. So when I began to look at these psalms, it was really quite interesting. These psalms that we're going to look at tonight are sung by pilgrims traveling to Jerusalem for annual feasts. So you can imagine how many tri tribes were there in Israel? Twelve tribes in Israel, and they were broken up into separate separate uh sects as well. And and they were they were uh all during certain times, during certain festivals, they would go into Jerusalem to worship God collectively as a nation. And they would have to in some cases make significant journeys, especially as the nation of Israel grew and there was more people, they would they tended and the more established they became, the more they would tend to spread out, the more they had to had to go back up to Jerusalem. And they would return to Jerusalem for these various feasts. And while they were going, they would sing as they go. And they would actually worship the Lord as they're going and singing. And um how many of you all ever did that like you're driving in the car and you sang together as a family? I used to we used to do that growing up. Um I know it's a little nerdy, but we did it anyway. And uh my I c my dad we all we had four part harmony in our car. My my mom would sing My mom would sing soprano soprano? My soprano, yeah. That's a new one. No, she would sing soprano, my my sister would sing alto, I would sing bass, and my dad would sing tenor actually And uh so we would go in the car places and we would sing four part harmony and we would sing silly stuff and we'd s sing hymns and um we'd make up our own stuff. Anyway, so it was a it was we did it, we actually made up our own stuff. What um we and Yeah, you don't want to hear about that. Anyway, so we had a good time. It was it was something that was enjoyable. And and really that's what they were doing here. And then but they were as they were making their pilgrimage up to Jerusalem, they would sing these various hymns. And they would be worshiping the Lord together. And of course, they're all focused on what as they're traveling. They're all focused on this city that's set up on a hill. Because Jerusalem is set up on a hill. And so they're traveling up to Jerusalem and they're looking at the destination ahead of them, and they're traveling that direction. And while they're doing it, they're singing these various psalms. These are the psalms that are pilgrimage psalms. And I would encourage you to write these down. It won't take you very long to do that, just so that you have them. And you'll find that They're going to be very helpful for us when it comes to these two issues. These really are dealing with the main themes of community and worship. So you have this community of followers of Jehovah. They're headed up to Jerusalem. They're all singing together about the greatness of God. and the greatness of their city Jerusalem and why that city is so great. This is the kind of things that they're singing together. And there's this great sense of community that is centered on worship. And I want to say at the very outset of this that you that if you're going to have a sense of community, That is authentic, it's going to have to be based upon authentic worship. There are the reality is our culture likes the idea of community I was talking to somebody from our church and they mentioned that they had some unsafe friends they were talking to, and they're and the friends said to them essentially that they were not really interested in in coming and worshiping the Lord, but they really did like this idea of having a community of people to get around. Well, the reality is that's appealing to the world But what they don't understand is that you cannot have true corporate community without true corporate worship, at least not sustainably. I mean you can get together for a club, but you're gonna have to, you know, you're gonna have to have a club around something. I mean it's gonna you know if you all like to knit then you're gonna knit or whatever it is that you do, you know, like everybody knits here. Um probably nobody knits here But whatever, you know, you get around. But for for the church and for the nation of Israel, there's something far more unifying than knitting. Or even, you know, computer geek geeking or something. It was something far more unifying. Really, it was God. Jehovah God and worship of Him that would unify them. And so worship, true, authentic worship It's res ris uh it is the core and a central focus for us to then have a sense of community They had different annual festivals throughout the year. The Passover was one of the festivals that celebrated the nights of the that uh in Egypt when God's Uh death angel passed over the firstborn. And you know the story of that in Exodus 11 there. And um and then you have the Feast of Weeks of Pentecost. It's basically a harvest celebration. Of course, when we get to the New Testament of the Book of Acts, it gains even more significance for the church because that's when the church was inaugurated. But prior to that time it really was a harvest celebration And it was fifty days after the Pente after um fifty days after the Passover. That should say Passover, not Pentecost again. And then finally you had the Feast of Tabernacles. Um and you've um did Harry go over that in in Nehemiah when he was going through Nehemiah? Because it's in Nehemiah. Anyway, you have the Feast of Tabernacles. Uh sometimes it's called the Feast of Booths. They would all get in these temporary booths to remember the time when the nation of Israel was in transience. They weren't they weren't settled. And so you had these different feasts. So these are the kind of feasts that they were going to, these festivals or feasts that they would go to Where they would all remember what, in many cases, what God had done or was doing for them. And they would be traveling and they would be singing these psalms together. This is just a simple map, our um a chart of of these different um this is the R months And these are the this is the Jewish calendar. And so you can see Passover. Most of these, some of these are more modern, like they didn't have these back then, like Hanukkah wasn't back then. But you have the Passover there, the Feast of Weeks And the tabernacle, uh the Feast of Tabernacles are all there. Day of Atonement, of course, um was there as well. So you have these different feasts. And they're sort of spread out throughout the year. You have one area that really didn't have much of anything And that's this area here. Hanukkah came later, I believe. If I'm right about that, I think it came later. So um anyway, so when you're thinking about these, but uh y you had them that worked am I right about that Yeah. Okay. Um, Maccabe during the Maccabean time. So um uh so you have these different times throughout the year. Um Psalm, what we want to do then, with all that in mind, is take your Bibles and turn to Psalm 48. And uh we're going to begin by looking at basically just imagine the nation of Israel, they're all traveling to Jerusalem, they see this city set up on a hill, and they're anticipating this city. And that's what what we're looking at when we come to Psalm 48. But when they think of the city of Jerusalem, there is one central person that they're thinking of. They're thinking of God. And so when they talk about the greatness of Jerusalem, what they're really talking about is the greatness of their God And so you see that in the very first phrase of Psalm 48, where it says, Great is the Lord. Now, Psalm 48 was not a psalm that people that where we know the author. We're not familiar with exactly who the human author is for this particular psalm. But nevertheless it has some and really help helpful truths for us. Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised in the city of our God, in the mountain of his holiness. Beautiful for situation, the joy of the whole earth is Mount Zion. And on the sides of the north, and the city is the city of the great king God is known in her palaces for a refuge. So you see that they're thinking about the city and God's dwelling place being this city and the greatness of who God is. They're worshiping God as they look toward this great city that they're coming to. And so we see the outline, the first verse is the greatness of God and the beauty of God and the joy it brings. Just in thinking in terms of worship. We're going to be talking about worship tonight, and we're really going to be talking about this on Sunday morning as well. What is authentic biblical worship? And very candidly, I didn't put this together on purpose This is something that God did essentially. This is the next part and next category here. I I decide we're going to do Sun Sunday morning's message as a topical message. But putting the two together, the Lord did. And so it just always amazed to me when He does that kind of thing. The beauty of God and the joy it brings. What brings true joy? And folks, isn't it true is it's beauty? Beauty brings joy. And you can when you think of going and seeing a beautiful garden or a beautiful mountain or the sea, the ocean, it's beautiful. Or in a marriage relationship, you have the beauty of a spouse. You have those kinds of things that bring joy. And what David said, or what the psalmist says here is that is that God is beautiful and he brings joy. And Jerusalem is beautiful, and it brings joy. And that is essentially a very important component of worshiping God. Realizing that there is beauty in God's holiness and that joy is a result of that. The reason for the greatness of the city, of course, is because God is there. And the perception from the outside of the city. Verse 4. It's interesting what it says here. For in in for lo the kings were assembled, they passed by together, they saw it, and so their m they marveled, and were troubled, and and uh hasted away. Fear took hold on hold upon them there, and pain as of a woman in travail. Thou breakest the ships of Tarshish with an east wind. So in those verses, what you what you have is really verses four through seven, you have this very quick uh discussion about different kings that would go and want to t overtake Jerusalem. And and it almost appears that these that Jerusalem is essentially unassuming when it comes to military might. But they go and they try to take it and they're surprised at the power of this of this place And they can't they can't overtake it. This these ships of Tarshish the Tarshish was a uh a seaport off the Sea of Galilee and Apparently, more than likely, at one time or another, people from there try to take the city. Bottom line is that they can't take it because this is a city whom what that God is protecting. It's not like it's just protected by by people, although certainly there it was, but it was also protected by God. It had his blessing on it And we see here that God's it says that God will establish her forever. As we have heard, so we have seen in the city of the Lord of hosts is the city of our God. God will establish it forever. And I I would like to go more into this. There's lots of other good things in this psalm, but let me just ask you a question. For us as Christians, reading this, what would be an appropriate parallel for us? And let me suggest to you, it has been suggested that the church is a reasonable parallel for the city of Jerusalem. I think there's a much better parallel Where does God dwell? Well, he does dwell in the hearts of men, that's true. But he dwells in heaven, doesn't he? And when what are we doing here? Well, we're on this pilgrimage, at least this is the way I look at it We're on this pilgrimage and we are looking toward heaven. That's the final destination where God is, and it's going to be beautiful. It's going to be grand. There's going to be great joy, explicit joy in heaven. I was reading a book by Jonathan Edwards called Religious Affections. It's really been a very big blessing to me as I've been reading through it. And in this book He talks about the reality that true religion, when he's talking about religion, he's not talking about organized forms at all. In fact, he's talking about the opposite of organized forms. And he say he essentially says that you do not have true religion without affection. This is Jonathan Edwards, guys. This isn't like some Loosey-goosey person. This is Jonathan Edwards saying this. He's saying you cannot have true religion without affection. And then the question really that I that I mean my I was begging the question once I read that, how do you foster affection for God? How do you foster affection for genuine worship? And he said this. He said, if if the Bible tells us anything about heaven, it tells us that our affections are going to be at its height, great at its highest heights in heaven. And if we want our affections to be what God wants them to be for him, then I don't know if he said this or I'm drawing an application from this, but I think I've drawing an application then focusing on heaven would be a really good idea. That's the height of what we're looking for. With worship and with community and with joy and all those kinds of things, heaven's the goal. That's the pinnacle. That's the best In fact, I really am so so enamored with this idea that I think we might be, after we do Psalm series, we're going to do a series on heaven on Wednesday nights. that may really be happening here. But anyway, so that's what he's he's saying here in this in in that God will establish her forever. That's kind of why I thought thinking to myself, you know Um God's God's presence and the fact that He's established her forever, those are things that at least remind me uh of heaven Psalm 120 through 134. Go ahead and take your Bibles and turn to Psalm 120. We're not going to look at all of these Psalms tonight, but I do want us to see a sampling of what of what these Psalms look like. Uh and and really part of my desire is to encourage you to delve into these. If I can sort of introduce you or whet your appetite then in your own personal the devotional life, these will be would be of great um great study for you. These are songs of ascent. Well assenting where? Remember, all these psalms are are pilgrimage psalms. Right, we're ascending to Jerusalem. We're going uphill. Doesn't matter which direction you're coming from. If you're coming from the north going south, you're still going uphill because because Jerusalem is on an elevation. And so and so uh they're ascending. Roger Ellsworth says that the psalm these psalms are intended or identified as Psalms, Psalms of Ascent. Because they were sung by pilgrims making their way to Jerusalem, which was, as noted above, located in a mountainous area. And those are two of the passages that explain that Jerusalem at that point was a very mountainous area. Ellsworth also says this. He says, as they ascended to Jerusalem to attend its annual festivals, their hearts ascended within them If this was indeed the case, these hymns speak very pointedly to us about how we regard public worship. Can we say that our hearts ascend within us as we anticipate worship in the house of God? Now, let's just look at this for a few moments and look at Psalm 120. Psalm 120 says, In my distress Well, actually hold on for just a moment. Well let's look at let's go to Psalm thirty one thirty-three, just for the sake of time. I I have to pay attention to the clock. Um, unfortunately. Let's look at what Psalm 133 says. Behold how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together where? What did we just talk about Sunday morning? I mean the emphasis was really on unity, and now we have it again here in Psalms. And isn't and it says how good and how pleasant it is. Unity is beautiful. It is both good and pleasant. How good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity. It is like the precious ointment upon the head, and ran down upon the upon the beard, even Aaron's beard that went down to the skirts of his garments So what is it talking about here, this illustration of unity? Well, it's talking about the anointing of Aaron, which probably signified the blood atonement, and that was the focal point of the nation's uh unit the nation of Israel's unity. And folks, that's the focal point of our unity as well, isn't it? Christ's blood and his atoning work on the cross for us. And so we have a direct parallel there. How are we as a church unified? There isn't any question about this. We're unified around the atoning work of Christ. When it talks about the blood, or not the blood, the oil dripping from the beard, probably what it's talking about there is It was a liber very, very just lavish liberal use of the blood of the oil. And it was a pleasing fragrance fragrance. You could smell it. It was very pleasing. And so there's sort of this picture of unity being pleasing, being a pleasing fragrance. And in fact, you find over in Ephesians, we didn't read it last time, but you read read over in Ephesians, you find that it it says that that that The church is a great fragran fragrance to God. Why? Because of its unity. It also says, interestingly enough, that unity is productive, verse 3. Would you look at it with me? As the dew of Hermon, and as the dew that descended upon the mountain of Zion. For there the Lord commanded the blessing, even life forevermore. And really what it's talking about here is that this is the Mount Hermon, which was the highest mountains. And it was known for its moisture, and moisture would run down from the mountains, and it would cause there to be great harvest as a result of it So he pulls in this parallel to sort of demonstrate that God really does something very productive when it comes, when his people are unified. I was um one time in uh early stages of this church actually. Um this person isn't here anymore, one time uh uh I was preaching on the subject of unity from Ephesians chapter chapter uh um four. And uh And I was asked afterwards, so that's what we're gonna do here, just unify, that's all we're doing? Kind of like skeptical, like is that what we're you know, isn't there more you know, are isn't there more what we're doing? And um I thought to myself, right now, yes, that's the main goal. Let's just unify. That's what we really need to do. And the reason for that is because God uses this kind of unity as we talked about Sunday morning To really demonstrate who He is to the world. That's why it's so necessary. A church will never be all God wants it to be If it's not unified, if there's not a oneness. Unity among the people of God is always fragrant and makes them appealing to unbelievers, even. But the odor of disunity will drive them away. You agree with this? It doesn't even drive only unbelievers away, it drives believers away. That's true. There is something that is very beautiful and pleasing about unity. And you know what? The world wants this. All of and they think they're going to get it all kinds of different ways. I mean if you look at the news, this entire thing about this gay marriage stuff. Really had the reason that people were applauding this was because they think it's going to bring unity to this nation. It is, of course, not going to do that, folks, but they're trying, there is something within the human spirit that wants to have unity and harmony. And you can't have it apart from Christ. It's not going to happen. But with Christ and with the gospel, unity is something that is possible. Then we move just we're going to move back now to Psalm 84. And in this psalm, the psalmist relates something of how he felt about traveling with others to the temple for religious festivals held there each year. Look at look at what it says here. Go ahead and go back to Psalm 84 here. And there you'll see why I've left this for last. He says, How amiable are thy tabernacles, O Lord of hosts. My soul longeth. Yea, even fainteth for the courts of the Lord my heart my heart and my flesh crieth out for the living God What we have in this psalm is someone who is very earnest about and having an intense longing for worship. He is this this is a man whoever wrote this, and again I'm not sure we know exactly who wrote it, but But he was intense about his longing to be worshiping with God's people. The desire here is expressed, and then we see the re- the reason for the desire. He says in verse 3, yea, the sparrow has found a house, and the swallow a nest for herself. Where she may lay her young, even thine altars are O Lord of hosts, my king and my God. So why is he talking about birds? I mean you read this it doesn't seem to fit. Why are you talking about a swallow and a uh uh you know, I mean the us literal people, we read this and go, what's he talking about? Of course we we know that there there's a reason for it Well, swa sparrows were known for their worthlessness essentially. Spar not not much good sparrows not much good for anything. I mean, a chicken, that's worth something. You could eat that. But a sparrow, not really worth a whole lot. Um, swallows. They're restless. You ever seen this? They're a very restless bird. And so these are the things that worship really helps. When you go and you worship God and you attribute worth to God, that's the greatest privilege we could ever have. The greatest privilege in life that we could ever have is to worship God. And I do want to apply this both corporately and individually, because I am absolutely convinced that our corporate worship is going to be dependent upon our individual worship with God. On a day-to-day basis, are we longing to know God and to worship Him? And when we think about worshiping together, I think we generally like to be together as a church. But is there this longing To worship God with God's people. Is there this? Is it a duty or is it a delight? And I want to say, as we mentioned last Wednesday night, duty is not wrong. Duty toward God is right. Duty toward man has its issues, but duty toward God is right But what is greater than duty is love, which really is delight, is delighting in worshiping God. And God wants us to have this kind of intense longing. Look at what it says in verse 4. Blessed are they that dwell in thy house. They will be still praising thee. Blessed is the man whose strength is in thee, and whose heart are the ways of them. And so we see strength is a result of worship. There's there's a lot I could verse six, who passeth through the valley of Baka, make it well, the rain also filleth the pools They go from strength to strength. Every one of them in Zion appeareth before God. O Lord God of hosts, hear my prayer. Give me, O God, for Jacob Behold our God, our shield, and look up and look upon the face of thine anointed. For a day in thy courts. Look at what it says here. A day in thy courts is better than a thousand. I had ever, I'd rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God. Than to dwell in the tents of wickedness. We will never feel like worshiping God until we understand something of His greatness Ellsworth says, and we cannot help but worship once we do. In other words, there is a direct correlation between our conception of God and our desire for worship. The greater God is in our eyes, the greater we will be will be our desire to worship Him We see strength and satisfaction are the results of worshiping God. Ellsworth says this the slightest contact with God Through real heartfelt worship is more satisfying than the deepest involvement in sin. The sinful life is always promising satisfaction And the deeper one goes into it, the less satisfaction he finds. But the deeper one goes into public worship, the more satisfaction he finds. And I would actually add to that private worship as well. So, what God wants us to do, folks, is his desire for us is to love being with him as much as he loves being with us. To really have this intense longing to worship God, both on when we are individually doing that in our own private life. As well as when we corporately come together to worship Him. There ought to be, it ought to be that we are doing this because we just really want to worship God together. And if you recall from last Wednesday night, we talked about the four motivations. Do you remember that? What are the four motivations? Fear, good. Fear, reward, duty, and love. All four of those are good motivations if they are all focused on God. Three out of the four are very dangerous, unhealthy motivations if they're focused on man. But there is one motivation. That if focused on God and man, it's right and healthy, and that's love. How do you get corporate worship? How do you get the kind of delight and joy in worship? It's you've got to love God and love others. If you say you love God and you don't love others, you will not have good corporate worship. If you say you love others and don't love God, you will not have good corporate worship. You must both love God and love others. And then, and only then, will we have good, godly corporate worship, which will result in the kind of community that God wants us to have These Psalms are of great help to us and great example to us. When you read these, and I read through every single one of these. It is just amazing. And I I I mean I wish I had the time to go through these, but there are some times where it it'll talk about Jerusalem, and there you can just imagine it talks about Jerusalem being a rock. and being something you trust in. And you could just imagine these nations, the nation of Israel going forward and looking at this looking at Jerusalem and and they're realizing how it's like to really trust in God. They're just worshiping together. And worship includes expressing of your faith to God, expressing your trust to God. Rehearsing what God who God is and what God has done, and finding our delight in those things. There is really there is every distraction in our lives that take away these kinds of affections There was a day when you did not have television, you didn't have the internet, you didn't have things moving all the time. And there was at least a better, uh there was less of a distraction, at least what I'm reading. have to read about it. Uh some of you c could tell me about it. But anyway. Um there was at one time there was it was just less distracting. You know you think of the Puritan days. I mean man I wish we could all go back to those days I mean not some of it, but but but a lot of it. It really wasn't as bad as you guys think it was. The Puritans were a lot more loose than you realize anyway. They just did it in the right terms. Anyway, loosey goosey they were better quit, but um Yeah. But uh listen I don't don't lose the point. We ought to have an intense desire to worship the Lord. Let's pray together