Take your Bibles and turn to Matthew chapter six. We're going to be in several places in Matthew tonight. Uh several places in Scripture tonight, but um we're gonna start in Matthew chapter six. So as most of you probably are aware, I went to a conference at Bob Jones, uh this very quick conference, two-day conference, and the conference was on on counseling One of the themes that sort of stood out in this conference and it seems to be standing out lately is the theme of suffering. What how to respond to suffering? How do you work through suffering? How do you why does suffering happen? And why is suffering happen to certain people? What what how do you make sense of this? And in addition to that, I've recently had a question by someone who may not know the Lord. And their question was, w what about all of this suffering? What about all of the the the catastrophic events that happened How do you make sense of them? Why would God allow those things to happen? That's a very common question that people ask. And even recently we can think of people like uh Trisha Griffin's sister, Holly, who has passed away and uh uh of uh uh now and others that I can think of and it it trying to make sense of this is sometimes extremely difficult So, how do you make sense of these things? That's what we want to look at tonight, and what we want to look at particularly is how prayer works in suffering. How are we supposed to pray in the midst of suffering? How are we supposed to pray in relationship to suffering or as we're seeing someone else suffer? And a lot of a lot of people struggle with this because their prayer often is they want to escape the suffering. And when God doesn't answer that prayer, they really begin to struggle with that. Why would God continue to allow me to go through the suffering? Why won't he relieve me from it? In fact, some some things are so tragic it is really hard to understand why God allows these things. For example, at the conference there was a singing uh group and a very very nice singing group. You tell that the people that were singing up there were very sincere, godly. people and in that group there was one particular person that was missing from the group, a young lady, and she was missing because her husband, they had one child that was younger than age one Their husband died. Her husband died in a car crash just just days before Christmas. Like the seventeenth of December. Of course she was not there and so she's grieving the loss of that and really all of that whole that whole music team that was there, it was obvious that they were grieving the same loss as their as uh this this lady. How do you ha how do you make sense of that? How do you how does a Christian go through that? Another example is we want one of the classes. was uh a class that uh it was a medical doctor and his wife they taught they team taught the class. It was pretty neat actually. His wife was a nurse uh is a nurse and he's a medical doctor, but they also together are certified Christian counselors. And uh they have a very good perspective, very uh very solid perspective on the role of psychology and psychiatry uh in counseling and all of that. So we were learning about that from him. But one of the things he said was he he often is asked Is there a greater success rate for Christians going through surgery than non-Christians? He he has a he of course does surgery on both. And he essentially said, no, there's really, he doesn't think there's any really greater success rate for Christians than non-Christians. He thinks that how they respond to the suffering they go through, they may get through, they may recover faster. He has seen When Christians go through the suffering and they respond the right way, they recover faster from the surgery sometimes than those who don't. But he said, as far as success in the surgery, he sees no, I mean it's not like he's done a study on it, but he sees He sees no empirical difference between between those who are those who are crusaded and those who are not. So how do we make sense of this? And particularly what role does prayer make in the whole subject of suffering? Well, let's look first at the one of the first mentions of the word prayer in Matthew chapter 6. Matthew chapter six and verse seven. Six chapter six verse seven And when you pray, so we know that Christ is talking about prayer, this is in the Lord's, this is actually in the in um in the context of the Sermon on the Mount. He says, and when you pray, Don't do this. He starts off negatively. He says, Do not use vain repetitions as the heathen do. For they that will be heard for their many words, for they will be heard for their many words. He says, Don't Sometimes people's concept of prayer is just this rote kind of thing that you say before you go to bed or you say at night or You say in public appearances, liturgical kinds of things, and some of that isn't necessarily wrong, but if you are doing it for for people to hear, certainly that's where it that's who the only person is going to hear. Verse eight. He says, Therefore do not be like them, for your father knows the things you have need of before you ask. So what is prayer? And the very rudimentary understanding of what prayer is, it is when you have need of something before you ask. So there are two concepts in verse eight that help us to understand what prayer is. It's the word need and the word ask. And some of this, many of the some of this is review tonight with regard to what prayer is. We are going to pray for needs. And prayer at its very root is asked. Now prayer includes includes things like worship and communion and fellowship, some and those kinds of things, fellowship of the Lord. But The New Testament, particularly the Gospels, as it describes prayer, much of what it describes is simply asking, and we see in this passage, it's talking about asking for needs. In Luke chapter 18, it says this, and it's in the context of the kingdom that is coming. It says, when he spoke a parable to them, then he said that men always ought to pray and not to faint, not to lose heart. And this is in the context There's a lot of things going on in the context in Luke 18, but but this is the context of the anticipation of the coming of the Messiah, the coming of Christ. That is, while we are waiting for the coming of Christ. We ought to always pray and not faint, not lose heart. You ever find yourself in a place where you You just, you feel as though you're going to lose heart. You're going, you're, you're so discouraged. Clinical diagnosis would be depression. But you are so discouraged that you are just feeling as though you are going to lose heart. God says in those cases you must pray. Prayer is the antidote to losing heart. And that is an interesting thought. Christ's While he was on this earth, told his disciples that when I leave, right now I'm with you, I'm talking to you, you're talking to me. When I leave, your connection to me is prayer. Now it's very, very simple, right? But what about when things are really hard to grasp? What about when it is hard to know what to ask for? Have you ever foll found yourself in that place? Well, John chapter 15, verse 8 says, Herein is my Father glorified. It's going to add to this concept of prayer. And by the way, when you begin to look at various themes in the New Testament, or the Old Testament for that matter. You see various things, you begin to see a greater, a fuller concept of what those are. And you begin to develop what is really called a theology on that. So this you're developed when you look at different occurrences of what prayer is, you begin to develop a theology of prayer, what prayer is. And John chapter 15, verse 8 says, Herein is my Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit, so shall ye be my disciples. So, we see in that passage that in order to glorify God and to bear much fruit, he's then going to explain John 15, 16, you have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you that you should go and bring forth fruit. And that your fruit should remain that whatsoever ye ask of the Father in my name he may give it you. Now let's just think in terms of what fruit is. What is what is what are the fruit of the spirits that we talked about a few two two two Sundays ago. Somebody tell me the fruit of the spirit. Love. Love? Just just shout out what for the IT. Yeah. Good. Now you speak in tongues. Good. Okay. So love, joy, peace, long suffering, gentleness, goodness, patience, all those things. Okay. How many of those do you do you need in the midst of trials? And you think about those, how many of those can you not have in the midst of trials? You can have all of them in the midst of trials. I mean love and joy and peace and longsuffering and gentleness and goodness and truth. I mean it begin we begin to understand that prayer is not necessarily going to remove the suffering from us, but it is going to allow us to have fruit through the suffering, if we'll pray the right way. Now, with that in mind, and by the way, that is a core course according to God's will. 1 John 5, verse 14, and this is the confidence that we have in Him, that we ask anything according to His will, Hears us. And we know that he hears us whatsoever he asks, but we know that we have the petitions, the things that we desired of him. But then we are we are then left with this This question mark, because are there not some things that it's just it's like, what do you pray for? There have been times where I've been at a loss of words on how to counsel somebody. There's gone through something and they say, why is this happening? And I the only phrase I can give to them is I don't know. Now, I can always say that God does know. Does he always know? He always knows. That God is sovereign. Is God sovereign? He is always sovereign. Is God all-wise? God is all wise. But do I know what God's plan is for this particular situation? Many times I am at a loss. And I think all of us would admit that we we get to those times. Sometimes sometimes we go through a trial and it's as though we can actually see what God is doing in the trial. We can see what is happening. But there are other times where where we just we just it's like we're flying blind. We we can't see Would you take your Bibles with that in mind and turn to Romans chapter eight? Romans chapter eight is is my favorite chapter in the whole Bible, I think. Uh if I could choose a chapter which is really difficult to do, but Romans chapter eight is just Excellent chapter of the Bible. And I want us to notice first verse seventeen. It says, well, pick up verse 16. It says, the Spirit himself bears witness with our spirit that we are children of God. And if children, then heirs. Heirs of God, joint heirs with Christ, if indeed we what? We suffer with him that we may also be what? Glorified. Glorified together. God's intention for the believer is that he would be glorified through our suffering. God does not say that now that you are a believer you will have no suffering, or that your suffering will be lessened What he says is that we have this opportunity to glorify him through the suffering. Now, you may say to yourself, well, you know, this verse, okay, so this is for martyrs. These are for people that are are dying for their faith. They're they're they're the ones, you know, in the first century that that you know like Stephen, this would apply to him or would apply to Paul when he was stoned for sharing the gospel. This this kind of suffering with Christ is what it's talking about. Well, let's actually continue to read Romans 8 and we're going to find a a bit of a different context here. It says For I consider the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. So there is a comparison. It's like a multiplication factor that the more suffering we have in this life, the more glory is multiplied in the next life. For the earnest expectation of the creation eagerly waits for the revealing of the sons of God. We're looking forward to the what? We're looking forward to the coming of Christ. We're looking forward to the day that we will see Christ, where we will be redeemed. We're looking forward to that day. Just like Jesus told the disciples that pray instead of faint until the day where Christ comes, we're looking forward to that day, and the whole creation is eagerly waiting for that. For the creation was subject to futility not willingly, but because of him who subjected it in hope, because the creation itself also will be delivered from the bondage of corruption and the glorious liberty of the children of God. Folks, what is the source of the suffering in life? It is corruption. It is the fact that the world is fallen and it is corrupt. And so all of our suffering is under that That heading. Is there any suffering that would happen if sin did not happen in the beginning? Oh, there's no suffering that would not happen. I mean there would be no suffering at all. Double negative error. There would be no suffering. But because of the fall, there is suffering. And and so the suffering that we go through as Christians, if if we endure through it the way that God wants us to, we respond correctly through the suffering. The answer, the the great promise that we have here is that the glory will be greater in the ha in the future. Reckon the the he says, I reckon I In counting terms, I'm reckoning that the presence, that the present suffering I'm going through is not worthy to be compared to the glory that shall be revealed in us. And he says here verse 22, for we know that the whole creation, and I want you to catch this, it says that the whole creation groans. Now, that's an interesting word. It it groans. Well, do you know what it's like to groan? Have you ever been through suffering and you don't even know what to say? The only thing you do need you know to do is to groan. The creation groans. But it's not just the creation that groans. If you keep reading, you're going to find something else that groans. Groans and labors with birth pangs together until now. Not only that, but we also who have the first first first fruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves, we ourselves, what do we do? We groan. So we have a creation that groans, and in response, we groan But actually, we're not the only ones that groan either. If you keep reading, you'll find that someone else groans. For we were saved in this in this hope, but hope is That is seen is not hope, for why does one still hope when uh for what he sees? But if we hope for what we see not Likewise, the Spirit also helps our weaknesses. For we do not know that we What we should pray for as we ought, but the Spirit Himself makes intercession for us with what? Groanings. With groanings. Now there is there are there are people that interpret this groanings of the Spirit as some sort of ecstatic utterance, or some sort of prayer language that the Spirit of God prays. But in the context, what do you suppose this groaning is? In the context, he's groaning the same way we're groaning. The same way the creation is groaning. It's all as a result of the corruption of the fall. The creation groans because of the corruption of the fall. We groan because of the corruption of the fall. The Spirit of God also groans. because of the corruption of the fall. Now let's apply prayer to this. When you are and I are to pray, we're to pray in God's will, we're to pray Not faint. We're to pray and ask what God's will is and those kinds of things. But are there ever times in your life where you just don't know what to ask? Are there times when you're going through a particular trial and you know exactly what to ask? When there's a particular deficiency in the kingdom of God and you just know exactly what to ask. There are times like that. And we see God answer prayer based upon knowing or having a good idea anyway of what the will Lord's will is and then praying that We know we can always pray according to James 1 for wisdom, right? Why do we need to pray for wisdom? Because a lot of times we don't know. But there is this groaning that happens. And here's the thing. It says in the passage here and and that when we When we don't know what to pray and we're just groaning, it's like the only thing we can pray is a groan. We have no answers. We don't know what to pray for. We don't know what God wants. We're just groaning in our spirit. And we relate it back. We know where it comes from. We take it in captivity. We realize it's because of the fall. It's because of creation. But we're just still groaning. And we have this comfort of knowing the Spirit who knows all groans with us. But he also offers up as he groans with us, he offers up intercessions. Things that we we're not going to hear, we're not going to know about, they're not uttered. And and there is this comfort of this. So the so how does suffering work? How does prayer work in the midst of deep, hard, difficult suffering? Sometimes, can I put it this way, we just have to groan and say, Lord, I don't know. I'm not sure what to say here. But Lord, will you do your will? And to know that the Spirit of God knows exactly what to pray. And the whole goal of the sufferings of this life, did you know that there is a sense in which, let's just ask this question. If you and I did not go through sufferings in this life, if if it worked the other way around, where when we came to Christ, suddenly we had no suffering whatsoever. That it just all went away, we had no problems whatsoever. What would be the problem with that? I I want- I do want to ask this. What would be the problem with that? Somebody tell me what would happen, or what would be the problem with that? What do you guys think? Kerry? Well I think it's like when things are going well with us, we're not as apt to stay as close to God. We think everything's teaching and we're just going out and doing the kind of What we want, we kinda forget the focus of God. Yeah. And I think uh kinda that way if we didn't have any suffering then we probably wouldn't see a great need for God. Everything's perfect now Yeah, that's exactly right. Yeah. Good. The way that we glorify God is through Christ-likeness, right? We become more like Christ. How do we what does that look like? Fruit of the spirit or what that looked like. Um But you know what we need to get us there? We need suffering. Because the the fall, the effects of the fall and the corruption is so strong that in order to for us to be fashioned into Christ's likeness, now we are declared righteous when we come to Christ. But in order for us to be fashioned into Christ-likeness, God uses the effects of the fall in our lives to fashion us into Christ-likeness. to glorify himself. Now, do you ever have a hard time wondering what in the world he how I mean we know that, right? We know that that's what he's doing. Sometimes I think we forget it. But we know that's what he's doing, but do you ever struggle with what exactly how exactly is this suffering really doing this in my life? How is this actually glorifying God? How is this making me Christ-like? There are times we just don't know. Prayer, we still ought always, according to Luke 18:1, we still ought always to pray. Even when you don't know what to pray for, you still should always pray. Now, we see clearly in Luke chapter 11 that Christ is a loving Heavenly Father. And that what we ought to pray for is Hebrew, as it says in Hebrews 4, verse 16, let's therefore come boldly into the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. But there is a reason why sometimes we have something called prayerlessness. You ever experienced where you you know you go you may go days or weeks without praying? Maybe not weeks, but at least days. Why is it there's some times where we're going through such extreme suffering we don't know what to pray because we just don't get it. And and and the answer is Romans chapter 8. But there are other times where things are going well and we don't pray. What's the problem there? Harry kind of alluded to it. Self-centered, that's okay. Yeah, I am asking. You're not showing gratitude. Okay. Kim? Good. The the problem is is that you don't see your need. We're supposed to be praying for needs. That's what we have to pray for. We're not praying for That was the problem in the Church of Laodicea, Romans thr uh Revelation 317. Because thou sayest, I am rich and increased with goods, and have need of nothing. And knowest not that thou art wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked? Because thou sayest, I am rich and increased with goods, I have need of nothing. When we get to the place where we say we have need we're in need of nothing, we we we don't know what to pray for because we don't see our need because we're not we're not we're not we're not seeing it. We're blind. And that is an another uh additional problem So how do we deal with the suffering of this life? The the answer is not to always understand it. I mean the bottom line is we are not always going to understand it. We're not going to be able to grasp why God does what he does. Why is it that that he handles things or he allows things the way that he does? We know biblically he's in control. He is all-wise. We know that to be true from what the Bible says Circumstantially, we don't understand it. And so we just simply have to we have to trust him, but we have to pray no matter what. And the key here, again, is this. The goal is glorifying God. The goal is fruitfulness in our lives. We are not going to change the suffering necessarily. I mean, sometimes God does answer that prayer. It's for the best for his kingdom, and God heals people. He does amazing things. Sometimes he does do that. But the main thing that God does is that he allows fruitfulness and Christ-likeness to come out in the midst of our suffering. And so Philippians chapter 1, verse 6 says being confident of this very thing. He was begun a good work in you will complete it in the day of Jesus Christ. But it says just a few verses down, Philippians 1, 9 through 11, and this, Paul says, I pray. This I pray that your love is love a fruit of the Spirit? Sure is. First one, right? That your love may abound still more and more in knowledge and all discernment, that you may approve the things which are excellent. that you may be sincere and without offense to the day of Christ, being filled with the fruits of righteousness. Which are by Jesus Christ to the glory and praise of God. We pray for fruitfulness in our lives that through the suffering God will will be able to hone us and make us into into his image. That we we grow in Christ's likeness That's the goal. And by the way, I'll just say it this way. I mean I've sort of been absorbing some of this, but that was the whole idea of the conference. What is the goal in biblical counseling? The goal is Christ-likeness. The goal is not that you'll feel better. Now that happens. When you're exhibiting fruits of the Spirit, what happens? Well, joy is one of the fruits of the Spirit, isn't it? And peace is one of the fruits of the Spirit. And and love is one of the fruits of the Spirit. I mean those things are fruits of the Spirit, and so you're going to feel better. But the goal is Christ-likeness. True, true joy comes through Christ-likeness. And so we see that uh we see that is the goal, and the way to get there is to pray, no matter what, to pray, and let God do what he wants to in our lives and see that. So So really the answer to this is measuring things in terms of the way God wants us to. So can I see that that I'm closer to Christ through the suffering or that I am more Christ-like through the suffering? suffering. Well then if that's the case, God is answering my prayers. It's possible that you're going through suffering or we're going through suffering and we're not praying. And the reason that we're not seeing what's going on and we're not even seeing ourselves what's happening is because we're not praying through the process. Now I'll close this with this illustration. I've used it several times before. But there was a man that God told to push on a rock. He said, I want you to push on this rock. And the man pushed on the rock and he pushed and he pushed. He said, I want you to push on the rock until I tell you to stop. Days went by, days turned to weeks, weeks turned to months, months turned to years. And after several years he was pushing on this rock, and the rock never moved. He finally said to the Lord, Lord, why do you have me pushing on this rock? He said, I don't understand. It hasn't moved one bit. I don't get why you keep wanting me to push on this rock. I don't understand. And he said to him, Stop for a minute, pause for a minute. Look at your arms. Do you see how strong your arms are? Because you've been pushing on this rock. My point was never that you would move the rock. My purpose was that you would be strong through obedience. To push him on the rock. And we have to remember that as we go through life. Our frustrations oftentimes are a result of not seeing what God wants us to see through it. And not having the goal of Christ's likeness in the midst of it. If that's our goal, if Christ's likeness is the goal, we can pray for that. And we could pray, we could always pray for that and know and have a genuine desire for it. And we could begin to see, okay, you know what The Lord is working on me in that area. He is helping me in patience and helping me in love and helping me in joy and peace. I can see those things happening in my life, and we can We can see true answers to prayer and the things that God says He's going to do in our lives through those things. So these things are very important for us to remember. Alright, let's pray together and then we will We will be uh we'll go to our different prayer times and things. Father, we come to you and we ask, Lord, that you would help us with this. Many of this is just a reminder, but a very important one that as we go through difficulties and struggles in our lives, That we do so with the goal, with with if we'll do so with your goal in mind of Christ-likeness, then we we still may not understand everything we're going through. We still not may understand how you're actually going to glorify yourself through it. So we can pray to you. And we can and we can groan to you. And we can lament over the fall and lament over the suffering. And when we don't know what to pray for We thank you for the Spirit of God who does, who groans with us, who sees what we're going through, who sees the effects of the fall in our lives, who sees the suffering, and he is able to intercede on our behalf to you. Father, I pray, Lord, that you would grow all of us in Christ's likeness. And I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.