To there are two passages I need you to turn to and it'd probably be good to turn to one, put a marker in it, and then turn to the other. And that is Matthew chapter 6 and Luke chapter 11. So Luke chapter 11. Probably put a marker in Luke chapter 11 and then turn to Matthew chapter 6. We're going to need to kind of flip back and forth a little between those two. We'll mainly go from Matthew over then to Mark, but I want to make sure we understand sort of setup for that. Matthew six and Luke eleven. And so we want to look tonight at this concept of prayer. What we're going to do is for the next couple of weeks this week and next week and the following week we will look at uh we'll do a small a short series on prayer. Tonight we'll be more on just a basics of understanding prayer and then we're going to get into more detail in the next two two weeks as well. Prayer is something that I it our flesh does not like to do. It's something that we'll we constantly have to work at. But a lot of the reasons that prayer occurs and uh or that prayerlessness occurs in the Christian life is because of two common problems. One problem is the problem of disillusionment. For example, a young lady who goes to see a pastor, and this pastor is um uh she's sobbing and she's groaning, she's upset, and she's upset because She has lost her best friend to cancer. And her best friend died of cancer in the prime of her life, left her husband and several small children. And that was upsetting to her, but the thing that was more upsetting to her was not that she lost her daughter to cancer or her friend to cancer, but how much she prayed for her friend. In fact, her own church had this long overnight vigil uh to to have a prayer meeting and and the pastor said we're gonna have a twenty four hour seven-day a week prayer vigil and we're gonna storm the gates of heaven and and and and make sure that Satan doesn't have his way so this woman would be healed and this lady was not healed. And so this young lady comes to the pastor and wonders why. She asked, she says, Pastor, why did God lose? How can the devil be more powerful than Jesus? Disillusionment is sometimes the reason that we don't pray. Maybe we've prayed for something, maybe we prayed for something a long time. But For whatever reason we don't know, God has chosen not to answer our prayer. And we begin to think, maybe I'm not praying right, or maybe prayer is not that helpful, or maybe I'm just not holy enough, or there's questions that come into our mind, but oftentimes what we do is we just sort of stop praying. We don't even really consciously do it. We just sort of consider prayer to be not all that useful. Not all that effective for us. We hear of answered prayer in other people's lives, but for us, it is not necessarily all that helpful. That's one potential problem, but there is another problem that often occurs, and that is the problem of disinterest. Now many cr most Christians would wa would not want to admit that they have a problem of disinterest. It's not as though they they would say, well, I'm not really interested in prayer. It's about it's kind of like a faux pas to say I'm not really interested in prayer. It's certainly very unbiblical to say that I'm not very interested in prayer. But sometimes people feel that way. If you can kind of think and imagine a Uh uh being in how many of you all were in college and you roomed with somebody else, or two or three people, four people, three people at least. I was in a room most of the time with four with two three other guys. It was a little tight quarters sometimes, uh sometimes three other guys. And um if you can kind of imagine sort of dorm life and you're you're living in a situation like that and you're trying to communicate with your with your The person in your dorm, and can you imagine that they are unwilling to talk to you? They just flat out will not talk to you. They'll leave you messages, like written messages. And they'll leave you voicemails, they'll text you, but they absolutely will not talk to you. And when you go to them and you ask them why you would they won't talk to you, they say to you, Well, I don't really get much out of talking to you. I find it boring and my mind uh my mind is flitting everywhere, so I just don't try. Well, you know, sometimes people say, well, I don't really pray because I really can't focus on it that much, and I my mind wanders everywhere. Certainly there is a a truth to that. Do you ever find that your w your mind seems to wander more when you are trying to spend concerted effort in prayer? And the reality is, it is true, that that is warfare. When you begin to pray, Satan doesn't want you to, and there is warfare involved when it comes to this matter of prayer. So disillusionment and disinterest are often two very common reasons why people do not pray. The real reason why people don't pray, really, Christians, is because they really don't understand prayer They have a preconceived notion about what prayer is, and they've really not searched the scriptures and to see all that it has to say about this matter of prayer. The truth is the Bible, particularly the New Testament and really the Old Testament, has a whole lot to be said about prayer. It's not just mentioned a few times in Scripture. It's mentioned many, many, many times throughout Scripture. But we make sort of the assumption that we know what prayer is. Most of our assumption comes probably from some from our upbringing and where we went to church or where we've been uh uh what family we've been in and we just sort of assume we understand what prayer is like. Now that brings us to Matthew chapter six because the disciples found themselves in a culture where there were certain kinds of prayer being offered. One kind of prayer being offered was by the Pharisees and the Sanhedrin. And they would the Pharisees particularly would go out inside go outside the uh in a prominent place of the city and they would they would really make sure a large crowd was around and they would pray out loud these very ornate, very articulate prayers before people. The other kinds of prayers that they were used to hearing, the disciples were used to hearing when they were with Christ, this a certain way then got then your false God will do this. And you had to formulate your prayers very, very carefully in order for that to happen. And then you repeat the prayer over and over and over again And if you repeat it enough, then you will your your false God will answer your prayer. Both of those are extremely Wrong and dismal, terrible concepts about pra of prayer. And notice what Matt what Jesus says about these two things. He says, verse 5, so we'll begin to look at what prayer is. And we'll start off with what prayer is not. Matthew chapter 6, verse 5 says, And when you pray, you shall not be like the hypocrites. For they love to pray standing in synagogues and on the corners of the streets, that they may be seen by men. Assuredly I say to you, they have their reward. But you, when you pray, go into your room, and when you have shut your door, pray to your father, who is in the secret place, and your father who sees you in secret will reward you openly. Then he says something else. He says, When you pray, do not use vain repetitions as the heathen do, for they think that they will be heard for their many words. Now The disciples are listening to this, and what do you suppose the disciples' reaction is? This may well have been just about all they knew. about verbal prayers. Perhaps they heard readings of scripture, of the Psalms in the synagogues. They probably did. But beyond hearing the readings of prayers of the Old Testament, it's entirely possible that the only thing the disciples heard was these two very bad examples of prayer. And I can imagine that when you hear those kinds of examples of prayer, you could get a little frustrated. You know, these these disciples, every single one of them, were not necessarily very articulate. Have you ever heard a new Christian or a young Christian or maybe even an older Christian say, you know, I just am not good at prayer. Other people pray and they pray so well and I just can't pray like that. You ever heard somebody say say that before? Well maybe I've just heard it more than I haven't heard our church actually, but I've heard it uh other places. And the truth is it is it is it the problem is that there is a real misunderstanding of what prayer is. One person said this about prayer. Prayer is the only entryway into genuine self-knowledge. It is also the main way we experience deep change, the reordering of our loves. Prayer is how God gives us so many of the unimaginable things He has for us Indeed, listen to this. Prayer makes it safe for God to give us many of the things we most desire. It makes him safe for him to do that. It is the way we know God, the way we finally treat God as God. Prayer is simply the key to everything we need to do and be in life. We must learn to pray. We have to. So we need to really understand what prayer is. Now in the New Testament, We see here in this book in Matthew chapter 6, and keep in mind this question of how did the how do the disciples react, and we're going to turn over to Luke chapter 11 in just a moment, but stay in Matthew chapter 6 for a minute. And I want us to define prayer very simply. And I've preached on prayer before, and I I'm going to give you the same definition I gave you before in the times past that I've preached on this. But what we're going to do is we're going to lay the foundation this week. And then we are going to really delve into it in the next two weeks on what prayer, not just what it is, but how to pray, how God wants us to pray, developing a deeper prayer life. Tonight we're going to look specifically at what prayer is. We need to start there. In Matthew chapter 6, verse 7, it says, But when you pray, do not use vain repetitions as the heathens do. For they think that they shall be heard of uh heard for their much speaking. Then it says this, verse 8, be not ye therefore like unto them, for your father knoweth what things ye have need of before ye what? He asked him. So from these two verses, then, how does Jesus, in a very simple way, define prayer? He defines prayer as asking. What is prayer? Prayer is asking. Now, let me mention this. The Bible is written in a way where it there is progressive revelation, particularly, well, actually, throughout the whole Bible. Hebrews chapter 1 talks about the progressive revelation of Scripture. That tells us then that the basics of what we need to know are found in the gospels and that Jesus Christ, when he taught them, taught things in a way that would be easily definable. The apostles then took the teaching of Christ and developed it and fleshed it out. And so as you take look at prayer throughout the New Testament, You're going to see a simple definition here, and then you're going to see it develop a little bit more as you go throughout the Old Testament, throughout the New Testament. You'll never lose this basic The basic definition of prayer. But you will add to it as you go on and you look at the prayer look at prayer in the New Testament Something else to just note about this is where it is found. We are right in the middle of the Sermon on the Mount. And the Sermon on the Mount is really probably the best If you want to go to one place where there were where the how how it was we were supposed to live as kingdom citizens how we're supposed to resp to to to live our lives, the kind of attitudes we are to have, the kind of conduct we're supposed to have. Really one of the best places you can go is the Sermon on the Mount, and then from there, that establishes a clear foundation for us. Then I want you to notice as well, in Matthew chapter six, verse eight, it says, Therefore do not be like them, for your father knows the things that you have need of before you ask. In this manner, therefore, what what we have there? We have the Lord's prayer, the Lord's example prayer. Now, with all of that in mind, will you take your Bibles and turn to Luke chapter 11? Luke chapter 11. And we find this is the parallel passage to the Matthew 6 passage. We're going to find the Lord's Prayer there beginning in verse 2, but I want you to notice the the how the disciples reacted to the teaching that they already had. Remember what the teaching that they already had. The teaching they already had was number one Don't pray like a hipp hypocrite, and number two, don't play with pray with vain repetitions. So then if you'll notice chapter eleven, verse one, now it came to pass as he was praying in the a certain place, when he ceased That one of the disciples said to him, What? What did they say? Lord, teach us to pray, as John also taught his disciples. So the disciples asked Jesus, Lord, would you teach us to pray? Now it's interesting the way that Jesus does this. Jesus does not say, okay, here is a list of five things you need in order to pray correctly. He doesn't give them a sermon at this point. Although Matthew, uh Matthew, it's in the middle of a sermon, but he doesn't give them a sermon at this point. What does he do? He prays an example prayer. That indicates to us how we learn to pray. Folks, how do we learn to pray? We pray, we learn to pray from the example of others. Of course, the prime example is Christ. And we're going to learn a lot in the next couple of weeks about the manner in which he prayed. We'll see that in the passage. But I want to begin by just saying that this really lends itself to the importance of corporate prayer. Praying corporately is it's not enough just to pray on your own. You should be praying on our own on your own, and we ought to be praying on our own. But God desires for us to pray corporately for a lot of reasons that we're going to find in the book of Acts. But one of those reasons is the way that we learn to pray is by praying with others and hearing others pray. It teaches us how to pray, particularly if we have good examples in prayer. That's something to just be aware of. Notice then as well, we're then going to get into just the very first phrase here of the Lord's Prayer tonight. He says, when you pray, say, Our Father who art, or our Father in heaven. Now, this would have been absolutely foreign to the to the ears of the disciples to hear God be referenced as Father. There are a few times in the Old Testament where God says that He is a father to Israel. At the end of Deuteronomy, it mentions that, for example, that I will be a father to you. But rarely, if ever, do you find anywhere in the New Test in the Old Testament where an individual referenced, references God as his father. Very unusual that you find that. The emphasis in the Old Testament really had to do with the transcendence of God. The fact that God is apart from his creation. And that's why it's this in this passage you have the F our Father who art in heaven. You have this phrase, our Father who art in heaven And you have two very, very important things to understand about God in the very beginning of this. The Father is really talking about the eminence of God or The fact that God is close to us, the fact that God can have we can have an intimate relationship with God. He is our Father. The fact that he is in heaven is to demonstrate that he is transcendent above his creation God is both close to us and separate from us at the same time. You say, well, I don't understand that. Well, neither do I. And that's I don't think the point is to understand it. I think the point is to understand how awesome God is, that he is so far above his creation that he cannot be touched with his creation. And yet he is so close to his creation that under the right relationship we can call him father. This was reiterated by By the Apostle Paul in the book of Romans. Romans chapter 8, verse 15 says, For you did not receive the spirit of bondage again to fear But you receive the spirit of adoption by by whom we are call we c we cry out, Abba Father. Well who who helps us to understand that God is our Father? Well it's the Spirit of God, verse 16 says the Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are the children of God. Isn't it wonderful to know that we know those of us who know Christ as our Lord and Savior, the Spirit of God dwells inside of us. The Bible says the Spirit of God in a non-tangible way, his spirit bears witness with our spirit what? That God is our Father. There is a closeness that God wants us to have with Him. There is an experience even That God wants us to have with Him because He is our Father. Did you know that, did you know that God wants us Not only to understand up here cognitively that we're his son, that's our position, he's our father, that's who we are in Christ, but But that he wants us to, can I say it this way, feel close to him. Sometimes in our circle, sometimes we we we we we shy away from feelings. You know that God is one who feels. And he made his creation to feel. We do feel certain things, don't we? And God desires for us to feel close to Him. Now, we don't base our knowledge of God on our feelings. We don't base our relationship with God on our feelings. In fact, we don't base anything with God on our feelings. The feelings have to come as a result of thinking right and doing right. And then you what? You all know this, right? You think right, you do right, and then what? You feel right. Feelings have to come after thinking right and doing right. But God wants us to feel close to Him, and so He has made this avenue of prayer. The perfect illustration is actually in the Old Testament. It has to do with the tabernacle and then later on the temple. I'm reading in my family devotions with my kids in Joshua right now, the beginning of Joshua, and In the beginning of Joshua, they're about to go into Jericho. They're crossing over the Jordan River, and it says that the that the um Uh the Ark of the Covenant has to go before them. And it they it says to stay away, it told the nation of Israel to stay away, 40,000 of them to stay away, two thousand cubits from the ark. Well why did God say to do that? My kids asked, well why why did God say to do that? Why did they have to do that? Well God wanted them to understand that God's presence was with them, his imminence. He was there. But he is also separate from his creation. He doesn't need his creation. He is independent of his creation. And that is a perfect picture of both the transcendence of God and the eminence of God. What is it that we ought to pray for? I think that's really the next question on the table. So we we've established that we are to address God as our Father, our close father. who is also independent of us and yet wants to be close to us, then what ought we to pray for? This passage is going to help us with that. Look up We're going to go through the Lord's Prayer in the next couple of weeks, but I want you to notice verse five what he says here. And he said unto them Which of you shall have a friend and go to him at midnight and say to him, Friend, lend me three loaves for a friend of mine has come to me on his journey And I have nothing to set before him, and he will answer from within and say, Do not trouble me. The door is now shut. And my children are with me in in bed. I cannot rise and give to you. I say to you, though he will not rise and give to him Because he is his friend, yet because he of his persistence, he will rise and give him as many as he and what's the next word there? As many as he needs. Um what's what what what does the friend need? The friend needs three loaves of bread. What's it for? It's for his family, right? And and the only two things in the passage that you see that are really really cause the causing this to happen is the fact, number one, that he's being persistent in asking But number two, I think what's really there implying is that this is a real need. Would you continue with me and see what it says here in verse nine? So I say to you, ask, and it will be given to you. Seek, and you will find. Knock, and it will be open to you For everyone who asks receives, and he who seeks finds, and to him who knocks it will be opened unto you. Then notice, notice, he's now going to further illustrate what we are to ask for. Verse 11. If a son asks for what? What does it say there? Ask for bread from any from any father among you, will he give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, will he give him a serpent instead of a fish? Or if he asks for an egg, will he offer him a scorpion? For you then being evil know how to give good gifts to your children. How much more will your heavenly father give what does it say there? The Holy Spirit to those who ask. Now, what what is it that is what's the illustration here? So it's uh it's talking about bread and fish and Those kinds of things. And eggs, what are those kinds of things? Those are what? Their needs. Then you see it says It it it it gives a illustration or not an illustration but it it switches the the the need and it says give the the Father will give the what? The Holy Spirit So what kinds of folks, what kinds, just from this passage, just from this passage, what kinds of needs are there? There are two kinds of needs. What kinds are there? There are physical needs and there are spiritual needs We know at least that much. Now the question then is, what is a need? How do I understand what a physical need is? That's easier. How do I understand what a spiritual need is? That's harder. But in fact, if you look at the Lord's Prayer, you actually find spiritual needs placed before physical needs. How do I understand what a true need is? And we're going to look at that in the next couple of weeks. But I want to begin by just saying this a couple of things. First of all, I want to reiterate the fact that God's desire is for us to for us to pray for Our needs to be met. Hebrews chapter 4, verse 16 says this with a clear statement. Let us therefore come what? Boldly. Boldly is the idea of plainly Let us come boldly to the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of what? In time of need. God, what are we supposed to be praying for? We are to be praying for needs. Now, let me ask you a question. How about the friend who has cancer? And we pray for her, and she does not live. Was that a need? Well we thought it was. See, that becomes the question. The question is, is what How do we determine what a need is? If God wants to really meet our need, and he says it'll meet them if we ask, we then have to understand what a need is. And that's very important. And we're going to look at that more next week, but I want to mention this to you specifically at this point. Christ links up this idea of need with this and praying with this idea of bearing fruit. In John chapter 15, verse 7, it says If ye abide in me and my words abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you. Herein is my father glorified that ye what? That ye bear much fruit, so shall ye be my disciples John 15, 16 says, Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, or ordain you that you should bring forth fruit, that your fruit should be m should remain, that whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father in my name, he will give it you. There seems to be this link between fruitfulness and prayer. Now, just run your mind through the New Testament and ask yourself the question: well, what is fruit? Most of us, our minds are going to go to Galatians 5 and we're going to find fruit there. What kind of fruit? Fruit of the Spirit. And so if we are need, if we are Wanting fruit of the Spirit of our lives, that's something that we need to be under the influence of the Spirit of God to have, and certainly that's going to include prayer. There are other kinds of fruit in the New Testament. Really, what fruit is, is results, right? I mean that's what a f I mean if you if you grow a fruit tree, you grow the tree, and what you're looking for at the end there is the fruit. The fruit is the result We are looking, when we're praying, there are certain kinds of results that are going to happen if the need is really a need according to God's standard. We've got to decide we've got to figure out what God says a need is, right? Isn't it possible, folks, that sometimes the reason we pray and we don't see answers to our prayer is because we don't we have a different definition of what a need is than he does And so we have to really be careful about this and understand what he says a true need is in order for to really grasp this. Paul has the same kind of teaching about fruitfulness In Philippians chapter one. It says, Being confident of this very thing that he has begun a good work and you you will complete it unto the day of Christ. That's verse six. Verse nine says And this I pray that your love may abound more and more in knowledge and all discernment, that you may approve the things that are excellent, that you may be sincere with and without offense of the day of Christ That's a prayer he's praying for the Church of Philippi. And then he says, being filled with the fruits of righteousness. Which are by Jesus Christ to the glory and praise of God. We know from that passage then that all fruit is going to glorify God. The fruits of righteousness are things that are genuinely going to glorify God. And so now we have a condition for a fruit. True fruit always glorifies God. That means then that if we're going to pray in a way that is a true need, where God wants to answer that prayer, He's going to pray answer in a way that is going to glorify Him. And that's important for us to understand. The common problem is this. Here is the common problem. The common problem is that you and I are very bad at seeing our own needs. If we have a physical need, that's not that hard to see. But when it comes to our spiritual needs, there are there are we it it's something entirely different. It is very difficult for us to see our spiritual needs. The problem we find in Revelation chapter 3 verse 17, the church at Lahazia, their problem was blindness They couldn't see what they were supposed to see, and verse 17 says, Because thou sayest, I am rich and increase with goods, and have need of nothing, and knowest not that thou art wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked. He is talking about their spiritual condition. In fact, they were so physically wealthy that they could not see their need. They could not see their necessities. Is it possible sometimes that we don't know how to pray because we actually we are not in a place where we are seeing our own needs? It's even possible that we have so many material things met that it's blinding us to our own our really great need, and that's our spiritual need All of this should draw us to a particular condition that we need in order to come to God in prayer. And that is a spirit of helplessness. You know that really, in order to really come to the Lord in prayer, we have to come with a spirit, with just an attitude of total helplessness before God. Often we don't pray because we don't feel helpless enough. We keep trying to do things our own way. We keep trying to solve it our own With our own minds. We keep trying to will it the way we want. And we don't we don't really consider ourselves to be actually helpless. One uh it was a it's actually a Norwegian author, Ole Hallesby, says this, as far as I can see, prayer has been ordained only for the helpless. Prayer and helplessness are inseparable. Four hundreds or so, said this. Account yourself, he says uh that uh you cannot truly pray until you account yourself desolate in the world. God clearly wants us to understand our own our own helplessness, our absolute helplessness, our sense of fragility, our our dependence on God. This is really indicated by Romans chapter 8. Do you remember Romans chapter 8? Over in verse 26, where it says that when you don't know what to pray, There is that that the Spirit of God prays for you with groanings that can't be uttered. There is this groaning in our hearts because of the w the way the world is and the corruption of the world, the way the way the problems of the world are. And when we understand our own helplessness in light of the groanings of the world, we can come to God and sometimes we don't even know what to pray. But because we are in a place where we're supposed to be, in a place of helplessness, even when we don't know when to pray, the Spirit intercedes for us because He does know what to pray. So, folks, what may be more important, even more important than the content of our prayers, is the position we are in when we pray. Are we in a position of helplessness? Are we in a position of totally total dependence on the Lord? We often need to find ourselves in a place that we don't know what to pray. And that's why our first prayer ought to be one what do you think our first prayer ought to often be if we don't know what to pray? At that point, we're in a pretty good place in James chapter 1 to pray for wisdom, aren't we? Don't we? And if you don't know what to pray for, pray for wisdom. The Bible says, if any man lack wisdom, let him ask of first of all, he's got to understand he lacks it, but let him ask of God that giveth to all men liberally that breathe not, and it'll be given to him. Let them ask in faith. So if you don't know what to pray for, and you're just unsure of what to pray for, come to God in a helpless position and ask God for wisdom. That you might know how to pray. James later on in chapter 4 says, Whence come wars and fighting among you? Come in not hence even of your own lust. Which war on your members, your lust you lust and have not, ye kill and desire to have and cannot obtain. Ye fight and war, ye have not, because ye ask not, ye ask and receive because ye ask amiss, that ye may consume it upon your lusts. It is this, there is the the the absolute opposite of helplessness is selfishness, full of self. And when we pray full of self, we will be asking amiss. We will be praying the wrong way. So God wants us to pray for our needs. And the question still remains: what does God define as a need? And in order to come in order to answer that question, you're going to have to come back next Wednesday and understand more about what what God says. How do we understand the mind of God? So that we understand what a real need is, so that when we pray, we have that in mind and we we can see answers to our prayers Let's go ahead and pray the Lord now and ask his help with this series. Father, we do come to you and thank you for your word. We pray, Lord, that you would help us to really grasp and understand what prayer truly is. Certainly you have made it available to us. It is actually depend intended to be a delight. You want us to enjoy talking with you. You want us to enjoy uh the our souls being knit with yours in prayer. The fellowship that we can have, the the strength that we can gain and The pleasure that you receive and that we receive from prayer is something that you want us to be very much involved in. So I pray, Lord, that you would teach us to pray. Teach us by your Christ's own example. Help us to understand the manner in which we pray. And help us to come to the place where we cannot live without it. Is that vital? Is that necessary? We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.