This tonight because I believe that it this is going to be a very, very practical lesson on the subject of prayer. And I'm going to, I'm really hoping that that this will be tools tonight that we will be able to use um in our lives to really deepen our prayer life before the Lord. It comes from some a book that I have read and have digested fairly thoroughly and and um really have appreciated and I've been in frankly put it in into practice in my own life and it's been a big a real blessing to me. When we think of this concept of prayer, we know all over the Bible it talks about prayer. We are commanded to pray. We're told how important it is to pray. I mean prayer is something that is I mean it's all it's just many, many times mentioned in Scripture Uh tonight what I want to do is is really answer the question on a practical level, how do we pray? Of course, that's the question that the disciples asked Christ, and Christ gave them the Lord's, they get well, it's actually the disciples' prayer would be more accurately titled rather than the Lord's prayer. But uh that prayer, in that prayer we have um our Father which art in heaven, Oli be thy name, thy kingdom come, and in that next phrase, thy will be done. And we're going to talk tonight about how really to pray in God's will. There are many promises in the New Testament about when we pray according to God's will. He will hear us and he'll answer our prayers. He really delights in answering the prayers of his people when they are truly according to his will. The question then becomes, what how do we know his will? Well, it that basic question, if somebody were asked you, how do you know his will, what's the answer? Where do you find God's will? You find God's Word. And so it stands to reason that if you learn to pray his word, you will naturally be praying his will. Right? I mean we we we we all agree with that. If you pray his word, you'll be praying his will. But then then as you begin to pray his word, and we're gonna look at what that means, then this can be a part of our lives on a daily basis, even a moment-by-moment basis, and we'll see how that's all fleshed out. Let's begin by looking at a couple of common problems that we find in the believer's prayer life. Here's one potential problem. Tim Keller mentions this in his book. The distracted mind. This was mentioned last week. Somebody said, I think it was Brad who said, you know, th this is something we need tools for, and I thought that's a perfect segue into into this uh uh this this Wednesday night and I'm glad he's got my back like that. It's great. Uh I'm not sure so much so much much sure on the basketball court now though. But but but at least at least here. One of the great uh practical difficulties of of prayer is distracting thoughts. We turn from planning for an event to beginning to pray and find we are still thinking about the event. Ordinary prayer, which is either completely extempor extempor, which means extemporaneous. Or based on a list of prayer needs often cannot draw the mind's attention fully away from what occupied it previously. Let me ask you, how many of you Would be honest enough to say, you know, there are times where I try to pray and I my mind is just distracted. How many of you would say that? I you know we probably have a unanimous group here of people that have said that at one time or another. And it's really true. It is it takes hard work to pray. There's diligence involved in prayer. But all of us have come have have have there have been times where we've got so many things on our minds That it is very hard to sit down and to focus in concentrated prayer. And what we're going to learn tonight really can help us with that. Uh this is this this is one point, the exercise of elaborating on the Lord's Prayer, which we looked at last week, commands the full mental faculty And this helps greatly with the problem of giving God full attention. So part of what we can do is to think in terms of, okay, well, how do I pray biblically according to the Lord's Prayer? And we looked at that last week We're going to look at something else that is very similar this week, but we'll see what that is in a minute. Potential problem number two. Have just think about your prayer life, or think about some times that you have prayed. This is something, I believe it was Augustine that said, we must be more than Uh prayer must be more than worrying in God's direction. Now, just let that sink in for a minute. Do you ever find that that is your prayer life You are not really praying in a biblical manner or praying according to God's will. You're really worrying in God's direction. That is that is convicting, is it not? When I read that phrase, I thought, you know what, I think there are a lot of times my prayer life is worrying in God's direction. He says this, Augustine said this, we must see that our heart's love, hearts' loves are disordered, out of order. Things we ought to love third or fourth are first in our hearts. God, whom we should love supremely is someone we may acknowledge, but whose favor and presence is not existentially as important to us as prosperity, success, status, love, and pleasure. And so he says, essentially, Augustine says that if you don't have your priorities set correctly Then instead of actually praying in a biblical manner according to God's will, what you're really doing is worrying in God's direction. I think all of us, if we're honest, we all can identify with that. Problem number three. Two deficient extremes. Number one, a cursory reading of Scripture. Number two, an in-depth Bible study Here's what I mean by deficient extremes. How many of you have been saved for 10 years? Most of us, many, many. How many have been saved for 20 years? How many have been saved for 30 years? How many have been saved for 40 years? All right. I won't go any further because it's not worth it. But anyway, so no after that, you know, you probably don't remember how long, so I will we'll anyway, no kidding. So so How many times when you read, I mean just be honest. I'm gonna be really honest. If we're gonna get down to prayer, prayer it requires honesty. When you just read through a passage of Scripture, you don't study it, how much do you really glean from that passage? I mean, really, can I I'm just going to admit to you that when I just do a simple cursory reading of a passage, I very rarely learn anything new. It it just is it's really something that if I don't really study it, if I don't do the in-depth study then I don't really I don't really get a lot out of the path. I don't really learn a whole lot new. I really haven't had the time to really meditate on it or think about it. It so So how many times in our devotional time do we do is this really a problem That on the one hand, you know, we don't have time to get out, you know, the strongest concordance in the morning and the you know all those different kinds of things and do the in-depth Bible study. By the way, let me ask you this question What might be a downside to the in-depth Bible study in our devotions? Can anybody think of a a negative to that? Jeff? That's exactly right. You could become too academic. There's nothing wrong with approaching scripture academically as long as you then move that toward a devotional, meditative kind of approach where you're actually seeing the re who God is you know really revealed himself as in uh applying it. If you stay academic, then you have a problem. But you really do that is that is the downside to it, is the is an academic kind of approach to bi- to study. But the cursory approach, you're not really going to glean a lot. At least that's my suggestion. I'm not saying that's Bible. That's been my my experience. Let me suggest to you tonight that there is a approach between those two where you learn to pray God's word. And as you are praying God's word, you are meditating on God's word. And as you are doing that, it is a very rich devotional time. It's more than just a cursory reading. It's not as in-depth as a Bible study, which I'm all you all know that. I'm I'm all for in-depth Bible study. I'm not against Bi uh at all. But for your your devotional life Um it it it it has a few drawbrac drawbacks. Uh Unless at least the very uh unless at the very least we recognize this Okay, that was actually from a previous quote. I I messed that up. Unless at the very least we recognize this heart disorder is talking about different kinds of loves and realize how much it distorts our lives, our prayers will be part of the problem, not the age of of healing. Alright. General thoughts about devotional time. I want to I'm going to take up I'm going to pause so we we we looked at the different problems. uh that that in our devotional time, in our prayer time, that we all probably struggle with from time to time, if not constantly. I want to just really strongly suggest that you're never, you're really not going to have a good prayer life if you don't start with a good devotional time. Now, that's a suggestion. It's not a direct statement from Scripture. We have many examples of Daniel, for example, who prayed specifically three times a day. You have Christ who went early in the morning, it says, to pray. And Christ prayed often, and he went alone with his father. You see that often in the Gospels. And so there are examples of this. that would at least lend itself to believe that that's the case. I personally believe that you I I can't I don't know how you can have a good prayer life without having at for at the beginning a good, solid devotional life. Now, let me make three very prac I'm getting really practical today. Sometimes you know I'm I'm not that practical, but today I'm practical. So let me give you three really important solu uh uh important factors in having a a devotional time. This is just basic ones. Number one, you need to have a time. Every day you need to set aside a time. A specific time where it's going and you and you're gonna go you've got to guard that time. Do you know Satan just does not want you to have that time? He he really doesn't want it. There's a lot of good things that happen in devotional time. Your relationship with the Lord is strengthened. You're strengthened to do God's work. There's a lot of things that happen when your devotional life life is the way it's supposed to be. God does uh Satan does not want you to have that, and you're going to have to fight for it. At least that's been my ex my experience. Number two, we we need to have a I I just would suggest we need to have a place. We see that example in Christ. He went and he had a place. Um and there are other examples that throughout church history when you read people that have really done a lot of praying, they usually have a particular place that they go to pray. You can have more than one. But what I find in the morning is if you don't have a set time and if you don't have a specific place, then then there will be distractions that will keep you from from getting there, from getting to a place where you're just your heart is quiet before the Lord. And number two, you've got to have a plan. And that's what we're going to talk more about today is the is a plan. How what kind of plan can we have? Now let me make this suggestion as we go into this. How many of you have ever done a one-year Bible reading plan before? Okay, many, many have done that. I'm I'm they're great. What would be the disadvantage of a one year Bible reading plan? Tony? Yeah, so so you if you if if you have a one year Bible reading plan you're probably going to read three to four chapters a day. Most of them are are that way. And that's not bad, but but it's it's it's kind of a lot to meditate through. And let me just suggest to you that if you want to learn to pray through Scripture the way that I'm going to suggest, you might want to consider a two-year reading plan. And it's then you're going to be one to two chapters a day. Plus the one I'm doing now is one to two chapters a day plus Psalms. That's Psalms every day and one to two chapters. Not that you have to do the one I'm doing, that's not the point. But but if you do a two-year reading plan, I just found personally that I really can meditate through the text much better. And we'll learn how to do that as we go here. So a time, a place, and a plan. These are just preliminary things, they're practical, they're not rocket science. But if you are thinking to yourself, well, I don't really have a set time, And if you're saying to yourself, well, I don't really have a set place, and if you're saying to yourself, I don't really have a plan, I can pretty much guarantee you you're not having devotions. Very candidly. You've got to have those things. At least not regularly, every day. Now, uh that's just Practical, hopefully that's helpful. Let me give you a more developed definition of prayer. So a couple of weeks ago, we defined prayer very simply as what? Prayer is what? The prayer is asking. Okay. What we're going to do then now is we're going to develop the yes. I thought the a lot of prayer was also Praising, not just asking. So the word praseukomai actually means to ask in the Greek. So praising is praising is a kind of praying. But at its most simple definition it's i it is a petition. Um so so praising usually invol is involved in prayer, but you there's a sense in which you you are not Unless you petition, you're really not praying. Does that make sense? Okay. You can praise without prayer, in other words. You can you can praise the Lord like in your singing or something and you're not actually praying. But you can't You have to have a petition. However, we are going to expand this now, now that I just said that. Prayer is continuing a conversation that God has started through his word. This is just a suggestion here. That God started through his word and his grace, which eventually becomes a full encounter with him. So we're going to look at what that what that is in a few moments. You'll see how this works out. And our example of tonight is going to be Martin Luther. Let me just mention, let me preface it this way. Uh you know, if if you look through church history and you see you see different different times in church history. Of course, the Protestant Reformation was a time where where the gospel was essentially recovered. Prior to that time you had The Roman Catholic Church that was ruling everything, the the Word of God was not in the language of the common man anymore. It was in the Latin Vulgate for a thousand a thousand years It was really it was the church was in a very bad situation. And it was by God's providence that the r that that during the Protestant Reformation the gospel was essentially revived. God's word was put in the hand of the God and man again. You had men, of course, Martin Luther being one of the prime primary ones that started this. And and what they did, they really had to essentially reinvent the wheel. What they had been doing, what the cat what the Catholic Church had been doing up to that point was really something that was was had they had added so much of papal decrees. Now I mean you know over the years that they sort of just established uh uh they had to establish a baseline on everything. And so you have very prolific writers during the Re Protestant Reformation period And they're thinking through everything. And one of the things they thought through was prayer. And Martin Luther, after he came to Christ, spent a lot of time in prayer. This was, one of his friends said this, there is not a day on which he does not devote at least three hours, the very ones most suitable for work, to prayer. Once I was fortunate to overhear his prayer. Good God, what faith in his words. in a vain sense by the way. He speaks with the great reverence of of one who speaks to his God, and with the trust and hope of one who speaks with his father and friend. So, you know, a man who prays three hours a day, I uh let me tell you, I don't pray continuously three hours a day usually. Not there yet. That is hard. That is I mean if you really think about it just the whole time for three hours straight praying. We want to learn from a man who can do this. Because apparently his mind was able to stay on this. Now, I don't think we're going to be there after today's lesson, but we might be a little farther along than we are now. By this practice he says, I want your heart to be stirred and guided, rightly warmed, inclined toward prayer. And you'll see what this is in a minute. This meditation on the Word is then a kind of bridge. So we're talking about praying the Bible. It's a kind of bridge as you move from a more formal study of the Bible to prayer. So here's here is how this works and what I'm here here's how we're gonna do this. We're going to go through the steps. We're going to see we're going to get see an example of how Martin Luther did this. And then we're going to work on we're going to do we're going to take this, make this a workshop, and we're going to we're going to work on this together. And we're going to take a passage of scripture from the book of Judges, which was my devotions this morning, Judges chapter one. And I'm just arbitrarily picking that passage because it was what I did this morning. And we're going to work through this and you're going to see how this works. So what we're doing is we're choosing a passage of scripture in our morning devotions. You say, well, I thought this was on prayer. It is. It's entirely on prayer. I'm suggesting that if we want to deepen our prayer life, that we've got to start here. And then we'll see what happens. Then the then we'll be able to pray in a more consistent manner according to God's will once we do this. Number one, we should look for the instruction in the passage. So, how many of you all have a Bible that is in paragraph form? It may have the verses too, but it's in paragraph form. How many all have a Bible like that? Okay. Many of them now are in paragraph form. I don't like it for preaching. I prefer not having that for for when I'm preaching out of it. And I and for people following along, I'm not sure that's the best either. When it comes to doing devotions and and reading through a passage of scripture, the paragraph form is very helpful. And it's not inspired or anything, neither are the verse numbers for that matter. But when you have something in paragraph form, you you have a they've done a pretty good job usually of taking a unit of information. And what I would recommend that you do, if you have a Bible that's in paragraph form, you read through that paragraph And you the first thing you're going to do is is distill it down to its essential con content. You're going to read the paragraph and you're going to ask the question, what is the passage uh what the passage wants us to believe or do. There usually you're gonna look for a command of some kind. Sometimes there's not a direct direct command, so you're gonna have to pull something that is that seems to be an implication. That's in Judges 1 you're gonna have to s we're gonna have to do that. So so it's not always a command command, but if you can find a direct command, that's the easiest. And we'll see how that works in a moment in a moment. So you're first going to determine what is the main point of the passage. Now, most of the time in our devotions, that's all we do. We stop there. If we do that, which I think sometimes we don't even do that, sometimes I think we read through the passage so we can say we read through the passage, we really haven't just still it down to see what it really means, or what we are to do, or what we are to believe, and we go on our merry way and say, I got my devotions done. Which really doesn't help a whole lot. Better than nothing, I suppose. But but at least uh but uh but but if we do this, this is a lot a lot of times the only thing we do. The next thing he says is ask this question, how does this teaching particularly lead me to thank God? So now I'm going to, this is going to move to thanksgiving. Okay? So we're going to move to Thanksgiving. You'll see how all this works in a minute. I'm going to lay them all out and then and then we'll do that. The next one is confession. Do you suppose when you read through a command of scripture? That there are going to be times where you're going to immediately recognize your own failings. I hope so. Because we are all far from perfect. And if we're reading through a lot of Scripture and we're not seeing our own failings, I'm not saying you read Scripture in order to see your own failings. You read Scripture to re see who God is But as you read Scripture, you are going to find your own failings. And it's important not to just rush over them. It's important to confess them to the Lord. It's important to agree with God about them. And also to thank the Lord for his forgiveness in your life. Confession is the next step. And then petition is the final step. So now after all of that, Martin Luther suggests that now we're ready to make a request based upon that particular verse of Scripture. What should I pray for as a natural response to God's will and word? I mean, do you suppose if you've got the instruction right and you're thanking God right and you're confessed And and you're confessing your sin, uh the Lord. Do you suppose that at this point when you pray a prayer, it's going to be God's will? I mean all things being equal, it's very likely going to be. I mean if not we're still flawed, so we might get the whole thing wrong. Alright, that's that's possible. But but it is it's a ha much higher likelihood than if I than than if I I mean This is a high likelihood that this is going to happen. Those who have practiced this particular discipline of meditation know that it that as it proceeds, now this is like the key to the this is why it's so beneficial. Those who have practiced this particular discipline of meditation know that as it proceeds, it creates its own energy. And that's don't take it overly mystically. It ingeniously forces you off the theoretical plane to consider what the Bible truth you are pondering should actually do to you and in you How it should lead you to praise God, to repent, and to change your heart, and also what it should lead you to do in the world. Sometimes the insights that are gained are very striking and moving. You find yourself spontaneously moving to prayer. Now notice what it what Luther says about this, or this is a commenting on what Luther says from Timothy Keller. Over time, this meditative habit of mind will often exert itself during the day, naturally turning your heart toward God. You may find many things you hear, see, and read spontaneously leading you to repent and to praise and petition God. It helps you to habitually put God into every picture, seasoning your feelings and thoughts, lifting you up when disappointed, and humbling you when successful. So let's look at a couple of examples from Martin Luther. These are Martin Luther's own words, and he's going to he does this from the Ten Commandments. We're going to look at this one. I'm the Lord your God. And you uh you shall have no other gods before before me. So here's what he says. Here I earnestly consider that my heart must not build upon anything. So this is the instruction My heart not my my must not build on anything upon el must not build upon anything else or trust in any any other thing be it wealth, prestige, wisdom, might, piety, or anything else. I mean, if you just pause and think of that one command or those two commandments And what he says there, you would see how perhaps we're not we're gonna be leading into confession pretty quickly here. Right? I mean, how many of us are ti there are times where we are pursuing Our heart is pursuing wealth or prestige or wisdom or might or piety rather than the one true God. Second, I give thanks for his infinite compassion by which he has come to me in such a fatherly way. And unasked, unbidden, and unmerited, has offered to be my God, to care for me, and to be my comfort, guardian, help, and strength in every time of need. The third is confess. I have fearfully provoked his wrath by countless acts of idolatry I print repent of these and ask for grace. So is idolatry, folks, something that we constantly deal with in our lives? It most certainly is. Fourth, I pray, preserve my heart so that I shall never again become forgetful and ungrateful. Thy may never see after other gods, seek after other gods, or other consolation on earth, or in any creature, but cling truly and solely to thee, my only God. Now that's pretty good so far, isn't it? I mean this is all from two commands. So he has gone through this. Luther is giving us the example of how that and that is basic that's what he's suggesting that we do. Now He gives this disclaimer at the end. He says, If in the midst of such thoughts the Holy Spirit begins to preach in your heart with rich, enlightening thoughts Honor him by letting go of this written scheme, so the instruction and and so on. Remember what he says, and note it well, and you will behold wondrous things in the law of God. So, what we're then going to do now is I want to practice this a little bit. So let's take your Bibles, if you would, and turn to the book of Judges. And I've just picked this randomly. Not randomly, that's based on my devotions this morning. So turn to the book of Judges. And we're going to do this inductively, so we're going to kind of do this together. I'm going to pull my notebook, this is my devotional notebook out. The only things that you need for this are a pen, a notebook, and a Bible. It's really, really all you need for this, which keeps it simple, which means it's attainable. If you make devotions too complex, you'll never do it. Consistently. Uh well, maybe you will, but I I won't. So um so we're in Judges chapter one here. Okay. Now j Judges chapter one, how many of you all remember the book of Judges at all? Alright, yeah, so so it this is not necessarily always an easy book to um to apply to us and to do this with, but that's so we we we'll have to see how this goes. Um But every pa all scriptures is given by inspiration of God and is profitable, right, for doctrine, reproof, for correction, instruction, and righteousness. So we know that this can be something that that we can use for us, and so we need to look we need to go in expecting that. So let's pick up in verse 1. It says, Now after the death of Joshua it came to pass that the children of Israel asked the Lord, saying Who shall be first to go up for us against the Canaanites to fight against them? And the Lord said, Judah shall go up, indeed, I have di delivered the land into His hand. Now let me pause for a minute and just ask the question before we go any farther. What are we looking for? Does anyone know what we're looking for? Yeah, we're looking for a command. I will give you a hint on this. There is no direct commands in this passage. So we're looking at something that we are to believe or do in the passage, right? So so so if you go to the epistles, you're gonna find commands all over the place. You know, narrative passages like this, you're not going to find as many commands. So you've got to you've got to ask the question, okay, what am I going to believe or what am I what am I going to do? Okay, so let's keep going. Verse 2, and the Lord said, Judasha, oh where are you reversed? Verse 3, so Judah said to Simeon, his brother, Come up with me to my allotted territory. that we may fight against the Canaanites, and I will likewise go with you to your allotted territory. And Simeon went with him, then Judah went up, and the Lord delivered the Canaanites and the Perizzites into their hand And they killed ten thousand men in at Besek, and they found Adonai Bezek in in Bizek, and fought against him, and they defeated the Canaanites and the Perizzites. Then Adonai Bezek fled, and they pursued him. And caught him and cut off his thumbs and big toes. And y this is judges. You're gonna have you get kinda this kind of thing all the way through the book, Jud Judges. Um And Adonai Bezek said, seventy kings with their thumbs and big toes cut off used to gather scraps under my table. As I have done, so God has repaid me. Then they brought him to Jerusalem, and there he died. Okay. It's a very uplifting passage. So So Adonai Bizek, uh who is Adonai Bizek from the passage? Just just who is that? Okay, yeah, he's a he's a king. He's a defeated king. Okay. So that's one section of John Judges 1. That's sort of a unit. Now, we didn't see any commands in this, did we? So let's ask the question, well, what can we believe or do? There's doesn't look like there's a whole lot to do, but there is something we can believe about this path believe. What what can we believe about this? This is a hard one. This is actually difficult. But what can we believe here? Or what can we see here? Yes. Okay. Alright, so that's actually that's I hadn't that I had okay, Kim? Well that they ran away that you may have a problem with prayer and And then they trump it down the point. Okay. Good. Brad. He commanded them to go up, and they obeyed him. And then we deliver the t-lings into their hands. Okay, good. Good. Um and that is going that is probably the same. When you read begin to read the rest of the passage, that's going to be a consistent theme, except they don't do that in some places and we'll see the importance of that. Okay, so they did follow after him. He f he it is you're all correct about it. The uh they did then he did give them the land. There's something else in the passage here that stood out to me this morning. Yes, Hisham. Yes, right. That's I right. So so even this pagan king realized that God is a fair judge. That he he God is the judge and he will repay. By the way, aren't you glad you're not under his wrath? Okay? I mean there is a sense in which you can even thank God that you're not under Adonai Bizek's You're not in his situation that by God's grace because of Christ we're not there. I think out of all those things though, uh uh really it's obedience and then provision as a result of obedience that we see in the passage. So If that's the case, then we would then then that's the instruction. So let's take that as the instruction, that there's obedience, and as a result of obedience, there's provision. Right? Okay. So so that's the instruction. So then what what thank what how would we thank the Lord for that? That's the next step. So how do we thank the Lord for that? Any idea? Okay. Isn't it wonderful to know that God will be faithful if we'll obey Him? I mean is that not a not something he doesn't say he's going to give us a certain amount of land, but can we not at least say from the New Testament passages that we know that God is a God who provides for us? Right? And that if we'll obey him, then he will provide. And so, good, very good. So we thank God for that. And you're gonna and we're you're really going to fervently thank the Lord for that in your prayer. Then what's next? Oh, you could keep keep going, thank you for thanking Bloss. Um we can thank him that in the midst of everything being very Unfair, you will make all things right. Good. Exactly right. Very good. Then uh we move to confession. What what might we confess? Any idea what we might might confess? Yes. Do we always obey? Okay. And so if we can think of times where we're not obedient to the Lord, The right thing to do is not to glaze that well I'm always obedient. Well I I uh you know I had reasons for not being obedient. No, just confess to the Lord your disobedience. I mean there have been times where I can actually reflect on my o my own disobedience that I have already confessed to the Lord, but I just say to the Lord, Lord, I I I I'm thankful for your forgiveness there that you have forgiven me for that. So that's the next step. That's confession. And then petition. What might we ask God about here? What should we ask? What will we ask you here? They were asking if it was gonna go up uh against the Canaanites. Okay. So that's what they were asking, that's true. So what will we what how Okay, good. Alright, so we would ask him to for the courage to be able to be obedient, to then be able to receive the obedient uh receive the provision, right? Okay. Yes. Okay, yeah, care yeah, the the strength right the strength to obey uh what what God has. Sonia, did you have something? Um I was thinking the ability to kind of like Sure. Sure. Yeah, you're gonna have things like that and and and to ask the Lord for that too. Good. So these are things that are bib are are are things that we're praying. Now, as you go through this, you're actually going to find that this is a very similar theme throughout this whole chapter. You're going to find that they don't do what they ought to do later on in the passage. In fact, the nation of Israel and several several of the tribes are going to we won't take the time to look at it now, but several of the tri tribes are going to go through the land and they're going to conquer their land, but they're not going to kill off all the inhabitants that God said to kill off. They're instead going to take take uh people to be to f to be in forced labor. And that's very clear in the passage. And it's it's it's mentioned several times in the passage that there's forced labor. Um what might we what instruction should we have do we have from that? Any idea? Yes. Yeah, very good. So so they did partially they obeyed partially and going and conquered the land. But they fell short of obeying completely by taking care of all the inhabitants of the land. And then, but why did they do that? Why do you think that they they enslaved, by the way, they were enslaved at one point, weren't they? That's sort of interesting. But anyway, so so why do you think they enslaved them? What's that? Yeah. Because it was to their advantage. So what what what can what instruction do we I mean this is really good instruction for us, what instruction do we have here? That we have to learn told Paul you go ahead. Okay, yeah, don't cut corners of God's obedience. Is it true that are we not tempted to obey up to the point that it's to our advantage? But when we don't think it's our advantage, we no longer want to obey. Are we ever tempted that way? We certainly are. So so there is this there is this instruction here for us here that then we can okay, so how do we thank God for that? What what do we thank God about all that? Wisdom received. Okay, that's that's a petition to ask ask God for wisdom, right? Or or we're thanking thankful for when He gives us wisdom. Okay, yeah. Thankful for when He gives us wisdom. Good Okay. Yes. Thank you for the revelation of what we learned about ourselves. Sure. And uh let's move the confession now. What might we confess? Yeah. Have we ever cut corners? Have we ever disobeyed because we thought it was to our advantage? Have we ever said, uh, it doesn't really matter, I don't have to do all of that because, you know, I it's just so much better if I don't. Yeah. It's easier if I don't do that. So Jeff I think what's your understanding about uh That's exactly right. That's exactly what that does. That's that's always our problem, by the way. Yes, Sonia? Um well I was thinking like you're okay to use it. our life, they instead of thanking him for the land he delivered to 'em, they wanted more. not want more than what I do what it is. Good. So so all of these things are things that that so So when you're going through the passage, if you will just have this in your mind, instruction, thanksgiving, confession, petition. So what do we pray for on this passage? I was sort of leaning toward, Lord, give me the wisdom to be able to see when I am supposed to uh well I'm tempted then to obey to to disobey for my o to to to an ad to my own advantage rather than obeying. And also to believe that God is going to give me exactly what he wants to give me when I do obey him. Does that make sense? So so that would be one way of of of asking God of petitioning him. And the idea here is that it when we do this every day, when we do this constantly, we are praying through Scripture. We are really meditating through Scripture. And we are we are learning to pray his will. And then the idea is that as you go throughout the day and you think of other things to pray for. You begin to think in terms of, okay, well, what is God, God's instruction on this issue? Okay, well, how can I thank God for this? Alright? Well, what mut uh must I might I need to confess? I mean but you may confess my worry on this thing or my fear that And then what do I need to ask God about? And we might find that our prayer, our petitions are a little different. Then if we then if we just jump right into the petition as we learned last week from looking at the Lord's Prayer So my hope is that this is just very helpful for you and I would just encourage so so what what what I what we've started doing um is just taking the two-year thing and reading through that and and doing it this way and praying through this and then journaling in in in uh in journaling basically this kind of thing. And it doesn't have to be long or complicated. As soon as you make it complicated, it you won't be able to do it anymore. Yes, Jeff? Uh the examples you gave of Luther and Jesus were only God alone. Some of your examples are with your family. And does it make sense to set up devotional times with yourself and your personality in the same day? Like how do you use it So I'll just tell you what so there's not there's not a right or wrong with this, but you definitely need time alone with God without family. Um and we definitely see Christ doing that and so what what what I I mean I definitely have I mean I'm not trying to get in my personal like like everybody should do it my way, but I always have time alone with the Lord in the morning first. So what we do in our family is all of us individually have time alone with the Lord first. And we read through passages. We we read through the same passage actually. Um but we do it alone. So I I and then after we do that Then we come together at breakfast time and we discuss the passage that we just read and we go through it together. And usually it's just one chapter. And um I can't I just don't want it more complicated than that. But basically I just we read through one but yeah, it's absolutely necessary it's uh to have time alone with God in the morning. I I say in the morning I you know, there's some people that do it at night. I'm not You know, my grandfather's that way. He always did it at night. I I I it'll never happen if I wait that long, basically. So I just know myself. But um but maybe ma you know, it depends on what you believe the Lord wants you to do. I would strongly recommend the morning, but that's not that's just me. I'm not saying that's that's you know, necessarily has to h out of the way. Yes, pray? It's really it's a struggle because we decide we have our own will. We have the distractions of the world and the influence of the world. have God's will and we're trying to this pattern, this this format is trying to get us from our own will to be in mind with God's will so we can then petition in a way that's known and correct. Yeah, it's exactly right. And we're also trying to learn how to know his will. And how to pray in his will. This will begin to expand beyond this. It will begin where you're praying throughout the day and you're thinking biblically about how to pray And it will and and I'm now going to be praying hopefully a lot more accurately in God's will. Does that make sense? Now it's not we're human, so this is not This is not foolproof. Okay, so we'll mess this up. Well it's not like everything we'll pray is going to be in God's will, I guarantee you. But it sure it sure is I just think helpful to to to to take this approach is just a suggestion. Yes, call ya. I found that the boys need to halfway with whatever you do, but he he doesn't ex he expects to bring you along to his rooting alive. You shouldn't let yourself get discouraged because you don't have a big chunk of time that you can give reward because you may not on that given day have that luxury. When you take time, that little bitty time that you know you have, and you approach the Lord in this way, the Lord needs you halfway and more than halfway. and we'll meet with you and we'll bless that. You know, it's like you shouldn't you shouldn't let yourself, you know, get overwhelmed by the fact that, well, I don't have this big, big space of time. Yeah. Just take If you take one paragraph and do this with one paragraph, how long do you really think that's going to take? It's probably about fifteen, twenty minutes, right? I mean, so we're not talking about however, I want to balance that out a little bit if I can, and this is just my opinion, but um We we really a lot of times could could carve out more time if we just let some things go Uh I'm not saying every situation is different. I'm not judging anybody here or anything like that. I don't have anybody in mind. I'm just saying that a lot of times we really could uh uh carve out more time if we if we if our priorities are are in the right place. So I guess I would just I'm not agree I'm not disagreeing with Claudia what Claudia was saying. I'd certainly understand that, but there is another side of that I just Think that we could sometimes. Write out your day. Sure. Write out what's happening through your day and where your time is going. And it'll help you manage. What what's going on in your day? So in college they did we had something called Student Success Seminar and they made you do that. You had to write out your schedule. And they showed you how much time you actually have and how much time you actually waste when you when you actually account for every single hour of the day And it is it is it's quite sobering and you really can get a lot in there if if if we're you know we're disciplined. So that's just that that is probably a good a good thing to think about and and um yes, Carol. And you've also said about a small amount of time. And for me, first thing that is important just helps me focus my mind and what God wants real today. Sure. So if I am pressed with mine, I'll take that fifteen minutes in the morning. But then find other pockets of time during the day where I can go down. Yeah. Or work on other things 'cause I have several different things that I work on throughout the day. So Yeah. Starting the day that way is important, focusing for the day. Another thing that you can do that really helps your prayer life that we didn't discuss in any detail, but if you read a psalm a day and summarize the psalm and pray that Um that those are most of them are prayers already. And so it's just really a matter of personal personalizing them, applying them to yourself. Um that's another really helpful thing when it comes to our prayer life. Uh thank you Carol. That's good good. All right, let's let's do this. Let's take some prayer requests tonight. I