Ephesians chapter six It is by no accident in my mind that the Lord has allowed us to cover what we have covered recently in the book of Ephesians in the putting on of the armor of God. And the message that we're going to be looking at today, and the text that we're going to be looking at today, is an extension of the of that concept that we find in God's Word about putting on the armor. It is some would suggest that this that prayer, which is what we're going to be talking about today, is another part of the armor, but that doesn't seem to be And so what I want to do is look at Ephesians chapter 6, picking up here in verse 18. Actually, I want to pick up in verse 10, just so we can get our bearings on what God is expecting of us and providing for us as a result of this prayer privilege Ephesians chapter 6, verse 10 says, Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to. What does it say there, folks? That ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. Now we're going to read the next uh next few verses in just a moment, but I just want to pause and just consider something for a few moments. We unfortunately have witnessed in this country some very serious um decisions that have been passed down. One of the one particular that is just extremely dip disconcerting for us as believers that been passed down from the Supreme Court in last, I guess it was the week before And um, you know, I've seen different Christians react different ways to this decision. And I thought about the fact that when we have any kind of negative um negative input or or negative uh things that happen to us circumstances That are difficult for us, that are surprising to us. It's universally understood that we're going to have two knee-jerk reactions. Two one of two. Either we will fight Or what's the other one? Flight. Some of us will be more have more of a tendency to fight when we react. when there's a reaction to some a surprise or a circumstance that we're not expecting. Others of us would would tend to flee. We want to just flight you know flee, escape the circumstances that are The posture that the Christian ought to take in situations in our country, and in our culture and in our families, in our churches, that we ought to take when truth is compromised. Ought not be fight, and ought not be flight. It ought to be to stand. The picture that Scripture gives us here is a perfect application. And I think really providential that we're going through this passage. Because what God wants us to do is not to flee the reality of what has happened and what is continuing to happen in the decline of the morality of our country. And not to fight to the point where we actually do harm to the to the to the purposes of God's kingdom. of of what God is doing. But to stand, to stand firmly, to to know the truth And to stand in the truth and to not compromise the truth. That must be the posture of the Christian. Whether it is cultural things in our lives that cause us to be um concerned Or discouraged, or for personal things in our lives that are wiles of the devil, that are darts and things that are constantly being thrown at us Remember, if you will, that Satan's goal for the Christian is not that he would unsave you. Because he knows he can't do that. He may want you to feel as though you're not saved. But Satan's goal as a cr as as a uh for the Christian is that he would render you useless, he would render you inoperative, and even potentially use you and I as a tool for his purposes. And that is possible. And what God wants us to do in situations and difficulties throughout our lives, the things that we are dealing with, He wants us to have a posture of standing. And God has provided everything that we need so that we can stand. That's exactly what the passage is telling us. So if you would continue with me with that in mind, verse 12. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood. But against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of the world, against spiritual wickedness in high places Wherefore take unto the whole armor of God that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all to what To stand. Do we get the idea here, folks, that what God wants us to do is to stand Stand, verse fourteen, therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, and have on the breastplate of righteousness, and your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. Above all. And then we have here, folks, another verb here. Above all, taking the shield that's actually a parse participle, but it's kind of like a verb. Above all, taking the shield of faith wherewith he shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked. Verse 17. Then we have another verb, another action word, if you will. And what does it say there? Take. It is the word here, the word here is receive. We need to receive something. We need to take something. And take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. And then we find in verse 18 the way that we're going to take these things, the way that we're going to receive these things. Verse 18, praying. And then we're also going to see another action here, another participle, the word watching. Do you see that? Really, those are parallel ideas. How are we to take on or receive this armor? We are to do it by praying and by watching. We're going to get into this after we go to the Lord in prayer, ask his blessing on our time together. Father, we are grateful for your providence in our lives. We are grateful for your working. And it is incredibly encouraging when we see, even in the exposition of your word, how I was so encouraged on Wednesday night when you placed in our path the Competent Psalms that called us to find our dependency entirely and only upon you. And as we looked at some of those psalms on Wednesday nights I couldn't help but encourage us to know where our confidence lies. And then now, as we look at your word today, just following the next passage. We see that you have got given us some, you're equipping us, Lord, to stand against the wiles of the devil And you want us to take up this helmet of salvation, the assurance of our salvation. You want us to take up this sword of the Spirit by praying and watching And I pray, Lord, that you would clear our minds. Help us to remove the clutter that easily Distracts us from receiving your word. And I pray that you would help us to focus on the text of your word that This morning, and to see the truth of it. And may we have greater motivation and glory in the prayer privilege that you have given us. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. The text is now going to teach us how to pray. Or at least give us some reminders of what it means for the Christian to be able to pray by saying in verse 18 Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints. And for me that utterance may be given unto me, that I may boldly that I may open my mouth boldly to make known the mystery of the gospel, to which I am an ambassador in bonds And therein I may speak boldly as I ought to speak. Before we get into the text, when it comes to prayer, what I want to do is actually recall some of the some of the basics. on what Christ taught on this subject of prayer. And I do want to go through these somewhat quickly so that we can get into the text, but I think, as you well know by now, hopefully That when you look at the epistles of the New Testament, they are really assuming that you understand the teachings of Christ in the Gospels. They are really elaborations on Christ's own teachings And so for us to fully understand this text, what we've got to do is we've got to look at some of the basic teachings on prayer that Christ gave us in the Gospels, and then we'll look at a couple other Things as well. And so I want to take a few moments just to look at the nature of praying. First of all, I want to answer the question in a basic form: why should we pray? And at the very outset of us asking this question, it may be one that we feel we can't ask or why would we ask, but it is one that many Christians Christians will ask, and understandably so. Because we find in Matthew chapter six verse eight, be not ye therefore like unto them, for your father knoweth what things ye have need of before ye ask him Why would the believer pray when God already knows what he's going to pray and what he already needs? I mean, why would the believer pray if God is truly already all-knowing? And I'm going to give you the simple answer for that, and you're going to see this as Scripture bears this out. But folks, the simple answer is that God wants us to adjust to His will. That's really the answer. Why would we pray even though God knows what's going to happen? It is so folks we can be Actively involved in God's will so that we can adjust to God's will for our lives. And we're going to look into that. You're going to see that a little bit more in more detail as we go on. The next question I want to answer very quickly is, what is prayer? And I want to just say, just very basically, that prayer is asking. Prayer is asking. Matthew 7, verse 7 says, ask and it shall be given to you. Seek and ye shall find. Knock, and it shall be open unto you. Prayer is asking. The next question I want to answer, I want to ask, and then answer is this. What should we be praying for? What do we pray for? And folks, before you just write that off as a as a insufficient an insignificant question. I just want to ask you in your own in your own experience, have you ever come to God in prayer and just not known what to pray? Perhaps you're praying for an individual, and you just it feel you feel almost as though you're getting stuck. Like I know I need to be praying for him with something, but I don't know exactly what I ought to be praying Anyone who has labored in prayer knows that feeling of not knowing sort of not knowing what to pray. And in fact we know in scripture that we have an we have an intercessor, the Holy Spirit, that can pray w pray for things when we don't know what to pray for. But God does want us to know what to pray for. And in order to answer that question, I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn to Hebrews chapter 4. And while you're turning there, and we're going to be looking at verse 16 I'm going to cite for you two other passages that will work to help us to understand what we are to be praying for. And they are Matthew chapter 7, verse 9 through 11, and also Luke chapter 11, verse 13. And you're turning to Hebrews, I want to read for you Luke Matthew chapter seven, verse nine. Or what man is there of you who, if his son ask bread, will give him a stone? Christ is saying To all kinds of fathers out there, who would, in your case, if your son comes to you and asks for bread, you would instead give him a stone? Every father who loves his child Knows exactly what is being said here. Any child that comes, my children, if they come to me with a legitimate need, I am going to try to move heaven and earth to meet that need. Verse 11 of Matthew 7 says, If ye then being evil know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your Father, which is in heaven, give good things to them that ask him? In a parallel passage in Luke chapter 11, verse 13, it actually cites the Holy Spirit as the thing which is If ye then being evil know how to give good things to your children, how much more will your heavenly father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask for him Folks, the point I'm going to make is going to be found very succinctly in Hebrews 4, verse 16, which is why I have had you turn there. It says in 4. 16, let us therefore come boldly in the throne of grace, that ye may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of what? Folks, what is it that Christians ought to be praying for? And the answer is needs. We see that in the passage where the young where we just read from Luke and in Matthew, where Christ illustrates the concept of prayer by talking about a son who comes to his father for a piece of bread he has a need. And he further extrapolates on that by pointing out that many of the needs that we actually have are spiritual needs. And we find here in Hebrews chapter 4, verse 16, that the reason that God would benevolently bestow on us these needs is because of what? His grace. We do not come to God based upon our merits, even as Christians. We do not come to God and say, Lord, would you meet this need because I deserve it? Because I've been a good Christian. I've gone to church three times this week. I have had my devotions four times this week. I am a good Christian, and so therefore you ought to meet my need. No, folks. We come to God based upon the grace of God to meet Our needs. But let me ask you another question. What is a biblical need? We all think we know what we need. But do you really know what you need? I mean, if you really think about it, your own child, does your child know what they really need? Often my three-year-old will come to me and ask for something. And I know good and well, good well, but they do not need that. She does not need that. All of my kids, I'm always I mean you know, if they come and want a carton of ice cream and they think it's a need, it's not a need, right? An entire carton Um no, we know that we know our needs better than God than than our kids do, right? We uh in other words, we know what our our kids need better than we than that we know than they know them But when we're coming to God with needs, what is God's criteria? What is a biblical need? It's not a Ferrari. Right? I mean most of the time. God gives you a Ferrari, no, praise the Lord, but you know, um wouldn't most of us are not driving those So what is a biblical need? Well, John 15, verse 16 is going to help us with this because it says this. Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you and ordained you that ye should go and bring forth fruit, that your fruit should remain, and whatsoever ye ask of the Father in my name I will give it to you. He says, you've got to ask. If you will ask in my name, in Christ's name, I'll give it to you. 1 John chapter 5, verse 14, further elaborates on this when it says, and this is the confidence that we have in him, that if we ask anything according to his will, he heareth us. Folks, can we Can we agree that a biblical need is that which is according to the will of God? It's not according to my will It's not just what I want. It's not even just what I think I need. It's what God thinks I need or knows I need. But you know that's not always a lot of help, right? I mean if we're thinking about this, we're thinking about well, do we know what God what God thinks and what we think? What's going to help us with this And what is going to really help us is if you will turn to Matthew chapter 6, I'm going to help you with this. We're going to look here for just a few moments on what Christ said is a true need. When we look at the Lord's Prayer. Will you turn to Matthew chapter 6 and verse 9? Christ here says, you need to pray to his disciples, you need to pray in this manner. So just by way of review, what is prayer? Prayer is asking. It's a request. And what should we be praying for? Our needs. And what is a need? A need is according to what? God's will. Now, what we then need to do is sort of hone in on what is his will. And we're going to find that in this passage in Matthew chapter 7 6, verse 9, it says, after this manner, therefore pray ye Our Father, which are in heaven, and folks, the very next thing is the first request. Hallowed be thy name. He says, I want your name to be hollowed. Your name ought to be separate. Distinct from all other names. You ought to be glorified, O God. God, the a need in our life, folks, a need Is a deficiency that we need in our lives for God to be glorified. Number one. Number two, look at the next request: Thy kingdom come. What is God's kingdom? When you hear this, and I've said this many times before, but when you hear this term kingdom, you ought to think immediately it is the most basic element of God's rule. You and I, as Christians, ought to desire God's rule on earth as it is in heaven. Well let me just ask you a question. Is God ruling on earth? That's almost a trick question, isn't it? Because when it comes to generally speaking, God is ruling, we just don't know what he's doing But on a very specific level, God is not mediating his rule on earth right now, is he? We look forward to the day where he will do that. But right now he's not. However, you know where God ought to be ruling? My heart. That's why Christ not only said that you need to accept the kingdom, he said the kingdom of God is within you God says that if we're going to follow after him and And we're going to pray for needs that are according to what glorifies him, we are going to have to pray for his rule. What is a need? A need is something that needs to happen in order for his rule to happen in our lives. Or his rule to happen ultimately in the furtherance of his kingdom. Folks, that biblically is a true need. That's why a Christian could be burned at the stake. And a need has been met. When John Huss, as I've been reminded lately in looking at basic various manuscripts, scriptural memory Manuscripts and the transmission of the text, John Husk died and was burned at the stake, so the word of God could get into the hands of the people. And there are others, there are other martyrs. You look at the first century apostles outside of perhaps John, all of them were martyrs. How could this be? Was God not meeting their needs? Folks, God was meeting their needs because our greatest need as a Christian is to fulfill God's rule. That is how God is ruling. He's ruling through you and me as Christians. And so when we think of prayer, when we think of praying for things, praying for needs, we ought to be thinking in terms of what would be to the furtherance of God's kingdom. Now, let me just pause and just say this on a very practical level. Have you ever looked ahead at something, or looked at your life, or looked ahead, and you You've seen something that was a that seemed, as far as you could tell, to be a deficiency. Maybe it's in your life, maybe it's in your family, maybe it's in the ministry. You've looked at these things and you say there is a deficiency there And it seems to you that this needs to be met in order for God's kingdom to move forward. Folks, that's when you pray. And you ask God to meet that need. And if you look at all of the different things that Christ asks for, it includes both physical and spiritual needs. It says, give us this day our what? Our daily bread. You need daily bread to live, right? So that you can be under God's rule. And if God sees that as a need, he's going to meet that need. There are all kinds of things in our lives that are needs that need to happen for the furtherance of the gospel And for the furtherance of the kingdom and the furtherance of God's rule in our lives. Those are the things, folks, that God says pray for And when you pray that way, when you pray for a need that is according to God's will and for the furtherance of God's kingdom, and you see God meet that need, it's an incredible journey. You see God do what and and and God see here's what happens. God allows us to anticipate the need. He allows us to see the need for the furtherance of his kingdom. And he allows us to sort of anticipate that, and we pray for it, and sometimes there's action involved, and what some and fillings that needs as well. But we pray for it and we see God do it and we say, Wow, I get to be a part of God's will. Do you know you're a part of God's will regardless of whether you're going upstream or not? You could be going with him, down with the current, God's current, or you could be going upstream. And if you're not praying, and I'm not praying, and we're not seeing God meet our meet needs For the furtherance of God's kingdom. You could still be a part of God's will, but you're a got part of God's will in spite of yourself rather than because you are you are going the same direction God is going And so, folks, when we talk about this whole concept of prayer, all of that is necessary in order for us to understand what Paul is saying in Ephesians. So if you have if you're not there, turn back now to Ephesians chapter 6. And we're going to see here specifically in the text what God is saying here. Ephesians chapter 6 here, and picking up here in verse Verse eighteen. It says here in verse eighteen, praying Now, let me just say here that this for the you grammarians is a participle, not a verb. Now, for those of you who are not in grammar people It has an ing on the end, rather than just saying pray. It means, folks, that it refers to some previous action It's modifying some previous action. And I mentioned already that the action that it's modifying is to take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit. So, folks, the kind of prayer that he's talking about in this passage. Has a direct relationship to this idea of taking on the helmet of salvation, but even more particularly, the closest thing to this word is the sword of the Spirit. And we noted last or two weeks ago, we noted that the sword of the Spirit, this word is the Word of God. But when we're talking about the Word of God, we must first understand what God is saying. That's observation of Scripture. And we must understand what God means by what he says. That's interpretation of Scripture. But folks, the emphasis of this word here, of this concept of the sword of the Spirit, is on the application. Of Scripture. You and I are powerless to apply the Word of God correctly apart from the Spirit of God. And so, what we're talking here, folks, about in the context is when we are praying, folks, what are we praying for? We are praying that God gives us the ability to use the Word of God in a right way in our lives and to apply it in a right way. We're talking here, folks, about the application of Scripture in our lives. Now is that not consistent With what Christ already has said. Folks, if you and I are praying, if I'm praying for myself that I would apply God's word correctly, that I would be obedient to the word Word of God, that I would be consistent in my life in living out the Word of God. Is that not exactly what Christ said when he said, Thy kingdom come? When we are focused on the application of scriptural truth in our lives, when we are focused on Lord, how can I apply your word correctly in my life? Help me to do that We are praying the way this passage is telling us to pray. Now, the question then becomes What kind of praying are we talking about? And this passage is going to tell us, first of all, the frequency, the frequency of our prayer. It says in the passage, how often should we be praying like this? We ought to be praying always. 1 Thessalonians 5, verse 17 says, pray without what? Ceasing. There is a sense in which the Christian ought to always be praying. Where his thoughts ought to be all just we there ought to be sort of an immediacy about when he thinks about something about praying about it Where it's just a daily walk throughout the day where I am thinking about things and I'm going to say, well, Lord, you know what do you you know what do you think about that? Or Lord I I see this problem ahead. Help me with this. Give me wisdom to know what to do about this. I think a good illustration of this is when in Nehemiah, which Harry went over on the other. Wednesday nights a while back. In the very first chapter, when Nehemiah saw the need that he saw, I think, for the furtherance of God's kingdom in rebuilding the wall, he heard about the need and he went to the king. Do you remember that? Or he he he was In the king's presence, the king realized that he had his countenance wasn't quite right. And so he asked him, and what did Nehemiah do? Before he said anything, before anything came out of his lips, what did he do? He prayed. He just naturally, all right, Lord, it was like a flare prayer. I mean I'm just going to pray about this real quick before I answer the king. We ought to be doing that throughout the day. We ought to just constantly be praying about things and and it isn't necessarily that we're going to stop, you know, it's not like you're driving to the car, oh I need to stop, stop the car, get out, get on my knees, put the you know No, there is a natural prayer life that a Christian ought to have. He's constantly wanting to be a conform conformity to God's will. He's constantly thinking through things. Folks, and let me just ask you You feel fall you feel already that you're falling short on this? I mean folks if we're all honest with ourselves we all feel as though well I don't boy I don't I need to be reminded about this I do not pray this way. I am not constantly praying through things as I ought to. But there is another kind of prayer that we find in the passage. And I want you to notice the second kind of prayer, praying always with all prayer, and this term supplication. You see the word supplication there. Now let me just say this that in the word order, supplication becomes comes before the second that second word prayer. In the Greek you would find that it would It comes before it. In fact I was doing a study on this and I I thought it was a little bit I I I was actually m s I always trying to match which Greek words match which with which words And I realized, oh, it was actually placed out of order here. Now that that's not necessarily wrong, by the way, at all. Sometimes you have to do that in order for it to make sense because the Greek doesn't need word order, it has word endings. Anyway, the bottom line is uh when it comes to this in this particular case, you'll what you'll find in other versions is you'll find that it is is a different order. Every and all the versions are kind of different in this The bottom line is, when we look at the word order, what we find is that the supplication is the next concept in this verse. And when we're talking about supplication, folks, we're talking now about a more intense kind of prayer. There is this general natural prayer life that we ought to have. But folks, there ought to be more of an intensity sometimes to our prayer life. And this word supplication, the root word of this word, we get the word beggar from. And what God is saying to us that there are some times in our lives that we often we just need to get on our knees and come to God as beggars. Now, you and I don't in our country yet know really what a beggar is. In our country we have all kinds of programs to the point where if someone really is trying to find food, he probably can find it. I'm not saying that in every case there are no there is no one going hunting in our country, but as a rule, you can usually find food if you need it and if you're trying hard enough. But folks, that wasn't the case in the first century. In the first century, you had a beggar would be one who was completely and utterly destitute of every of he had nothing. Back then the expectation fell on the family to help someone who was in need. If for instance, if someone were to lose his vocation for some reason Usually because of physical handicap. Usually it was because they lost a leg or broke something happened, paralysis. It was really the family that was looked to to help that individual A beggar was one who had no family. A beggar was one who had no absolutely no means of support, and so they would sit on the side of the road, absolutely destitute, and beg for food. And that's the picture we have for us as Christians in our prayer life. Folks, there ought to be times where we come to God and we and we just realize that we are absolutely, utterly destitute of anything. Anything good at all apart from the grace of God. That apart from God's grace and Christ's blood and his working in our lives We would be of all men most miserable. In fact, we would be, as Enrique mentioned earlier, we would be consumed. Do you and I come to God that way? Or are we so full of all of the grace of God, all of what God has given us, that we forget that we deserve none of it? Are we so full of our own abilities and our own mind thinking and our own Education and our own and all of the things, our own, all what we have that really has all been given by the grace of God And we're so full of that that when we come to God, we are not serious about our prayers. We are not intense when it comes to prayers. Now folks, what I want to do is remind us at this point what ought we to be praying for according to this con con this context. We ought to be praying for the application of scriptural truth in our lives, that we would apply God's word correctly. That we would obey the Word of God in the way that God wants us to. That is what we are praying. Do you realize that there is a sense in which the reason that we often feel are so defeated in our lives as Christians? is because we are not praying. I recently have uh taken up something that I haven't done in a long time Um I've I've been trying uh probably two times a week, once to two one two times a week, uh playing pickup games of basketball. And uh I haven't done that regularly since I was in college. So it's been you know over it's been quite a long time. And um I've been I'm playing with people, I'm older than every one of them. I'm I'm so far I've been older than all of them. They're all significantly younger than I am. And uh it really feels weird to be on that end of things, I gotta be honest with you. you. Um and uh so I would go and I'd be playing and they knew me from my childhood and you know we've been playing together it's out over in Elk Ridge and I've been playing with them and I had this strange, you know, since I have been playing regularly in like a decade, I had this strange sensation. It's basically something like this. My brain knows what to do and my body's not doing it. I mean it's like I go I I get the the ball passed to me and I have got a clear shot. And I take the shot and it just banks like Like, what in the world? I mean my form seems to be right. It's like nothing I'm doing that seems to be wrong, but it's not going in. About three times I got passed to and I got open shot, and it wasn't before long people were just weren't weren't passing to me. And I didn't blame them, to be honest with you. I'm looking at going. Uh Kevin played with me a couple times and he I I think there were pity passes. He's like, Here, here you go. So I'm so I'm getting the ball and I'm from now on I he's they're passing it to me. I'm like I could be a really good passer So they're passing me. I'm just finding some of the past two. And the times they're going, why aren't you taking the shot? You're open. What do you and I'm going to myself, because my brain knows what to do, but my body's not doing it Do you ever feel like that in the Christian life? You say, well, I feel like that in life. But do you ever feel like that in the Christian life? Ever feel like your mind knows what to do? I mean, you know, I you know what to do. You've been around this book long enough. You studied enough enough. You know what to do. But it's like when it comes to doing it, you don't actually do it consistently. Well, in my basketball, um great basketball career pickup games in Elkridge, I I decided that what I really needed to do is I needed to go ahead of time and I needed to practice about 30 minutes, 15 to 30 minutes minutes. And if I would do that, just just just shoot. Just with nobody else there, just shoot different places and different positions, it would do a lot I'd do a lot better. And do you know what Actually uh lot two games ago they come to me and said, Jim, what happened to you? Like it actually helped a lot uh to do that, to just go and practice and shoot baskets on your on on my own and and things like that. It was like like a really good thing. Do you know in our prayer lives, folks, the disconnect in our application of scriptural truth Is that we know what to do, but then when we come up on doing it, it's not working. And the missing link is prayer. The missing link is that we're not praying in between. It's like you read what you know to be true. Maybe you hear it on Sunday morning, you hear what you know to be true, and you know it's true. But if you go and walk away and don't apply it right away, you forget about it or you or whatever. And many times you can't apply it by the way, but you know right away, but you know what you can always do? You can always pray about it. You can always pray it through. McShane always encouraged people: one of the best ways to pray is to open God's Word and to pray it through. If you don't know else to pray, pray the word. Go through the Psalms as we've been going on Wednesday nights and look at the prayers, the inspired prayers that God has written down and pray through those for your own life. What we're missing here, folks, is the preparation for the battle. You cannot wait until the battle where you know something, you have this long gap in between, and then the battle comes and you've not prayed. You will fail, and so will I. And so that's why at the end of this section on putting on the armor, Paul says, you've got to pray. You've got to be praying, but you know what? You've got to also be watching. I'm not going to spend a long time on this. But folks, do you realize that when we're talking about watching things We're talking about the fact that there are some times where we think as though praying means we've got our heads stuck in the sand. And we're not aware of what's going around us. We're sort of going to our prayer closet and we never come out That's not what God is saying here. God is saying that when we when we are out in the world doing what we need to do, serving the Lord, we're alert to things. And we're taking them to God in prayer. The word watch means to be alert, to look around, to be ready, be ready to protect yourself or to protect others In fact, the same same word is used in Hebrews chapter thirteen, talking about a a pastor, church leadership, who watches for the souls of his church members. What is he doing? He's watching to make sure that is that there's not There's not things that aren't aren't aren't coming into their path that's going to cause them to stumble. Being alert and watching and then praying, folks, do you get the idea that the Christian life is an active, it's an active role that we're playing here. Now, what he then does is he moves now to praying for people. He says, praying always with all prayer and supplication and Uh in the spirit and watching thereunto all perseverance and supplication for all the saints. So he says we ought to be praying this kind for all saints. You know, folks, have you ever prayed that That the Lord would help somebody else get victory in an area spiritually? Do you think you have to know what that is in order to pray that? That means we've got to know each other. It also means we've got to be transparent enough with other people that we let them know what we need. If you're struggling with an issue in your life, the application of scriptural truth in a particular area, folks, you ought to be ready to ask someone to help you with this by praying for you. You ought to say, you know, if you're struggling, you get some prayer help. It is sometimes not enough to pray on your own for your own thing. You've got to get help with this. Sometimes. And Paul tells, he exhorts the believers of Ephesians to pray for everyone, to pray for all believers, folks, because we all are in a battle. And then he moves very specifically. He says, Would you pray for me? You see that in the passage, verse 19? And for me. That utterance may be given unto me, that I may open my mouth boldly to make known the mystery of the gospel. For which I am an ambassador in bonds, that therein I may speak boldly as I ought to speak. The Apostle Paul now moves and he says, We need Be praying. He says, Pray for me. Paul was a minister of the gospel. And he knew that he desperately needed prayer. It's interesting what the Apostle Paul asked for for prayer. He prayed, he asks the church at Ephesus to pray that he would have utterance. He asks them to pray that he would be able to boldly preach. God's Word. And the application that I would have for you as church members is you I I'm just going to say it very bluntly, don't stop you you need to pray for me That's simple. It isn't easy to say what needs to be said sometimes. We are living in a culture where that is very difficult. We're living in a culture, folks. Where pastors probably in days ahead are going to have more situations where they are preaching in hostile situations. And if you talk to pastors that have been in the ministry for any length of time, there are times when pastors have to say what needs to be said. Preachers have to say what needs to be said, even though it's not popular if they're going to preach the whole council of God. That's why Paul told Timothy: be instant in season and out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long-suffering and doctrine. He says, preach the word, be instant, in season, and out of season. Folks, do you realize that every pastor, every pastor, struggles with the fear of man You say, how do you know that? Well don't take my word for it. We can go all the way back to centuries prior to me where there was a man Who wrote, who was a pastor who wrote a book called The Christian Ministry is a man by the name of Charles Bridges. And he noted the reality of the fear of man in the life of a pastor. The reality that he is always going to be struggling with this. that he is constantly has to be meditating on the reality in the old test in scripture where it says in Proverbs that the fear of man bringeth a snare You know statistically, it's pretty well known that public speaking, just on a public level, public speaking br brings its own level of stress. It's considered to be one of the most stressful activities of anybody, of of any activity just about. Brings the most level of highest level of anxiety But folks, when you add to that preaching to someone who is hostile, and I've been there. I'm not h there in our church as far as I know. Now. But I've preached to people that are that were really hostile. And there is a s there is a trepidation, a timidity that if I allow my flesh to Take it, to have its way, there will be a timidity, a fear of man that will that will really settle, that has the potential of settling in. That's why Paul told Timothy, I am not, God has not given us the spirit of fear or timidity. But of love and of power and of sound mind, he is telling young Pastor Timothy: be careful about having the fear of man. Charles Bridges says this. He says, what conscientiousness, what a conscientious minister is not painfully reminded of the truth, of the inspired aphorism, the fear of man bringeth a snare. Perhaps no temptation is more specious in its character, or more subtle and diversified in its operation. This, he observes, is the last victory the Christian gains. Here I find my own deficiency, as much or more than any other respect And often I feel an inward timidity when about to preach upon an unpopular doctrine, or expose a foible, which someone of my congregation whom I otherwise love and esteem is remarkable for. And in every instance I feel the greatest reluctance to resign the good opinion. What do you mean by resign there is not to resign from his office, but to to lose the good re rapport or relationship that he has with his church member, perhaps that he's thinking of. Or act contrary to the judgment of those for whom I have esteem. It is true. I am peculiarly bound to strive against this By reason of my ministerial office, I am to speak boldly, not as a man-pleaser, but as a servant of God. And therefore I endeavor to master all these fears, to act implicitly as my conscience suggests, without respect of persons. What you find is you delve into the man, Charles Bridges here, a pastor who's being very transparent. One of the best books on the ministry. You can find this is centuries old now. The Christian ministry is what it's called. And you see the transparency of this man who says I'm in a ministry, I've been in the ministry for a long time, for many years, but I have this fear of man that is constant constantly a battle and I've an and it is it's like the last battle I can't seem to get rid of. And Charles Bridges will go on to say to his con to to to implore his congregation to Pray for him. That he would, as Paul says here, be bold to preach boldly the Word of God. To not have the fear of man. This is something, folks, that I don't know that a cr a an an unbel I don't know that a person who's not A pastor can really understand. We as pastors will get together and talk about it sometimes. Just the struggle that it is. But there is a very real reason why I'm letting you in on it. Because you know you can pray more intelligently for us pastors. Because it is, it can be a struggle And folks, it is something where we have to meditate frequent. I frequently meditate. I frequently when I'm I'm preaching through books of the Bible and just it's the next text. I'm not necessarily singling it out. I have before done that, by the way. When I've seen a real problem in the church, I've said we've got to deal with this biblically. We've just really got to deal with this head on On and I'll do my best to preach the Word of God no matter what. But I've had to do that from time to time in my ministry. But folks, do you realize that as I'm preaching through this in my own study on my own uh sometimes I'm thinking to myself, you know I love that. A person will come to mind. I mean, I'm just preaching the word. I'm just going through the text, but I say, you know, that person really does struggle with that And I think to myself, well I hope they don't think I'm singling them out when I preach it. Because I am just preaching God's word. But I do hope that they help them, and I hope they realize how much I really admire them in so many other areas, even though they have this one area that they're struggling in. I mean that's the kinds of things that goes through a preacher's mind. My point in simply saying all of this is simply this: you need to pray for me. You've got to pray for your pastor And that might be might sound sort of strange or self-serving, but of course you know that it's not because, folks, what are you praying for? What is a biblical need? A biblical need is for the furtherance of God's kingdom and the glory of God, and that your pastor would stay under God's rule A biblical need is if you see a deficiency, that God will meet that need in my life. And very candidly, if I see a deficiency, I'll pray for you. That God will meet that need in your life And among each other, folks, we ought not, see, folks, in order for this to happen correctly, we ought not, on one hand, be judgmental and condescending and take one particular struggle that a person has and and say that and just say that they're all bad or they're not even trying, those kinds of things. We we sometimes tend to do that. It's unloving. But on the other hand, we ought not to be so fearful of judgmentalism that we're not transparent either And what Paul is calling us to here, folks, what Paul is calling us to here is for us to realize that we are to pray for one another because we need it. And we need to pray for individuals as ourselves, and we need to pray for one another. Do you realize what is I I'll tell you what, I'd rather the hostility be out there than the hostility be in here I was thinking about that as I was thinking through the reality and just actually remembering back to times where I prayed where I had to preach in hostile situations and and the reality that in the future perhaps there might be a time where I'm going to be preaching in hostile situations. And I thought to myself, you know, I I think I can handle hostile situations being out there. It's a whole lot easier than if they're inside here. But either way, Paul tells Timothy, preach the word. And that's what Paul was dealing with here. He was under persecution And he was dealing with the reality of this and the misunderstandings of the gospel. And he said he asked, he just desired that he would preach, that we would preach, that he would preach the word effectively. Now, there is more in this text I just glazed over. And so I don't even know what I'm scheduled to be preaching next Sunday, but it's going to be on this text again. And so I'm going to have to be doing some some um rearranging uh of of things because I have not covered what I wanted to cover today. But I'll just simply say this at this point. I hope you understand And just by way of exhortation, the importance, folks, the importance of prayer in your life as the believer in putting on the armor of God. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and we thank you for the equipment that you have given us that we truly may be able to stand. And we thank you, Lord, that that includes a direct line of communication to you through prayer. The kind of life that you want us to live is a life that's under your rule. It's a life where we are in constant communication with you to show us how to be under your rule. By knowing and obeying your word. And I pray, Lord, that you would help us. To apply your word in a way that pleases you. Help us to realize that the greatest liberty we can have is to be under the rule of Christ. Lord, may we be a congregation who prays for each other A congregation who realizes the necessity of this. And may we be Faithful in boldly proclaiming your word and your truth until you come. I pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen.