Uh I just there's just so much good material that I've prepared. I realize that there's no way we're gonna fit it all in tonight. And so we will we are going to bleed in the next not next Wednesday, I won't be here next Wednesday. That's going to be interesting. The following Wednesday, the first Wednesday in June, we'll pick up on this and finish up hopefully. This hopefully has been a very helpful series for us, and I think tonight will be no different. Let me ask a question starting off here. How many of you have have um attempted to uh do what we had talked about last week and practiced in your in your own quiet time before the Lord when it came to uh praying through scripture. How many of you all did some of that? Okay. Good. Good amount of you. Very good. I I I I'm gonna open up and just ask anybody have any difficulties or questions or anything like that. And let me just preface it with it's not like a a right or wrong there's probably wrong ways, but there's not it's not like a specifically perfect way to do this Uh it's a guide, it's what it's supposed to be. But um anybody have any thoughts or questions or comments about about praying through scripture in the way that we talked about last week? Josh? And my own thing that that stuck out or s struck me actually after I talked to you was within my um prayering praying for scripture instead of Making an all-encompassing type more specific. Me, my, I. Uh instead of we or are. Yeah Yeah, good. And uh so so that is one area. So when you're these are very personal prayers, I I I do find it helpful to especially early in the morning, you know, you're five o'clock in the morning and you're trying to to pray. It is helpful to summarize your prayer in writing, at least I find it helpful to do that. And so you start with instruction and you write. That wouldn't be more of a prayer. The instruction is not a prayer, usually. Uh and then you move to what? What's the next one? Does anybody know? Starts with a T. Thanksgiving, the next one. Okay. What's the next one after that? Confession's next and then petition is after that. Okay. All right. Um so when you're going through particularly I mean when you start in Thanksgiving and then confession and then petition Those are really it's very personal. This is me. It's I, Lord, I am thankful for this I Lord help me that with it. That's it's that's the way you want to you y write these things out and to pray these things. These are nearly not these are not for everybody else. This is for me and me and God. This w this is the This is between us. Um I I definitely would encourage that. Now, let me ask you a question. Can you pray this way corporately? Like if I pray up there or somebody else prays up there, can they can you pray through you know y you you think of something about an instruction from God's Word and you pray thanksgiving, confession, petition, can you do that? Yeah, absolutely you can. That is though you're then it's probably better to say R and we, okay? Because we're all collectively doing that together. All right. So it makes sense to do it uh to g when we're doing yes, Jeff. Good question. I'm glad you asked. So we have an example of that in Daniel chapter 9. We won't take the time to look at that now. But Daniel does that. He confesses on behalf of his people. So how do you do that in this situ in our our situation? Well, you wouldn't get so pers personal as to say, Lord, last week we all um we all on Monday at twelve o'clock we all you know, lied. I mean y you wouldn't do that. But what you could say is something like, let's say let's say you're praying about God's you're you're you're thanking God for his holiness. You're you're noting his holiness And you're thanking Lord the Lord that He is truly holy. Um maybe you incor add just in there because they're they go very much together. You're talking you're thanking God for his justice and the holiness, the tr fact that he truly is a he is completely separate from sin. And then you would move to confession. And then what m you might say if you're in a group setting and you're praying is, Lord, we had we confess before you that we're not completely separate from sin. I mean that's true, isn't it? Okay. You're pretty much on good footing if you if you with an entire audience if you say we're not And and perhaps that we are not um as that that we fail, we often fail, or we often uh we do not meet up to your standard of holiness So we could say those kinds of things corporately and know that those things are true, right? Yes. Um well corporate prayers are always gonna be a little more generic than than than personal prayers. Um so You you I would say you don't you I would say for corporate prayers you're gonna get more specific probably than you would if you just just Lord, thank you for the church. So you'd actually require or whatever. So it actually would cause you to be more specific. Um, but you're obviously in corporate praying you're not going to be as specific as personal prayer. Yes. Yeah, that's a good point. Deleting everybody that's there how we are together framing the time. Excellent point. And by the way, let me just preface this as well. Do you have to do it this way? Now this is just a guide. This is not I mean you you know the last rule, Luther's last thing was, hey, throw all this out. If the Holy Spirit just leads you to pray a certain way, that's fine. If you want to that None of this has to be done this way. It's just a help help to have a guide. Uh Claudia. Um I almost wanted my thought. I think I can grab that hold on. Okay. When when we One of the big tentations we all have is to put the line and all that just be on our own and not leave it. Yeah. And that's really more prepared for someone leading the group for us individually there is at a level of discipline that we have to have otherwise we miss a left here. We miss the benefits of what we're praying. So praying violently with words that Good person. I'm going to summarize what you said because I have a feeling some probably didn't hear you. Well Claudia said, this is good. We when you know when when we're praying together as a body of believers, somebody is leading us in prayer. It it requires mental discipline to really pray with that person, to really listen, not to have our minds wander. It's not the idea of corporate prayer is not the guy up there praying and everybody else is just listening No, it he's lead just like he's leading everyone and everyone should be praying with him and guiding everyone uh in praying. So that's that's um that's good. Yeah, see Sham. Right, quote that the church would say amen. That you know, and then one is good for ten minutes, right? Yeah. That In the New Testament that was practiced, sure. In the first century that was practiced where where they would say amen. We we are we are timid in our culture. Let me tell you, so I went to China. And and by the way, and you know, Asians aren't known known for their, you know, flamboyancy or something, right? But but you but you go to ch I went to China and um And of course they were all pastors, that makes a difference. Not all pat, but the they're hurt all training for the ministry, so that makes some difference. But man When you finish a corporate prayer, everyone says, Amen. I mean it's the whole everyone says it. And there is this sort of unity that you you get we're all in this together and uh uh in fact it startled me at first first time I prayed and I was praying through a translator and I it was like this amen. I got used to it and I actually like it and I got back to the states and I prayed it prayed in front of you guys. You guys didn't do that. I was disappointed, but anyway anyway. So yeah. And he would help everybody participate by saying, And the people of the Lord said this and everybody answered back. Amen. Yeah. That would be good, but it's not me. Okay, let's go and All right. So what we're going to do tonight is if I can get this thing to okay, I gotta turn it on, that helps. We're going to look now in more depth at at at we've covered a lot of the different aspects of prayer. Tonight what we're going to do is we're going to go deeper in these things. The three aspects that we're going to look at particularly is praise or adoration, confession, which we haven't talked a lot about, we will tonight. And petition, which we probably won't get to tonight. We'll probably get that get to that next time I next time I'm here on Wednesday. Let's uh look here at what are called the rules for prayer. Now When I say this, I want to uh what we're really talking about is approaching God in the right manner when we come to prayer. These are have been, and I you know I I'm going to preface it, these are suggested or are put forth by John Calvin. Now let me just I'll just say I'm not a Calvinist and uh you know all that stuff I'm you know I'm not. But I do read the Reformers and I read all through church church history, all con from everywhere, all over the place And he has some excellent things when it comes you'll find this to be to be the case. I think it's very important that we do not we don't put the baby out with a bath uh what is the term Not put the baby out. Throw the baby out with a bathwater. That's what it is. You don't throw the baby out with a bathwater when it comes to reading people in church history. Everyone in church history had problems. Everyone in modern history has problems. Okay. All right. We all got problems. So we have to always chew the s chew the meat and spit out the bones. And so just keep that in mind as we go through this. The fear of the Lord is number one, as he says. When we come to the Lord, we need to have the fear of the Lord. A Christian's approach when coming to the Lord must be to pray with the fear of the Lord. Now, what the question then becomes, what is uh what is the fear of the Lord? And I really think that this is something that is often really misunderstood among Christians or really not understood what the fear of the Lord is. And I I want to help you tonight with this. I think I can really help you. If you can imagine meeting someone you really, really admire for the first time, maybe you even idolize them. Okay, you I mean you just they are just if you think of one person that You don't think you'd ever be able to meet, but if you did, you would just be amazed by that person. Okay? I'll be over after the service nine. Sorry. Anyway, anyway. Okay. I shouldn't have said that anyway. All right. So if just think about that person, okay Now, um when you went, let's say you had the a great opportunity to sit down at a meal with them and talk with them, how many of you would say, okay, well I that would make me a little nervous? Okay? I I I think all of us, if we're honest, we would. We would all have uh whoever it is, and I you know, there if maybe it wouldn't be everybody, but there we want you know we would have some sort of fear involved. What would that fear be? Would we have fear necessarily that that person um let let's take a hist let's let's really make this so let's say Jonathan Edwards I get to sit down with Jonathan Edwards. He's one of I really like Jonathan Edwards, okay. I read a lot of this stuff. Now that's not possible, I know. But let's say that was possible. Okay. So I get to sit down j with Jonathan now. He he you know he gets in a ch time ship and comes to this time and I get the I get to I get to sit down with him. Why might I be fearful? Why my I I fear. Do you have anybody have an idea? Yes. Okay. Alright, I might feel inadequate. What else? Let me tell you why. Because I would not want to mess up that opportunity. I really I mean if you could just imagine I really would be amazed to be able to sit down with Jonathan Edwards and I would not want to m mess that up I wouldn't want to I would be probably pretty careful in how I talked and what I said because I would not want to to mess the opportunity up. I wouldn't want to to change it. I wouldn't be afraid of being hurt or punished by Jonathan Edwards. Although maybe I should be, I don't know. But I I I wouldn't be hurt by that. I wouldn't be afraid of that. But I wouldn't want to mess that opportunity up. Now if you could it's not a perfect illustration, obviously, but if you could think of coming before God, the God of the universe. And having this awe of who he is and wanting to come to him with reverence because not because you're afraid that he's going to hurt you or punish you because if you know the Lord is your savior that's not not in the that's not gonna happen. But because you you want to please him, there's this, there's, but it's more than just wanting to please somebody like you please your child You want to please this this p person who has and you have this great reverence for 'em. I don't know if that helps, but I it it helps me when I saw the illustration. Yeah, Jeff. But I would imagine if you're dating scene the first time you meet that person's parents, that same kind of like the relationship is very important and you realize they're in a much higher position and they Yeah, same kind of thing, exactly. And we'll talk at to Ed and Jan later and see how you did. But but uh yeah, no, it's no it's true. Um it no it's a good point. That's exactly actually what we're talking about here. Let's let's move let's move on. So the next one is spiritual insufficiency, and this is absolutely necessary for understanding. There was this medieval problem of putting your spiritual clothes on before prayer, they would say, or or or appeasing God with your devoutness. Okay, this was prior to the Reformation. There would be this idea that when I go to prayer, I need to come to him and I need to I need to come to the Lord and and show how devout I am. What's the problem with that guys, folks? What's that? Pride. Yeah, pride. Pride's the problem. Do we no, uh we missed the point. Uh you're being uh who your desires deep down are dis uh uh I'll get to that in a minute Um that's that's one so so so we're missing the point com entirely if that's the case. Um Uh John Calvin said this. He said, you're being whose wants make no sense, don't they don't harmonize, whose desires deep down are discordantly arranged. So that you truly want to possess and you truly want not to at the very same time. You're equipped to realize uh for farce or even tragedy uh than happy endings. You're human and that's where we live. That's our normal experience. Now what he's saying here is essentially this. Somebody who's spiritually who is spiritually insufficient says to himself, I I have mixed emotions, I have mixed motives, I have I I I don't have any standing or I don't I am insufficient to stand before a holy God. I am insufficient to pray before God And that's the way God wants us to come. He wants us to come spiritually insufficient, not spiritually sufficient. Or thinking that if we put put on the right kind of of devoutness or something that that will be that will be good. Does that make sense? So so it's more sort of a performance mentality. That's the next one. The next one is restful trust yet confident hope. One of the purposes of prayer is to bring our hearts to trust in His wisdom, not in our own. It is to say, here's what I need, but you know best. It is to leave all our needs and desires to His hands in a way that is possible only through prayer. This four the f he put these two rules together. Restful trust is the third rule, and confident hope is the fourth rule. The fourth rule is just as crucial and must be kept beside the third. We are to pray with confidence and hope. Calvin writes, Though cast down and overcome by true humility, we should be nonetheless encouraged to pray by a sure hope that our prayer will be answered. So on one hand, there is a sober humility because we are insufficient spiritually. On the other hand, there is this confidence and hope in the God to whom we are praying. So if you just think in terms of those three things, or four, depending on how you put it out. The first one, what's the first one? Fear of the Lord. The second one? Spiritual insufficiency. And the third one? Restful trust yet confident hope. That that is likely going to bring us to a place where we're we're we have the right approach before the Lord when we pray. Let me ask a question. This seems to be out of order. I apologize for this. Um Let me move to to this and I'm going to move back because the next point I think is important. The rules against rules. He finally says this, which I think is good. What I have set forth on the four rules of writing uh of right praying is not so rigorously required that God will reject those prayers in which he finds neither perfect faith nor repentance. Together with a warmth of zeal and petitions rightly conceived. So what is he saying there? Yes, these are rules, but God is gracious. Don't feel like every time you pray, if you don't have all these things, then suddenly you're not you're not he's not going to hear you. Okay. And I think that's well said. That's that's an important thing. Now let me a let's ask this question real quick. This is one that probably has come up in your mind. If God's will is always right and submission to it is important, why pray for anything with fervor and confidence? Okay. You ever thought about before? Okay, well I need to I need to submit myself to God's will. It's important for me to do that. God knows best and I don't know best, so why pray for anything with fervor and confidence? Two r I'm gonna answer it. Two reasons. Number one, God promises to answer because He is a good and loving Heavenly Father. Alright, why should we pray? Because God is our Father and we ought to pray to Him. Secondly, God often waits to give a blessing until you have prayed for it. Now just think about that for a minute. God has set it up that way. It's not that God has to wait, but God has set it up that way. Why? Why has he set it up that way? Good things that we do not ask for will usually be interpreted by our hearts as the fruit of our own wisdom and diligence. Gifts from God that are not acknowledged as such are deadly to the soul because they thicken the illusion of self-sufficiency that leads to to overconfidence and sets us up for failure. Now you can answer the question. What what is he saying there? Anyone want to take a stab at what he's saying there? Yes, Guillaume. Yeah, so so if we w when we don't when when God blesses us and we haven't prayed for it, we often we often A tribute to our own wisdom or to our own diligence. I'm smart enough to do this, or I'm diligent enough to do it When we pray, when we pray first, then God, it gives God the freedom. He feels free, he's free all the time, but he feels free to be able to answer our prayer. Uh and then we then give him the glory. Give him the credit for that. All right, we read this already. Yes. Sure. Yeah. God commands us to pray. And that's really more basic than those other two things. Yes, Jeff. Yeah, that's exactly right. And actually when we get to petition, that's that's exactly what we'll talk about. Um it's It it definitely does. 'Cause you're you're now having to pray according to God's will and pray in in terms of what would be best for his kingdom. So you're thinking about what you're praying, you know it you you you know, if you so that's that's important. Lisa So so God works those who best once and even through the Holy Spirit will intercede for us when we're not sure how to pray anything. Sure. So it creates that Yeah, sure. Good. It's Romans Romans eight. So let me keep going if you um uh here. So um a close let's look at a cl a closer look here at this idea of praise and confession and petition. And what we're going to deal with I'm trying to deal with maybe questions that have come up or problems that we may face when we're going through these things One is the nature, uh the nature of praise and adoration. So let's look at that first. All right, let's think first of all through the Lord's Prayer What's it say? Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done. So you've got essentially a prayer of praise there. Alright? And so we're thinking now in terms of prayer and adoration. So let me just raise a perceived problem here. This was this was in uh C. S. Lewis's book, A Word About Praising. He says this. Now just just take an honest look at this. Maybe you've never thought of this before, but it's just We despise the man who demands curr uh continued assurance of his own virtue, intelligence, or delightfulness, Lewis responded It almost seems as if God were saying, what I most want is to be told that I am good and great. Have you ever thought that before? I mean, have you ever considered that throughout the Word of God it actually tells us to it commands us to praise Him? Have you ever thought to yourself, well, it almost seems like that what that's what God wants us to do is to just tell him how good he is. Have you ever thought that that sounds a little funny? It seems a little funny. Alright, be honest. How many of you all have ever thought that before? Okay, good. Thank you for your honesty. All right. C. S. Lewis apparently did too, so you're in good company. Here is how he clarified this. He said, what do we mean, for example, when we say that a picture, a piece of music, or a book is admirable? He's talking about praising something. When you say a he's trying to use a concrete example to help us understand a spiritual truth. If you say, if you read a book and you say, boy, that was an outstanding book, or you see a painting, or you listen to a piece of music. And you say that is just that is so admirable. That was so wonderful. Why what why are you saying that? Yeah, because you enjoyed it. We are saying that others ought to admire those things, and if they do not, they will lose out and miss something wonderful. Now think about it for a minute. Isn't that true? When you really read something, see something, you want to tell people about it because you don't want them to miss out on what is on what you're experiencing. And you know, I think it I think that's really the point when it comes to praising the Lord. When we're praising the Lord, we are we want to praise the Lord because we want other people to experience what we're experiencing. So so what is a prayer? A prayer of praise is, Lord, would you help others experience what I'm experiencing? Does that make sense? Thy kingdom come. Would your rule be in other people's lives? Would they be able to experience What I'm experiencing, you're praying for for others to be able to praise as you are because you're enjoying God and you're experiencing God and now you are you you want to praise as a result of that. A prayer of praise is asking God to make Himself, His attributes and acts known to others. Does that make sense? Yes, Jeff. praying directly with God not publicly. But it's similar to like when they talk to training for customer service. Like smile when you're on the phone, people hear it. Well, it's a good point. That's definitely the case. That's a very good point. Claire, so so that's important. Um He continues on, he says, I think we delight to praise what we enjoy because the praise not nearly uh not merely expresses but complete completes the enjoyment. Now think about this. It's just a thought It is it's a appointed consummation. It is not out of a compliment uh that lovers keep on telling one another how beautiful they are But the light is incomplete until it is expressed. This is so e even when our expressions are inadequate, as of course they usually are. But how if one could really uh uh and fully praise even such things to perfection, utterly get out in poetry or music. Do you understand what he's saying there? He's saying the culmination of enjoyment, enjoying God, is going to be praise. You're you in other words, there is a level of enjoyment that you you haven't reached in enjoying God until you're really ready to praise Him and until you do. Does that make sense? And so I think I th uh that was just helpful for me as I I went through that. Now this is something also in praying that that we might be able to praise the Lord, that others might be able to praise the Lord that we ought to consider as well. He says He says, when pray what does praise do for us? It reorders our, as he says, loves. Thinking, arguments, and beliefs are crucial as a means Of moving the heart, but ultimately, we are what we adore. You agree with that? You are what you adore. We are what captures our imaginations, what leads us to praise and to compel others to praise. As it strikes our sensibility, I oh, that's something else. So just let that sink in a little bit. Why should we praise the Lord? Because whatever we're praising, whatever we're adoring, is what we essentially become. He also, C. S. Lewis says, This: there ought to be a habit of praise. As it strikes our sensibility, he says, I have tried to make every pleasure into a channel of adoration. Alright, somebody help me with that. What is he saying there? I've tried to make every pleasure into a channel of adoration. Okay. Do all the glory of God. When you when you enjoy Do you have to be in church to enjoy things that you can praise the Lord for? Isn't it true that that God G has given us a lot of things to enjoy. Can you go to an Orioles baseball game and enjoy it? Probably not right now that much, but but can you on a nor on a good season can you go and go to a baseball game and enjoy it Sure you can, right? Can I thank God for that? I can, I know I can. I've done it before. So even really everything that we find pleasure in, we ought to be able to channel that into adoration for God. And if we can't, what's the problem? It might be sin, right? I mean it might not be something that we ought to be taking pleasure in, and we can't adore God because if it's not something He gave us to to enjoy. He's given us all kinds of things to enjoy. And whether it's something secular or something sacred, if it's given from God, then we can enjoy it. And so there is a sense in which this habit of praise in our lives should be happening. Now let me move then to another area that we talked very little about, and that has to do with intimacy and particularly the nature of confession and its connection to intimacy. And I think this is a very important thing that we we really need to look at. He says this, he begins this way, well let's let's begin with Scripture. He said, first of all, we need to understand free forgiveness. We need to have three two things in mind: free forgiveness and infinite cost. So Exodus 34 says this: And the Lord passed before him and proclaimed, the Lord, the Lord God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering, abounding in goodness and truth. Keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, by no means clearing. And then he says that's almost inc Contrast, the next thing says, by no means clearing the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children of the children's to the third and fourth generation. You see this sort of contrast between his forgiveness And also, on the other hand, his justice and that he has to exact punishment. If the Lord, if you Lord, shall should mark iniquities, O Lord Uh who could stand, the Psalmist says, But there is forgiveness with you, that you may be feared Micah 7, 18 and 19 says, Who is God like you, pardoning iniquity and passing over the transgression of the remnant of his heritage? He does not retain his anger forever because he delights in mercy. He will again have compassion on us. and will subdue our iniquities, you will cast all our sins into the depths of the sea. Now, but what's absolutely vitally important before you would go to confess anything to the Lord is to understand how these two things work together. To understand that God is, He freely forgives. But that forgiveness costs a great deal. What did it cost, folks? It costs his own son's life. And when you when you have those things correctly in mind, working in conjunction with each other, then it puts us in a place where then we are ready to forgive. He says, remembering the freeness of forgiveness. So let's look at the one side. When we forget that freeness of grace, The purpose of our repentance becomes the appeasement of God. Did you catch that? When you forget that freeness of forgiveness That when you repent or when you confess, why are you doing it? You are doing it to try to appease God. What's the problem with that? You don't need to appease God if you know Him as your Savior, right? If we confess our sins, there is we do not do that in order to gain God's favor. And if you do it in order to gain God's favor, you're missing the point. Right? Do we ever are we ever tempted to confess on that on that basis? Do we ever think to ourselves, you know, I just feel so guilty about this that I just need to confess a lot and enough and and and and and if I do maybe God will it will appease God You ever feel that way? I mean I have to admit to you that I have before. I know I've been in the Lord for a long time, but there have been times where I feel that way. If we do, we are confessing for the wrong reason When we aren't sure that God loves us in Christ, then confession and repentance become a way of keeping on God's good side. With expressions of sorrow that we hope impress him with our security and move him to take pity on us. Does that make sense? You follow that? This is not why we want to confess to the Lord things. If that uh that is what repentance becomes, it is actually self-righteous and will be bitter all the way to the bottom. And I have tell you that there have been ch times I have sat in mess in in sermon I have sat under sermons of preachers. And And I have listened to what they are saying and it really seems as though you need to confess God, confess the Lord, and if you don't, he is going to stay mad at you until you confess to him. I'm exaggerating a little bit, but not that much. Have you ever heard a sermon like that? And very candidly, that is not what Scripture says. God is not mad at you, even if you sin. If you know him as your Savior, that's important to preface. So we need to understand that if we're going to confess correctly, confess in the way that God wants us to. The other side of it, John Stott argues, is that real repentance should have these two components, admitting and rejecting. The people that confess to appease God never actually forsake the sin. They're just appeasing God. And then they go out and do it again. Instead, admitting and rejecting, we begin by admitting the sin for what it is, but then secondly we for we forsake it, rejecting and repudiating it This is to adopt a right attitude toward towards both God and the sin itself itself. Okay, let me let me summarize all this. Help us make sure we understand. Okay. question them. You have in the Lord's Prayer, you've got uh you've got these adoration and you've got then um and praise, those kinds of things. And then you've got uh hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as in heaven. Give us this day. You have a petition, and then you have confession, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors Why then, if it's not to appease God, why should we confess to the Lord if we know the Lord is our Savior? Why, why, why should there be confession? Yes. The first step towards anyone changing anything at all. Okay. Um you're not going to test it out really. You're really not confessing it over either. Okay, good. Yes, Kisha. Yeah. It has to do with intimacy. You cannot be intimate, spiritually intimate with someone, if you're not on the same page with them. It doesn't have anything to do with your standing in Christ if you know the Lord is your Savior. But can you be close to him? You cannot. If if you know of sin in your heart that you need to confess before the Lord, then you need to confess it so that you can so that you can um you can be in more close to him. You can be intimate with him, fellowship with him. Now, let me let's let's take this into the realm of of you're you're going through this and you're praying through scripture like we talked about last week And you come to confession. You're reading a passage. This is not a passage that this is confession not as a result of your of some circumstances in your life that's causing you to confess. This is rather seeing something from God's Word that causes you to confess. Do you see the difference? Now, what is when you confess because of something you see in God's Word? rather than in a circumstance in your life that you see. What is that, what results are you going to see from that? Any idea? What's going to happen in your life if you if you do that? Well, let me suggest this. The very next thing in the Lord's Prayer is lead us not into temptation. But deliver us from all evil. Now why catch this. When you're reading something in God's Word and you have not it's not and you come to s something, I mean you could take any truth in Scripture And you can think about your own heart attitude toward, and you can realize that there are times in your life where that attitude is not right. Right? I mean really anything And maybe you cannot think of a specific time where you overtly committed that sin. But you know in your heart, when the Bible says, make no other gods before me, that sometimes money is a God to you. And you realize that and you confess that before the Lord. Right? Isn't that not I mean isn't that realistic? What do you suppose is going to happen if you do that in your devotions before the Lord? The result is that that it's going to you're going to catch it a lot earlier. You're going to catch the sin before it ever becomes something in your circumstances. Wouldn't it be wonderful to catch all of our sin at its earliest movements? And when you begin to study God's word and then and then you begin to from looking at God's word, pray God's word And you include confessing from God's Word, then what's going to happen is you're going to identify motives and and and tendencies. And things in your heart and your life before they ever become a reality in your behavior. And if that's the case, then isn't it true then we will it God's that's a way of God not leading up leading us out of temptation Does that make sense? I think it's a very, very helpful and very important point. We all sin every day, is that not right? We all agree with that that we all sin every day. So how often should we confess? Is it not going to be a daily thing? Now i i I the point here is not that anybody walks away walks out of here being a you know on some sort of guilt trip. But I think we do have to be careful that we so oftentimes we we don't really just want to admit or say, Lord, I I'm my attitude's not been right about that or whatever it is We don't want to bring ourselves to to admitting something before the Lord. And if we do That is really going to to affect our fellowship, uh our fellowship of the word. Let me give you a couple of examples. These are w these come right out of the book, but I just thought they were excellent. Well, this is actually biblical examples here, which are also good. Very good, obviously. Perfect, actually. I acknowledge my sin to you and my iniquity I have not hidden. I said, I will confess my transgressions to the Lord, and you forgave the iniquity of my sin. Do not be like the horse or like the mule, which have no understanding. Which must be harassed with bit and bridle, else they will not uh come near you. Do you did you catch what he's saying there in ver verse nine? Oh did I say harness? Har harness Which must not be harnessed, yeah harnessed with did I say harassed? Oh, sorry. Okay. No, not har uh yeah, harnessed. Yes, not be harnessed by a bit and bridle. Well did you catch what he's saying there? That's Anybody else? He's saying that that we if we don't confess it can cause us to have a a hardness in our hearts. where there is a lack of understanding. So very important. Alright, there's there's there's a lot here. Okay, I'm gonna Let me just, we'll end with this one. He says, confession should not be done simply as response to a sin. about which you are ready already aware and convicted. Our prayer life is the place where we should examine our lives and find the sins that otherwise we would be too insensitive or busy to acknowledge. We should have regular times of self-examination using guidelines that come from biblical descriptions of what a Christian should be. Um and we'll do this one as well. God give me a deep humility, a well-guided zeal, a burning love, a single eye, and then let men or devils do their worst. This is comes from George Whitfield. Those four features make a good summary of a vital Christian life. So we'll look more at that next next time. Time. Okay, any final comments or questions about confession particularly? This is not something that we're saying that needs to be a formal thing, but it is something that we often sort of don't really consider in our lives the importance of. And so so when we're thinking about prayer and praying in a really in-depth way and praying where we're really getting close to the Lord, confession is something that's absolutely Uh very important. Yes. So I think in those times for me, I would have to invest to your not to wait for the interval that you know. Sure. Do you hear what Zachary said there? He said that that sometimes um con he feels like confession needs to come first. because he's not really delighting in the Lord. And because he's not delighting in the Lord, he realizes that that that needs to needs to he needs to confess that. What are your thoughts any any other thoughts on that? You ever feel that way? I can understand that. I would say Zachary if I could just say it this way though. I'm not sure that that we want to I mean y you know you're in heart I'm not trying to say that but um we we want to enjoy the Lord not because we are guilty we feel guilty if we don't. So we have to sort of be careful there. Does that make sense? I feel like I have to set an ask to help you. Or ask you to help you right. I think that's fair. Yeah, good point. Yes, try. because the Lord already knows and then forgiveness. Oh yeah. So you definitely want to restore the to to Zachary's point. I think you definitely want to restore that relationship fellowship. Absolutely trying to commune with God talk to them so that way not that not to say well so your prayers are injured or something like this but are you gonna have the right mindset in your prayer if you haven't really wanted the desire Sure. Yeah. I don't I I just would be careful. Yes. David? Well I I often feel that way who am I to ask God to change the direction that he's always said I've appealed. I have no where I mean we see examples of scripture. We can actually, I don't want to think influence, but change his mind. You see that with um what software So there are things that he desires of us because we we it's it's pretty important for us I don't want to see his role, but for him to see our zeal, to say, okay, you're fervent, you're you're faithful, whatever, lines up, let's go this way. I don't know if that would be accurate in saying that, but it definitely I think wants us to. I I think if you put in terms of like first John one it says if you walk in the light as he is in the light, you have fellowship with him. So so we ought to be walking in the light. If we know we're not walking in the light, we have sin in our lives, we're not confessing it. We're not walking in the light anymore. How do you get back walking the light? You have to agree with God about your sin so that you you could get back into walking in the light. To me that's a easy way to visualize, okay, well where am I on this? What we don't want to do is stay in darkness because we're always focused on our sins. What we don't want to do is say, oh man, I'm so sinful all the time. No. The idea is I'm confessing my sins so that I can get back walking in the light. And then I go on my way walking the light and if the Lord brings to my mind some other another sin, then I'm gonna I'm gonna confess that so I can keep walking the light because I don't want to be walking in darkness. Does that make sense And for me that's uh to me uh sort of a helpful helpful way of looking at that. Claudia. Sure. Yeah. But the Lord knows. Our weaknesses he knows our wealth and he knows our heart. Mm. And so when you have the wealthy peace, rejoice in that. Yeah. Wonderful times of worship and wonderful times of praise. But don't keep don't forsake the Lord in the valley. Good. Come on and promise And and well just simply remind yourself the word loves you of anything. The word is patient. And it doesn't expect you to be on top of the every single day. Yeah, actually and we have to be careful we don't feel guilty or even frustrated because not every day is a mountain day. And so um that's a very that's a very good point. Yeah. I guess that's tr not true. Okay. They're on a artifi they're on an artificial mountain. All right. Someday that thing's gonna collapse. But anyway, so alright. Um let's go ahead and and and go to pr grab some get some prayer requests. I I need to get a a prayer list actually. Hang tight for a second here.