Of accurately presenting the gospel with clarity. And um and particularly to children. Because I think you have unique challenges when it comes to teaching children the gospel. And you have to, I think you need to understand a difference between Between giving the gospel to a child and giving the gospel to an adult. Both can have the ability to receive Christ as Savior. It's not as though a child cannot do that, or an adult can't do it But there are unique differences between a child and an adult, and you'll see what those are. But the first thing we need to do is I really believe that we need to just, I think it's just good for us to review how to accurately present the gospel. You know, this is one of the things that is just so important. We can say that we're gospel preaching people. And we're gospel-living people. But if we don't know how to articulate it, it takes one generation and suddenly you have dead orthodoxy instead of actually having a gospel that is able to be communicated. And so I really think this is very, very important. And so we're going to look at, I don't know if you can see the oh yeah you can the the the right motive message and method. And sometimes you have and and I'm gonna I'm gonna argue here that You need to start with the right motivation first, and that will guide you to the right method. And of course, the right message is very clear in scripture, and we'll see what that is in a minute. in a few moments. So I'm going to work my way through this just step by step. I I'm going to try to keep this as simple as I can and try to be as clear as I can about these things because I'm not I don't want to overcomplicate them. Um but I do want to get into uh I want us to cover this And if you're thinking, if you're a parent here tonight, then you have kids, I really would encourage you to think through this with me If you are teaching children in any capacity, I think it's good for you to uh really think through this. And that is just about everyone, if you put those two, almost everyone You either have a child or you're teaching children in this room tonight. And even if you're not, just there is something very healthy about Just going over the gospel with clarity so that you can remember how to articulate it. You know, the truth is if you don't if you don't rehearse articulating the gospel, you'll lose it I mean you might be able to um to sort of force it out, but it will not be very fluid. And so I think that's important. And so anyway, so we'll go through this and I I think you'll find it to be I hope you'll find it find it I want to begin by looking at some common problems resulting from an inaccurate presentation of the gospel. And I just want to say as a pastor and just generally working with people and discipling people, I have found these to be really Really very prevalent and it has caused me to be very careful about my presentation of the gospel. And you'll see what I mean in just a few moments. Number one, improper motivation. When somebody comes to Christ, part of the problem that can happen that is a result of inaccurate presentation of the gospel is an improper motivation. Now let me ask you, what would that look like? Okay, just wanting to go to heaven. If it's merely wanting to go to heaven, is that an improper motivation? Uh yes. Good, good. Solving my life's problems. The gospel will solve that's a that is that is very common improper motivation. Right, being scared of hell. Okay. Those things alone. Now are they included? I mean it is true that if you trust Christ as your Savior, you're going to go to heaven and not hell. But but those things alone could really be considered to be on improper motivations. Number two, just misunderstanding in general, not understanding the gospel. Thirdly, false assurance. How does somebody have false assurance from an improper or a gospel presentation? Okay, yes, depending on your prayer. Well I prayed the sinner's prayer, and I'm depending on my prayer to save me. That is that is is that do you see anywhere in scripture that you gain your assurance from that? You're not going to find that anywhere in Scripture. That you prayed a prayer and that will save you. And so, yes, definitely that that's one. There that might not be the only one. Is there any other other example that you can think of? That's probably the most common What else might yes. Like if you say, oh I know I got saved because my mom told me I prayed for her, but I don't really remember it. Okay, good. Somebody up that's even like you know Yeah. Yeah, it's it's almost like uh that's that's true. I've heard that before. So yeah, um those are all and and a lot of us have experienced those kinds of things. Okay Next, struggle with assurance. So on one hand you have false assurance, on the other hand, you struggle with your assurance. Maybe you are genuinely saved and you're struggling with it. And misplaced faith in general, just it's placed in works or in your own efforts or something of that nature. These are all common problems that very frankly I've seen many times in trying to disciple and counsel people. And it has caused me to really think back and just really think about What our presentation in the beginning ought to be like, what ought this to look like? And I think we should be very careful about this. And just general fear of no salvation, that's really struggle with assurance. It's about the same thing But fear that you don't have salvation. So there's the problems. And what I want to begin with is to look at a right motivation for giving the gospel now. What is the biblical motivation for our presenting the gospel to someone? I'd like you to take your Bible and turn to John 17. And we could go to many plot passages, and really the case is this. Can we agree that whatever Christ's motivation is for someone receiving eternal life ought to be our motivation. Is that not fair? For sure. Okay? And you're going to find many places in the Old Testament where it's explains the same kinds and in the New Testament work explains the same kinds of things here. We're not going to get into a lot of detailed discussion of this because I'm trying to keep it simple, but let's just look at this for a moment in Romans chapter, or I'm sorry, John 17 These words spake Jesus and lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father, the hour is come. Glorify thy Son That thy son may be may glorify thee. So actually, just to get the context, we'll read the rest here, read a couple of verses here. As thou hast given him power over all flesh, that he should give what Eternal life to as many as thou hast given him. Alright, so why is it that people receive eternal life from God and from Christ? What's the reason? Verse 1. To glorify God. That's the reason, folks. That's the Christ that's Christ's motive, and that ought to be our motive, is to demonstrate and is to glorify God. And you're going to find many times in the Old Testament as well as the New Testament where it'll say things like, for Christ, for the New Testament, for Christ's name's sake Or in the Old Testament it'll say, for the sake of thy name, or for thy glory, and you'll see salvation linked with this concept of God's name and his glory and for his sake And so we have to understand that if we're going to have proper motivation for someone coming to Christ, it needs to be because we want to glorify God in what we're doing. We want, in other words, what is so so let's just break this down a little bit, remind ourselves, what does glorify mean? Remember the word glory means identity. That's really, I've said that many times before, but I think it's helpful. So when you're glorifying someone, you are identifying them as they really are. And that's the whole idea when someone comes to Christ. They don't know who Christ really is. They don't know God. They have a distorted view of who God is. And in fact, they don't even know how to know God. And so glorifying God is the motivation. 2 Corinthians 2, verse 14 says, Now thanks be unto God, which always causes us to triumph in Christ. and maketh manifest the savor or fragrance of his knowledge by us in every place. That's what we are. We are to be Christ's fragrance, whereby we are able to demonstrate who Christ is to others. So then, what is the gospel's purpose The gospel's purpose is to supply eternal life. Is that not right? If you look, in fact, even in verse 2, before we even get to 17 It says, and thou hast given power over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him. And so what God's intention is, is for us, for him too, to whom he chooses, to give eternal life. Right? So that's the purpose. But let me ask further this. What, according to 17. 3, what is eternal life? Eternal life is knowing God. That's what eternal life is That they may know thee, the only true God, in Jesus Christ. The purpose of eternal life is so that you can know God. It's not just fire insurance. It's not just going to heaven. That is the main point. And I will just tell you this that as I was talking to Isaac and to Alex this past week, I I took the I had lengthy discussions with them every day, especially starting in starting it was Tuesday or Wednesday we started having lengthy discussions. On this concept, one of the questions I asked them is, I said, when does eternal life start? Does eternal life start when you die? No. Eternal life starts when you are converted. So this is not, salvation is not just about going to heaven. Salvation is about knowing God and being with God, which, by the way, will eventually result in heaven. Does that make sense? Very important, I think, to understand this. Everybody's born estranged from God. Nobody knows God. Nobody is able to know God. And so God has provided through Christ this eternal life to give us the ability to know God. Now, what we're talking about when we're saying knowing God, we're not talking about just knowing about Him I used this illustration which fell flat, but it won't with you all. I I said I can know about Cal Ripkin, but it doesn't mean I know Cal Ripkin. I said it to these guys and they didn't know who Kyripin was. It made me feel really old. I just felt ancient after that, I tell you. Most of you all know who Kyle Ripkin is and I and and I had to find I was like, all right, give me an athlete. I don't know. Somebody give me something you know So I always used to cow grow up using Cal Ripkin, so I always use Cal Ripkin. Anyway, bottom line line is we most of us here know a bit about Cal Ripkin. well known in Maryland. And and so you can know a lot about him, but it doesn't mean you have you know him. Well what's the difference? The difference is is that you can know about him or you can have what And so when we're talking about knowing God, what we're talking about is having a relationship with God. That's eternal what eternal life is about. That we're born without eternal life, and we need eternal life in order to have a relationship with God or to know God. That's important for us to understand. Now Let's ask another question. What keeps us from having a relationship with God? This is right. Everybody should say, okay, this is sin. Now he was very good, this Isaac Isaac was very good about covering sin. But we need to make sure that the kids or adults know the know what the problem with sin is. The problem with sin is what It separates us from God. That's the problem. Okay? What does the Bible call separation from God? Right, it calls it spiritual death. For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. Do you see that? This is very simple. This isn't hard. But it it needs to be clear. We need to have clarity about this. The problem is that we are spiritually dead, that separation from God. And that what we need is eternal life, that's knowing God. And so there needs to be some sort of provision made for this. Alright? And if the wages, if the if the payment for sin is death, well then what has to be the wage? Alright, let me say that again. Alright, that's it's a it it's it's not a hard question. Death is the answer. So that's where the death of Christ comes in. You do not have the gospel if you don't mention the death of Christ. You flat out don't have it. I mention I said this one day in our discussions. I said, if you tell somebody that they've sinned and that their sin sends them to hell And that you and that they need to ask Jesus to save them. Have you given them the gospel? You've not. You've not given the gospel. That's not enough gospel for them to get saved. They've sinned, their sin separates them, uh their sin sends them to hell, and they need to ask Jesus to save them That is not the gospel. So let me ask you, and I'm sure you know this, what is, and I asked them this question: if you want to put the if you want to put a target around the gospel and you have a bullseye What's the bullseye of the gospel? What is the sinner? What's the bullseye? Christ as our substitute. Right. That's exactly right. The death of Christ as our substitute. The wages of sin is death. And Jesus died as our substitute. That is the bullseye of the gospel. You don't have the gospel if you don't have that There are some things you can get away without saying and still have the gospel. But you can't have that without you you don't have that, you don't have the gospel And so, and we have here a proof of that in 1 Corinthians 15 1 through 5. He says, Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preached unto you. which also ye have received and wherein ye stand, by which also ye are saved, if ye keep in memory what I preach unto you, unless ye have believed in vain. For I deliver unto you, first of all, that which I also received. So he says, I delivered something to you. What did he deliver in the passage? The gospel, that's what he delivered, that's what he preached. So what is it? How that what? Christ died For our sins, according to Scripture, and that he was buried, and then he rose again the third day according to scriptures. Folks, and I bolded those for for a purpose. That's the bullseye It is the death and burial and resurrection of Christ. That's the bullseye of the gospel. That's what you must know and believe in in order to have truth. the South true salvation. Now you you say I I know this already. We you this is really simple stuff But do you know how if if we don't remember this when we're presenting the gospel, you don't have the gospel until you have the death of Christ. And particularly for what? For what? What is the death for? For our sins. What's the problem with our sin? It separates us from God. What is that called? Okay, got it? Really simple, right? This is not hard. Okay? But it is very, very important for us to understand. It. And I'm I and I'm speaking strongly, I'm not upset, I'm just really wanting to make sure we get this right. Um how does one appl now here's the question, and the next question I want to ask is that How does one apply that message personally? I use this illustration with with these guys. And they tried to use one tried to use the next day. Alright, so so you have a chair. Sorry, I'm Anyway, so you have a chair, okay? If I am looking at the chair and I say that chair is is strong enough to hold me up If I tell you that, am I placing my faith in the chair? Okay, I might be stating an objective fact that that chair, in my mind anyway, that chair is holding me up. I mean you all would probably agree with that. That that chair would hold me up. But am I depending on it? I'm not. If I do this, am I depending on it? I'm not. I'm not depending on it. Okay? It's not until I put my full weight in the chair. That I'm depending on the chair to hold me up. Sorry, Pat. I'm depending on the chair to hold me up. When we're talking about trusting in Christ as Savior, it's not enough to say that Jesus Christ died for sin. That's an objective fact. Jesus Christ died for sin. In order to complete, or even that Jesus Christ died for the sins of the world. Okay, that's true. But it isn't until I say Jesus Christ died for my sin, and I personalize this, that I'm actually depending on it myself Does that make sense? I mean, I know this is simple, but I think we've got to, I I just think every once in a while we've got to get real simple and be as clear as we possibly can about this. If you take your Bibles then and turn to Romans chapter 10. And the reason that I do this is because occasionally I just think it's important to get the clarity of the gospel in our minds, to make it as simple as we can, so that when we're presenting this to our kids, Whether you're in Sunday school or whether it's your own child, that you have an understanding of the essentials of the gospel, and there's a enough clarity about this. And so that's why we're trying to do this. Romans chapter 10. Now when we're thinking about how to apply this message, the general answer is what? Faith or belief, right. Okay. But the next question I would have for you is what is biblical faith? Isn't it true that we could have a problem called easy believism? Is that not a possibility? Okay? Certainly it is. So, what is biblical faith? What does bible biblical faith faith include? Yes, Kim. Okay, so we have the passage there, confessing with your mouth and believing with your heart. Okay, but let's just ask the question specifically. What does the word confess mean in the passage? Acknowledge. Okay, the the word confess means to say the same thing. So we're talking there about agreement. Okay It it's homo logueth oh, homo meaning the same and logeo meaning word, so to say the same thing. That's what the word means. Don't use that with your kids. Okay, humble that was not necessary with the kids. But anyway, so agreement is what you're talking about there. Okay? So we're talking here about agreement, but it says confess with your mouth. Why would it say that? Let me ask you this question. Can someone who is mute, who can't speak, can they be saved? Every one of us would affirm that that's true, they could definitely be saved. So why would it say confess with your mouth? Why would it say that? Okay. Yes, Ruth? Well when I was saying that I was putting in a service and I just all of a sudden realized what John Jesus meant and I believe believed it and I was like in in my mind I was saying, say I I understand that Jesus died for me. Okay. I never said a word, but later on the way out I was like telling the preacher, I was telling and everyone I got home and I told my parents and I wanted to tell everyone. Okay. It is something where you want to use Okay. That's that's that's I think that could be the case, but I actually think you said it in there in your in your answer. But there's one thing specifically that I want to point to. Let me ask you this question. When I can articulate something What does that mean? I understand it. I think that's why it's saying that. When I'm able to communicate it, it means I understand it. I think the point here Is that we're talking about agreement with understanding. It's not agreement with just I agree because you said it. It's agreement because I understand it. So when you look at the passage, you've got an understanding here in this verse. You've got agreement in the verse. And then it says, believe in your what? Believe in thine heart. This is talking about a heart belief. You also have to have acceptance, which includes repentance. Understanding, agreement, and acceptance. You need those three things to have true biblical saving faith. Okay, does that make sense? Now, let me just ask you this question. What are the particular concerns with working with adults versus children? Let's look at this again. Understanding, agreement, and acceptance. Let's take adults for a minute for for a minute. Out of those three, what do you believe, and you might have a different opinion than me on this, but what would you think would be the hardest For adults, one, two, and three. The average adult who has not yet been exposed to the gospel. Okay. So how many of you all think three? Okay. How many of you all think one? How many of you all think two? Okay. I would suggest that it's number two. Okay. And here this is just my suggestion. Here's why. Once an adult really agrees with it It's not going to be long before they're going to accept it, right? I mean if they really agree, if they understand and they agree, acceptance is going to be, okay, well I accept it because I agree with it Now, it does have to be a heart thing. It's not just a mental, it's not just taught, we're not talking about intellectual ascent here. But usually for an adult who's never heard the gospel, here's the gospel for the first time The issue is often a matter of agreement. It can sometimes be acceptance, and it certainly can be understanding, especially if they're it's not communicated correctly. But I think I think the point that's most difficult is probably f is in many cases is agreement. If they would agree You almost don't have that big a difference between agreement and acceptance. All right, but now let's take kids for a minute. What's the easiest for kids? It's number two. Number two is the easiest. Do they could they easily agree without number one? Yes. Do you see why we have to be so careful with kids? Because I I could get my child, I could get believe me, I could get Julie to agree on anything I say Actually that's not really true. But with this I I'm pretty sure I could. Julie's pretty hardheaded. But um but but but I I I you know I generally I can get my kids to agree with me, even if they don't understand, even to get them off my bat, you know, get Get that off my back. He's saying the same thing over again. Yeah, I'll create it. Alright, agreement is not hard for kids. Acceptance, we'll talk about acceptance in a minute. So let me just ask you this question. Where should our focus be with kids when giving the gospel? What do you think? Number one. Can they understand? Yes. But is that going to be the most difficult of the three. Well, number number two is the easiest. The next one is going to be probably understanding because you can't have exceptions until you have both of those. But let's suppose now that you have someone, a child who has clear understanding, and they have agreement. Let's talk here then about acceptance. How easy is this for a child to accept once they understand and agree? Before you answer, understand it's talking about believing with all of your heart. I personally think that It is very hard to measure for a child. For me to measure for a child. My own kids, I'll use my own kids as an example. I can pretty well understand what know whether whether my children understand Right? I can pretty well if I ask the right qu ask uh questions with uh let's take Haitlin for a minute. I can understand I can ask the right questions to see if they understand. Or Kristen So I'm asking them questions, and I can pretty well gather where they understand. Agreement is not usually an issue, okay, at Caitlin or Kristen's age. But I need to make sure they understand. But once they understand and they also agree, does it mean that they have really depended on this with all their heart? It doesn't mean that. Alright. I want to hold off on judgment on this last one, number three here, and let's move on for a minute. I want to give you some suggestions on giving the gospel to children. The emphasis of the gospel teaching for the child should be on understanding, I'm going to suggest this, rather than making a decision. Okay, and I'm gonna uh actually is another one. When giving the gospel to children, we should err on the side of caution when bringing them to a decision. Alright now, why? First of all, you may not maybe disagree with this, but but why would we need to be why why is this important based upon what we just said about faith? Yes, Kim? Sometimes I'll agree with you just to get your live alone. Okay. And certainly you have no fa saving faith if that's the case, right? Yes. will agree to please. Okay, right. So they may agree agree to please you? Yes. I think especially if they're not your own kids. completely like it's kids probably have a lot better idea than you had in previous discussions, but here's talking with a kid randomly after one service engage That's why I actually really agree with you on that, and that's why um I usually do not counsel a child to come to Christ. I don't I don't bring them to a decision If their parents know the Lord. If their parents know the Lord, I'm going to talk to them and ask them to talk to them about and and help them to come to a decision rather than my doing it myself. My I was when I came to Christ at four years old, um I was in a good news club, but that Mrs. Leonard is her was her name She gave my mom the privilege of doing that. Called my mom and said, Hey, your your your um your son has responded to the gospel after hearing it for an entire year And would you would you come? And so my mom came and my mom helped me and helped me clarify my understanding, help helped me discern that my that my heart wasn't that my motives were right as best as she could And I trusted Christ, and very candidly, but I've had very few assurance issues. And I am probably an exception to that Most of the people that I've met that have gotten s that have had made a profession of faith that young usually do have issues later. So we need to consider this Can a child, let me ask you this question, can a child who fully understands the gospel come to a saving faith on their own? To a saving faith, to saving faith on their disciples? Okay, I didn't do that right. Can they come to saving faith on their own? Don't read that question. Just can they come to saving faith or on their own? If they fully understand the gospel, can they come to saving faith on their own? Yes. Does that take a little a little pressure off? Right? If they can come to saving faith on their own, or with God, certainly with God's working in their life, And they fully understand, is it so important that I make sure that they pray that prayer and they get that decision made? What is my responsibility? To keep clearly presenting the gospel to them, to help them to completely understand. Understanding is my goal. And they will come to a decision on their own. We can help them with that, and I'll talk to you a little bit about that, but okay, I lost it. Can you can you hit next for me? Yes. my experience, um uh it has helped God has um moved in a way that has helped us remember that the Holy Spirit works in kids' hearts just like he does in adult hearts. Sure. And he can he you know you're talking about not getting nervous about you know making them say a prayer or whatever and the Holy Spirit is working in those kids' hearts and I had two experiences two different states um And both times the the two children that I led to the Lord were crying and shaking or desire out of desire to come to know Yeah. I I think that's important. Of course it doesn't they don't have to have that kind of emotional response, I'm sure to agree. Right. So let me give you uh so I agree with that. So let me give you my uh I'm gonna use Caitlin and Kristen since neither of them are in here to give an example I've tried to make sure we clearly give the gospel to both to all of our kids and they get it here, hopefully. And and the so I want them to just continue to get an understanding of these things. With Caitlin several years ago, she started asking me, Daddy, can I make a decision for Christ? So I would go through and I would ask these questions. And I would and if she got any of them wrong, I would not just correct her and have her rehearse it. I didn't want just a rehearsal. She might I might be able to get her to rehearse the right answer, but what I did was I asked the question, if she couldn't answer it, I would pr I would give her the answer, but then I wouldn't ask her again. I would say, okay, now you need to continue to learn, is how I would hand I would say, you know what, just keep learning. Let me just go through these. What is the problem with your sin? Now these are not yes or no questions. A child can't answer, they don't get a 50-50 shot on this On these questions. So that means it's a good question if you don't, if it's not a yes or no question. What is the problem with your sin? What's the problem, folks? Okay. Why did Jesus die and rise from the grave? Right, to pay the punishment for our sin, to be our substitute. What is necessary in order to accept Jesus' gift? What's the answer? Yeah. Trust or depend on him, you need to trust in him. Do you want to know God? And this is a question that I think is a much better question than do you want to go to heaven? I really would caution against that question. Because who doesn't want to go to heaven if there's a heaven? I mean, you know, it like somebody could go, well, you know, I'll just m cover my basis. I mean, you know, if that's gonna get me to heaven, I'll pray a prayer and Um so what would be much better is do I want to know God or better, do you do you want to have a personal relationship with God Or you could say, Oh child, do you want to be friends with God? Do you want to have a friendship with God? You don't have a friendship with God now, but would you like to have a friendship with God? Now You've got to be careful because kids might, oh yeah, sure. The problem is they they've got to understand everything also. So it's not enough just say do you want to have friends with God, ask us in your heart and you're done. That's not what we're talking about here. But those are some questions that you could ask. And let me just suggest to you, if they can answer all these questions with understanding, saying, okay, well, what you need to do right now is pray. What if you said, if yes, what do you think you should do? Ask them what you think you should do. Because that is going to give you a greater indication than if you give them the answer. So with Caitlin, eventually it was very clear she said, I need to trust Jesus as my Savior. It was something where she understood everything. She she then Um uh would not actually she just wouldn't leave me alone. She kept saying, Dad, I really need to make sure that I know the Lord. And and so at that and then I began to see before I even helped her confirm that decision, I began to see her desire to please the Lord. Let me just suggest to you, she probably was already saved. To be very honest with you, before she ever, I ever said, Okay, well let's pray and just thank the Lord for what he did for you. And that's how we did it. I didn't say let's pray and ask Jesus to save you. Do we need to ask Jesus to save us? We do not. Jesus is our Savior. He died for us. All we need to do is depend on that. And so I think for a child and probably for an adult too, a better way, it's not wrong to want to express your belief in prayer. That's nor that's I think it's probably normal But maybe just say, Would you like to thank the Lord for dying for you? That would be an expression of trust rather than let's ask Jesus to be to be your Savior or ask Jesus in your heart, which is worse. Alright, so so let me just suggest that these are thought-provoking questions. So let's go back and look at this faith issue real quick. So this issue of faith, we've got understanding, agreement, and acceptance. Understanding, that's our responsibility with everybody actually. But particularly with kids, we really need to make sure they understand Agreement's going to come kind of quickly, gonna come kind of easily. But we have to admit that between agreement and accept there is a difference between agreement, agreement, and acceptance. A child can understand And agree, but not really place their full trust in Christ, not really accept it. Can I suggest to you that that that can be a process Rather than it there is a time where every one passes from death to life scripturally. There's any question about that. It's not as though you become more and more saved. Okay. But there is a process by which you can the Lord can work on your heart, and I'm not convinced he always does it all right away. Is it can we say that the Lord can work on somebody's heart over time? And who's to say as he's working on somebody's heart when they actually pass from death to the life? Is it so important for us Honestly, is it so important for us to know exactly the time and the place when someone passes from death into life? It's not. It's not that important. And so I would just suggest to you it's taken when I really have thought through this It took a lot of weight off of me in wanting my own kids to understand the gospel and to be saved. Because now the way that I handle my kids is basically, now I I am quite sure Caitlin knows the Lord She has a desire to please the Lord that seems to be very evident. Kristen, I think she understands a lot of the gospel, I think. I think she agrees with it. But I my discernment would be that she has that she is still she is still processing the acceptance of it. Maybe she is already saved. Maybe she's not. But you know what I don't want to do? I don't want to give her false assurance. I would much rather continue to do what? To preach the gospel to her, to continue to communicate the gospel and for her to hear the gospel and to see people live out the gospel. And one day She, by God's grace, as we pray for, will come to an acceptance of that. And I might not know it for another week or two or month or year. Is that really okay? Sure it is. So I I would just suggest here that parents And teachers, let's make sure we understand our role as the communicators of the gospel for understanding and let God do his work in acceptance of the gospel. It's really the Holy Spirit that has to do that work. Does that make sense? Any questions or comments on this Or disagreement. It's okay if you disag it's no problem if you disagree. You'll be wrong, but no okay. Yeah. Bazillion times but when someone says I'm not repentant enough. Okay. Or I'm afraid I'm not repentant enough. Right. So so biblically the question is, does saving repentance have levels? And I would say no. Have repented or you haven't. Repent means to to have a change of mind that results in a change of action. So you're gonna It it's a turning is what it is. So you're turning from one direction and you're going the other way. Um I don't see that as gradual I don't see that as I wouldn't personally see that as a a levels of of Thing basically. So that's how I would probably handle that. Because I'm still saying or I don't Yeah. My best answer for that is really to just keep knowing God. That's really my best answer. You you keep knowing who God is and learning and And growing in your knowledge and relationship with God. And you'll continue to walk in the light as He is in the light, and you'll have fellowship with Him and you'll and and you will turn from darkness. It will be a a that part of it is a grab is a thing that you it's like your position in crisis is fixed, but your practice And your lifestyle is gradual. Does that make sense? Okay. Good question. Any other questions? Okay, I've gone a little over time here, but I hope that it was it was worth it. I I just would encourage you this way. When you're talking with kids, let's just make BBS, for example, the primary purpose is for these kids to have the ability to understand the gospel. That we're going to give them an ability by by communicating it to them. And and it we're not concerned about having 5,000 decisions Okay, or five decisions even. We we want them to understand the gospel. And the Lord gets us, allows us to witness a decision made wonderfully. Praise the Lord for that. But we want to make sure that we're witnessing His work Rather than our persuasion, particularly with kids. Now, let me just say this: with adults, understanding if they clearly understand, and they're in agreement, Then having more persuasion for an adult is not necessarily a wrong thing. And you see in the book of Acts, you have you have places where it says they went in and they convinced them or they went in and they they preached. I mean even to preach is to is to herald the word. And so God does use that. I just think you've got to be really careful with kids, because they just automatically agree. And so our role, I'm just going to suggest, is is for them to understand the gospel. So hopefully that's been helpful to us. It's probably something we have a lot of people missing tonight It probably may be something I go over again sooner than later. Just make sure we're all on the same page on this. And may this fall, as we minister to our kids and preach the gospel to them, may they have greater understanding of the gospel And that the Lord would use us in that way. Let's pray.