Let's go ahead and we're going to look at verses 1 through 10 tonight. I think it'd be just helpful for us to read through this passage. Proverbs 3, 1 through 10 begins this way. My son, do not forget my law, but let your heart keep my commands. For length of length of days and long life and peace. they will add to you. Let not mercy and truth forsake you. Bind them around your neck, write them upon the table of your heart, and so find favor and high esteem in the sight of God and man Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and lean not on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct your paths. Do not be wise in your own eyes. Fear the Lord, and depart from evil. It will be health to your flesh and strength to your bones. Honor the Lord with your possessions and with the first fruits of all your increase. So your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will overflow with new wine. So this passage is dealing with with a lot of interesting things in this passage. And what I want to do is begin by identifying Some of the things that are that bring anxiety to our lives and they are uncertain kinds of things, and but they also have another component to them, and you'll understand what I mean as we go through this. I want you to notice, first of all, that this passage is going to deal in chapter in verse 2 with the idea of restlessness. You ever feel restless in your life? You ever feel that you are just struggling with anxiousness or worry or those kinds of things and there is just a sense of restlessness? This passage is going to deal with that or the positive of that and peace they will add to you. This passage is going to help us to understand how to have peace in our lives. You'll notice also in in verse 4b, it's dealing with also in the sight of God and man. This is dealing with If you think in terms of struggles relating to God, your relationship with God, this passage is going to help us with that. Not only that, it's going to help us with with social things, with relating to other people. So we so far have rest peace versus restlessness. We've got struggles with relating to God versus being in favor with God. Social things. People, how to deal with other people, how to work with other people, how to relate to other people. Decision making. Yeah, how many of you ever have a hard time making decisions? All of us, one time or another, have a difficult time making decisions. This passage deals with that, and that's why it says, trust the Lord with verse 6, in all your ways acknowledge him, he'll direct your paths. Now, all of these things that I've talked about so far are all results. They're things that if we will follow the passage, these things will be Will be positive things in our lives. How about physical things? Physical ailments. Verse 8. It will be health to your flesh and strength to your bones. How about financial material needs? Verses 9 and 10. Honor the Lord with your possessions and with the first fruit of your increase. So your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will overflow with new wine. Now let's list this again, and I want to do something with this. The issue of peace versus restlessness. Let's take the negative of these. Restlessness. Struggles in relating to God. Struggles in relating to others. Decision making. Well just that's neutral, but we'll call it negative for now. Sometimes it is, right? Physical needs and material financial needs. Now think of all those. That's a lot. That is a nearly comprehensive list of the things that are uncertainties in our lives, things that we struggle with, things things that cause us to not have peace the first one there, but to be restless. Is that not true? Oh I mean just if you just look at this list, it's quite significant. But I want us to think about this as well. This list also are some of the things that that cause us the greatest amount of joys in our lives. The greatest amount of blessing, if we are at peace, our relationship with God, having good relationships with others Having making good decisions. Isn't there just something about making the right decision, seeing it carried through, and seeing on the other side of that decision saying, man, I am so glad that I made that decision, that we made that decision. Good decision making, physical needs, um uh financial things. The all of these things They can be uncertainties in our lives, but it's interesting that the things that are most that cause us the most anxiety in our lives also can bring us the greatest joy. Now, in in looking at this passage, there's something else we need to be aware of. This passage is not, if you do these things, these things are promised to you. That's not the point of the passage. The p point of the passage is if you do these things then you'll be rich. That's not in the passage. If you do these things then you will you will automatically have peace. If you do these things then you'll always make the right decisions, then if you do these things then you'll never have a physical need in your life, you'll always be physically ri That's not what the passage is saying. I mean, that's obvious, right? Are there not godly people that struggle physically? Well, of course. Are there not godly people that struggle m materially, financially? How how about how about social struggles even? Decision making. I mean uh all of these you these are not if you do this, then you are promised this. In fact, that's actually something that we want to be really careful of because the real intent of this passage is going to be lost if we think that that these things will automatically happen if we do them. The problem with that is that if we want all of these things in our lives And we're pursuing all of these things. We're pursu uh let me put it another way. We're pursuing more of all of these things. Then what do you call that? It's actually called greed, right? I mean if you're constantly wanting more money or constantly wanting more popularity. We're constantly wanting some of these other things. I mean, I think peace, I'm not sure peace is in that category. There's a couple of them, the uh relationship with God, I'm sure that's not in that category. But some of these things are just a matter of if you want more and more of these things, it's really just a matter of greed. That can't be what the passage is talking about. Here's what the passage is talking about. The passage is teaching us how to take the blessings that God has already given us and to enjoy them rather than worrying and having anxiety over them. So many times in our lives are we think that if we have more of this, then the problem will be solved. And that's not at all the case. What more likely is the case is that if we will simply learn to enjoy what God has already given us, Learn to not have anxiety over the things that actually God has blessed us with. That is going to give us the kind of life that God wants us to have. And you'll notice in the passage, chapter 3, verse 1 My son, do not forget my law, but let your heart keep my commands. Why? Verse 2, because your quality of life is going to be better. Your length of days and long life and peace will add to you. Now he's not saying that you're gonna have you're not he's not talking about your best life now like the smiley guy in Texas that has forty thousand stadi people full of uh in a stadium full of, you know, people that think that you can live you know Will everything to be you know, name it, claim it. That's not what he's saying at all. The key to a better quality of y life, if you want to put it that way, or peace, which is going to give you a better quality of life, is to have the right perspective on what God has already given us. And to learn to enjoy the. Did you know God wants you to enjoy the blessings that He's given you? He doesn't want you to fret over them. He doesn't want you to have anxiety over them or worry over those things. He wants you to enjoy what he has given us. And there is a particular key that is going to do that. And you're going to see that in this passage as well. You're going to see in the passage as we go through this, and we're going to go through it verse by verse in a moment, but I just want to set it up this way. You're going to see in the passage that the way that we enjoy things in life is when we learn to love properly. When we learn to love God properly, when we learn to love others properly, when we learn to love the things in the world You say, well, that doesn't sound right. Learn to love the things in the world. Are we supposed to love the things in the world? That is a trick question. In one sense, we are. Now we're not supposed to make them our idols, but we are to love and to enjoy the things that God gives us, and by and those things are sometimes the things in the world. They're provisions of God, and God wants us to enjoy them. Nothing wrong with that. When we're talking about the world system, we're talking about the evil world system, those are not the things that we should be enjoying at all. So in this passage, to understand how we're to have this quality of life that God wants us to have, this peace. In the midst of loss of these things or or benevolence of these things, then we're going to have to work through this passage. And what it says, what we're going to see also in the passage is this if we can learn to love We learn to love by trusting. The more you trust, God is what we're going to learn in the passage, the less you trust yourself. And the more you trust God, the more you will be able to love others, God, and even love and enjoy the things that are around you. The key to this passage is not learning not to trust yourself. The key to the passage is learning instead to trust God. And then if we will do those things, then we will have the kind of peace that God uh that God wants us to have. So with all of that in mind, then what we are looking for then is to see that God desires our lives to be characterized by quality and peace. So how? How is this going to happen? And I actually have three points here And I think they're simple and I think they're easily graspable. Is that a word? Graspable? It's a word today. And I think if you can grasp these, you can l you'll you'll understand God's perspective. on how we can live the way God wants. Not wanting more, but actually going from anxiety in life to enjoying what God gives us in life. Doesn't that sound great, by the way? Don't we all want that? And actually, God wants that for us as well. He wants us to see those things. So let's look at the passage, and we're going to see number one, verses one through four. And I'm just going to state it very plainly. We must make essential virtues permanent. We must make essential virtues permanent. Now, I'm going to break this down a little bit more into two major points underneath this. But we need to understand that if we are going to have the kind of life that God wants us, one with peace, and one with joy and one that is content in the Lord. Those if we're going to have the kind of thing that God wants us to have in in this life Then we're going to want to, first of all, we must make essential virtues permanent. So notice what it says in verse 1. My son, do not forget. Do not forget my law. He says, but let your heart keep my commandments. He is very intent on these, on his son. You can imagine parents saying, look, would you just make sure these things you remember? Parents, you ever done that with your kids? Look, would you just make sure you remember this? Don't forget that lesson. You might forget other things, but that lesson, don't forget that lesson. He's telling things right now to his son that he does not want him to forget. And so he says, But let your heart keep my commands, for length of days and long life and peace will add to you. Let not mercy and truth forsake you. Bind them around your neck. Write them on the tablet of your heart. And the Bible reflects this kind of purpose in other passages. You remember Deuteronomy 6, verses 8 through 9, where it explains that we're supposed to teach our children to love the Lord our God with all of our hearts and establish those things in their lives. Write them on the table of their hearts, it says in that in that passage. Teach them those things when they're walking by the way. It's intent on repeating. We gotta be very repetitious with our teaching of our children. And you know the truth of the matter is we need to constantly repeat things to ourselves. How often do we forget the simple things like trust in the Lord with all your heart? And do not lean on your own understanding. In all your ways, acknowledge him. And he shall direct your paths. Simple. We know those verses by heart. We've learned them forever. They're on every postcard you can find. I mean, they're everywhere. But you know what, when you go when you come into conflict or struggle or difficulty, how many times in our lives do we just Don't remember. It's like we forget to do what God is telling us to do. So, folks, memorizing is extremely important. Committing things to memory. It's something that God is God says over and over to do. And meditating on things are con truths of God's word are are very important We need to write it on the tablet of our heart. His point is that there are certain characteristics and commands and things that God wants us to learn, and He wants them to be, it's like He wants them to be a part of us, like inseparable from who we are. And that takes work, it takes determination, it takes repeated work at choosing to have the right character. Choosing to remember the right things, choosing to do the right thing, choosing to think the right thing. And it is repeated. Have you ever noticed this about God's Word? Even just take the New Testament. How often, if you go through Scripture in the New Testament, how often do you find subjects are repeated? Nearly you could take an epistle, and Paul says similar things that he says in Romans, he says it in Ephesians, he'll say it in Galatians, he'll say it in Philippians, and it's And it's a different way, and there's different things that are attached to it, and there's different, you know, it's more fleshed out in one place than the other. But repeatedly over and over and over again, you'll see the same principles or the same truths over and over again, not just throughout the New Testament, but actually the old the Old Testament. We're going to see that in this passage. In fact, if you look at the book of Proverbs, have you ever noticed how often Proverbs repeats itself? I mean I'm looking I'm looking at these different verses and I'm finding that there are ten other occurrences where the idea of fearing God is is combined with the idea of trusting God in the book of Proverbs. Well why is it repeated over and over and over again? You know why? Because we have really, really good forgetters. We just are that's like the thing we're best at. Is is just forgetting what we really need to not forget. And so it has to be a diligent, focused, continual kind of thing that we are constantly focused on what we need to know from God. And the and the thing that he identifies is in verse 3. He says, let not mercy and truth forsake you. Now, that word mercy, or it's sometimes translated kindness. That is the word for the Hebrew word Hesed. Does that ring a bell to anybody? When did we talk a lot about the Hebrew word Hesed? Does anybody remember? It's okay, it's just us. I'm curious if anybody remember. Yes, thank you. Alright, somebody get the golden star. Okay. Ruth. Do you remember? The entire book of Ruth, really, its purpose is uh helping us to understand this Hebrew word hased, which actually has no real good English equivalent It's kind of the combination of covenant love and expressed unmerited kindness rolled up into one. I think it's kind of like a precursor to the New Testament term grace, actually. And we see Boaz, you remember Boaz expressing, I mean Ruth did it to Naomi, expressed great Hesed, kindness, covenant love to Naomi. We see the same thing Boaz toward Ruth, unmerited, un undeserved, this kind of kindness in his in in their lives. And and and at the very outset of this chapter Solomon says, Don't let that kind of thing leave you. Don't let kindness leave you. Don't let unmerited favor leave you. Don't let the things those those things uh leave you. And the word truth is the idea of of faithfulness. Faithfulness or truth And those two combinations are often together. They were they were together in the book of Ruth. Ruth, actually, if you remember. And he says, look, don't forget, don't let that that covenant, love, and kindness leave you. And he I think he's saying it on two ends. On one end, he's saying, don't forget God's covenant kindness and love toward us. And I think on the other hand, he's saying, don't let kindness and covenant love leave you toward others. And by the way, those two are things are absolutely connected, aren't they? Isn't it true that when you forget the kindness of your God, you find it a lot harder to be kind toward others? When you're not living in the covenant-loving kindness of God, it is very easy to snap at others It is very easy to get short or impatient with others. It's very easy not to forgive. But when we remember the kindness and loving covenant, the the the covenant-loving kindness of God, And we remember that this is a faithful thing. This is a thing that never ends. It's always there. Well then we can implement that in our lives and we can have the same kind of covenant loving kindness as well. God wants us to not neglect this. And so these are the kinds of essential And so he says, verse 4, and so favor and high esteem will happen in the sight of God and man. If you want favor in the sight of God and favor in the sight of man, hold on to that And make sure that that is a part of your life. So if we want the kind of life where we're enjoying the blessings of God and we're able to see them rather than being anxiety to us and uncertainty to us. If we want that kind of life, we're going to have to be diligent at essential virtues. being permanent in our lives. You say, well that's a letdown. I thought you were going to give me some magic format. No, it really that it it's going to take work for us to continue and consistently do that But not only that, then we can move to verses five through eight, or for or um yeah, five through eight. And the second point. In verses 5 through 8, that we're going to see, not only do we need to constantly focus on establishing permanent virtues in our lives. But number two, we need to not trust our we need to trust God's plan and choose not to trust our own understanding. Notice what it says in the passage, verse 5. Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and lean not on your own understanding. In all your ways, acknowledge him, and he shall direct your paths. But don't stop there. Look at what it says in verse 7. Do not be what? Do not be wise in your own eyes. Fear the Lord and depart from evil. It will be health to your flesh and strength to your bones. This passage, if you take verses six and seven together, or five, six, and seven together, which often seven is not added, when you hear that passage quoted, seven is not added. The overall truth that it's pointing out to us is not just to trust God, but that you cannot be confident about your own judgment. That you cannot trust your own way. He says, don't be wise in your own eyes. Do you know that the Bible sets this up here in contrast to trusting God? That you cannot trust God and be wise in your own eyes at the same time. And that if we are going to trust God, we must choose not to be wise in our own eyes. We must trust God and realize that we're not wise in our own eyes. And if we are wise in our own eyes, if we are leaning under our own understanding, then we can be very sure that we are not trusting God. Why is this so important? I mean, just think about it. Think about that list of various things that we both struggle with in our uncertainties, but also can be joys in our lives. Well, if we're trusting God and we're not leaning onto our own understanding, what a difference that would make in being able to take the blessings of God and see them as blessings. Rather than focusing on the negative, or focusing on the things that we don't have, or focusing on the things that we think we want, instead of simply um accepting what God has given us. He says, trust in the Lord with all your heart. That is a total and complete trust. Do you think the people that choose to trust in God with all of their heart, with every part of it, are also the people uh that that are in at at total peace with God. I mean, wouldn't those two things be the same? How can somebody trust God with all of their heart and not be at peace? Right? So if we're not at peace, we are demonstrating, whether we like it or not, and this is a little hard to admit, we are demonstrating that we really don't trust God. Not with all of our heart. The way to be at peace, the way to have the kind of peace that God is talking about here, is that we've got to trust him with all of our hearts, and we must not lean on our own understanding. And and how do we do that? Well, in all of our ways. Every way. All of our ways acknowledge him. And he will direct our paths. He says here, the fear of the Lord, verse 7: Do not be wise in your eyes, but fear the Lord and depart from evil. He's going to say this again in the book of Proverbs on several occasions. He's going to say that the fear of the Lord will keep us from evil. And we're going to get into that a little bit more in the future. But but those who who stay away from evil are those who understand the fear of the Lord, who understand fear of the Lord, there's a lot actually about the fear of the Lord in the book. Book of Proverbs. Part of it is a matter of of being aware of God's presence and also being aware of God's standards. Those kinds of things are what are what we see here. And it says here that we if we do that, we will it will turn away from evil. And he says if we'll if we'll so so far if Two things are number one, focus on making essential virtues permanent and trust God and don't lean on your own judgment. If you'll do that, those two things, he says that it'll be health to your flesh and strength to your bones. Now, this is not prom promising suddenly that you will suddenly have no physical ailments. There are some, you know, actually heretical teach uh groups that teach that. We were at mission barbecue with some folks l on Sunday afternoon. And uh we overheard um a couple there that were talking to one of the workers there and saying, uh, hey, you need to um You need you need to uh hey what what's in your life? What ailm what what health problems in your life? We want to pray for you so you can be healed And he would and the person was like, I actually I'm I'm pretty healthy. We we really feel that you have some sort of health health problem. I mean you're like pushing, pressing this poor lady that you've gotta have some health problem that we can We can pray for you and you can be healed. Almost like trying to convince her she's got a health problem. And I I'll tell you, that is does such damage to the to the to the testimony of Christ. Uh we were I was I mean I didn't hear it actually. It was my wife that heard it. One of my wife told me about it when I was in the car. And I I was going, it is. It's it's a really that's a really sad thing. That's not what this is talking about. But you know the truth? Is this not true, folks, that sometimes when we have anxiety, when we when we're not living the way that God wants us to live according to this uh according to this passage, that we can make physical things worse. Have you ever had and uh uh ever had um I I have struggles with my neck. Now I I don't worry about uh uh don't worry about it, make it worse. But um but I I have s I I I I don't know what it is about it, but I do have struggles with my neck. I my dad says I hit my head too often. Uh when I was young because I was anyway, I don't know. So I like it was compressed or something like that. He has all kinds of all kinds of ways of dealing with me. But anyway. So Um so anyway, uh but I I do struggle with that. And and you know what the truth of the matter is? I can honestly tell you that sometimes my neck hurts because I turned it wrong or something like that. But there are some times where it's actually stress. And I can actually feel in my neck that I am I have anxiety and it's causing me pain back here. Or it's not causing it. Maybe it's not causing it, but it's a it's inflamming it. It's making make it worse. Is it is it true, isn't it? Is it is that is that possible that that our how our attitude, how we're how we're living, can at least have some effect physically on us. I think that's the point of this passage. It's not saying that suddenly you'll be totally healthy, you know. If you just have the right attitude and trust God, you'll be buffed. I that's not what it's saying at all. Okay? No, not not that you ladies want to be buffed, but okay. But but it is saying but there is sort of a a re uh uh uh uh uh if you want the best possible outcome of your health, um anxiety does play into that. Then he says this. That's that's number Uh number two, and there's there's more that we we could say about that, but we'll we'll then move on to number three. And this is probably the hardest of the three. Number three, we need to relinquish total ownership of everything. Relinquish total ownership. Look at what the passage says, verse nine. Honor the Lord with your possessions, and with the first fruit of all your increase. So your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will overflow with new wine. Now, the point of this passage, there you could actually go to several passages in the Old Testament that talks about the tithing or giving of the first fruits. And it's you can find it in Exodus 2319, Numbers 28, 26 through 31, Deuteronomy 26 through 1 through 11. The points of those passages, though, are not just that we should give 10% of what we own and the rest is ours. The point is that all of it is God's, and we are good stewards of what He's given us to be used for Him. It is a very different perspective. It's all his. How much anxiety do we have in our lives? How much uncertainty, how much struggle, because we are taking ownership of our own things We are trying to possess what is not ours to possess, instead of saying, Lord, everything that I have is yours. You know, if we really thought of it that way, that everything I have is God's anyway, that the Lord, then we would be able to say like Job, the Lord gives, the Lord takes away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. Why do we have so much anxiety? Well, why do we why do we have uncertainty? Why do we struggle honestly? Some of it's just because we just need to let go of what's not ours anyway. We're trying to to control what isn't ours to control. And we need to say, Lord, it's all yours. It it's it's yours. It's all yours. Every bit of it is yours. Have you ever noticed that there are there are millionaires and billionaires that that have real problems and Have you ever noticed that that lots of people with money are not happy people? Lots of people that have great wealth are actually miserable. They may spend a lot of time putting on a facade that they're happy. But if you start actually getting to know them, and I I don't I'm not I don't know too many rich people I've actually. Um I I know of I knew of one growing up. My cousin lived in Potomac, Maryland, was a multimillionaire. Believe me, none of it trickled down. But um but um and I remember that uh it was Uh uh she was not happy. She's passed away now, and probably not in heaven. She was not a happy person. Um, she had all the wealth a lot of wealth, multiple businesses. She had she owned the Columbia Horse Farm uh Horse Center and owned a m a multimillion dollar uh computer company and all kinds of things and was uh h anyway, uh and and her husband do the same thing. And they were not happy people. And and there is there it's exactly the the world's perspective on this is exactly the opposite of God's perspective on this. God's perspective on this is that if you will give away what you have to him then you'll have plenty, verse 8, verse 10. So your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will overflow with new wine. And that is not at all saying that if you give 10%, then God will make you rich. But it is saying this: that there is a kind of life of peace, a life of high quality. That God wants to give us, but those are his do that this is his way His way is totally different than the world's way, and his way is the way that we've seen in this passage. So Three more just I don't have a lot of I I've got more I could say. Let me let me just give you this illustration when it comes to this whole poss possessions thing. There's a man, a novelist by the name of uh Wallace Stegner His first novel was a story that was written and it was entitled Big Rock Candy Mountain. It was based upon the life of his own family. when he was growing up and his father's pursuit, his foolhardy pursuit of of riches in the American West. He said this. Ordinary people are just as susceptible to dreams as the ambitious and greedy And respond as excitedly excitedly to adventure the freedom, the apparently inexhaustible riches of the West I know that historical, historical hope, energy, carelessness, and self-deception, I knew it before I could talk. Father, talking about his own father, practically invented it, though he qualified more as a sucker than a booster, and profited it accordingly. A terrible life. Someone who's constantly pursuing what he doesn't have, to hopefully gain what he doesn't isn't really going to own in the end at all anyway. So how do we live the kind of life that God wants us to live? Chapter 3, verses 1 through 10. Number one, make essential virtues permanent. Don't forget the truths that that are so important. Don't stop implementing, implement consistently the loving kindness of God in our lives. Trust in God's ways rather than our own understanding Trust in God's ways rather than our own understanding. And number three, relin relinquish ownership of all things to God. And if we do those three things, I mean if you just think of that practically, if you just do those three things practically and consistently, then we will be our life will be the way God wants it to be. It He'll direct our paths the way He wants to direct them. We will have the kind of peace that God wants us to have Let's go ahead and pray and then we will uh get into our our prayer time. Father, we thank you for your word and your truth, and we pray, Lord, that these are very simple things. None of this was particularly um earth shattering, but all of it was things that we've got to remember. And I pray, Father, that you would help us to live this kind of life. A life that that places our trust in you. It doesn't lean under our own understanding. A life that chooses your ways, and a life that chooses to consistently and make permanent the things that are most important. And a life that gives up ownership of our of what we want to own. Lord, if would you teach us how to live this kind of life? We admit before you we're bad at it. We need your help. And Lord, as we you teach us how to live this kind of life, I pray that it would we would just see the kind of peace that we can have in you. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.