Proverbs chapter 3 is where we are tonight. Proverbs 3. And we're going to look at verses eleven through 20 tonight. Let me ask you all a question. What is the most loving and most difficult common thing that you have to do? What is the m what is the most loving and most difficult? There might be more than one answer to this, but what is the most loving but also one of the most difficult things that you have to do that's common or common thing? Okay. Cheryl says parent. Good. That certainly is in that category. It's is is live with her husband. Okay. So parenting is is is loving and love and difficult and if you're parenting if you are a parent it is common, okay? What else? The most loving difficult th common thing that you have to do. I'm just curious, what else would you guys say? Teenagers, you're you're c you're welcome and encouraged to answer Okay. Honeydews? Like uh like fixing stuff? Okay. All right. What else? Loving, most difficult common thing that you have to do. Parenting is a good answer. What's difficult about parenting? Let's go down that road for a minute. What is difficult about parenting? Is every aspect of parenting difficult? I I hope you would say no. Yes, Karen? Discipline. Okay Discipline is is probably the most difficult thing about parenting. Let's define what discipline is. What is discipline? Correcting when discipline have to include have to include pain. No. No, it doesn't have to include pain. But discipline in the home has to happen. And correction is prob really the main, the primary component of discipline. There might be other things. You might have punishment along with correction that's included in discipline. But you can't have discipline without correction. Correction is the most necessary component of discipline. Look at our passage tonight in chapter 3, verse 11. And twelve. It says, My son, do not despise the chastening of the Lord, nor detest his correction. For whom the Lord loves, he corrects, just as the Father, the Son, in whom he delights. The most, one of the most difficult Loving common things that we have to do is to correct someone Parents have to do it often often. If you're a boss, you may have to do it. If you are a coworker, you may have to do it. If you are even a spouse, you may have to do it. It is difficult to correct somebody. Is it is it a difficult thing? Yes. Is it a loving thing? It is. It's a loving thing to to biblically and correct correctly di uh correct someone. Uh is it something that we have to do often? Yes. You know, you could really tell someone's character. by how they receive correction. Have you ever noticed that about somebody? Have you ever ha corrected someone? And they actually thanked you for correcting them. How many of you ever had that happen before? I have gratefully had that happen before. Even as a pastor, there are times where I have to do some level of warning or correction or hey, you might be going down a road you shouldn't go, or those kinds of things. And there have been times I have done it in fact nearly every time I do it with like with fear and trembling, like I don't want to do this. I like to do everything else I I like A lot of things about pastoring, not everything else. But I like to do I love to study God's Word. I like to preach. I enjoy teaching. I enjoy working with people. I enjoy talking to people. I enjoy praying for praying with people. I don't enjoy all building maintenance. I don't enjoy all of that. But thankfully you guys have really been helping out a lot lately. I appreciate it. But but I but but I really don't like correcting. I don't like correcting my kids. I I don't like correcting. I don't think anybody really likes to correct anybody else. If you do, you might be a little bit unusual. Oh, okay. All right. So so When somebody goes out and does that, and and but there have been times where I've corrected somebody and they have said, look, thank you. I really just really appreciate that you chose. to uh to do that. You went out of your went out of your comfort zone to do that. And you know, that person when somebody says when somebody responds that way, do you know what I think to myself That person is a wise person. Not because they listened to me, but because they received correction correctly. And most importantly We ought to receive correction from our Lord correctly. And he says this in Proverbs chapter 3, verse Verse eleven. Now it's interesting, it says, For my son do not despise the chastening the Lord, nor detest his correction, for whom the Lord loves, he corrects This passage is actually quoted over in Hebrews chapter 12. And in that context, it's talking of it's in the context of actual persecution. and of chastening that is that is a result of the persecution is a result of chastening and those kinds of things. But in this context, it really doesn't have suffering involved in this. You say, I'm glad to hear about that. This text is not really talking about suffering. It's really talked talking about God's correcting, his guiding, his making sure that you're not going off the path one way or another. And the Bible says, don't despise it. Why? Because when when God does that in our lives, when he keeps us from going one one direction or another direction and maybe he uses other people, maybe he uses parents, maybe he uses spouses, maybe he uses brothers and sisters in Christ, maybe he uses God's word directly. Maybe we different ways he might use this, but when God does this, he's demonstrating, he's showing something to us. He's showing verse 12 for whom the Lord what? To who whom he loves he corrects, just as a father, the son in whom he delights He's actually demonstrating that he enjoys and he delights in us and loves us when he corrects us. The wise man will choose to receive correction and will respond in a humble manner to correction. This to help us to understand how the Lord does this, I think we can go to another passage of scripture that will help us. Would you take your Bibles and turn to Deuteronomy chapter 8? Deuteronomy chapter eight. And it's very likely that that Solomon, when he was writing this to his son, had Deuteronomy chapter eight in mind. Or or just generally the guidance of God for the nation of Israel. And we're going to see some things in this passage. And this is helpful for us if you'll recall we're doing Exodus for Sunday school, and this will really kind of go right along with all of that as well. Deuteronomy chapter 8. This is really a commentary on God's intention for the nation of Israel And we'll pick up here in verse 1. What we're going to do is just kind of read through some verses here, and this will kind of help us to understand, I think that we can apply this even to our lives. In the way that God guides us. And here's the connection. The connection in Proverbs is who does he call someone he corrects? In other words, if if we're corrected by God, it's because we are a what? Or a son. And and we know we're a child of God according to the New Testament, right? I mean God calls us His Son all over the place in the New Testament And he called the nation of Israel a son in the Old Testament as well. And so, picking up in verse 8, it says, Every commandment that I command it command you today, you must be careful to observe. That you may live and multiply, and go in and possess the land of which the Lord spoke to your fathers. And you shall, notice what he says, remember, remember this. That the Lord your God led you all the way for these 40 years in the wilderness to humble you and to test you. to know what was in your heart, whether you would keep his commandments or not. Now pause for a minute. Did how do they do what with that? Not too well, did they? I mean they weren't really good. It's almost as though if you look back at what the nation of Israel did, they almost failed every test they were given that was given to them Verse 3 tells us what happens when you fail a test. Verse 3, so he what? He humbled you and allowed you to hunger, and fed you with manna, which you did not know, nor did your fathers know, that he might make that he might make you know that man shall not live by bread alone, but man lives by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God. So what did when men when the nation of Israel would fail these tests, what did God do? You know it's interesting what God did. God actually, it says he humbled them by causing them to be hungry, causing them to realize their own need, And what else did God do? God provided for them actually. He provided that for them through the manna. Do you remember back when when God was doing this for the nation of Israel and he actually was guiding the nation of Israel one step at a time and using things like manna and quail and water to show him show them more of who he is. So God actually guides us and corrects us and leads us by providing for us. by by by keeping us on a certain kind of a path. Um Verse 4, your garments will never wear out on you, nor did you did you your foot swell these forty years. You should know in your heart that as the as man, what is it, notice what it says there. As man chastens his son, so the Lord God chastens you. Now I bet it's possible that you never thought of the chastening of God and the provision of God being in the same sentence But when the first, this is pro one of the first times this concept of chastening, God's chastening, is used, it's actually linked inseparably with this idea of provision. Your clothes would not wear out. Your feet would not swell. You had all of the manna you needed to eat. Now, isn't that interesting that God actually chastens us through his provision? Or can we say it this way, that God leads us and corrects us through his providing for us? Do you think that God sometimes withholds his provision from us so that we can get on the right path? Do you think that God sometimes demonstrates his provision for us so that we could stay on the right path? Do you think that God sometimes shows us his immense grace by providing for us despite the fact that we are we blew it? And God still is doing all that. What do you call God's working with us in those ways? Wouldn't you call that wisdom? I mean, do you always understand how God is working with you? Do you always understand why God is doing what he's doing or how he's doing what he's doing? Sometimes I go, Lord, I don't know why you're I don't know why you're being so nice to me. Have you ever have you ever I said, Lord, I don't know why you're being so kind to me. I'm a I I I don't I don't deserve this Have you ever felt that God is providing? You ever just sat back and said, Lord, I mean we all have needs and things. Have you ever sat back and went, Lord, you are really providing? You have provided for my needs far more than I deserve. Far more than I think I ought that I ought to have. Well, Lord, why are you doing this? You ever gotten nervous? You're like, oh man, it's there's got to be a trial around the corner here. Things are just, it it's just Well, we can rest in the fact that God is is leading us through his provision. And that's part of his correction. Now, why would we why would we Be tempted to despise God's correction. Why would we be tempted to do that? We're taking the idea of suffering out of the equation. It is true that in Hebrews chapter 13, it is true that suffering can occur if we continue to go the wrong way and God has to chasten us that way. But in this context, it's really not mainly in the mainly the point. Why would we despise the correcting of the Lord? We know better. Okay, we think we know better. Why else would we or that's kind of mainly it, but how do we feel when someone corrects us? Yeah, it steps on your pride. It steps on your toes. It doesn't it doesn't feel good to us to have somebody else point out to us that we are wrong. But a wise person is also a humble person. Humility and wisdom go hand in hand. You cannot have true wisdom without humility and you usually have wisdom when you do have humility. And God is really r if we will have you ever thought about the fact that you can't really Determined to be humble. Today I am gonna force I'm going to be the humblest guy on the face of this earth is today. You can't really do that, can you? So how do you remain humble? Well, you you look to God's correction and his leading, his provision all the time. You're watching his correction. His leading, his provision, all the time, and it keeps you on that on that humble path, which is also a path to wisdom. Now, there's more I could go over in Deuteronomy chapter 8, but I'll stop there and turn back to Proverbs chapter 3. So you really can know, and this is so important, you really can know if you are on the right path to wisdom. By how you are responding to correction. Just sort of think back to a time where you were corrected. by someone. Maybe somebody's authority. Maybe just another brother or sister in Christ who loved you. Maybe a spouse who loves you. And you think back to that time where you were corrected by somebody in some way. If you look back and you say, you know, I man, I did not respond well. That says something. If you look back and say, you know, I really did respond well, that says something. And purposing to respond well to correction is going to really put us in the set the right foundation for wisdom. The next part of this in verses um verse uh we're in uh verse thirteen in chap uh Proverbs three. is now between verses 13 and I believe it's 17 is a whole poem. This is Hebrew poetry. Now, let me ask you, just this is basic, but when you get into Hebrew poetry, Let me see if anybody knows this. What is the number one thing that you ought to look for to help you to understand a Hebrew poem? Anybody know that the answer to that? This is kind of an academic question, but what is the one thing that you should be looking for? There's several things. Or alright, I I narrowed it so much nobody wants to What are some things or what is a thing that you ought to be looking for when you are looking at Hebrew poetry? and contrast. Okay, comparisons and contrasts. Good? Yes. Yeah, that's it. You hit the nail on the head. And which are uh parallelism is the major term and you're gonna have comparisons and contrast and different things. You're looking for parallelism. That is the key to understanding Hebrew poetry. How do you know you have Hebrew poetry? Yeah, when you see a lot of parallelism actually. That's when you actually know. Oh y oh there's the this is parallel thought, parallel you have the same he's saying kind of the same thing here and here, then here and here. Okay, that he this is parallelism. And And you have it here. Look at verse uh 13. Happy is the man who finds wisdom, and the man who gains uh gains understanding. Is wisdom and understanding pretty much the same thing? Yeah, pretty much are the same thing. What look at the next verse. For her proceeds are better than profits of silver, and her gain than fine gold. Are silver and gold about the same thing? I mean relatively the same, but basically the same thing Gain in proceeds, about the same thing. So when you have parallelism, you're But usually one phrase will flesh out the other phrase. And the other phrase fleshes out the other way. So that when you marry the two together, you get a fuller meaning of something. You see the same thing. Verse 16: Length of days in her right hand, and in her left hand riches and honor. Her ways are way uh her ways are ways of of plant pleasantness, and all her paths are peace. She is a tree of life to those who take hold of her, and happy are all you who retain her. So you've got this parallelism. So that's one thing we see. Tell me something else. That's sort of unique about this passage. It's not really unique to Proverbs, but it's maybe something different than other genres of scripture that you might see. What else do you see there that just looks interesting or different? Yes, Stefan? Yeah, good. He personifies wisdom as what? A woman. Ladies, you like that, don't you? Of course he does, right? I mean wh what else he wouldn't be a man, right? Okay, so so he personifies wisdom. Why does he do that? Does anyone know why he personifies wisdom as a woman? Anybody know? Stefan? Um I mean maybe that I mean in general cultures, I mean if if you're a man You want you want to pursue wisdom so now we pursue a woman if not the other way around. Yeah, that's that's actually uh you're you're warm anyway. Okay. It's not because you ladies are wise or bla sorry, it's not because ladies are more wise than men. Okay. Okay, it's to be desired. Who's he who is Solomon writing to? Yeah, like don't miss that because it's there several times. Look at chapter three, verse one, what do you see? My son. Then you see it again in chapter 3, verse 11. My son. You're going to see it again in verse 21. My son. So he's speaking to his son. He's speaking to a young man. And most young men like women. That is why this is he is saying it this way. He is wanting to get wiz he is wanting to get this young man's attention. That's what he's trying to do. And he said and so he is he is using and this is not evil, there's nothing wrong with men liking women. We want men to like women. Okay. So that's a good thing. All right. Um sorry I just have to say that these days, you know, we we W you know, that's that's that's normal. Um verse eleven, my son uh or verse uh so now he's trying to get his attention and as Joey said He wants his son to understand that this is a really desirable thing. So that's his point. Verse 13 So he first says um he first points out the value of or the blessing, I guess I should say, of discovery. It says, blessed is the man, or happy is the man who finds wisdom. This is a beatitude. Because you know that there aren't only beatitudes in Matthew chapter 5. Anytime it says, Blessed is the something, that's really a beatitude. I mean, think about it, Philip, Psalm chapter 1, or Psalm 1, not Psalm chapter 1. Did you know it's incorrect to say Psalm chapter 1? Just it's chap they're not chapters, they're psalms. Okay, Psalm 1. Do you remember? Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth the way of sinner. So that's a beatitude. So this is a beatitude. Happy. And the word blessed means happy. He wants a son to be happy. Don't you want your kids to be happy? But remember, folks, he wants his son to be eternally happy. There is a vast difference in the in the instruction that we give our kids. based upon eternal happiness or temporal happiness. Isn't that true? If I were thinking primarily of my kids' temporal happiness I would not be giving them wisdom. I'd be giving them foolishness. If I'm thinking primarily of their eternal happiness, Then I'm going to be giving them instruction that is really wise. And so this is talking about eternal happiness. Happy is the man who finds wisdom. And a man who gains understanding. There there is this action involved in this. There is this proactive thing that's happening. He's finding it. Uh he says who shall find a wife findeth a good findeth a good thing and attain the favor of the world. Yep. And that's good good point. And and uh the word find, that's the the idea of looking or finding and searching for that. Desire. Yeah, or design, right. Verse 14. For her proceeds, like the product, is what? We see the value of it is better than prof profits of silver. And are gained in fine gold. And this is all over the book of Proverbs. You're seeing all over the place the value of Proverbs. Fine gold, silver. rubies, one commentator pointed out that all of these treasures, why besides being rare, which is the most obvious thing, why are all of these things so valuable? Oh that's rare. Same thing as rare. But but but why th it's not just that They're hard to find. They're hard to get to. You think of you think of mining out things, diamonds, mining them out, or rubies or or pearls trying to go down to uh uh to get a pearl into the depths of the ocean from uh so the idea is that there it takes effort, it takes work. You're going to have to work at this to get wisdom. And it is, when you find it, it is greatly valuable. And all the things that you may desire cannot verse 15 compare with her. All. Did you get that? There isn't anything that you should desire more than wisdom. Now, is that true or false? Okay. Let's it's a trick question Okay, that that's a trick question. The answer is it is true. It is true, but it's true in only one sense, and you'll find out in a minute what he what he must be saying here He does say if you're you it's to be compared with nothing else. You need to pursue wisdom, and there's nothing else better. But we'll see what he means in just a few moments. Verse 16. Length of days in a right is in her right hand. In her left hand, riches and honor. Why does he use left hand and right hand here? Any ideas why he uses that? It's he's talking about someone who's coming and bearing gifts. It's he's personifying wiz wisdom as one who's Coming with stuff in her left hand and valuable things in her right hand, and you're going to give them, and you see length of days and riches and honor there. Her ways are of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace. So so h wisdom is a way is the right path. It's a a a pleasant path to be on. And I really think that this is the key to what he's talking about in in wisdom being the the thing that you should desire most. It's in verse Uh eighteen. She is a what? A tree of life. Okay, what what is it what is that talking about? Where do we find in Scripture the tree of life? Genesis chapter 3, right? Isn't that what kept Adam and Eve uh alive. Isn't that what gave them eternal life? What is he saying here? Th this is just interesting. Solomon says that wisdom is a tree of life. Or it gives us a tree of life, or is is a tree of life to those who take hold of her. Let's just, well, look for a minute to clue us in. Verse 19 actually tells us that it's the Lord by wisdom founded the earth. So let's just think about this for a minute. How did God throughout human history demonstrate wisdom? We see in this passage, number one, creation demonstrates wisdom. What is the other major way that God demonstrates wisdom? Anybody know? In hist in history, what is the major the major way, besides creation, that God demonstrates wisdom? Well, that's true. But in the Bible, as we're reading the Bible, the gospel, the plan of salvation, is that not the wisdom of God? We won't take the time to turn there, but if you turn to Ephesians chapter 1, you would find that it says it is it is it displays the wisdom of God. The gospel displays the wisdom of God. You know what I think is going on here when it says it's the tree of life? This is a precursor to the gospel. It doesn't really clearly lay out the gospel here. The Old Testament concealed is the New Testament revealed. But you he see here, it's like you've got you've got the sun on the horizon, you're seeing the colorations of the gospel here. The wit that wisdom is the tree of life. And Genesis chapter 3, Adam and Eve were separated from the tree of life because God said, if you sin uh and you eat of the forbidden fruit, then you're going to die. And so now he and he says the key, Christ, God is wisdom and and and the gospel is how wisdom comes. And then he says verse um and then by the way he says this to those who take hold of her And happy are those who who who embrace it, embrace her, retain her, hold on to her, stick with her. And it's talking about the embracing of a woman. It's actually talking about something where you're holding on, you're not letting go. It's like a husband ought to be doing in his marriage with his wife. Don't let go. And that's the way we're supposed to be doing with wisdom. Wisdom that will actually lead us to acceptance of the gospel and eternal life. And then we find in verse 19, it it got tells us God's expression of wisdom. It's almost as as though the Solomon is thinking about the Old Testament. He's thought about Deuteronomy in chapter 8. He's thought about how the Lord chastened the nation of Israel. He's thought about Genesis chapter 3 and how the Lord has separated Adam and Eve from the garden. And now he's going to go back to chapter chapter 1. God's creation and how and his wisdom. And it says in verse 19: The Lord by wisdom founded the earth. By understanding, he established the heavens. By his knowledge, the depths were broken up, and clouds dropped down the dew. The God's method of creating this world was his own wisdom. It was an orderly creation. He laid his foundations, the foundations of the earth in wisdom. And um and he established the heavens in wisdom. The depth they're talking about uh the sea and his knowledge they were they're broken up and the clouds dropped down the dew. So why is wisdom so important? Well, because it comes from God. And it's its its origin, its source is God. God is all-wise. It's interesting that that sometimes in the book of Proverbs, we think of the book of Proverbs as, and it is true, it's this way, that it's just this list of practical advice, one practical advice after another. That's true. But you know what? Do we see the character of God in the book of Proverbs? We do. It is, I've said it many times, and you know this to be true, that the Word of God is God revealed. The primary purpose of the Word of God is to reveal who God is. And to reveal his plan of salvation, his plan of the gospel is throughout the Bible. And Proverbs is not an exception to that. Proverbs has its own special contribution to helping us to understand the character of God and the plan of salvation of God. And its primary contribution is the is for us to see the wisdom in all of it, and then also for us to be able to implement that wisdom in our own lives. And this is what we see in in all of what he's saying here. So so in in just wrapping all this up, where where does it leave us? Number one We need to understand that God wants us to be careful about receiving correction in the right way. It really does establish for us the right foundation for wisdom. If we don't have a humility about receiving correction Then we won't be able to have wisdom. The key to wisdom, can we say it that way? Is a humble heart that chooses to chasten uh that chooses to uh to receive correction in the right way. Then we've got to pursue wisdom. We've got to value it. We've got to understand it. We've got to cling to it. We've got to desire it. We've got to to to go after it and to find it and to understand how valuable it is. And we need to understand then that also that God is the God of all wisdom. Those are the things that we learn from Proverbs.