All right. I hopefully uh this is my first time ever doing a Facebook Live devotional. I'm hoping that this is working right. It would actually be helpful if anybody were able to comment on this, I could then be able to see that this is working. Okay, alright, good. Cheryl was watching. And it looks like we've got more people coming in. I think probably best way uh great, good, okay, good. This is looks like it's working now I I have to tell you that this is they didn't teach me how to do this in seminary. Uh I don't know if they have courses on Facebook Live Devotionals in seminary now. And uh maybe they should here, but I certainly have no idea. I certainly am not used to doing this. But um I had enough requests that I thought maybe we should go ahead and give it a try and see how we like it. I'm in my home office. I uh it it dawned on me that many of the people um in our church. Most of you all um have probably never been to my home office. Uh uh some of you have, but not not many of you. And uh this is actually where I do a lot of my studying. I do some of it at church but a lot of it at I do here. Most of my books are my my uh theology books and Bible books are here. And so um so I'm kind of just waiting a little bit to let people are have a chance to log on and make sure this is working properly And uh then we are going to you can be turning your Bibles to Psalm 85. That's where we're going to be uh uh today. And I wanted to encourage you to um I wanted to encourage you to comment as we go through this. If you have a question, this is not a sermon. And Pat has a comment. Got Pastor Jim. on TV. Actually that's a slightly uh this is a little strange for me as well, I'll say, because um I I I I don't usually even look at myself in the mirror that often and some of you say, well Well that's obvious. But um but uh I can actually see myself while I'm doing this, which is interesting, and somebody texted me and said they're gonna put me on a seventy five inch TV and I I said thanks a lot. Um and so anyway, um as people are logging on and turning to Psalm eighty five, I wanted to I was thinking about what to do today and I thought perhaps about um Philippians and starting Philippians, but I thought no some people aren't going to be able to log on and I don't want to the the introduction to Philippians is very important. And so hi Miranda. And so I I really I really feel like um We should um uh not do that. Uh we should wait until this coming Sunday m Sunday morning to start Philippians. So I was trying to think about what passage of scripture would be encouraging to all of you. And um and to me as well. And I I just really decided to to land on Soul Middle. I looked at several different possibilities and Psalm 85 is where I landed on. So I think what we're going to do is I'm going to read the passage and and you can read along with me in your uh in your own homes. Hope you've got a cup of coffee. That's important for Facebook Live kinds of things. You gotta get your coffee. I got a good thing full full of coffee here. And uh and sit back and relax, but also open your Bibles up. And um we will read from Psalm eighty five and then I think we'll go ahead and I'll lead us in prayer. Um hopefully that's not sacrilegious for for Facebook Live, but I'm gonna go ahead and do that. I think we can can do that. And then um and then we will get into the text of Scripture and hopefully it'll be an encourage encouragement for all of us. So let's begin then by looking at Psalm 85 together. So hopefully you have your Bibles open and I'll read from this passage. It says, Lord, you have been favorable to your land. You have brought back the captivity of Jacob. You have forgiven the iniquity of your people. You have covered all their sin. You have taken away all your wrath. You have turned from the fierceness of your anger. Restore us, O God, of our salvation, and cause your anger toward us to cease. Will you be angry with us forever? Will you prolong your anger to all generations? Will you not revive us again, that your people may rejoice in you? Show us your mercy, O Lord, and grant us your salvation. I will hear what God the Lord will speak. For he will speak peace to his people and to his saints. But let them not turn back to folly Surely his salvation is near to those who fear him, that glory may dwell in our land. Mercy and truth have met together, righteousness and peace have kissed Truth shall spring out of the earth, and righteousness shall look down from heaven. Yea, the Lord will give what is good, and your land will yield in its increase Righteousness will go before him and shall make his footsteps our pathway. Alright, let's go ahead then and pray together. Father, we do come to you this morning and And we uh thank you for just the ability to be able to do this, to use this technology this way, to sort of get together and and talk about your word and have a devotional together. Thank you, Lord, for uh warm houses and safety and um and I pray Lord uh that you would keep people safe that uh perhaps have to travel uh today And um Lord, there are many needs in our church, and I see people logging in that aren't from our church as well. There are many needs among your people. Some people today are logging in and they are heartbroken over a situation. Or perhaps they're logging in today and it's it's just there there there's a there's a coldness in their soul when it comes to spiritual things. Or perhaps uh troubled about circumstances, the tenuous circumstances that they find themselves in. I pray today, Lord, as we go through your word, that it would be an encouragement uh to your people, to all of us, Lord, as we look at this together. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Alright, so we're in Psalm 85, and really the subject of this psalm has to do with the with the subject of true biblical revival. And I want to begin by asking this question, and I'm sure that the answer to this with all of you is that at some point in your life you felt this way. Have you ever felt spiritually drained? Not necessarily that you're rejecting the Lord, not necessarily that you're rebellious or that you're um you have uh uh uh or or or or that you're turning away from the Lord. But there is uh there is just a coldness in your spiritual walk with the Lord. Perhaps this usually would be evidenced by a sense of apathy, loneliness, a lack of heartfelt service, a lack of enthusiasm. uh for the things of the Lord. And Psalm 85 really can help address this issue. Um And I want to illustrate sort of sort of the idea on a physical level, and then we'll get into how this works spiritually. Have you ever worked really, really hard, some sort of manual labor? and uh and you worked all day long and you worked really, really hard, and maybe you've gotten quite a dirty or sweaty or whatever, and you get to the shower, a nice hot shower and you get all clean and you are dog tired. I mean you're just exhausted. And so you just decide that you're going to go to go to sleep and you sleep and you sleep hard. I mean it's that kind of sleep that you don't wake up for anything and you wake up the next morning and you have slept hard. And then you wake up and you realize how good you feel, and there's sort of a sense of energy and revival because of a good night's sleep. That is the picture that on a physical level we can have in our minds when we look at this spiritual concept of revival. It is the idea, in verse 6 you'll see it here, will you not, this is a prayer from a man named Korah, will you not revive us again that your people may rejoice in you. He's asking God to revive his people. And the word revival means to be awakened with the reality of who God is. It's the awakening or the making alive. Now the Bible says in the New Testament that we are alive in Christ. We are dead when we're born. And uh we're spiritually dead. And then Philip Ephesians chapter 2, for example, explains that we are made alive in Christ when we come to him. as our Lord and Savior. And so we are positionally alive, but sometimes spiritually there can be a deadness and coldness in our souls. And we need the fresh spiritual and uh alive enliveness of of God's spirit in our lives. In the subject of this whole whole de ideal idea of revival, a man by the name of R. A. Tori said this. Many people for uh revival that certain uh pre many people pray for revival. That certainly is a prayer that is pleasing to God. Uh it is along the line of his will. But many prayers of revivals are purely selfish. The churches desire revivals in order that the membership may be increased, in order that church may have a position of more power and influence in the community in order that a church treasury may be filled, in order that a good report may be made at a presbytery or a conference or an association. For such low purposes as these, churches and ministers oftentimes are praying for a revival, and sometimes too, God does not answer the prayer. Tori continues. Why should we pray for a revival? For the glory of God. Because we cannot endure it that God should continue to be dishonored by the worldliness of the church by the sins of unbelievers, by the proud unbelief of the day, because God's word is being made void, in order that God may be glorified by the outpouring of his Spirit on the Church of Christ For these reasons, first of all and above all, we should pray for a revival. Many a prayer for the Holy Spirit is a purely selfish prayer. So this is a passage where a man by the name of Korah, who is a godly man, is reflecting on the faithfulness and the forgiveness of God. and is asking God to revive his people. And although we are not the nation of Israel today, we are the church. There is a great deal of encouragement. And that's really what I want to be to you today. I want to be an encouragement to you as we look at your uh at God's word About this matter of being spiritually refreshed and renewed. That's really what we're talking about here. And I think we can glean a lot from this passage. So we pick up here in verses 1 through 3, and we're going to ask the question, how does God revive us? I think in the passage, Korah is beginning to experience the first stages of revival in his own life, and he is He is n now asking God for the rest of the people to be revived. And I want you to notice that revival really begins, this new fresh uh uh enjoyment of who God is and rejoicing in who God is and finding your comfort and your encouragement from who God is. I think all of that begins by understanding God's faithfulness. You could see it in this passage in verses 1 through 3. If you'll notice with me, if you look down, you're going to see this word, you have, six different times. Lord, you have been favorable to your land. You have brought back to the captivity of Jacob. You have forgiven the iniquity of your people You have covered all their sin. You have taken away your wrath. You have turned from the fierceness of your anger. So six times the first three verses you have this this phrase, you have done this, you have done that, you have done this. Lord, you've been faithful, you've given your grace, you have been forgiven, or you have forgiven us. That really brings us to the first point of how we come to a place of spiritual revival again. It really is to look back on our lives as Christians and to reflect on God's faithfulness To realize that God has been faithful. The very first thing that you find in the passage is favorable. You have been favorable to your land. The word favor in the Old Testament has a New Testament equivalent. That New Testament equivalent is grace. If you know Christ as your Lord and Savior, you can look back on your life and you can see God's grace. Now let me pause and ask the question, is it possible that as Christians we could look back and we can't really see God's grace? I mean it's there because physicianally we know we've been saved, but it's real really hard for us to understand that that that or to really really experience or appreciate the grace of God. What would cause that? What would cause you in your life as a Christian to to look back on your life and you and to say, you know what, I I can't see it. I can't experience it. I'm not appreciating the grace of God. Yeah, mentally I know it's there, but experientially I just I just don't see it. Well, there's a couple of different reasons that might happen. It might be that you have bitterness in your life. The Bible talks about that in Hebrews chapter uh chapter thir uh chapter twelve. Or an unforgiving spirit, or jealousy. or uh not admitting faults. There are things like that. Good morning, Nancy. Good to see you as well. And so when you have those things in your life, it can keep you from experiencing and appreciating God's grace in your life. Sometimes you're in very difficult circumstances. Circumstances that perhaps are out of your control, or perhaps you just don't know what the future is going to hold. Those things can keep us from really appreciating the grace of God in our lives. So so I I narrowed it down to really two things. What keeps us from appreciating God's grace in our lives? Well, number one When we believe that we are deserving of something that we're not getting, when we believe that we are deserving of something that we're not getting. The truth of the matter is all of what we have we do not deserve. We deserve a place in hell. We do not deserve, because of our sin, we are separated from God when we're born. We are spiritually dead. Frankly, anything that we have in this life, spiritually, physically, or otherwise, those are things that we don't deserve. And when we enter life or when we think about life in the sense of thinking, well, I deserve this or that, I should get this or that. Or maybe we we we don't even cognitively say it. We just we just feel that we ought we deserve something. it will actually keep us from really appreciating the grace of God. I wrote down number two, expecting what God um what God has never promised. You have expectations in your life that God has never promised that That you should have. Things that have happened in your life that you are or just looking ahead and saying, well, I expect this to happen. I anticipate this is going to happen. And it doesn't happen. That's misplaced expectations or unrealized expectations. When when we our our mind is full of unrealized expectations. Our mind is full of misplaced expectations, then we can't see the grace of God. We are too full of of of regretting what we don't what we what we expect. This is really concerning And we have to get past these two things. And really the key, folks, is this. The Bible tells us in in the book of Psalms that our expectations must come from God. They can't come from our circumstances. They can't come from cultural norms. They can't come from the things that that we expect because we're Americans or because where we we somehow were born a s a certain way or live in a certain family or had a certain life. We can't expect uh uh th those kinds of things for uh for that uh because of that We have to our expectations have to come from God alone. And that means if if if we have two things, that means number one, we realize we deserve nothing. And our expectations come from God, then what happens in our lives is that we suddenly are grateful for things We look back and we realize that we didn't ex- that we shouldn't have expected this, but it happened anyway. We we life is full of pluses instead of minuses, if you will. So today, if you're looking back and you can't experience the grace of God or you can't appreciate the grace of God, it might be there, but you can't appreciate it Ask yourself the question, am I deserving, am I thinking that I deserve something that I really don't deserve? Or am I expecting something that God never really promises Now, once you begin to get that out of the way, and you begin then to think about God's promises in his word. And you begin to consider how much God has fulfilled his promises in your life, you will begin to see that God has been very faithful. And frankly, God has given us far more than we need, and certainly far more than we deserve. I mean, just the fact that we come we know Him, just the fact that we are saved. Those that just just the fact that we are we are um we we know who he who who is our Redeemer. Uh the Bible promises food and raiment for his children, the fact that we have we are we have food and clothing and those kinds of things. And then frankly, far beyond that, there are so many other blessings It is it would be really hard for us, even in the most difficult of circumstances, it would be really hard for us to not be able to look back on our lives and to see the faithfulness of God, to see his unmerited favor, to see his grace. So it says in Psalm 85, Lord, you have been favorable to your land. You have brought back the captivity of Jacob. And then it says in this passage, you have forgiven the iniquity of your people, you have covered all their sin, you have taken away all your wrath, and you have turned from the fierceness of your anger. Now, why would God be angry at the nation of Israel? What was the one reason that God would often express anger at the nation of Israel? Do you remember? Think of the time, for example, in the Old Testament, the book of Exodus, when Moses came down from the Mount of Sinai and he's talking to the nation of Israel, or he comes down to the nation of Israel, and they are involved in what? Well, idolatry. Very likely that's the concern that Korah has here. That's the concern that is in the passage. You'll notice in the in the passage in verses 5 5 and 6 it says, verse 4 actually, restore us, O God, of our salvation, and cause your anger toward us to cease. There is this issue of God's anger. Verse 5 says, Will you be angry with us forever? And will you prolong your anger to all generations? So you have verses 4 and 5 that are speaking of the anger of God, and usually in the Old Testament, when God spoke of his anger, it usually had to do with the idolatry in the nation of Israel. Well, let me ask you the question, Christian. Um, is are there idols in our lives? Is there something that you're really putting ahead of God? Is there something that you are more occupied with than you are with God? See, there there's a reason that you can't rejoice in God. If there's something else that you're putting in in ahead of God, Well, the Bible actually says that God's a jealous God. Uh He doesn't want us to enjoy things and and and place things ahead of him and then expect to rejoice in him as well. It won't work. It doesn't work that way. There has to be um uh uh uh uh uh a single-mindedness when it comes to focusing on who God is. It can't include idolatry And so if there is, if there are idols in our lives, that's why in 1 John it says, keep yourselves from idols. If there is idolatry in our lives, that is something that we've got to deal with. We've got to handle. uh handle that and and deal with that. So we find in this passage you've got God's grace in verse 1. And a New Testament equivalent of this is, for example, in 2 Corinthians 12, verse 9, where it says, And he said unto me, My grace is sufficient for you, for my great strength is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly, therefore, will I glory in my infirmities as the power of Christ may rest upon me. And then verse 1 also you see the faithfulness of God. Lamentations chapter 3, verse 22 and 23 says, It is the of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed because his compassions fail not. They are new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness. And then we see the forgiveness of God as well. And we see this idea of also being lifted up in This passage. You've taken away your wrath, you have turned from your fierceness of your anger. Psalm 40, verses 1 through 2 say, I waited patiently for the Lord, and he inclined unto me and heard my cry. He brought me up also out of the horrible pit, out of the miry clay, and set my feet upon a rock and established my guard. How do you get out of that horrible pit? How do you get out of that situation? Look back and and and appreciate the grace of God and the faithfulness of God in your life. And if you can't, realize what the problem is. Well, then we move to verses 4 through 5. And the prayer of Korah here in this passage is that God would turn us. Did you notice that? The word restore, it can also be translated term, restore us, O God, of our salvation, and cause your anger toward us to cease. God wants, or Korah wants God to turn the nation of Israel toward himself. Now God, it's interesting, it says in verse 3 that it says You have turned the fierceness of your anger, but then in verses four through five, there is still that possibility of the anger of God on the nation of Israel. And as we've already discussed, that has to do likely with the issue of idolatry in the land. And Cora's fervent prayer is that these people would be turned from this And that should be the prayer of our hearts as well. If we are not, and I'll just ask it this way, are we, as it says in verse six, rejoicing in God? Are we rejoicing in Him? That really, that's what spiritual revival it is. You know you are spiritually revived when you come to the place where you are genuinely, sincerely rejoicing in God. Can you say you're you're rejoicing in God today? And the truth of the matter is, no matter what circumstances you're going through, No matter how bleak things look or how dark things look, there is a way to rejoice in God. Because God is unchanging. Circumstances change, people fail you. But God is unchanging. And we can always rejoice in Him. We can't rejoice in Him if we don't see His grace and we don't appreciate it. We can't rejoice in Him if we look back and we don't see His fa His goodness, his love. We can't appreciate him if there are idols in our lives that are setting themselves ahead of him. But we can appreciate and rejoice in God if we turn from all of those pursuits of life, turn ourselves to God alone. Look at the faithfulness of God in the past, and then come to a place of rejoicing. That's where God wants us to be. R. A. Tori says this. He says, what is an idol? An idol is anything that takes the place of God. Anything that is the supreme object of our affection. God alone has the right to the supreme place in our hearts. And I wanted to remind us this folks that idols are not just physical things. Idols are things that are in the heart. This is very clear in Ezekiel chapter 14, verse 1. Then came certain of the elders of Israel unto me and sat before me, and the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, Son of man, these men have set up their idols in their heart. And put the stumbling block of their iniquity before their face. Should I be inquired of all by them? Idols of the heart often are the most the most um significant problem that we face in life and certainly it is the thing that keeps us from truly rejoicing in God I just want to read some passages that really emphasize the importance of this spiritual rejoicing in God. Romans chapter 5 verse 11 says this. And not only so, but we also joy in God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Jeremiah 9, verse 23 and 24. Thus says the Lord, let not the wise man glory in his wisdom, neither let the mighty man glory in his might. Let not the rich man glory in his riches, but let him that gloryeth glory in this, that he understands and knows me, that I am the Lord, which exercises loving kindness, judgment, and righteousness in the earth. For in me these things I delight, says the Lord. Job 27, verses 10 through 11, and nobody can deny the kind of trials that Job went through. Job verse 2710, will he delight himself in the Almighty? Will he always call upon God? I will teach you by the hand of God that which is with all with the Almighty will I not conceal. Psalm 37 verse 4, Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart. Do you remember in in Nehemiah chapters 8 and 9? Really 8, 9, and 10? Remember the nation of Israel had rebuilt the wall and they were on the brink of revival? And it says in that passage, the joy of the Lord is your strength. The joy of the Lord is your strength. Folks, this is absolutely essential. This is absolutely necessary in our lives as Christians. That is why I am such a proponent, for example, of of the great study Quieting a Noisy Soul. Why do I I I I just I'm such uh I'm such a I I use that study so much, I uh advise it and suggest it to people. It's because the major premise in that study is that God is more than enough for you. See, if we believe that God is not enough, that we need something else outside of God. Then we will not have that spiritual revival that's being talked about in this passage. When we believe the lie that there is something else that we need. more than God, or instead of God, that we don't really believe that God is all-sufficient, that God is more than enough for us Then we will not we will come short of experiencing the kind of spiritual revival that we find in this passage. Another series that I have gone through with our church in the past that I would highly recommend is Behold your God, the Behold Your Gods theories. And if you just Google Behold Your God, you can find it. Because it is so important for us. to return to making not only placing God in in in view as the singular focus in our lives, but when we do that, he becomes uh he becomes our great rejoicing. Matthew chapter 5, verse 6 says this, Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. I think a lot of what we're dealing with here when it comes to this issue is our appetites. Do we have an appetite for God? Do you remember what it says in Psalm chapter 1 or Psalm 1? You remember what it says there? It says in Psalm 1 that the man who is fruitful The wise man who is fruitful, he delights, he enjoys, he delights in the law of the Lord, and in his law does he meditate day and night. People will say, well, you know, God just isn't enough, or God just, I just got to try something else, or I'm just done with God. Really? Have you delighted in God's law that way? Have you meditated on it day and night? I can tell you this from personal experience that I have never met a person who has chosen to truly enjoy and delight in God and pursue it the way that Proverbs 2 says, with all of his heart. and meditates on it day and night. I have never met a person who has chosen to do that that way, who comes away and says, you know, it just wasn't good enough. The problem oftentimes is we're just not, we're just our appetites are so much toward the wrong kind of thing. instead of really seeking after God and delighting in Him and delighting in His Word. Now you'll notice what happens We begin to look now at the passage and we're going to begin to see some of the results of what happens when we delight in God. When I'm picking up in verse 8, it says this, I will hear what God the Lord will speak. For he will speak peace to his people and to his saints. But let them not turn back to folly. Surely his salvation is near to those who fear him. The glory may dwell in our land. Now notice the results in verses 10 through 13 of what happens. It says, glory will dwell in their land. It's really actually talking there about the presence of God. Back in the Old Testament, of course, you know that you had the tabernacle, and then later on the temple, the presence of God was there in the tabernacle in the temple, the glory of God, if you will, was there. And when when that returns to people, when they begin to experience the presence of God, which really is a result, of spiritual revival, of rejoicing in God, of being being um alive in God. When that happens, there are some some results that occur in verses 10 through 13. We see that. First of all, mercy and truth have met together. Righteousness and peace have kissed. Truth shall spring out of the earth And righteousness shall look down from heaven. Yet the Lord will give what is good, and our land will yield its increase. Righteousness will go before him and shall make his footsteps our pathway. So So a few things that we see in this passage. First of all, we see one result of spiritual revival in this passage is peace. It's peace from God. That is, if we rejoice in God the way that God intends, which requires us to make God our full focus and to realize His all-sufficiency in our lives. When that occurs, then we have that's folks when we have peace. It's not when all of our circumstances are right. It's not when everything looks like it's just going to work out fine. That's temporal peace. That's not eternal peace. That's not spiritual peace Spiritual eternal peace is when we are fully rejoicing in God, and the result of that is peace from God. Mercy and we see in verse 10 we we have then that's verse 8 uh I will rejoice I will hear what the Lord shall speak I will for he will speak peace to his people and to his saints, but let them not turn back to folly. Surely the salvation is near to those who fear him. And the glory will may dwell in their land. But then in verses 10 through 13, mercy then and truth have have met together. And I want to call this entire section when it comes to the results that we see is is really is really a spiritual kind of balance. You have you have this kind of amazing balance here. One balance is between mercy and truth. Now let me illustrate this. If you're a parent and many of you are, I'm seeing the people that are logging on, and many of you are parents or grandparents, um you ever have trouble b between having the right balance between mercy and truth? A child, one of your children does something wrong. How do I punish them? How much do I punish them? How much do I chasten them? What do I do with that? I've got they need to know the truth. They need to experience the truth. They need to apply the truth. And yet there is some level of mercy there. That's hard. It's hard. It's a hard balance. And yet those two things are met together when we are rejoicing in God. Righteousness and peace, it says, of kissed. Now think about that. Righteousness and peace. When someone is truly righteous, the word righteous actually can be translated justice. They are interchangeable words. in the Old Testament. Actually there are interchangeable words for words in the New Testament as well. Justice and righteousness go together. So so so if you are just You are going to hold the line on something. That those who are going to hold the line and be just Uh you do that the wrong way with the wrong manner, and it would seem from a human perspective that you might sacrifice peace Yet when there is a rejoicing in God and the presence of God in our lives, the result is there is this balance between righteousness and peace. Verse eleven Truth shall spring out of the earth, and righteousness shall look down. And then the third result that we see from this passage is just blessing. Now notice, and I want to point this out, something I should have mentioned. before probably. The background of this passage is actually that there is probably physical famine in the land. They're probably having, if you will, a financial and physical recession. Yet you see no mention of this at all. So far, there's been no mention. Lord, would you give us food? Lord, we've got this physical need. Would you take care of us? No. Cora realizes that the problems in the land have to do with a deeper spiritual problem. But once these things are dealt with, then we see in verses 12 through 13 that he said that blessing, just general blessing, occurs. Verse 12, yes the Lord will give what is good. He will give what is good, and our land will yield its increase Righteousness will go before him and shall make his footsteps our pathway. The Bible is very clear about this about God's disposition toward us. Did you know that God wants to give us good? Uh the guy the Bible says that that the eyes of the Lord walk to and fro about the old earth looking for who he can show good to, he can show himself strong to. The Bible says, no good thing will he withhold to them that walk uprightly. God desires to give us good things Now, I want to haste to say that this is not a health and wealth wealth gospel. Just because you're rejoicing in God doesn't mean that circumstances that are negative or that we would perceive as negative would befall us or wouldn't befall us. We ought not assume just because we are blessed that we are right with God, nor should we assume that because our circumstances are less than ideal, that we're not right with the Lord However, on the other hand, you know, I think really the point here is this, and uh and and I think for at least for our application even more, there does seem to be a direct correlation in the Old Testament Between following after God and even physical blessing, much less in the New Testament. But one of the things that we can gather from this is how much we will see the blessing of God. God. Even even otherwise, even maybe God is blessing us and we're just not seeing it because we don't have the right perspective. And we'll begin to see the blessing of God. We'll see what God is doing in our lives when we have the when we have the right perspective as we follow um the principles of this passage. And God is the and if we ever believe that God is not a good God That he is not one who wants to do good to his children. If we believe that, we're believing a lie. Folks, if if if we are not seeing the goodness of God It is our fault. It's not God's. And it's something that we have to understand. God has given us exactly what what He wants us to What we need to have in Psalm 85 to be able to again be experience spiritual revival. So let me ask you a couple of questions just as we as we close this out. And actually, I'm okay. If you want to comment on if you have any questions about this, I'm uh I can stay on for a few minutes longer. Um I've actually gone almost about 45 minutes, so it's a little shorter than what I usually preach, so you guys are probably gonna like that I did this. But anyway, um couple of questions. Where number one, where is your affection? I really think that that is a question we need to ask ourselves. Where is our affection? Number two Have you failed to see God's hand in your life? And if you have, it really indicates that you need, you are in need of spiritual revival. And number three, what is your level of just enjoying God? If your heart is cold this morning and and you look at the and you look at your life, you say, I don't even know what it means to enjoy God. Or perhaps you look at life and you go, I I don't I don't I don't really I don't I don't really enjoy God. I don't I enjoy different kinds of things, but to really enjoy God If you if you say I don't have that kind of an appetite to to to enjoy God, that I I really think the whole thing starts with just turning to Him and saying, No, Lord, I don't enjoy you like I ought to Help me give me a desire to enjoy you. We've got to look at those idols and see if there's any idols in our lives. That's certainly going to impede enjoyment of God. We've got to see whether or not we're really appreciating the mercy of God, the grace of God, the faithfulness of God. If we're not doing that, we're going to have a problem. But once you have dealt with those kinds of things and you're rightly aligned there, then the question really is, maybe the prayer is just really, Lord, would you help me to enjoy you, to put a light in your word? I want to enjoy you. And frankly, God has given us all the things in this cr in in his creation that are redeemable things. Of course, the creation is marred by the fall, so there are a lot of things that are not redeemable, but the things that there are, we can enjoy Sledding outside. Some of you all are new to sledding outside. I have a great hill here. You know, for s if you can't get out, you know, we can walk across the street street and go sledding and it's a pretty good good location to do that. Um and uh so we we might do some of that and we can enjoy God's beautiful the beauty of God's creation. I can look out outside my window here. and see the view of God's creation. I mean all those things God wants us to enjoy, but all those things he wants us to reflect back on him. He is every good and perfect gift comes from him, according to Jesus James. And so when we have that kind of perspective, then we can experience the kind of spiritual, personal spiritual revival. Frankly, if the whole church were to do this, they would experience revival in their church. And this is really what true biblical revival is. There are all kinds of ideas of what revival is, but this is true biblical revival. So at this point I'm fairly well done. I I have I'm getting a reminder here. Um oh okay. Well, that's an advertisement actually. Um And um if you if you want a cure cure for insomnia, you can go on to serm sermonaudio. com and you can listen to other sermons uh uh that I've uh preached if you'd like. Um but if they can be a blessing to you that'd be great. Uh do you I I I'm gonna I'm gonna give it five more minutes here. Do you have any questions about this passage or any comments about this passage message. Feel free to comment below. I'm reading your comments now. Actually I can I might be a look over here and see your comments a little bit better. Uh I am curious um curious about can I scroll here? Okay, any questions or comments about uh about the passage or thoughts about it? I'll wait just a minute or two and um And um um Okay, well I agree with that. The source material is excellent, it's far better than the delivery, so Alright. Doesn't sound look like there's any qu comments or questions, so I think at this point I'm going to go ahead and close out. And uh if you happen to be in in the central Maryland area, and uh praise the Lord, Claudia, I'm glad to hear that. If you happen to be in the in the uh central Maryland area and you don't have a good local church. Now some of you are joining uh joining in and I'm noticing that you're from other local churches and and praise the Lord. I'm glad you're able to join in with us. And I want you to, of course, stay faithful to your local church. But if you don't, then you have to be joining in and you you're seeing this and um And you've and uh you don't have a good level church, I would really uh encourage you. Come come stop by and see us one Sunday. We'd love to have you uh as well uh at Bethel Baptist Church or or log on to Sermon Audio. and and uh if we can be a blessing to you that way that'd be that'd be great as well. Have a great rest of your day and uh I will be praying for you. Church family, please be in prayer for there are some needs in our church that we just need to be keeping prayer about. And actually let's go ahead and pray now. I'll lead us all in prayer and we can we can pray the things that we see in this passage. So let's pray. Father, we do come to you this morning and we thank you for your word. We thank you for the truth of it. and that that you have revealed yourself the way you have. We thank you, Lord, that that your word is clear. That it's not a matter of just your wanting obedience. You want obedience. Really, that's for our good. But you're wanting us to have a relationship with you, to enjoy you, that you have made us that way And I pray, Lord, for those in our church, but and others that might be listening, that are logging in, that maybe they're they're snowed in and they're listening and watching. I pray, Lord, that know you. I pray, Lord, that you would have a help us to just rejoice and enjoy you If there is anybody listening to this and watching this that doesn't know you as their Lord and Savior, I pray today would be a day that they would understand their sin and their need of a savior and they would come to Christ. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Alright, I'm going to give, I'm going to say mention one other thing as well. Maybe you're you're vlogged on today and um you don't know the Lord. Uh you maybe you've you've had a maybe you've had a background in church or or or maybe you haven't or whatever and you're just not sure where you stand with with God Can I really encourage you? Contact me. Message me after this after this, and I will reply. And I would love to take a Bible, even if it's over Facebook messages. I'd love to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you will spend eternity with God. 1 John chapter 5 says, These things are written that you may know that you have eternal life. God wants you to know that you can have eternal life through Him. And if you're listening to this or watching this and you don't know for sure that you have a relationship with God, let me encourage you to to to log on and um and I do and And uh and just go on and message me and I'd be glad to take a Bible and and and show you how you can have a relationship with God for sure. He has set his word up to reveal himself to you and um and he wants you to know him through Jesus Christ and the death of Christ on the cross. Alright everyone, I'm going to sign off for now. Thank you for joining us. If you did, and it looks like quite a few people did, so thank you. And I hope you have a good rest of your day rejoicing in the Lord. Lord