As he journeyed, he came near Damascus, and suddenly a light shone around him from heaven. Then he fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to him, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? And he said, Who are you, Lord? Then the Lord said, I am Jesus whom you are persecuting. It is hard for you to kick against the goats. So he, trembling and astonished, said, Lord, what do you want me to do? Then the Lord said to him, Arise and go into the city, and you will be told what you must do. And the men who journeyed with him stood speechless, hearing a voice, but seeing no one. Then Saul arose from the ground, and when his eyes were opened, and saw he saw no one But they led him by the hand and brought him into Damascus. And he went three days without sight, and neither ate nor drank. Now there was a certain disciple at Damascus named Ananias, and to him the Lord said in a vision, Ananias, and he said, Here I am, Lord. So the Lord said to him, Arise and go to the street called straight, and inquire at the house of Judas for one called Saul of Tarsus, for behold, he is praying. And in a vision he has seen a man named Ananias coming in and putting his hand on him, so that he might receive his sight. Then Ananias answered, Lord, I have heard from many about this man how much harm he has done to your saints in Jerusalem. And here he has authority from the chief priest to bind all who call on your name. But the Lord said to him, Go, for he is a chosen vessel of mine to bear my name before Gentiles, kings. And the children of Israel, for I will show him how many things he might suffer for my name's sake. Let's pray together. Father, as we look at your word this morning and we see the miraculous conversion of a man named Saul, and we are aware of the influence that Saul will have In the lives of thousands and really through history, millions of people. And we see clearly from this passage that you have converted him for your purposes. Father, I pray, Lord, as we look at this passage, that we would be challenged by the truth that you save us for your purposes. Often we don't know all of what those purposes entail. But we know ultimately you saved us to glorify yourself. You've saved us for the furtherance of your kingdom. For we are your workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto good works that you have foreordained, that we would walk in them. And as we look at your word this morning, I pray that you would help us to understand afresh and anew that we have been saved for a purpose. Help us also help our faith to be strengthened by this reality that you appeared, that Christ appeared to Paul, to Saul of Tarsus on the road to Damascus. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. In the 18th century, there were two unbelieving lawyers. Uh these people they were by they uh went by the names of of Lord Littleton and Gilbert West. They got together one day and they were very antagonistic about about Christianity and they were very convinced that they could they could uh disprove Christianity. And one said to the other, you know, the the foundation of Christianity is a very, very, very uh weak foundation. The only two things we need to disprove to disprove Christianity completely is the resurrection, the alleged resurrection of Christ And the conversion of Saul of Tarsus. If we can convert, if we can disprove both of these, then we will have disproved Christianity altogether. Make a long story short, they both uh one person took uh the issue of the resurrection, the other attorney took the issue of St. Paul's conversion, or Paul's conversion, the the book he wrote is St. Paul here. And they did all kinds of research and really objectively looked at the various facts and motive and opportunity and all that are involved in debunking either one of these These claims. Make a long story short, this is a true story. Both of them realized that both of these claims were true. And they instead of writing books that they intended to write uh to disprove these two things, these two uh two events, they wrote books affirming these two events. Lord Lytton wrote a book called The Conversion of St. Paul. And Gilbert West wrote a book called The Resurrection of Jesus Christ. And uh you can actually go if you google don't Google it now, but if you can Google those two two titles. And uh and you'll be able to actually you can actually read uh those those works. The what might come to your mind, I mean we all understand why disproving the resurrection would be so important if you're going to try to disprove Christianity. But why the conversion of s of Saul of Tarsus? Why would that also be something that would need to be disproved? Well there's a couple of reasons for that. One reason would be that Saul of Tarsus ends up being the, outside of Christ, the most influential man in the entire New Testament. He writes more than half of the New Testament. And without his epistles, you would have a very incomplete gospel with all kinds of unanswered questions. So you have that issue. But there's another issue as well. You see, those who did not believe in the first century in the resurrection. You'll find this in Matthew 28, believed another theory. They believed that the disciples stole the body. That was the prevailing idea. But the disciples stole the body of Christ and hid it and now are deceiving people. And that was Saul's belief as well. But the problem with that is that if Christ appears to Saul months later after the appearance of the resurrection after the appearance of the resurrection of the original disciples, It really disproves that entire idea, that prevailing idea of the disciples actually stealing away the body. So if you're going to make a a closed case on the resurrection, you're going to have to disprove both of these. Which tells us that this conversion of Saul here has has uh a compelling value for us understanding and affirming our faith. And we're going to see that as we go through this. To understand what's happening in this chapter as well, we need to look at verse 15. If you'll just notice an interpretive key to verse 15. is verse 15 of this passage where Christ tells Ananias that he is going, that Saul is going to be a chosen vessel of mine to bear my name before the Gentiles, kings, and the children of Israel, and to suffer my name's sake in verse 16. We see from that verse, that what Christ says to Ananias, that the purpose of this entire narrative is to demonstrate that Saul was converted, that he was saved for a very specific purpose, that God was very purposeful in the conversion of Saul of Tarsus. You know, that is not only true of Saul of Tarsus, it is also true of you and me. For example, In Ephesians chapter 1, verses 11 through 14, it says, In all him also we have obtained an inheritance being predestined according to the purpose of him, who works all things according to the counsel of his will. That we who first trust in Christ should be to the praise of his glory To him you also trusted after you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, in whom also have believed having believed you were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise. Who is a guarantee of our inheritance unto the redemption of the purchased possession, to the praise of his glory. We were saved, according to Ephesians chapter 1, for the praise of God's glory. More detailed purpose is found in Ephesians chapter 2. You'll be aware, familiar with the verses, verse 8 of chapter 2, for by grace are you saved through faith. And that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. But we ought not stop there. The next verse, verse 10, says, For we are his workmanship. Created in Christ Jesus, saved in Christ Jesus for good works Which God has prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them. That God has saved us for the purpose of serving Him A lot of people understand that Jesus has saved us, those of us who know Christ is our Savior, and we'll learn more about that today, has saved us in order for us to go to heaven to be with Him. And that's true. And when we come to Christ, we have eternal life. And that's true. But folks, there is a reality that Christ saved us first. For his glory, for us to serve him, to be a part of the furtherance of his kingdom, and to glorify him, and only secondarily to give us eternal life and a home in heaven. And we're going to see this man, Saul, is converted for this purpose. So that sovereign Jesus sovereignly converts a soul for his kingdom purposes. And we're going to learn we're going to understand how to do that this morning how he does that this morning. And we're going to pick up here in verses 1 of 2 in chapter 9, and we're going to see, first of all, this man Saul is clearly on the scene. Then Saul still breathing out threats and murder. To help us understand the significance of this passage, I want to discuss, first of all, this man named Saul. Saul of Tarsus, who would later on in chapter 13 of the book of Acts be named Paul. He would be called Paul for the first time. Saul is a man who was born in Tarsus. That was a metropolis in Cilicia, a province of Syria. In Philippians chapter 3, verse 5, we get some of the background of Saul. He says he was circumcised the eighth day of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of the Hebrews, concerning the law of Pharisee. His family was a strict Jewish household. Very likely they were a family of means because he was at the right age scent to, if you will, the best school possible, the school of Gamaliel. And he had to travel to Jerusalem in order to in order to go to that school. Very likely his native language was Greek. He was a Greek-speaking Jew. Without question, he also spoke Hebrew. uh as well because he was trained to speak the Jewish language and it's very likely he spoke other languages as well We know from his epistles that that his handle of the Greek language is the most detailed and most exquisite of all of the writers of the New Testament. He uses more unique words in his writings than any other author, if he is indeed the author of the book of Hebrews. Here is a man who is learned, he is educated And he is uh well off, he has great authority, uh, he has great influence, and he has made a name for himself. This is the man named Saul. Saul says in another testimony. In fact, Saul's testimony is mentioned three times in the book of Acts. It's here in Acts 9, Acts 22, and Acts 26. In Acts 22, verse 3, he says, I am indeed a Jew, born of Tarsus of Cilicia, but brought up in this city at the feet of Gamaliel. taught according to the strictness of our father's law, and was zealous toward God as you all are today. Saul was a zealous man. Saul was a believing man in God, but not in Jesus, as we'll see in a few moments. Now, I have a question at this point. The Apostle Paul, this man, writes something in the book of Acts, or I'm sorry, in the book of 1 Corinthians, chapter 1, verse 27. That I want to mention. In verse 27 of chapter 1, it says, But God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise, and God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things that are mighty. Well, how does that apply to Saul? Is Saul weak? Is Saul one who is a weak thing of the world that then then God is going to confound people? How is this applied to a man like Saul? We're going to learn how this applies in a few moments. We need to understand as well Saul's belief system at this point. It says in the passage that he is continually breathing out threatenings and murders against the Christians. No doubt Saul was steeped in the Jewish faith. He was a man who was a monotheist. He believed that there is one Lord and one God, as the book of Deuteronomy clearly describes. The addition of Jesus as God would have been to his ears absolutely heretical. Understand that Saul is not a man who is trying to rebel against God. Saul is a man who is trying to follow God and he is trying to do God's bidding. He is a man who was who believed that Christianity was a was dangerous because it was spreading false it was false uh statements and facts to the people. And there's no doubt that he did not believe in the resurrection of Christ. He believed that the entire thing was a deception and a hoax. Now, understanding this is going to be important in a few moments, but I want to move then to really the foolishness of Saul. We find that Saul has already been involved in the book of Acts before chapter 9. Do you remember at Stephen's, when Stephen was martyred, he held the coats in chapter 7, verse 57 of that passage of those who stoned Stephen? In Acts 8, verse 1, it says, Now Saul was consenting to his death. At that time a great persecution arose against the church which it was at Jerusalem, and they were all scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria except the apostles. In Acts 8, verse 3 it says, And for Saul he made havoc of the church, entering every house and dragging off men and women and committing them to prison. But not only that, this continued for a length of time. In 9. 1 that we just read, the breathing out is a continual word of uh present partibles, a continual word that continually he was breathing out threatening his murder. This became an obsession for Saul. He had to stamp out these Christians. that could not be stopped by reason, that could not be stopped in his mind by the rule of law. They had to be stopped. Saul was aware of the fact that Christians were now spreading outside of Jerusalem. They were going into Samaria. And now he had heard that they were now actually spreading into a place called Damascus, a city within Syria. Interestingly enough, the spread of the gospel has gone forward, as we have mentioned before, because despite all of this persecution And so Saul decides that he is going to obtain legal permission in order to go into Damascus to uh to capture and imprison Christians that are over in that area. It says, it's interesting in verse two of this chapter, it says, though any of those who are of the way. Well what does it mean the way? This is something that now is going to be used of Christians. This term the way is going to be used quite often. Later on in the book of Acts, you see this in chapter 19, a couple of times, in chapter 22, again a couple of times in chapter 24. This concept of the way. Christians were those who were of the way. Isaiah 40 verse 3, this is where it comes from, says that the voice of one crying in the wilderness Prepare the way of the Lord, make straight in the desert a highway for our God. The Christians were ones who were preparing the way for Christ to come again. And they were, they were, the Christians were very focused in the first century on the coming of Christ. And their role was to bring others to Christ to prepare the way for the kingdom to come. Now, all of that is is the context with which Saul is now trying to fight against the Christians. Now, from our estimation as we look at this, would we not say that this is absolute foolishness? Saul omits this later on when he speaks to Kings in Acts chapter 26, verse 9. In that passage it says, Indeed I myself thought I must do many things contrary to the name of Jesus of Nazareth. This also did in Jerusalem. This I also did in Jerusalem, and many of the saints I shut up in prison, having received authority from the pre from the chief priests, and when they were put to death, I cast my vote against them. And I pushed them often in every synagogue and compelled them to blaspheme, and being ex exceedingly enraged against them, I persecuted them even to foreign cities. While thus occupied as I journeyed to Damascus with authority and commission from the chief priests, he said, I I compelled them to bla I not only blaspheme, I compelled Christians to blaspheme, I was a persecutor of I I was I was evil in what I did, and yet he says in another passage that he did it out of ignorance and unbelief. Now, let's pause and realize this that it says in 1 Timothy chapter 1, Paul says this, he said This is a faithful saying, and worthy of all acceptance, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners of whom I am chief. Was it an amazing, God-glorifying thing that God is going to convert Saul? It most certainly is. Not because he is weak intellectually, not because he is weak physically or some other weakness, but because he is foolishly going the wrong direction. And he says under the inspiration of the Spirit of God that he was the chief of sinners. Now let that sink in. You might think to yourself, well, I am a chief of a sinner. Have you ever heard somebody say, you know, I I God just can't save me? You don't know what I have done. Well, I don't think there's too many people that have murdered Christians. I don't know I've never talked to somebody who said that, and there have been pl plenty of people that said that to me And I don't know anybody that I've talked to said that they were a Christian murderer. They were murderer, a murderer of Christian. Many mur many Christians You know what this tells us, folks? It tells us of the great grace of God. Grace that truly is greater than all our sin. And if you are listening today. And you don't know Christ as your Lord and Savior, and you think somehow, some way, that can't happen because there's something that you haven't that you you just have done too much and God can't forgive you. Maybe you're a Christian and you think that. And Satan has deceived you into thinking that somehow you can't be forgiven for the things that you've committed. They're just too bad. They're just too heinous. Realize where sin abounds, grace does much more abound. Don't believe the lie that Christ's blood can't forgive you of your sin Christian, don't wallow in your self-guilt thinking that somehow Christ can't forgive you. He forgave Saul. He forgave you, not by any merit of yours, but by Christ alone. And his finished work on the cross. It's something that we must understand and we must believe. It is the there is no sin that Christ did not have the power to save because Christ died to pay the punishment for all sin. So now we are we then move and and we see then how the Lord begins to bring Saul to himself. And I you know I think of this this is a totally trivial illustration for a very serious topic, but Have you ever needed how many of you all have an like dogs or cats? Okay, quite quite a few of you. Um I'm sorry for you guys Yes. 'Cause we are one dumb family if if uh if if if that's the case. So our dog is not the smartest dog in the world. And I um I mean he does come to me. He has learned that I'm the alpha So he does come to me. Uh I don't know that he always comes to everybody else. Um but if I want the dog to do something, uh like to go somewhere, there is something that will always work. Yeah, food, exactly. You guys guessed it. Okay. It works with men too, actually, ladies, just keep that in mind. But anyway, so so so anyway. So um So when you're so what when I want the dog to go somewhere I I give him food and and um uh you know I'll I'll say come get a treat and he he wants he'll come. Now my intention is that's not why I'm doing it, but he goes that direction. And In a very trivial sense, that's what's happening here. Saul thinks he's going to Damascus to persecute Christians. And God from above is saying, I got a whole different purpose than what you think. You're foolishly doing what you're doing, and I wisely am leading you there, and I'm going to intervene here. And it really speaks to the glory of God and His wisdom and our foolishness. We are the dogs, and God is the one who has great purposes in mind. Now, if you look in the passage, you'll see this in verses 9 uh chapter 9 verses 3 through 4. It says, As he journeyed, he came near Damascus, and suddenly a light shone around him from heaven. Then he fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to him, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? So he's on his way to Damascus on this road. He's got probably all the men with him as he's traveling. He's traveling to the Damascus and a light appears from heaven. He sees the light. He hears a voice from heaven. And the question is, Saul, why are you persecuting me? Now we need to understand a few things about what's happening here. What Jesus is doing is first he appears to Saul. And we find later on in verse 7 that he appears to the other, he does not appear to the other people there. They hear a voice but don't see anybody. Clearly, Jesus, the resurrected Christ as he names himself in a few moments, appears to Saul, but the question he asks has an accusation in the question, right? He says, why are you persecuting me? Now this phrase is loaded with implication. Who was Paul, or Saul rather, Saul of Tarsus, persecuting? He was persecuting Christians. He wasn't persecuting that light up into heaven. He was persecuting Christians. He wasn't. sp uh particularly persecuting Christ, at least from his perspective, he was persecuting his followers. But do you notice? Chr Christ says, why do you persecute me? Well, it implies a couple of things. First of all, it implies, number one. That we, it says, it implies that Christ has a way of empathizing with us. Hebrews 4, verse 15 says, For we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted, like as we are, yet without sin. Do you know, have you ever empathize with someone so much that you you hurt you're like hurting with them You can't do that if you haven't experienced at least something similar to what they're going through. You can't empathize with somebody if you if you could sympathize, but you can't empathize with someone if you if you haven't walked in their shoes. Jesus was tempted in all points like we are, yet without sin. He is not one who cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities. Christ empathizes with us and can do so because he came and he suffered as gr uh greater than anyone could ever suffer. Loneliness, he suffered it. Pain, he suffered it. All of it Christ suffered on the cross and in his life. It implies also that Christ hurts with us. Christ hurts with us because we are his body. The Bible says that, Acts 2. 30. Therefore, being a prophet and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him, and of the fruit of his body according to the flesh, has raised Christ to sit in his throne. In Ephesians very clear that the body, we are the body of Christ. We need to understand that. So when Christ comes, he is saying, Why are you persecuting me? Do you remember in Matthew where it says, if you give a, if you, if you do the whatever you do the least of these my brethren, you do to me. There is this intimate connection that Christ has with us that's demonstrated by these kinds of things. Christians never forget that. Never forget that the suffering that you are going through, there is this intimate connection that Christ goes through it with you. He is He is is can can empathize with you when no one understands what you're going through. Jesus does. And he can pray, and you can pray with him and pray to him, and he knows. But we see, secondly, that the Lord brings conviction through the work of the Holy Spirit. He says It is hard for you to kick against the goads. A goad uh is a kind of a pointed stick that is der that is used to direct animals. In fact, this word is used in 1 Corinthians 5, verse 55. Remember where it says, O death, where is thy sting? Revelation chapter 9, verse 10, it's used uh as a stinger. And that's this the goat is something that you you use to direct animals and on the end of it is something that will sting the animals. Well when you kick when an animal kick up kicks up against that goat, he harms himself. And what's happen what Jesus is saying here is when you are kicking against The goad of the Holy Spirit, you are harming yourself. Can I ask you a question? Have you ever been under the s under the conviction of the Spirit of God? And you are resisting it. And you are pushing up against it. And you are kicking at it. I I wonder when these things occurred in in Saul's life. We know that the Holy Spirit from this from this passage tells us, you know, essentially saying that the Holy Spirit has worked been working on Saul. I wonder if standing and watching Stephen looking up at the face of Christ, being stoned by by Paul, by Saul's com uh uh people around him. Uh I wonder if at that point he was convicted I wonder as he went to people's houses and and uh and and and captured both men and women, the passage says. I wonder if he was convicted He kept pushing it aside and kept pushing it aside and what Jesus is saying is it is harming you when you do that. And let me just say by way of application, if the Spirit of God is working in your life and convicting you in some way, it is harmful for you to resist. You can resist the Spirit of God. You can grieve the Spirit of God if you know the Lord is your Savior. But it is ultimately harmful for you and I to do so Just as it was harmful for Saul. The Lord then gives him specific direction. He says, What am I? Saul asked the question, by the way, who am I? He says, I am Jesus. It's Fair it's very declarative who he is, whom you are persecuting. Jesus then says, go to go to a place I'm going to tell you where to go. Verse 6. Look at verse 6. He trembling and astonished says, Lord, what do you want me to do? Then the Lord says to him, Arise and go into the city, and you will be told what you must do. So he just says, Go to the city and you'll be told. And then something else we see in the passage, Saul is struck blind. Why is Saul struck blind by this light which is emanating from Christ? You ever wonder that question? Well, do you remember when when Zacharias was struck blind in uh in the Gospels? When there was a prophecy of the coming Messiah. I think, this is my opinion, I think it was to humble Saul Or at least part of the reason was to bring Saul to a place of absolute utter dependency on Christ. and actually bringing him to a place of utter dependency on the body of Christ. Later on, God's going to use Ananias to actually help Saul and to he and to heal Saul from this blindness. Saul is this man who has been, who is a self-made man. He is a man who is who is uh profoundly intelligent. He is a man who is greatly accomplished, a man of great influence, a a great logical mind, of Have every privilege in the world, and God reduces this man to a blind man who all he can do is go to a city and simply wait for direction God does bring us to a place of utter dependence on Him. And by the way, that is a good place to be. When God does that in our lives, when he closes every door, when it seems as though he puts us in places where we don't want to be. Or does things to us physically or otherwise or to bring us to a place where we don't know what to do. That's a good place to be. It's a place where we can only look up. It's a place where we can depend upon God alone. And when we depend upon Christ alone. Then we glore, we truly glorify Christ. I want to return for just a few moments to observe also in this passage that as Saul is being gloriously converted by Christ. Lord Lyttleton, who I mentioned before, wrote this book called The Conversion of St. Paul, noted a couple of three things in the book. He said In order for this to be a farce, if you will, if this in order for this to be something that was just uh somehow manipulated or there there had to be three possible options. One Saul could be an imposter. Well, the likelihood of what the likelihood of Saul being imposter uh an imposter is extremely unlikely Why? What motive would he have to be an imposter? He was a man with a bright future. He was a man of great influence, of great privilege. Why? What reason would he have to do this? to be some sort of imposter. Another possibility is that he could be what what was called an enthusiast or really someone who was So fanatical he was kind of out of his mind, and that's what happened here. But if you review the epistles and a and very likely this attorney, Lord Lyttleton did, as you review the epistles in the New Testament You are not going to find a man who is out of his mind. You are going to find a man with measured logical Flow of thought, precision in language, this is man, this is a man who does not in any way seem to be that And the third idea was that this man would have had to be deceived by other Christians. That's another possibility. This man could not that's highly unlikely. These Christians were running from Saul. They were getting away from Saul. Ananias, Jesus comes to Saul and I mean Jesus comes to Ananiiris and says Ananias and says, Go, would you go to Saul and Saul? He says, Well, wait a minute. Uh I d uh what what has happened? Have you heard? I mean not have you heard, but I've heard. Very fearful. The idea of Christians deceiving Saul is an unlikely scenario and Lord Lyttelton Essentially comes to the conclusion, no, this conversion is authentic, which authenticates the resurrection, which demonstrates the veracity of the bodily resurrection of Christ And Lord Lytton is able to come to Christ through his examination of all of this. Now, what we're then going to see here, thirdly, is that the Lord converts per people by wisely involving others. for his kingdom purposes. He's going to now involve others. Ananias particularly, he's going to involve him in what is going on here And I've already mentioned that Christ appears to Ananias. Ananias is a man in Damascus who has obviously been converted by those who have fled Jerusalem and gone into various areas Uh and he is he has now come to Christ because of those the influence of those people. In Acts chapter twenty two, verse twelve it says, Then a certain Ananias, a devout man according to the law, having a good testimony with all Jews, who dwelt there. It's interesting that Ananias apparently had a good testimony and a devout man with the Jewish people, as well as being a Christian. This was a man who was of an of impeccable reputation. And this is a man that comes comes to to to uh uh and is and is uh commissioned by Jesus to go to Saul. And he says, it's interesting the contrast, Ananias immediately when Jesus calls, Ananias says, here I am, Lord. It's a very different response from Saul's initial response. Remember Saul's initial response? Who are you? was Saul's initial response. Ananias instinctively knew who he was. At least it was the Lord. He says, here I am. There is this openness and willingness to do whatever You want me to do, Ananias says. And those are the kinds of people God uses. I don't know why I keep saying Aniris. That's weird. Anyway, Ananias. We see here as well that he says, go to a street called Strait. That was a street that was one of the major streets in Damascus. It was a it was probably forty feet wide. It had uh Corinthian columns on either side of it and uh was a place of business and and um and commerce This was where he was supposed to go, and he said, you will inquire on the street of how the house of Judas, not to be confused with Judas Iscariot. And you're going to find Saul who is praying. I wonder what Saul was doing for three days as he was fasting and praying. What he was praying about. Certainly was doing a lot of reflecting. Maybe he thought about how Gamaliel in in uh in Acts chapter 5 warned everybody. Kameliel, who was not a Christian, warns everybody and says, Hey, don't don't don't persecute the Christians. Either they're of God, and if they're of God, you don't want to mess with them, and if they are not of God, they will self-destruct. So don't ma don't don't just just leave him alone. Maybe he was reflecting on that. Maybe there was just a contrition and a repentance. Maybe he considered all the people that he had persecuted and put to death and realized how wrong he was. There certainly is a clear repentance on the part of Saul throughout this text. And Ananias has this concern in verses 13 through 14, your saints have been harmed. Jesus says, This is Jesus' response in verses 15 and 16. And I go because he is a chosen vessel of mine. And we find that that is exactly the case. In several passages, Romans chapter 1, he is called an apostle, Roman, uh Paul says. In 1 Corinthians 15, He says that he is the least of the apostles that is born out of due time, but he certainly is an apostle, and he witnessed the resurrected Christ. Romans chapter 11, Romans chapter 15, 1 Corinthians chapter 9, many, many places we see who Christ, we see that Paul certainly is called as a vessel for God's use. It says he'll bear the name before the Gentiles. Now this wasn't exclusively the Gentiles. Saul in Romans chapter eleven says I would die for my I would I would literally burn in hell for my people if they would come to Christ. He had great concern for the Jewish people, but but yes, he was he was not one that was going to go back and just reside in Jerusalem with the other twelve apostles. He was going to be one that was going to be sent out as a missionary to to all over the the known area to reach the gentile people. And to help them as they as they uh as they join in together and unify Jew with Gentile under Christ. He went before the Gentiles. And then what I want to really focus in, folks, is that it says in this passage that he will suffer many things for my name's sake. Embedded in the very purpose of Saul, Saul's conversion and Saul's calling is suffering. Let that sink in for a moment. Now until this point, you know, we we think of Saul as this one who's done valiant things for God, has this great influence, is a great preacher, great writer, done Planted many, many churches, served the Lord faithfully, and we say to ourselves, we would never be able to be like Paul or Saul. And that's true. But do you realize the amount of suffering that Saul had to go through in order to be this useful for God? I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn to 2 Corinthians chapter 11, if you will. And I want you to see some things about in this passage. That will demonstrate the kind of suffering that this man went through, and then how Saul or Paul at this point thinks through all of this. We will clearly see the fulfillment of this initial commission of the suffering of Saul. We're going to see this in 2 Corinthians. And we'll pick up here in 2 Corinthians eleven verse 23 He says, Are they ministers of Christ? I speak as a fool. I am more, in labors more abundant, and stripes above measure, and prisons more frequently, and deaths often. From the Jews five times I received forty stripes minus one. Three times I was beaten with rods, once I was stoned, three times I was shipwrecked. A night and a day I have been in the deep And journeys often and perils waters and perils of robbers and perils of my own countrymen and perils of Gentiles and perils in the city and perils in the wilderness and perils in a sea in the sea, and perils among false brethren, and weariness and toil and sleeplessness often, and hunger and thirst, and fastings often, and cold and nakedness, beside the other things that come upon me daily, my deep concern for all the churches Who is weak and I am not weak? Who is among who is made to stumble and I do not burn burn with indignation? If I boast, I will boast in the things which concern my infirmity Paul says, I'm going to boast in something? I boast in my infirmity. The God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who is blessed forever, knows that I am not lying in Damascus. The governor I mean this is uh he said he he says there's so much stuff here and people go, oh yeah, right, really. Are you not exaggerating? He's not exaggerating here Arguably outside of Jesus, there arguably no one has suffered to the extent that Paul has. Well, why? Why is all this the case? Would you look at chapter 12 and then would you look at verse 5 He says, Of such a one I will boast, yet of myself I will not boast except in my infirmities. For why? For though I might desire to boast, he says previously I've been given more revelation than than just about any than anybody any other apostle. I've been used in so many different ways. Though I might desire to boast, I will not be a fool. For I will speak the truth, but I refrain lest anyone should think of me above what he sees me. to be or uh or hears from me. He says, don't look at me and all I've done and think it's anything of me. And lest I should be exalted above measure by the abundance of the revelations A thorn in the flesh was given to me, a messenger of Satan to buffet me, lest I be exalted above measure. Concerning this thing I pleaded with the Lord three times that I might depart from me, that it might depart from me. And he said to me, My grace, my unmerited favor, something you don't deserve, my grace is sufficient for you. For my strength is made perfect in weakness. Therefore, most gladly I will rather boast in my infirmities. The power of Christ may rest upon me. Therefore, I take pleasure. Did you catch that? He says, I take pleasure in my infirmities. Now that we can be uh stand in awe of a bit, right? I mean, uh we're not gonna we're not gonna we're not gonna look to Saul, Paul here, and look at how great he's done all these things, but but I will tell you this, that the Spirit of God working in the life of Saul is all because of it's all him. Spirit of God working in the life of Paul give brings him to the place where he says, I take pleasure in my infirmities and reproaches in needs, in persecutions, and distresses for Christ's sake. Why? Because when I am weak, then I am strong. You see how it applies? Remember, go back to First Corinthians chapter one, verse twenty-seven, where he says God uses the foolishness, that foolish things to confound the wise and the weak things of the world to confound those to do his work. And here you have the weakness and infirmity of Paul so that he can be useful. For God's work. Now you say, this is depressing. No, what I want it to be is an encouragement to all of us. That when we go through times of suffering, God will use those times in our lives for his purposes. He will make us useful for him. One of the biggest things that we see in this passage is, I mean, you have a man who is highly educated, highly decorated, highly intelligent. And you have a man who is humble, that does not happen without some trial and suffering. And God says, He says in his word, he resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. God doesn't use the proud man. God uses the one who will humbly submit to his working and his calling in their life. So we need to understand three things. Number one, we must realize we have been saved for God's kingdom purposes. At this point, I just want to really want to ask you this question. It is a very simple question. Do you know for sure that you will spend eternity with the Lord And you say, well, I've got some doubts about that, but you know, I don't think really anybody can know for sure. The Bible says, 1 John 5, these things are written that ye may know for sure that ye have eternal life. Do you know? What we see here is a clear example of someone who has gone from death to life. Who has gone from their sin, turned from their sin, turned to God by the merits of Christ alone. That's what we see here. The Bible says in 1 Corinthians 15, 3 and 4, which was written by by Paul under the inspiration of God, of course. Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures, and that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures and that he was seen. Jesus died for your sin and died for my sin. And if you say to yourself, you know, I really don't know for sure whether I would spend eternity with the Lord, can I enc can I don't leave this building without knowing for sure. You can Come to me after the service. I will stop everything I'm doing, and I will take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you can spend eternity with the Lord. Or go to somebody else that you're comfortable with that you know has a relationship with the Lord. Help uh ask them and help them to uh ask them to help you know from the Bible how you can have Assurance that you are a child of God. Number two, we must, all of us, whether you know the Lord or not, the Spirit of God convicts all of us and works in all of us. It is harmful for all of us. to resist the conviction of the Spirit of God. We must readily submit to it. And then thirdly, we must accept. Now this is the i you know I when I was putting this sentence together. Go ahead and put it up there, if you would, please. When I was putting this sentence together, I I was trying to think of the right verb to use. We must trust, we must think agree. And I finally came down to this. We must accept that usefulness in God's purposes. Um Work w work together and now I didn't I guess I didn't focus that much on that part of it. Work work together for the furtherance and suffering. God's purpose and suffering often work together for furtherance of God's kingdom. Usefulness in God's purposes and suffering often work together for the furtherance of God's kingdom. Are we willing to accept that? This teaches us that Mm first Peter, first second Peter teaches that. The New Testament is repleted complete with examples of suffering of this life that is not worthy to be compared, as Jeff preached a couple of weeks ago or last week maybe. With the glory that shall be revealed in us. Suffering is a part of God's working to make us useful for His purposes. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and we look at the conversion of Saul and we are amazed by your intervention and your working and your hand. Lord, we admit before you that that in our lives as we as we look through your your word and we see an example of Saul and a man who we've we will not likely ever ever have the kind of influence that he had. And yet you want to use us for your purposes. In fact, you saved us for your purposes. But those purposes are likely going to, on some level, include suffering. And Lord, as I as I think through our church, just the folks of our church, I can think m names come to mind of those who in various ways, some public, some not, are suffering in one way or another. And I'm sure there are many things that I don't even know about. That people are suffering. May we realize that you will use these things In our lives to make us useful for your work. May we accept this. May we be quick not to kick against the working of the Spirit in our lives. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.