Going to be today a third part to the concept of putting on the new man. Um finish Finish the phrase if you would, the the saying. Teach a man to fish, you feed him for a day. I'm sorry, that's not right. Great way to start off. Alright, let's try this again. You give a man a fish, you feed him for how long? You teach a man to fish, you feed him for lifetime. The reality is, I think that our churches totally blew that five. Um I got your attention, everybody's awake now. Um the reality is I do think that there are a lot of churches That are guilty of giving a person a fish when it comes to victory over sin and having victory over sin. But they don't give them or teach them how to fish. And so the result of that is that they are there is temporary change and temporary victory But there is eventual failure and eventual defeat. What we want to do today, and what I really am convinced Paul is doing in Ephesians chapter 4, is he is Teaching us how to fish when it comes to having victory over sin and having living the kind of Christ life that God wants us to live A couple of the ways that churches sometimes give a person a fish rather than teaching them how to fish, one way, or not even just churches, sometimes it's Christian organizations. seminars and things like that is to have six steps to this and five steps to that and this is how you do and And to have a system of principles and steps to live by to try to anticipate nearly every situation that you can possibly come under. And if you'll just follow these six steps. Or if you'll follow these five principles, then you will have success, Christian success in your life. And they sort of treat the Christian life like a business symposium where if you have these sort of principles or steps, then you will have a great business. And they're about as successful as business are in giving people true, genuine sustaining help in areas of their Christian life. And there are many people that have felt very defeated in the Christian life because they're looking to have a system in place whereby they are going to, if they just follow these things, a clear system, then they will have victory. But folks, the reality is the Christian life is not that way. God did not intend for us to live by a system of steps or principles whereby we are then going to be able to have the kind of life that God wants us to live. Another way that is common for churches to do this is they look at the Bible as a self-help book. And if you'll go to your Bible and you'll find, look at all the stories in the Bible, all the stories, you can extract principles from those stories that will help you help yourself. Um very, very common in churches, even in fundamental circles, will look to Old Testament narratives and they'll lift up these all of these And you know it's kind of interesting in scripture, and according to First Corinthians chapter ten, verse one, it says, uh not many of them pleased God in the Old Testament. The majority of people didn't please God in the Old Testament. They weren't there for us to suddenly exonerate or not exonerate or lift up as people that are going to be great for us to follow. There are there there are certain people that the Bible identifies as people of faith, like in Hebrews 11, but if we look at the Bible as this sort of self-help book whereby we are going to be able to live the Christian life, it is going to, it may give us the fish, we may have told. Temporary success, but there is going to be overall a sense of defeat and and and problems in the Christian life. There's going to be not a sustained success. What this is really boiling down to is a difference between moralism and true Christianity. And for years there have been moralism has kind of been a substitute for True Christianity. Here's what happens with moralism. Moralism really is an idea of you're if you have a list of things that you don't do and a list of things that you you do do and things that you've got to stay away from and there might be an entire system involved in this or there's just a general principle that the key to the Christian life is just doing don't do these things and do these things There is usually only one, there are usually only two possibilities. There is either the possibility of defeat. You're going to feel defeated Or if you are able to follow these things, you feel a sense of pride, which will ultimately end in defeat. Pride goes before destruction. Folks, this is an epid, I would say this is almost an epidemic problem in our churches where there is just a misunderstanding of how the Bible is really supposed to help us. Because what we find, as we're finding occasionally on Sunday nights as we go through the series on knowing God, and what we find is what we really need to do is to know God. And to understand how to live in light of the gospel, true Christianity will provide sustained sustained ability to live for Christ, not temporary ability. And so what we want to learn today is to learn from Christ. The Bible depicts this kind of Christ life, particularly Paul does this as a walk. For instance, in Romans six four, the first time it's used, it says, Therefore we are buried with him by baptism to death, that like as Christ was raised up from the dead from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness. of life. The book of Ephesians uses this term walk multiple times. Seven times in the book of Ephesians it uses Ephesians two two says, wherein in time past ye walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience, and then later on verse 10 of the same chapter, for we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto good works. Which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them. And in Ephesians 4. 1, which really is really what we're the same passage we're going over today I, therefore, the prisoner of the Lord beseech you that ye walk worthy of the vocation wherewith ye are called. Then verse 17 tells us to not walk as other Gentiles walk. 5. 2 is then going to tell us to walk in love. 5. 8 is going to tell us that we were in darkness, but we need to walk as children of light. And in 5. 15 it says that we need to walk circumspectly, not as fools. But is wise. The Bible depicts the Christian life as a walk that you and I are going to have to take one step at a time. And put one step in front of the other. It is not as though we can ever have confidence in a system of rules or a laid-out procedure of steps Occasionally, the Bible might lend itself to having you follow this step in a sort of a logical sequential But that is not usually how it's laid out. You do have this biblically in this case when it talks about putting off step one and putting off on step two. You've got two steps there essentially But the essential step that's in the middle of that is that we need to be renewed in the spirit of our minds by the Spirit of God. And what we want to do today is really get into now how is it, what is our role in putting on the new man If you'll recall from last week, we looked specifically at how to put off the old man. And when you do a natural product of that, is that you are going to be renewed in the spirit of your mind. And we looked at what that was, that God, through his spirit, energizes the inner man Which motivates us to be able to think biblically. It is the spirit of our mind whereby the battle lies. But that's not the end. Then what we must do in order to maintain this, this putting off and being renewed in the spirit of our mind, is to put on the new man and I want to say that as we look at this today, this is, I will tell you, the easiest out of the three steps. Well, the one step God does, the Holy Spirit does. We don't do it. The first step putting off is the hardest. But the easiest of these three admonitions of Christ to follow the Christ-life Christ-like life. Is the easiest of the three steps. Once you have put off and you've been renewed by the spirit of your mind, this final step is the easiest, and that is to put on the new man. What we've got to do first is to understand how we're going to do that. How are we going to put on the new man? And what we find here in the passage is a method by which God wants us to do it, and it's not going to be a list of steps. We're going to see that after we pray. Let's ask the Lord's blessing in our time together. Father, as we look at your word this morning, I pray that you would help us to learn how to live the life that Christ intended us to live. Your desire for us is to learn of Christ. For he is meek and lowly in heart, and we will find rest for our souls, for his yoke is easy and his burden is light. Your desire for us, dear Father, is to revel in this ability with which you have given us to put on the new man. And I pray today as we look at your word that you would help us to have clarity about what it is not and what it is, and then how to identify what the new man is and then how to do this. I pray, Lord, that this what you would cause us to really grasp how you desire for us to follow Christ. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. It is necessary for us really to begin negatively by looking at what the new man, what putting on the new man is not. I just feel a real need for us to do this, and the Martin Lloyd Jones has really given us five principles to really Make sure we understand what it is. We first need to understand what it is not. And these come from him and I think they're they're absolutely helpful. Number one, what we're talking about here is not mindless mechanical conformity That's not what we're talking about. We are so easily tempted and drawn into this sort of mindless mechanical informity that if I have this set and this standard and this put together and this this in place and everything is put in place and this then then I'm going to be good. I don't have to think about it anymore. The Christian life is not that way. We will never be able to put our our Christian life on cruise control. It's not possible, brothers and sisters in Christ, for us to to live the Christian life and to just check out of it. And wouldn't we all be tempted to do that? Aren't there times where we are just really tempted to to to think that we've got enough in place in our lives that we can just sort of coast? God did not intend for us to ever coast in the Christian life. That's why we have active principles like putting off and being renewed and putting on. Well, being renewed is passive, and the Holy Spirit does it, and then putting on, which is act which is active. Because God wants us to understand that this is not mindless mechanical conformity. There are some churches that have all of these moral rules for morality. I'm not talking, by the way, here about institutional. rules. You have to have institutional rules just to be orderly. Anytime you get more than three people together, maybe two. You've got to have some some sort of commun rules help communicate a a normative approach to something. So I'm not talking here about institutional rules, but folks, when we make rules, um when we make rules a matter of morality, when we begin to just think that we can have that kind of approach, we are in danger of blind following. The Christian must not do things without knowing why he is doing them, according to Martin Lloyd-Jones. He must not do them blindly, just because he has been told to. Not at all. Intelligence is essential. The spirit of the mind. If you do not know why you are living the Christian life, you are being a very poor Christian. So number one, that's important for us. Number two, it is not mystical. About here is not On the one hand, we sometimes tend to think that we can just have this sort of list. But on the other hand, if we're not careful, we can we can begin to think that we we can sort of live in this mystical way. A mystic is someone who tends to allow himself to be brought very low and then through solitude under the often the auspices of prayer is has this self-introspection that causes him to have sort of emotional ecstasy or emo an emotional high. And really, folks, the root of mysticism is just emotionalism. That is not what we are talking about here when we're talking about putting on the new man. We are talking here not about emotionalism. So on one hand, we're not talking about checking out in intellectually, but we are also not talking about mysticism as well. Number three. It is not to the exclusion of putting off. You and I can never put on to the exclusion of putting off. It is never able to think to ourselves, okay, well all I ever do now And we know that because the Bible depicts here this this concept as we look at scripture. For instance If you look here at verse 25, it says, wherefore, putting away line, putting off, speak every man truth with his neighbor. Be angry and not. Let not the sun go down upon you wrath, neither give place to the devil. Let him who stole steal none no more, but let him labor and give. So you see intermixed here the Christian life is really a matter of putting off and putting and putting off more and putting on and putting off more and putting on. It's not one to the exclusion of the other. That's why Paul calls it a walk. It's not something that you can just do and not think about. Number four, it is not speaking merely of external or the intellectual. It's not speaking merely of the external or the intellectual. Sometimes when we think of putting off and putting on, because it the illustration is cloaked Thinking here about put doing external it's we're talking here about external behavior. Some of it is external behavior, but it is not all and not primarily external, and it's not just an intellectual thing Sometimes, folks, we need to be careful when it comes to understanding the Bible that we do not think of it as an academic subject. It is something we have to be very balanced about this. God is the author and creator of language. God created grammar. He created the language with which he chose to communicate to us, both in the original language and then obviously our own language. God created all that. So we don't want to ec extract from or like be distract uh get to the point where we're we're not even thinking about the the language because God Hand, we do have to be careful here that we don't just think of the Bible in terms of an intellectual, academic subject, and we don't have any application. Both are vitally important. The balance is important for us. Also, number finally, it is not just the inflating of the positive and the deflating of the negative. Folks, what we are talking here is not a matter of just def inflating the positive or exaggerating the positive or promoting the positive and diminishing the negative. Sometimes we think In terms of that. We think, well, putting off the old man must be that I don't have any negative thoughts. And putting on the new man means that I have all positive thoughts. Folks, that is not what we're talking about here. We are not talking here merely about just thinking positive. Positively. Does is some of that included? Well perhaps it is. Putting on the new man is far more positive than putting off the old man. Certainly it is. But folks, there to think requires both the observation of the negative and the observation of the positive. If you're going to have discernment, if you're going to have discernment If you're going to live as a result of your own thinking, you're going to have to do both. And so it is not just the inflating of the positive and the deflating of the negative. In fact, I would just of offer this. Sometimes we need to really think negatively. And he said, what in the world? I don't like this at all. Sometimes folks, we need to think about what we need to think about what we're really doing, what we're Really thinking, what we're really saying, we need to think enough about it to identify what is negative, to identify what's wrong, really, what is sinful. To be able then to put it off. You can't put off the old man until you know what it is, right? You can't put off the lifestyle of the old man until you can identify what the lifestyle of the old man is. That's when you are able then to put it off. Then what so that is that's what we want to make sure that we're not doing. Now, at this point, folks, I just want to point this out. What you find in this passage here. Is a very simple verse. Notice what it says here. Chapter 4, verse 24. And that ye put on the new man. Which after God is created in righteousness and true holiness. That's it. There is a simplicity about putting on a new man. Don't miss that. It's not a list of steps. It's not a list of, it's just, it just says, put it on. Here's how it's created. Here's what it looks like. And I'll use the fishing illustration again. How many of you all would say that I know how to fish? I'm just curious. How many of you all have no Say that would say that. How many of you all would say, I h know how to teach somebody else how to fish? Okay. How many of you all had tried teaching somebody else how to fish? How many of you all have found it victim? I I would raise my hand with that. In fact, there are some people that just have no business. I'm just gonna be honest with you. I I took um uh uh Jul Porche and I took somebody out, I won't say who it was, and and uh and um we just kind of concluded I said, I don't think he's ever gonna be able to finish. I mean he's all tied up and not not all kinda stuff. We're just I mean, you know, and he didn't catch anything and he's Now there's he's trying to teach me how. I don't understand how. And we're like, I mean we taught you how everything worked. We I I don't know what else, you know. I mean, because the reality is folks, the only way to learn how to fish is really to fish. That's really the only way. If you want to learn how to fish, you just gotta fish. The only thing that really a teacher can do is to teach you what the different components are. What is this long pole do? What is this reel do? What does the string do? What does the hook do? How does what is this what is this weight for? What is the worm for I mean or or or and if you're basic whatever kind of fishing you're doing The best that a person can really do is to teach you how everything kind of works. In other words, how to identify what does what. When it comes to fishing, after that, I mean you could basically basic teaching on how to cast, basic teaching on how to reel in. The rest of it is really going to be the more you do it, the better you're going to get at it. It really is you learn as you go. And really, this Christian life is very similar. You can't really have it all figured out It's not as though you just have you have it sort of you learn these steps or principles and say, okay, and then I've got it all figured out. The Christian life is not that way. What God desires for us, the key to the methodology, if there's a methodology of the Christian life, the key to it is understanding an identification of how it works. We need to id or not particularly how it works, but identify what the new man is. It's like Uh understanding okay what the rod does, what the reel does, what does the hook do, what what all these things do. If I sit somebody down and explain all that to them and they watch me fish, then they just need to do what I'm doing. That's really about all you can do Folks, what God, what Paul is going to do here is he is going to simply tell you how to identify the new man. In fact, that really is what the whole point of this passage is. Why did he ascribe in great detail the old man? Because he wanted you to identify what it is so that you can put it off. What is it that he's going to do here? He's going to want you to identify what the new man is. Why? So that when you identify it, then you will be able to learn how to put it off by doing it. The only way to put off the new man is to do it. So let's look at how God desires for us, what God wants us to identify. First of all, I want you to notice here, folks, that it tells us that it is created after God. The new man that God has given us is created after him. Now I would wonder as you read that phrase, created after God, I would wonder what your mind would go to. to. If you're trying to figure out what that means, what people is getting at here, what would your mind go to? Your mind might go to Ephesians chapter 2 verse 10, which says that we are created to be his workmanship. Created in Christ Jesus under good works. We see that word created. But it would also possibly be that your mind might go to Genesis. And if it is, if your mind went there, then it's probably going to the right place. Because what God says in Genesis chapter 1 verse 26 is that we are created in God's That God created us in His likeness so that we can accurately glorify him or accurately reflect his glory or I'll put it another way accurately reflect his identity God desires for us to reflect who He is and thereby glorify Him. Well, that's what Christ-likeness is, isn't it? Christ is the manifestation of God. How do you know God? You must know Christ. How do you be uh how do you glorify God? You become Christ-like. But God is not left up your foe. Just to figure this out on our own, just to muster it up, and we will suddenly be like Christ on our own. He has given to us a new man. The reason that God had to do that was because we fell, right? If you go back to the old if you go back to the the original fall of Adam and Eve, they fet fell, which did damage the image of God in man. It distorted it. So that you and I, just born without any kind of correction, do not accurately reflect God's identity, do we? No one does. No one is born accurately reflecting. So what what people see from someone who isn't doesn't know the Lord and there's nothing that that's happened in their life for in God's f intervention is a distortion of who God really is. The new man though is a complete Complete accurate reflection of who God is. God has given us a new man. I want us to really understand this. And so what I'm going to do is I'm going to take us through a various passages of scripture to help us with this. I I pray and hope that there is real clarity about this So what I'd like you to do is to take your Bibles and turn to Romans chapter 6, if you would. Take your Bibles and turn to Romans chapter 6. Romans 6 is probably, if you wanted to go to one key passage on understanding how to both put off the old man and put off the new man, put on the new man. It doesn't use those terms, but the principles are really all there. In that case, it says that you need to know and then reckon and then yield. And we're not going to exegete the entire passage, but I do want to identify a couple of things for you. In Romans chapter 6, verse 6, that we have looked at before, and I want to be very clear about this, it says, knowing this, that our old man is crucified. It's done. That the body of sin, which we looked at last week as well, the body of sin, which is the flesh, might be rendered Rendered inoperative. In other words, we have the flesh, but you do not it is not a controlling factor in our lives That henceforth we should what? We should not be enslaved. The word serve there means to be enslaved. We should not be enslaved to sin. Now, you can parse that any way you want. I have disagreements in this room on how this all works with regard to the old man or the new New man and all the all of this and how this is all going to work. But let me just say this: what God wants us to get from Romans 6 is that you are not under the domination uh under the domination of sin after you're saved. That is clear in the passage. Romans 6:9 says, Knowing that Christ being raised from the dead dieth no more, death hath no more dominion over him. Romans 6:11. Likewise, reckon you to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. The one thing that is absolutely undeniable. Is that God has freed us from the power or the bondage or the dominion of sin? Aren't you glad about that? So that if you are under the the if you feel as though you are under the dominion of sin, what is the problem, folks? You and I are deceived. You say, I have been having a I have had I have been struggling with a sin for a decade or two decades or three decades. It is the problem is not that you are under the dominion of sin, folks. The problem, according to the Bible, is that you are deceived to think you are. And we are easily deceived, aren't we? I'm not in any way trying to suggest that we need to be that we are not this is not a problem for us and that sin is not a problem for us or that we And we need to come to the point where we understand that if we are under sin or we're struggling with it, if there's There's a particular problem with us, then it is not. Satan would want us to believe that we have that he has dominion over us. And that his that our sin dominates us and controls us. He would want us to believe that. But God says something very differently. He says we are not under the dominion of sin. Now, what we need to do then is understand though that there is something, there are two elements to this whole makeup of man. That causes us a lot of problems. The one is the flesh. From the flesh, we have desires that are evil and wrong. The other is something that is very corruptible. Would you take your Bibles and just turn a couple of chapters over to Romans chapter 8, and you're going to see this. Romans chapter eight. While you're turning there, we need to understand Our relationship to the old man or just be reminded of it. Folks, the relationship to the old man is that it is dead, but in some sense it's still present. After we know Christ. I think dead skin is a really good illustration of that. What God wants us to do, the key there is what remains is the lifestyle. Right? Ephesians 4. 22, you're in Romans 8, don't turn to Ephesians 4. 22, but it says that you put off concerning the former conversation the old man which is corrupt according to the deceitful lusts. What is it? The former conversation, the lifestyle of the old man, that is what we've got to identify and to put off Now, we're in Romans chapter 8, and I want you to see this picking up in verse 20. What else is going to be involved in all of this as this all works together? Verse 20 says this, for the creature was made subject to vanity, not willingly, but by reason of him who hath subjected the same in hope Because the creature itself also shall be delivered from the We see that word. What's the next word there, folks? Bondage of what? Corruption into the glorious liberty of the children of God. What is it talking about there? It says the creature itself What is it talking about? Folks, it's talking there about our physical bodies. Our physical bodies are under the corruption. We're going to see that in a minute. I'm going to prove that to you in a phone. But I want you to tell you something about this. Would you notice in this same chapter in Romans chapter 8, God's end goal for us? Would you look at and you'll d be familiar with this, I'm sure, would you look here at verse twenty-nine? For whom he did for no well look at verse twenty eight because it's So familiar to us, and we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them that are called according to the purpose, for whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his Son, that he might be to the firstborn among many brethren. Moreover, whom he did predestinate, them he also called, and whom he called, them he justified, and whom he justified, them he also what He glorified. What God is doing for the believer is he is bringing them to a place where they will one day be glorified. We will completely glorify God because everything about us will be changed. Let me ask you a question at this point. When someone trusts Christ as their Savior, is everything new? Now some of you are looking at me and going, that is a trick question. Because we know that the Bible tells us if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away, all things are become new. Now, I would love to get honest. An honest response to this, I'd love to get it. I don't know if I will, but I would love to get an honest response to this. How many of you would say that at some time or another that verse has bothered you I'm going to raise my hand to let you know that it's okay. I got four people four honest people in the room. How many of you, really think about it. How many of you have that at some point or another that that verse has bothered you Is everything new or not when you're saved? We're going to answer that question for you. Okay? We're working through this. What we're doing here is very important. If we don't understand these things, folks, it's very hard for us to identify the new man. And if you can't identify it, how can you ever put it on? The next passage I'd like you to go to is 1 Corinthians chapter 15. 1 Corinthians chapter 15. This is a passage that deals with the resurrection. It deals with the resurrection of Christ, but it also deals with the resurrection of the believer. Now, what will happen at the resurrection of the believer? They will also be glorified, right? We just read that in Romans. And what God is doing is bringing us to a point of glorifying, of of of uh we're we're reaching glorification when we see Christ. How does this all work? That was the question that's really posed in 1 Corinthians And the problem that was suggested is that how can you make an old body new again? And he answers this question in 1 Corinthians. It says, awake to righteousness and sin not. For some have not the knowledge of this is verse 34. I'm sorry, 34 of 1 Corinthians 15. Awake to righteousness and sin not. For some have not the knowledge of God. I speak this to your shame. But some man will say, How are the dead raised up? And with what body do they come? Thou fool, that which thou sowest is not quickened except it die. quickened means to be made alive. Verse 37. And that which thou sowest, thou sowest not, but the body that shall be but bear green It may chance of wheat or of some other grain. But God giveth it a body as it hath pleased him And every seed, I want you to get that in your mind, sort of get that stuck in your mind for a minute. Every seed and his seed his own body All flesh is not the same flesh. But there is one kind of flesh of man, another of uh flesh of beasts, another of fishes, another of birds. There are also there are also celestial flesh What he's saying here, folks, is there are different kinds of bodies. But the glory of the celestial is one and the glory of the terrestrial is another. The identity is what he's talking about there. identity or glory of the stars. For one star differs from another star in Glory. So also the resurrection of the dead is sown in corruption. Folks, what is corrupt It's the body. The body is sown in corruption and is raised in incorruption. It is sown in dishonor. It is raised in glory. It is sown in weakness. It is raised in power. It has shown a natural body and raised a spiritual body. There is a natural body and there is a spiritual body. The point that I'm making here, folks, is what is that thing that is under the bondage of corruption? The body is. Is are we under the bondage of sin? The answer, folks, is no. Is the old man under the bondage of sin? The answer is no. Is the flesh under the bondage of sin? The answer is no. The flesh will deceive us, but it's not under the bondage, we're not under the bondage of the flesh. But are we under the body but what about our bodies? Our bodies are under this corruption. Now, with all of that in mind, I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn to 1 John chapter 3. 1 John chapter 3. And it is really with this passage that we're going to begin to understand that The nature of this new seed, and then we're going to look at that if any man be in Christ that a power pa that apparently has bothered me and four other people. First Corinthians, first John chapter three, verse nine verse I'm picking up here in verse one. Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us, that we should be called the sons of God. Therefore the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not. Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be. Do you notice that, folks? We ain't done yet Right? Excuse my grammar. Does not yet appear what we should be. But we know when he shall appear, we shall be like him. For we shall see him as he is. Folks, at that point, what will be like him? Well, the answer is everything, but specifically, it's the body, right? Now, he's going to begin to explain this. How are things now then? And every man that hath his hope in him purifies himself, even as he is pure. How does he purify himself? Whosoever committeth sin transgresseth also the law, for sin is the transgression of the law. And he knoweth that he was manifested to take away our sins. And in him is no sin. Whosoever abideth in him sinneth not. Whosoever sinneth hath not seen him, neither know him. Now let me just pause there for a minute and just tell you that some that this This word whosoever could be translated whatsoever. Now, with that in mind, look at verse 7. Little children, let no man deceive you. He that doeth righteousness is righteous, even as he is righteous. He that committeth sin is of the devil, for the sin for the devil sinneth uh sinneth from the beginning. For this purpose, the Son of God was manifested, and he made that he might destroy the works of the devil. Verse 9 is going to be key for us to understand how how all this works. I I don't have the time to identify to ex to actually exegete all that in that passage. If you want to exeges of that, I actually preached through the book of first John a couple of uh years almost a couple But verse nine helps us understand this. Whosoever is born of God doth not commit sin. Now, let me just suggest to you folks that that should be whatsoever. Okay? Whatsoever is born of God doth not commit sin. For his what? His seed remaineth in him. And he cannot sin because he is born of God. Now, um Lloyd Jones says this about this. This process, this act of regeneration, this renewal of the image, this thing which happens to us in the rebirth, this new creation is, as the Apostle John puts it. like the implanting within us of a divine seed. Now, does that not help us? I want you to just think about this. We've got the body that's corrupt. That doesn't change after we're saved. We've got the flesh that's still there. That doesn't change after we saved. We have the old man that's crucified that renders the flesh from being from actually being able to dominate us. That does change And then we have this new man inserted into us, that new seed. I think the best illustration, because the biblical illustration, is a seed being planted in us that is growing. It's the new man. And that seed is after God, and everything about that seed is made is new. Now, what about our 2 Corinthians 517 passage? Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. And really the key here it says, Behold, all things are become new. Let me just ask you a question. Should this be translated all things have become new, or all things are becoming new? And if you said either one, you would be right. Because what this is is in The perfect tense. And in the Greek, what that means is that there is something that has happened in the past that gives continuing results into the future. Folks, at conversion, what happened? We were given what? That new man that was inserted into us. It's that seed that was in us. Then it has continuing results into the future, so that that new man is constantly doing what? It is making us into more and more conformed in the image of Christ. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Does it mean the body is no longer corrupt? No. Does it mean the flesh is no longer there? No. What does it mean? It means that he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are becoming new. So that what happened in the past, it did happen, has continued results into the future, and that one day it will all be made right when we see see Christ. And we will be like him, for we shall see him as he is. Now, the question then, folks, is simply, what's our role in this? Well, we already know we've got to put off the lifestyle of the old man. We know that we are going to be renewed. It's not just we're doing this on our own. We're going to be renewed by in the spirit of our mind by the Spirit of God, as we learned last week. And we know that we need to put on the new Man, and folks, the key to this, the key to this is you've got to identify what the new man is. In other words, folks, if we could physically look inside ourselves and say, what's the new man? Okay, there's the old There's the new man. And I need to follow after that. But it's a little it's not exactly it's not tangible, right? So it's not as though you can look inside yourself and do that. In fact, if you look inside yourself too long You just become a mystic. Okay, so let's let's uh let's took a look and see how we're supposed to do this biblically. Turn back to Ephesians. Ephesians chapter 4. And God is going to help us with this with three very simple terms. What we're trying to do now is simply to identify the need. New man or the new person. By the way, I keep using those terms interchangeably. I can't decide which one to use. The word man is not it's not the word man. in the Greek there. A person is is probably far more uh accurate, but uh however you want to do it is fine. I'd use them interchangeably. Um Ephesians chapter four. And we have here, it is after God. It's created after God in what? And we actually have, folks, three things here. The way it's translated is a little veiled, but there are really three distinct things here. You've got righteousness, you've got holiness, and then you've got truth What are the identifiable characteristics of the new man? Well, it's created after God. What are the things that are create- what is it that you're going to identify? Number one, righteousness. The new man is always Your flesh isn't righteous. Your body's not righteous, but the new man is always righteous. The new man is always righteous. The new man is always hol And the new man is always true. There's truth in the new man. Now, let's just define a couple of these very quickly here. The word righteousness, if you think of the word righteousness, you can also use the word just. In fact, it's used interchangeably in the New Testament. The same word you Greek word is used both in the Ways in the New Testament, righteous and just. It is that thing with which God declares us when we're saved, isn't it? We are justified. We are declared what? Righteous. So when we get when we trust Christ as our Savior, when that happens, we are declared positionally righteous. And then God places within us his righteous person, his new man in us, that's created after him. That's going to help restore us back to the place where we are, where that image of God is not distorted, which is going to happen when? When we see Christ. So we're in that process right now You see how all this works? So what we need to do, what our role in all of this is to is to identify what the new man is, and that new man is righteous. And by the way, let me just say Very generally, it's very different from the old man. I want to say very generally this. It's different in that the new man is simple. There is great simplicity to the new man. man. There is great complexity to the old one. You'll find true about sin. The more sin you have infused into a situation, the more complex it is, the more complicated it is. You look at the life of the a uh of someone who is is not living righteously, if you live if you look at the life of someone, let's let's say you're at work and you and you have somebody that's unsaved and they're all their lives are so complicated. God says, follow me. It's simple. Just Christ says, follow me. One step at a time. Just walk with me. Just follow me. It's simple. There's a ma there's a general difference between walking after Christ, following Christ Christ, and following your old man. It's simplicity. But also righteousness is going to characterize the new man. Number two Holiness. Holiness is really carries the idea of separateness. It is entirely separate from sin. It is completely holy. There is an essential moral purity that is there. That's why God, when God says, be holy, as I am holy, what is he saying? He's saying that your new man, your lifestyle ought to match with your new man. Your new man is holy, but your lifestyle doesn't match your new man. And finally, folks, it is created and truth. And this, I think, is going to be practically the most helpful for us. It is created in truth. Would you take your Bibles and turn to the book of John, John chapter 8? This is going to become very, very helpful for us when we're identifying And I really think if there's one singular thing to walk away from with how to put on the new man, you're going to find it in this passage, and then we're going to look at one other passage as well. John chapter eight, verse thirty, you're gonna see here it says As he spake these words, many believed on him. Then said Jesus to those Jews who believed on him, if ye continue in what? Folks, that's key. If ye continue in my word. Or if you abide, the words translated sometimes, abide, if you abide in my word. That's how it's translated in John 15. Then are ye my disciples indeed, and ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall what? It will make you free. They answered him, we be Abraham's seed, and were not and were never in bondage to any man How sayest thou, ye shall be made free? Jesus answered them, Verily, verily, I say to you, whosoever committed sin is a servant of sin. You commit sin one time, you're a slave to it, apart from God's intervention. And the servant abideth not in the house forever, but the son abideth at forever. If the son therefore shall make you free, ye shall be free indeed. Now folks, I want to pause here and just ask you the question. If we're free, why don't we feel like it? We are not allowing the word to abide in us. That is going to become the crucial issue. How can you identify truth in the new man if you don't know the truth? How can you walk after the lifestyle of the new man Which is truth if you are not constantly saturated with the truth And really, folks, the key to all of this, it really all boils down as it so often does. We've got Meditate on the Word of God. John 17, 17, Christ prayed this. He said, Sanctify them through thy truth, thy word is truth. The more you know the Word and meditate on the Word, the more you will be living in the truth. And the more you're living in the truth, the more you'll be able to identify the truth of the new man, and the more you'll be able to put on the new man I'd like to take you to one more passage, and that is Psalm 119. And while you're turning there, I would like to suggest something else to you. Do you realize that I can't personally find too many places in the Bible where the there is a command for you as an individual to read the Bible. Did you know that? I'm not saying you shouldn't read your Bible. I'm saying that you can't find a an individual command. You have examples. But you can't find too often an individual command to read your Bible. But you have throughout the entire book of Psalms and many other places The command and the example to meditate on it. Do you know that you will get very little benefit from a cursory reading of Scripture? I am really comfortable saying that. That if you just read the words, and that's all you're really doing is you're gonna, you know, I'm gonna get through my 15 minutes of devotional time, and I'm gonna read these two chapters. and I'm going to read it. And after you read it, you go, I don't even know what. You know, I don't even know what I'm at. Folks, that will do you no good. There's no hocus pocus. It's not a mystical thing. What God says, what God expects of us and desires of us is that we meditate on the Word of God. Psalm 119, 11 says, Thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not what? Sin against thee. Back in Psalm 1, it tells us, delight thyself also in the Lord. And it says in that passage, if you will delight in the law of the wise man, delights in the law of God. And in his law doth he what? Meditate day and night, and he shall be like a tree planted by the river of waters, which bring forth fruit this season. His leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. I want you to see in verse 15 of Psalm 119, I will meditate in thy precepts. Verse 23. Princes also did sit and speak against me, but thy servant will meditate in thy statutes. Verse 27. Make me to understand the way of thy precepts. And the word understand, I think, is actually the same word as meditate. Psalm 119, 48. My hands also will lift up unto thy commandments. which I have loved, and I will meditate in thy statute. Psalm 1197. Let the proud be ashamed, for they dwelt perversely with with me without a cause, but I will meditate in thy precepts. Psalm 1197 Oh, how I love thy law. It is my meditation all the day. Psalm 119, 148. Mine eyes prevent the night watches that I might meditate in thy word. Folks, what is the overriding principle of what we are to do with the Word of God it is for us to meditate on We need to fill our minds with it. We need to constantly think about it. We need to, dare I say, memorize it. We need to sing songs about it. You know the Old Testament, we were talking about this in Sunday school. I'm really thankful for truth trackers. They're learning scripture songs. My kids are singing them everywhere. That's great. We need to be singing songs about scripture songs. They're songs about God's Word. They did that in the Old Testament. Learn doctrine. That's how they learned doctrine. They didn't have words in front of them. They learned doctrine by singing songs of great attributes and acts of God. That's how they learned it. We are losing this in our in our society. We've got so many inputs going smartphones and iPads and all kinds of stuff everywhere from every uh you know, we are constantly bombarded with input every when are we ever going to meditate on anything? I'm not saying they're wrong. I've got 'em. You can see it. I've just Did you notice by the way this entirely blocked the lady? Like w there are two ladies that we didn't couldn't even see 'cause of this thing. Um I think the reason that uh that that you guys chose me as your pastor in the very beginning was because you wouldn't have to move change this pulpit. I'm tall enough to get see over top of it. I'm kidding. But really folks, this meditation It's really important. It's absolutely vital. When is the last time You spent a half hour meditating on the truths of God or an hour or an or two hours. You say, I just can't really see myself sitting in one place for two hours and just meditating on scripture. You know, you don't really have to do that. I wouldn't think it'd be a bad thing, but you know, you can run a meditate on exercise or whatever, or drive in the car. You can't read the Bible when you drive in the car, but you can meditate on scripture when you drive in the car. I mean, we can live a life of meditating on scripture. We can do that It ought to be just permeating our thinking and satis saturating our minds. And then when when that happens, we will be having the truth in us and our minds and when we know the truth we'll be able to identify the truth. And we will then be able to identify the new man. And the key to putting on the new man is to identify it. There is a certain enjoyment and pleasure in meditating on God's Word. And it but I will just tell you it is something, just from personal experience, something that's got to be cultivated like any like any um anything that any kind of pleasure. It's something that you've got to cultivate. It doesn't happen right away. You've got to and God I really think can help with this just by asking the Lord to help you, give you the desire to pre- to make meditate on his word. But this is something that if you will do and and we will work, you'll work at, you'll find that it becomes enjoyable. A couple of different ways you can do this is a three by five card works. You can use your iPhone if you want, or I'm sorry, Android phone too for you know you got b uh biblical programs on there or you can find Bible programs. You can you You can uh have music that are scripture music. I like to listen to uh um have you ever heard how many have ever heard of Marty I think it's Marty Getz? Marty Yeah. Marty Getz. How many of you ever how many of you know Marty Getz? Okay, we've got two, three, four, five Okay. It's all s he just it's I think it's like all scripture. I'm listen I listened to his and it's just all scripture. And uh I love listening to his music. I mean you want to learn to meditate, listen on his listen to his music. He's just he's just saying So there are ways to do this. We will do this if we will really now you might not like his style very much. It's it's uh but I I actually really like it because I've gotten used to desire for uh the the enjoyment of it. But folks, listen, let me just encourage you to do this and you will be able to identify and you'll be able to and you know what it's gonna what's gonna come a time where where you'll you'll you'll start following after the new man and you won't want that old man As much always be a desire for it, but you won't want it as much and you won't want to sacrifice giving up the new man to the old man. Fodder We thank you for your word. We would admit entirely that we would be completely lost without it It is our necessary food. It is that which we must constantly think about and meditate on. It is what we need in order to be Christ has said that He has made us free. And it is that we are sanctified by the truth. And I pray, Lord, that you would really help us to identify the importance of this. That we would not just have our Sunday morning time with you. But that we would have a life with you. We would admit before you that there are so many times that we are deceived by our own flesh. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to know the truth so that we are not as frequently deceived. So that one day we can stand before Christ and make us like him and there will can be a complete a complete Transformation. We look forward to that day where we are freed even from the presence of sin. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.