Last week we began looking at how to put on the new man. And of course, the first step to putting on the new man is to put off the old one or to put on a new person. And uh is to put off the old person. And if you recall last week we began with an illustration, um or we end uh excuse me, we ended with an illustration. of a man who was at a campground and um was ready to take a shower, so he went up to the the shower facilities. Took everything with him except his new clothes. And so he finished his shower and had nothing and and was really unable to do anything except put his old clothes back on. And we illustrated the importance of being able to not only take your old clothes off, but that uh talking about our our um the old man but also the importance of being able to to do it for the purpose of something that is positive. Today we are going to recover a little bit more about the importance and how specifically we put off the old man. And then we are going to begin to look at why we're doing it for the purpose of being able to put on the new person, which after God is created in righteousness. and true true holiness. You're in Ephesians chapter 4, and what I would like you to do is keep your finger or put a marker there. And I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn over to Matthew chapter 11. I want to show you something that I think is going to be helpful for us in our study of this passage. You're in Ephesians 4, so turn over to Matthew chapter 11 and pick up here in verse 28. It's a rather familiar passage of scripture for us You have heard it before, but I'm going to maybe shed a little bit of new light on this passage. Matthew chapter 11, verse 28. Christ says this: Come unto me All ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you. And what's the next word there after end? And learn of me, learn of Christ, for I am meek and lowly in heart, and ye shall find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. Now, with that in mind, would you look over to Ephesians chapter 4? And I want you to see a connection here. Ephesians chapter 4, and we are in verse 20. But ye have not so what? You have not so learned Christ. And he's talking there about the lifestyle of the person who is not walking with the Lord, really the lifestyle of an unbeliever In verse 21, we see here, if so be that ye have heard him and have been taught by him as truth is in, as the truth is in Jesus. Then what we find is a structure that I didn't really um emphasize last week that I want to make sure I emphasize this week. What you have then after this are three There there in the Greek there are three infinitive phrases for you English people. The infinitive in the Greek is roughly equivalent to the infinitive in the in the in the English. But uh it has a sense of purpose to it, and it's very clear uh in the Greek. It's just not as clear the way it's translated here. But I want you to see this. There are essentially, let's put it this way, there are three purposes or Three intended results of learning of Christ. In other words, what is supposed to happen when you're learning of Christ? Number one, verse 22, that ye put off concerning the former conversation. Number two, that you be, verse 23, renewed in the spirit of your mind. And number three, that ye put on the new man. What Paul is saying here is that if we are genuinely learning of Christ, those three things are our goals. That's what's going to happen as we learn of Christ. When Christ came to this earth, he said, You need to learn of me. And Paul is saying, this is how you do it. What we want to occupy our thinking today with, we talked a lot about last week about the importance of putting off the old man. And we talked about the importance of putting on the new man. What I want to deal with today is how. How do we practically do this? And I want to say that there is a lot of confusion about this, about putting on and putting off, with regard to the new person. The reason that there is so much confusion about this is that it is sometimes hard for us to understand what our role is versus God's role. What is God's role in this whole process of our living the life that God wants us to live? And what is our role? We know, for instance, that we can't do things in our own strength, that it's got to be Christ that does it. But certainly it's wrong for us to think as well that we have no part or no role in this as well. And there cu becomes a lot of confusion about this. There's a lot of confusion among Christians about what is my role. There are some people that lean too far to one extreme and they say, well, you know, it's just God's just gonna have to do this for me. He's just He's just gonna have to take it away And then there are other people that say say, well, no, this is all about me, and it's just my I muster up in my own strength and I force it and I make it happen. What I want to show you today from God's Word is that there I want us to be very precise and very distinct about what is your responsibility. in putting off the old lifestyle and putting on the new lifestyle. And what is God's role in this? And to be very clear, as clear as I possibly can, about the distinctions in these things. things. Because what we will find as we distinguish these things, it will become clear what our role is and what God's role is, and we really will be able to begin to live the Christian life as God desires for us. And what we want to do though, then, first of all, actually we're going to pray, and then we're going to get into the passage, and we are going to recover this concept of putting off the old man. I want to say this before we pray. That putting off the old man and putting on the new man is inseparably linked You cannot do one without doing the other. That is why in the following passage you see it's not as though there's one section in the following passage that says, okay, well these are all the things that you need to do put the all off the old man And then you can do put off the old the the new man. Let me show you what I mean just real quickly. For instance, in verse 26 it says, be angry and sin not Let not the sun go down upon your wrath, neither give place to the devil. You have both putting off and putting on. 28. Let him his soul steal no more, putting off, but let him labor working with his hands, putting on. Um that he may have to give to him that is needeth. Let no corrupt commun communication proceed out of your mouth, putting off, but that which is good to the use of edifying, putting on, that it may minister grace into his You see that? In other words, folks, there is no way that you can say in your mind, in your thinking, that you can put off without putting on. It will not work. But equally true is that you will never be able to put on until you have first put off And so what we've got to do is to understand exactly how God desires for us to put off. First, we're going to need the Lord's help with this, so let's pray to him. Father, I pray today that you would help me to communicate with as much clarity as possible the difference. between what your role is and what our role is. I really believe that this passage explains this. And I pray, Lord, that there would be just a clarity about our thinking when it comes to these things as a result of this message. That you would help us to stay in tune to these things. That you would help us to stay focused. So that we don't miss any individual part of this, but that we would take it as a whole. I pray that you would help us in this area. And we pray that I want you to know that I am I am very much aware of the of the tendency within In certain circles in Christianity, for everything to be all about us and for our motivation to be primarily guilt-driven. What I'm going to say today, some of the beginning things I'm going to say today, could take on that role if you're not thinking about them correctly. But I believe that there they've got to be said. I am not desiring to blunt the Spirit's sword. by by um by not going over what is clearly scriptural because I'm a I'm um I'm concerned about being overly guilt driven. What I'm going to encourage you to do, there are going to be some of you that as we go through these things, you might say to yourself, you know, this is really heavy heavy on the on the guilt-driven side of things. Well, hold on. Okay, that's the best way I can put it. Hold on because there's but you're gonna see the balance of this as we go through these things. It is in It is very important for us that we that we do see with clarity our responsibility. And that we do not put off that we do not run to excuses about these things. And so my desire is to be very clear. Last week I briefly talked about the difference between The difference between the passage in Romans 6. 6 that says that the old man was crucified And the passage that says here that we need to put off the old man. I'd like you to actually return to that passage. Would you take your Bibles and turn to Romans chapter 6? Kim, read it this morning. And look specifically at verse 6. I want to make some distinctions here for us that will help us. In Romans chapter 6, verse 6, we have two internal parts of man. One is the old man. We have it here. Do you see that? Knowing this, that our old man, and what does it say about the old man? It is crucified. Folks, what does crucified mean? It means it is put to death. Now, this is written so that we are not the subject of the sentence. In other words, it is not we that crucified the old man. Folks, who crucified the old man? Christ did. It is crucified by him, and it is put into effect when we depend on him by faith, as we trust him as our Savior. I want you to see secondarily, though, that what happens is there's a second part of man here in this passage, and that is the body of sin here. We would also refer to this as, more commonly, the flesh. We find m multiple passages where the flesh is talked about. We're not talking about the physical flesh that you would pinch with your hand. We're talking about that principle that is within us, that from it emanates the desires, evil desires What this passage says there is that the old man is crucified, but I will tell you this, that it says that the body of sin might be destroyed. That is an unfortunate, very unfortunate translation. The word destroyed there really would much better be translated to be rendered inoperable or to be rendered useless. It's not as though it's dead. The flesh isn't dead, the old man is dead. But the flesh is not dead. Let me give you another translation that will help us with this. The net translation says this. We know that our old man was crucified with him So that the body of sin would no longer dominate us. So, we have two parts that this verse is talking about. We have the old man. The Bible says that the old man is crucified. It is dead. And that by the crucifying of the old man, the flesh no longer dominates the believer. That is, very frankly, you and I never have to sin. Doesn't say we don't sin. In fact, the Bible says that if we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us, according to 1 John. But folks, we are no longer under the power of sin if we know Christ as our Savior. The presence of sin is there within us, the flesh is there. But we are no longer in the power of sin because the old man is crucified. However, the old man is dead, but according to Ephesians, the old man is still there unless we choose to put it off. You follow that? Why is it that we are able to put the old man off in the first place? And I'm really recovering the truth that we talked about last week, but I think it's very important for us. We are able to put off the old man because it is dead. It's like putting off dead skin. Why can you remove dead skin? Well, because it's dead. Have you ever tried to remove live skin? It really hurts. Okay, it's not really advisable. But dead skin is fine to remove. And what we find here in this passage is that although it is dead, it still is with us unless we choose to put it off. Now, what we find in this passage in Ephesians is it's put very speci very sort of just very clearly here. Look at the passage. Turn back to Ephesians and we're going to see this. What are we supposed to do with this old man? Verse 22, it says that ye what? Ye put it off. That's what it says. Ye put it off. That ye put off concerning your former conversation, your former lifestyle, the old man, which is corrupt to the deceitful lusts. One of the distinctive characteristics of the desires from the old man is that they are what? They are distinct And that's why it's so important for us to be very specific about what we are to do with this old man. Very specifically, we are to put it off. But I want to go through a couple of things with regard to a method of how we are to put this off. And number one, I want to explain what will not help you. Number one, no one can do this for you. No one can do this for you. No one doubt there you can probably there's there's uh ways of accountability and there's things that that that can help, but at the end of the day when it comes to putting off this old man, no one can do this for you. You do not find the passage that you You need to go get help to put on the old man put off the old man. It doesn't say that you need to talk to somebody about putting off the old man. It says that you need to put it off. Now, I'm not saying you don't talk to people and get advice and get counsel, but and the multiple counselors are Say it to you, if you're trying to handle it on your own, bad idea. But at the end of the day, you are the one that has to put it off That is, in this passage, your responsibility. It lies nowhere else. And the reason, folks, that that's important for us to understand Is that God has already made every provision for you to put it off? Why? Because He killed it. The old man is dead. And so, number two is not necessary. You're gonna, I don't know if you'll agree with this. It is not necessary for you to pray for it. It is not necessary for you to pray that you put off the old man. D. Martin Lloyd-Jones said this. I felt like I need a little backup on this one. There are points I say in the name of God, in the name of Scripture, about which you do not need to pray, but you do need to think and to apply the doctrine. You put off the old man. You need not pray for guidance about this. Having realized his character, put him off This is not a matter of praying. This is a matter of doing. And so we see that the devil is in its subtlety and as an angel of light can sometimes encourage us to pray in a blind and unintelligent manner Because he knows that as long as we are doing that, we will not think that we will not face the scriptural teaching and apply it to ourselves and to this particular problem. He is really implying here that it might be that the devil wants you to pray about this. Because as long as you're praying about it, you won't do anything about it. But what, he continues, if a believer talks about his lack of strength and power? The answer to this is that a regenerate creature is newborn, a newborn being, he has the power If in the New Testament we are commanded to do a thing, we might rightly expect to receive the Lord the power to do it. And therefore there is no excuse at this point. Folks, it is very important for us to understand that there are many things we ought to pray about. And the Bible says there's a sense in which we ought to pray about everything. And everything give by prayer and supplication. But on this point, folks, Paul doesn't say pray about it, he says put it off. And it is to some degree um It's sort of why would you pray about something that God has already taken care of? He's already killed it. Some people pray things like, Lord, would you give me the victory? Well, wait a minute, God's already given you the victory. So we need to be careful we need to understand with clarity what our responsibility is. There are some things, folks, that you just need to do, and when it comes to putting off the old man, that is something that you need to do The responsibility rests solely on my shoulders and your shoulders when it comes to this. Number three, this is not something that you can let go and let God. God has already done everything necessary for us to be able to put it off. There is a lot of talking about this, about the importance of letting go and letting God But that is something that is not applicable to this particular truth. Matthew 5, 29 through 30 says this. And if thy right eye offend thee, pluck it out, and cast it from thee. For it is profitable for thee that one of thy members shall perish, and not that thy whole body should be cast into hell And if thy right hand offend thee, cut it off, and cast it from thee. For it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not thy whole body that is that should be cast into hell. Now, folks, let me just remind us about this. I don't want to blunt the Spirit's sword by just allegorizing this away or making this figurative Let me ask you a question. Would it be better for you to pluck your eye out than to enter hell? Well, of course it would be better for you to pluck your eye out if that is what it takes. It's entirely unnecessary to do that, because God's already given us the power to to to put off the old man. But the point of this passage, folks, is that there's a sense in which we need to be we need to be violent about this. We need to just take this and be killing the old man, be killing the flesh, the Bible says. Mortify the deeds of the flesh, which we'll get to. Well, with that in mind, I want to just describe with as much detail as possible what will help us. What will help us? Number one, we must remind ourselves of who we are. You must remind yourself of who you are, that you are in Christ. And God has given you all the ability and power that you need to live for Him, that you are in Christ. D. Martin Lloyd-Jones says this: A Christian is a preacher, he preaches to himself. You start your day off by telling yourself, now I am the new man. I am no longer the old man. My old man has been crucified with Christ. My old man is dead. Finish with it. He is non-existent. I am no longer what I was. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature, a new creation. Old things have passed away. Behold, all things are become new. We need to remember, remind ourselves of who we are. Number two, we must remind ourselves of the nature of the old life. We've got to remind ourselves of the nature of the old life. One preacher gave an illustration that will be somewhat surprising to you. There was a man apparently that he led to Christ. He was an older man. And prior to his conversion, this man was very much, uh he was always getting into fights, fist fights with people. Um he would go into the bars and he would he would get into fights. He would uh drink a lot and those kinds of things, but he's always fighting with people. And after he was saved, one day the pastor noticed that his um his mustache had been he he shaved his mustache off. And he the pastor actually thought that that people in the church were like meddling or something and and he was concerned about that. So he went to the went to this man who was a new believer and he said, why did you shave your mustache off? And this man said, because Christians have no business with mustaches. Now you say to yourself, particularly those of you of you out there who have mustaches, you say to yourself, well, what in the world? That doesn't make a lot of sense. Well this man prior to his conversion was very proud of his mustache. Apparently it's extended longer than the average mustache, and he was very proud about that. I I I'm not sure I can identify with this, but but um He he was. Maybe back in that day that you know like the now the thing is the beard, you know, the whole Duck Dynasty thing. I guess back then it was the long mustache or something and Apparently he would get into fights after a uh uh at work about when it uh not work at w wherever he was, he would get into fights. If anybody either made fun of his mustache or said he had a longer mustache or whatever it was, he would get into fight about the uh fights about these things. And so he decided to just to just to di get rid of the entire problem, he would just shave his entire mustache off. Now that makes a little more sense, doesn't it? The reason I point that example out is simply to say this. There was nothing wrong with mustaches for Christians. But this man knew after his conversion that he just was a different person. And he didn't want anything in the way of that. And so he was willing to do what. And nobody told him to do the musta. If somebody would have told him shave your mustache off because then you're a good Christian, what would that have been? Legalism wouldn't have been Phariseeism. But he on his own decided that you know what this mustache does not make a lot of sense for me Because it was such a problem for him. And the reason that it was so effective was because in his own mind he chose to do it The point I'm saying here, I'm making of this is all this, that we need to remind ourselves of the nature of the old life, and it may cause us to make adjustments in our lives. They may be areas of stumbling that somebody else would not stumble over. But there are some things that for us we need to be careful about. Number three, we must remind ourselves of the discontinuity between the old life and the new life. We need to remind ourselves that there is a big difference between the old life, which which is in a corrupt and deep deceitful lust. And you remember last week the vanity that's in the old life, the emptiness, the purposelessness, all of that, folks, is characteristic of the old life And what we have now in Christ is something that is purposeful. And we're going to find other characteristics about that as we go on. We've got to understand that there is a big difference between the two. There is discontinuity between between the old life and the new life. Colossian first 2 Corinthians 6. 14 says this. Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers, for what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness, and what communion hath light with darkness What conquered hath Christ with Biliel? What part hath he that believeth with an infidel? And what agreement hath the temple of God with idols For ye are the temple of the living God. As God has said, I will dwell in them and walk in them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Wherefore come out From among them and be separate, saith the Lord, and touch not the unclean thing, and I will receive you, and will be a father unto you, and ye shall be my sons and daughters, and saith the Lord Almighty Folks, that's in the New Testament. Doesn't mean suddenly that we isolate ourselves from the world, that we become isolationists or hermits or m you know monks or something. But we do need to understand that there is no fellowship between light and darkness. We do need to understand that there is a separateness to our lifestyle. It doesn't mean that we be going we go we go judging everybody else about what their what they do if it's scripture is not clear on it on it. But we do need to think about these kinds of things and make sure that there is clear a clear distinction. Number next. We must be in the process of killing the flesh. John Owen said, be killing sin, or sin will be killing you. Romans 8. 13 says, For if ye live after the flesh, ye shall die. But if ye through the Spirit do mortify the deeds of the body, ye shall live. Mortify, therefore, Colossians 3. 5 says, your members which are upon the earth, fornication, uncleanness, inordinate affection, evil concupiscence, and covetousness which is idolatry The Bible exhorts us and commands us to kill the flesh. How do we do that? Two principles for you. We kill it number one by starving it. If you starve it, um if you You if you you know one of the most the easiest ways to kill something is just don't feed it. It's most the most effortless way. is you just simply don't feed it. And that's why the Bible says, make no provision for the flesh. Don't feed the flesh. Number two, you need to refuse to use it Something goes dormant, you don't use it for long enough, it will simply decay and die. Next, we must bring our bodies into subjection. First Corinthians nine twenty-six I therefore so run not as uncertainty, so fight I not as one that beateth the air, but I keep under my body and bring it into subjection By any means when I have preached to others, I myself shall be a castaway. Folks, the final one I think is probably most important. In fact, I would almost take the problem probably out of my previous statement. We must believe that what we have to gain far surpasses what we are going to lose. We must believe that what we have to gain far surpasses what we are going to lose. It really boils down, folks, to a matter of belief, doesn't it? When we choose to put off the old man and its former lifestyle, The only way that we will genuinely do that is number one if we believe that it is powerless. And number two, if we believe that what we have to gain is far better than what we have to lose. That really brings me to the next point. You'll notice the passage in Ephesians chapter 4 here, and this is more fun to preach on. Verse 23. And be renewed in the spirit of your mind. There are some very important things that we need to understand about this. The Christ life teaches us to be renewed in the spirit of our mind. First of all, let's understand the nature of the renewing. The action that needs to happen is the renewing. And what we find in this passage, first of all, is that it's a continuous action. This has to happen over and over and over again. We need to constantly be renewed in the spirit of our minds. It is a constant thing in our lives that must happen. Secondly, we need to understand that this is a this is actually in the passive voice. We're not the doer of this. When it comes to putting off, we're the doer of that. We've got to do it. But when it comes to this, there is someone else that must do this to us. Well folks, who do you suppose is the one that renews the spirit of our minds? Yeah, I think it's the Holy Spirit That's what we find later on the passage. It tells us not to grieve the Spirit of God, whereby you are sealed into the day of redemption, because it is only the Holy Spirit that is able to renew the spirit of our minds. We're going to look at what the spirit of our minds is in just a moment, but whatever it is, it is something that the Holy Spirit does. But I want to say that it's implied here that we can hinder it. We can't renew the spirit of our minds, but we can hinder the renewing of the spirit of our minds. How do we hinder it? By not putting off the old man. Folks, this should offer great hope for us as Christians. that you and I as Christians are not putting off just a sacrifice. We're putting off so that we can receive We're putting off so that we can genuinely by the Spirit of God be renewed in our minds. This is speaking of revitalization. When we were saved, we were made alive in Christ, but there's an inference here that and that indicates that to us That even though we're made alive, we constantly have to be remade alive over and over again. And don't you feel that in your own experience? If you live the Christian life for any length of time, you know that yes, you are regenerated at the point of salvation, but it is not as though you are suddenly always at your best. You need the Spirit of God to renew the Spirit of your mind, and you and I both need that And our responsibility is to put off the old man. But we're not putting off the old man just so that we can keep putting off the old man. We're putting off the old man so that we can be renewed by God. Understanding this principle is vital to the sustainability of putting off the old man. You could put off the old man for a while. But if you do not understand that the reason that you are doing it is so that the spirit of your mind can be renewed by God, it will become mundane to you to do so. It's something that you and I must understand. We must be it is really talking here almost about we are recreated in Christ according to Ephesians chapter 10 for good works and for for we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus and the good works. But there is a sense in which we have got to there is a part of us that has to constantly be renewed, and that happens through Jesus through the Spirit of God. Now, at this point, what we've got to understand and we've got to get right is this concept of the spirit of our minds. What is the spirit of our minds? I want to say at the outset, this is not talking just about the mind. There are some times where we mentally just skip the spirit of there. And what we see here is the renewing of our minds. There's entire ministries called the renewing of our mind. Folks, there is not the mind that needs to be renewed, it's the spirit of our mind that needs to be renewed. In other words, folks, your mental faculties will not change from when you're saved to when you're not uh from when you're unsaved to salvation. You don't change in your mental faculties Some of us are probably very distraught by the fact that our IQ will not change from the time we're saved, uh unsaved to the time we're saved. Our IQ stays the same We wish it would change. I think in heaven, hopefully, it will change. But this side of heaven, it is not the mind that is regenerated, it's the spirit of our mind that is regenerated. Your capacity for knowledge and understanding, those things stay the same. That is why, folks, you can have very intelligent unbelievers, right? Some of the most in fact the Bible tells us that the most intelligent uh people often will reject the things of God. Intelligence is not what we're talking about here. Mental capacity is not what we're talking about here. What we're talking about here is the spirit of our minds. What is it when we're talking about the spirit of our minds? Well, this word spirit is used in different ways in the New Testament depending on the context. You might it might be talking about the Holy Spirit, but I don't think it is here. It might be talking about the human spirit. It could be talking about a person's attitude. There are multiple or different usages of this word spirit as you look in the New Testament, and the context is going to have to determine what it's talking about. But what is really going to help us is if you will take your Bibles and turn just a page back to Ephesians chapter 3 and verse 16. And this is going to help us because the Apostle Paul is writing an epistle, it's a unified epistle, and he has said something else is going to be strengthened. That is going to help us here understand what this is. Ephesians chapter 3, verse 16 says this. That he would grant you, according to the riches of his glory, to be what's the next word? Strengthened with might by his spirit. And in that case, when it says his spirit, what's it talking about? The Holy Spirit, but what does he strengthen? The inner man. It says here that he strengthens, folks, the inner man. What is it talking about when it talks this talks about the spirit of our minds? It is talking about There is a principle within us that motivates our mind, or controls even our mind. Let me illustrate it this way. How many of you have ever been bored in school? Suddenly the kids all perk up. I got everybody's attention, and we got raised hands even. Okay, good. Um everyb sometimes you are bored in school. Why are we bored in school? This is an illustration. It's not a perfect exact parallel, but it's an illustration. You are bored in school when you are not interested in the subject matter, right? This is a significant if you can get a child interested in subject subject matter in the subject matter. If you can get them to be interested in what they're learning, then school will not be boring for them. The ch the challenge is to get them interested, right? This is something I didn't learn until college. No, I struggled staying paying attention in school until I got to college and actually learned what I wanted to learn and suddenly everything you know, everything was much easier. Everybody I mean my parents thought Greek will never happen for you. But I was interested. By the time I got to school, my second year in Greek, I I'm making grades and my telling my parents I don't think they really believed me. Because interest has so much bearing on your mental, on what you on on your thinking, on your mind There is differences in intelligence and mental capacity, but there is a lot. It's just a matter of interest. Now, not exactly in the same way, because we're talking here about something more spiritual. But folks, what we're talking about here by being renewed in the spirit of mind, there is a principle within us that influences our mind. It's the inner man. And the key here, folks, I think probably the best way to understand this is our motivation of our minds. The spiritual motivation that affects our mind to think about things that are redeeming. Needs to constantly be renewed by God. Now you just think about this. Go back to the very to the first time, or maybe the most prominent time in your life, where you you sensed that you were closest to the Lord. Some of you might have to go back to the first time you were saved. First time. The the time you were saved. Sorry. Some of you might have to go back to the time you were saved. And you and you had a sense uh you uh you had an a sense that you desired to to learn truth, to know what God says about a matter. To understand who God is. There was a closeness with God. There was a desire to study the Word of God. There was a desire to know more about God. Folks, why does that wane? What happens to you when that is reduced, when that is not happening in your life? Well, it is often because we are not doing our responsibility and putting off what we need to put off. Why do we put off what we put off so that God can renew our minds, the spirit of our minds, I should say. I am doing a lot of quoting from Martin Lloyd Jones, but I do feel that he treats this one of the best I've ever seen uh of of of just about anybody. He says, I suggest that the word means the interior principle that really governs and controls and operates the mind itself. By this I mean, in addition to our faculties and our powers and our intelligent intellectual abilities, there is a sort of spirit of our mind that controls the whole working of the mind. When we receive, what we receive is this new spirit that controls a new disposition is put into us. A new principle of life begins to operate. A new spirit enters into the mind and controls it and directs it. So that whereas formerly it went in a wrong direction, it is now going into a right direction, if it was all out in the one, It is all out in the other. It is the control that matters. It is the life-giving principle. What he's talking, folks, is a new way of thinking. It's a new way of life. One pastor's description of this. It's just your own experience with the Lord when you were closest to the Lord, the sense of gratefulness and thankfulness and peace and joy that you've had. When you can think about that and and and just draw on that, that is the renewing of the spirit of your mind. Martin Luther Jones says this as a pastor. He's speaking here as a pastor, and he says this. I know of nothing more thrilling, more entrancing. Than just to watch some of my friends undergoing this very process of having the spirit of their minds renewed, it is wonderful. It is not simply that they stopped doing what they used to do, or that they have begun to do things that they did not formally do, and are speaking a new way. Much more fascinating and charming is it to see that the very spirit of the mind is different. The whole outlook, the very method of thinking, how has now become Christian. We see to be, we need to be Christianized in the whole of our being. And obviously, first and foremost is the mind itself. For as a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. There were two pastors that really wanted to describe this kind of experience. A Christian whose mind is being renewed by the Spirit of God. And they wrote a hymn, and I want you just to listen to these words. Just listen carefully, with all this in mind. Listen to the words of this hymn. Loved with everlasting love, led by grace that love to know Spirit breathing from above, you have taught me it is so. O this full and perfect peace. Oh, this presence all divine In a love which cannot cease, I am his and he is mine. Heaven above is softer blue Earth around is sweeter green. Something lives in every hue Christless eyes have never seen Birds with gladder songs or flow, flowers with deeper beauty shine, since I know, as now I know, I am his and he is mine. His forever only his, who the Lord and Misha Heart Ah, with what a restless rest of bliss Christ can fill the loving heart Heaven and earth may fade and flee, firstborn light and gloom decline. But while God and I shall see, I am his and he Is mine. With that in mind, I want to read a verse that is very familiar to you that should have far more meaning now. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. And all things are of God. Who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ and hath given to us the ministry of reconciliation. Some of you have struggled even with your assurance of your salvation because you have wondered, you have had so much struggle putting off the old man. But in many cases, it's not as though you aren't saved. You know the Lord, you have been regenerated by the Lord, but the spirit of your mind has not been renewed. In a long time, perhaps. And the reason that the spirit of your mind has not been renewed in a long time is because you have not done due diligence in putting off the old man. Where do we get the motivation to put off the old man? It is because we know when we do, we will be renewed In the spirit of our minds. We're going to look at specifically on putting on the new man next week.