Does not really believe that there is absolute truth. We call that modernism, where we've rejected the idea that there is really any absolute truth at all They're really reflecting what Scripture says as Pilate spoke in John chapter 18, verse 38. He said, What is truth? He asks the question as though he didn't know what truth was. But folks, it really shouldn't surprise us when we think in terms of God's Word, because what we find in Scripture is that The world turns the truth of God and turns it into a lie, Romans chapter 1. That the world in general does not know truth because they don't believe that truth really exists And then you have postmodernism that essentially says that the only truth that you can really find is within yourself. I mean that doesn't that make good sense? So that everybody is running around with the sour as the source of truth. I mean, how can you have six billion people and all of them are the source of truth? They haven't really thought of it that way, I don't think. But the reality is, folks, only God is the source of truth. And God's word is the source of truth. And this armor, this piece of the armor, the belt of truth that we're going to look at today, and the And the breastplate of righteousness that we're going to look at in Romans chapter 6, verse, Ephesians chapter 6, verse 14, tell us are just very, very essential. I remember about a year ago, um Bill Nye, you remember the the debate between Bill Nye and Ken Ham? How many of you remember watching that debate And the reality is I I think it actually could have been a better exchange of science th than it was. Um I I feel like it was not really A lot very scientific, even though you have Bill Nye the science guy. But anyway, um But I did find something that really struck me. I mean, it really struck me, and I remember it to this day. When they started talking about the purpose of our existence, and Kenham with great confidence says, I know we know the perfect of our purpose of our existence, and that is to live for God. Something of that nature. And Bill Nye says, no, we don't know the purpose of our existence. In fact, the purpose of our existence is to find the purpose of our existence And that's the great human question. Is that can't we all get excited? I mean, he had great enthusiasm over the idea that the very purpose of our existence is to find the purpose of our existence. Well, very candidly, for any Christian who knows the purpose of our existence, that's silly. But it demonstrates how the world thinks and Immediately when I heard that, my mind went to a passage in 2 Timothy 3, where it says, of the world and of those who have a form of godliness but deny the power thereof It says, For of this sort are they which creep into houses and lead captivity captive silly women laden with sins, led away with diverse lusts, ever learning. And never able to come to the knowledge of the truth. And that really describes our society, doesn't it? I mean if you talk about education, education is a serious and significant subject in almost everyone's mind in our culture. We need to have more education and greater education and we need to put more money into education and we need to have We need to have expand our education. But the same people that are just exalting this concept of education never really come to any truth. They've never seemed to understand that there is absolute truth. They're still trying to find the absolute truth and the purpose of their existence in the world. It really folks isn't that just confusing? And they what you find in the world is a lot of confusion. Anybody who lives with any kind of, you know, unless you're like all only all you do is just stay home. You're going to find that the world is full of confusion. Our families are often full of confusion. Sometimes churches can even be have confusion in them. And certainly the workplace can have confusion. Why is there so much confusion? It is because there is a lack of truth. Truth brings clarity. It cuts through the confusion. It's like it is also foundational. Um I don't I am not an avid biker, but I do like to bike sometimes. When I was a teenager I did a lot more mountain biking than I do now. Some of you guys are really avid mountain bikers. We Enrique is like our resident Don't ever go with with it with mountain biking with Enrique unless you really want to bearish yourself. If you need a dose of humility, go with Enrique mountain biking. At least that's what I found anyway. Um I I the whole time I'm going, Lord, you just did This to humble me. That's why why I'm out here. But anyway, um I literally actually said that several times. Do you remember that, Enrique? Yeah. Yeah, he remembers. So anyway, um that really was the case. Um but I do know this that after I had that bike ride with Enrique, my my rims were all bent up. I had to take it to the sho uh my my wheels were all bent up. I had to take it to the to the bike shop. I usually can shrew stuff up myself But I had to it was just really bad. So I had to take it and and and get the bike shop to take care of it for me. What is the most important part of a wheel? Well the foundational part of the wheel, the most important pivotal part of the wheel is the hub. Everything rests on on the hub, both on two hubs on a bike. And if something, if your hub seizes up, you're not going anywhere. Certainly what happens is when the when the when the uh wheel gets all bent out of shape, it's because it's not rightly related to the hub. The spokes are bent or or not tightened in and what they call that is when they get out of out of alignment, what they call that is you need to true the bike up. You need to true the wheel up So that the wheel, all the spokes, line up with the hub correctly. Folks, when it comes to the Christian life and when it comes to the gospel, the hub is the truth. The truth is the hub. And that's why Paul begins his armor with talking about this belt of truth. And what we're going to find in this passage is how essential truth really is. What we need to do first is go to the Lord in prayer. Father, I pray as we get into your word this morning that you would help us. Just to understand how vitally important it is that we align ourselves with the truth. And that when we do that, we will set ourselves up for living righteously. These are both concepts in the world that are absolutely foreign to them. And the less we believe that there is absolute truth, the less we will have righteousness which is based on truth. So I pray, Lord, today, that you would help us to make sure that our foundation in our Christian life is that we are aligning ourselves correctly with the truth. And that we understand the importance of both positional righteousness and practical righteousness. And we ask for your help today. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. When the Apostle Paul penned these words in Ephesians chapter 6 about the armor, he probably was thinking about Isaiah chapter 59, verses 1 through 17, where it depicts someone else as putting on armor. And then that passage beginning in verse 16 it says, yea, truth faileth. And he that departeth from evil maketh himself a prey. And the Lord saw it, and it displeased him that there was no judgment And he saw that there was no man, and wondered that there was no intercessor. Therefore his arm brought salvation unto him, and his righteousness it sustained him. For he put on righteousness as a breastplate and an helmet of salvation upon his head, and he put on the garments of vengeance for clothing. and was clad with the zeal as a cloak. And this passage in Isaiah chapter 59 is talking about Jesus Christ. But he put on certain armor so that he could rightly be able to judge the world. And so it is very accurate for us to see this armor as God's armor, the armor of God And God desires for every believer to be able to put on this armor. It's also interesting that in 2 Corinthians 6, verse 7 It combines this concept of truth and righteousness. It says the word of truth by the power of God, by the armor of salvation, on the right hand and on the left And then in our book of Ephesians, chapter 4, verse 24, we see these two concepts combined as well. Chapter 4, verse 24, and that ye put on the new man, which after God is created in righteousness. And holiness and truth. So, what we find, folks, is that this concept of truth and righteousness are inseparably linked. And if you'll think just even logically Can you truly have righteousness without truth? Of course, you cannot. And in fact, truth becomes the foundation for faith. And for salvation, and for peace, and really for all of the other parts of the armor. And so God tells us in his word that we need to put on the belt of truth. Chapter 6, verse 14. Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth. When it says for our loins to be gorge girded about with truth, it's talking there about the thighs and the waist, the loins are the waist and probably would include the thighs. I chose a a picture on here. I found all kinds of pictures on the internet. uh different depictions of what this belt of truth looked like. This one I I knew I was safe in using uh and in copying so I used that one. But this is a I think a pretty accurate depiction of what it was. It was a belt that went over the over the the waist And also it had leather straps hanging down to protect the thighs. It was the part of the armor that held everything else together. Without this part of the armor, everything else was going to fall apart. And so it is with truth. If you don't have truth, if you have a d a distortion of the truth, if you have lies If you do not believe the truth, nothing else is going to work. We must be sure that we are rightly aligned with the truth of God's Word. Well in Ephesians chapter 1 verse 13 if you'll remember that all of these components are combined. And I also want to mention as well that with regard to this belt. There was with the belt a scabbard. It's not pictured there, but it it it there was a scabbard that, and in that scabbard was the sword. The sword in Ephesians 6 is what part of the armor? And that really shouldn't surprise us, the Word of God, the sword of the Spirit. And that really shouldn't surprise us. We have the belt of truth. That houses the sword of the Spirit. They are very inseparably linked. When we look at the sword of the Spirit, what we are trying to glean from it is truth. Because it is truth. And so when we're looking at this, what I want to first do is look at the book of Ephesians and see this concept of truth in it. Would you take your Bibles and turn to Ephesians chapter 4? We noted last week this term finally in Ephesians chapter 6 that demonstrates that Paul is coming to a conclusion about the entire chapter. our entire book of Ephesians, when he begins to describe the armor. And in Ephesians chapter 4, we're going to find here Beginning in verse 21, we're going to define how Paul describes this term, this concept of truth. Chapter 4, verse 21 says, If so be that ye have heard him and have been taught by him as the truth is in Jesus. As the truth is in Jesus. Folks, where is the truth? The truth is in Christ. Christ said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. Look at verse 24 of the same chapter. It says, And that ye put on the new man, which after God is created in righteousness. But how is the new man created? It's also created in what? In truth. And we noted last week that all of these different parts of the armor have essentially two aspects to them. One is positional truth position. And the other is practice. And it is certainly the case when it comes to truth. The Bible tells us that dark That we are created, that the new man is created in righteousness, but it's created in truth. And then you find also that there is practical truth here. Will you notice in verse 25? Wherefore, putting away what? Buying, speak every man truth with his neighbor, for we are members one of another. So it says here, folks, that what that we ought to be people of the truth, because we are made in we are our new man that we know if we know Christ our Savior, our new man is made in truth. It's also interesting to discover from if we look at this concept of truth down in chapter 5, verse 9, that we find something else here that's going to be helpful for us in understanding what this truth is talking about. Chapter 5, verse 9. For the fruit of the Spirit, some translations the word spirit is light there, which is a good translation as well. For the fruit of the spirit, or light, is in all goodness. And righteousness and what? And truth. This then dis explains that Truth not only is the foundation for life and the foundation for the gospel and the foundation for our new man, but truth is actually a byproduct of the Christian life. It is a fruit. In other words, folks, if we are if we are right positionally and we are aligned ourselves with the truth of God's Word, and we understand who we are in Christ and the truth of that Then the natural byproduct of that is that we will be truthful. It's a fruit as well as a root And we find the exact same thing here while you're looking about righteousness. The new man, the Bible says, that we get at salvation is righteousness. It says over in 1 John chapter 3 that the new man, doesn't mean that we don't have the old flesh, is still there, but the new man can't sin. Because it is completely righteous. And if we will put on the new man, that is how we have a byproduct of righteousness. The fruit is righteousness. This is something that we're going to explain a little bit later as we get into the concept of righteousness, but we do need to understand that both of these things have a positional truth to them in the book of Ephesians And there is a practical truth. And if we will learn, if we will have the positional truth right, then it will lead to practical truth. Let me just say this by by way of just application. Christians ought to be the most truthful people in the world. We ought to just cling to the truth. We ought to speak the truth. When no one else can be trusted, a Christian ought to be trusted because he is one who speaks only the truth. We ought to be loyal to the truth. Folks, we ought to be more loyal to the truth than we are to any individual. We ought to have more loyalty to the truth than we are than we have to any person. We ought to be more loyal to the truth than we are to our own desires. We are, we ought to be, as Christians, people of the truth. And when we compromise the truth in our lives, we are laying ourselves open for who? For the attack and the strategies of the devil. And that is because the devil and his strategy is going, his primary strategy is to deceive. He did this in the Garden of Eden back in the first three chapters of Genesis, where he deceived Eve, and as he she departed from the truth. And so it is, of course, right for us to understand that the truth is absolutely essential. I took the time. As I studied this to look at nearly every occurrence of the word truth in the New Testament. And of course I won't share all of them with you for lack of time. You all probably appreciate that. But I will mention a couple of basic areas when it comes to this concept of truth, that you understand essentially what truth is. I want to say when it comes to defining truth, it is an irreducible term. Did you ever realize that about some terms? Some words really can't hardly be defined because they are irreducible. They're like they're there's nowhere more that you can reduce them down. So it's like the most basic of basic terms And truth is that way. To define truth, you can do things, you could say things like, well, it's the opposite of untruth, or the opposite of lying. But it's going to be very difficult to define truth because truth by its nature is irreducible in definition. But we do have the source of truth in Scripture. We have what truth is characterized by. We do have a lot. In fact, you'll find that this word truth throughout our New Testament is used a great deal. It is a very frequent term in our New Testament. Just by to understand a couple of things about truth as we look a few things about truth as we we would we would work our way through the New Testament, we find, first of all, in the New Testament that Christ says that he is the truth in John chapter 1 and that he is the messenger of the truth. John chapter 1 verse 14 and chapter 1 verse 17 and chapter 14 verse 6. In being the truth. We find also that Christ says that His Word is the source of truth. Where, folks, do we find truth? We find it in the Word of God. John chapter 8 verse 31 says, And Jesus uh then said Jesus to those Jews which believed in him, If ye continue in my word, then are ye my disciples, and ye shall know the truth And the Bible says that when you know the truth, it produces freedom. You will know, if you know the truth, the truth will set you free. Those who do not know the truth are in bondage. They may feel as though they are free. Isn't it ironic that those who who are who don't believe in absolute truth Are really doing so in many cases because they want to be free. And the Bible says the exact opposite of that. It says that the way that you have true freedom is by the truth. It just demonstrates to us how diametrically opposed the thinking of the world is to the thinking of the Bible. We find also that in John 17, 17, in Christ's intercessory prayer to his father, he just says, Sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth. Thy word is truth. And so we would also from that passage see that truth is the method of our sanctification. That is, that you are to become more and more like Christ, Christ-likeness by the truth. And we find, and by the way, the word sanctification means to be separated. What is the defining thing that ought to separate us in our thinking and our lifestyle from the world? Well, it's not your personality. Or mine. Sometimes we s people separate from us because of our ordinary personality. Well, we ought not to be ordinary folks. But when it comes to the truth, that's not something we could compromise, can it? And so for that reason, he says, sanctify, separate them unto thyself. They need to be um Sanctified to you, O God, through truth, through thy truth. Thy word is truth. We find that the concept of truth. really narrows as we get into the epistles and that the Bible says that the gospel is truth, both in Galatians chapter 2, verse 5, Galatians chapter 2, verse 14, and Colossians chapter 1, verse 5, we find in all of those passages that it says that the gospel is the truth. We find, for instance, in 1 Timothy 3, verse 16, that the church is the pillar and ground of the truth. That we, our job as the church is to uphold the truth, that we are to defend the truth, that we are in the world to be the source of truth. In other words, we're kind of like the relay of truth You have the Father, the God, who is the source of truth. And his word is truth. And we as a church ought to be relaying the truth. Because we are the pillar and the ground of the truth. And we find in in 2 Timothy 3, verse 16, that truth produces it produces repentance. The problem with people is that they're not believing the truth. The Bible tells us that the Holy the Spirit of truth will come and will convict the world of sin and of righteousness and of judgment. They've got to believe the truth. The truth is what will cause people to have a change of mind, which will produce a change of behavior God tells us in His Word that truth produces repentance. Isn't it wonderful that you and I can't do that? We can't produce repentance in people's lives. Only the truth of God's word will do that. Folks, what we find in God's Word and what we find about the truth of God's Word, what we find about this concept of truth, is it is very, very foundational And that means for you and I as Christians, we've got to make sure that we are rightly related to truth. Lies will destroy a family. Lies will destroy a church. Lies will destroy a country. It will destroy a society. It will destroy a company. Lies destroy. They confuse. They cause great problems. God is the God of truth. I'd like to ask this question this morning. What would cause Christians to either depart from the truth or for truth to be distorted in their minds? Have you ever run into someone who professed to be a Christian, professed to know Christ as their Savior, but it seemed as though they were really like not believing the truth about things or about even God's word. It was clear that they were not rightly rooted in the truth What would cause someone to simpl to be just really unstable? Remember last week we mentioned as well that what is Christ's, or what is Satan's goal for for believers? It is to produce instability, which will produce uselessness. Satan has no claim on your life as a Christian. In other words, he cannot remove from you the security of the believer that every Christian possesses. But he can Not cause us, but he can tempt us to to get into a place where we are not useless useful for him anymore And he does this by distorting the truth in our lives, by deception. You can imagine, if you think about it, you put all this together, you realize that if pr if truth produces instability, then what got what Satan does is going to is he's going to deceive us so that we don't believe the truth Thought of four things that cause us to be distorted when it comes to the truth. Number one, truth is distorted by desire. You know, people believe what they want to believe. Have you ever noticed that? A pastor friend of mine years ago, a very seasoned pastor, said to me, he said, just realize this, Jim, people believe what they want to believe. They believe what most what they most desire. Desire often becomes It becomes the prerequisite for their discovery of the truth. People believe what they most want to believe. You and I as Christians ought to have the greatest desire to know the truth, even if it's not what we want. Even if it's different than our desire. We have got to be people of the truth and that we will compromise in a minute our desires and our wants for the sake of the truth. The Bible says that truth, or not the Bible says, but I I think also truth is distorted by culture. Truth is distorted by culture. You get around people and you get around certain cultures, you get around different pe different areas in the world or the country. And so sometimes our truth is distorted by our culture, the people that we hang around. The Bible tells us that you will become like the people you hang around. Teenagers, remember that. Remember that the people the friends that you choose will ultimately cause you to have a perspective of of that might be different otherwise. And so what you need to do is decide that you're going to you're going to have friends that are going and your closest friends are going to be people that believe the truth Truth is distorted by perspective. Often we are so one-sided. You ever heard it said, you know, there are three sides to every story? What are three sides of every story? One person's side, the other person's side, and the truth. And so uh perspective often causes us to uh causes distorted uh truth to be distorted. And finally, experience distorts truth. Sometimes, folks, we are more dependent upon our experience than we are anything else, and that becomes our source of truth. It is a product of our culture. In our postmodern world, if truth comes from me, if the only source of truth is me, Then I'm going to establish truth by my experience. The world tells us that experience gives us our greatest source of truth. Folks, that is not true. Folks, what is their greatest source of truth? Our greatest source of truth is God's Word. And what we must do is we must be very, very careful that if God's word comes into contradiction with my experience, I am going to believe what God's word says. I'm going to say I must be wrong in my perception of my own experience. I was talking years ago with someone about a particular doctrinal position. Um it was actually when I was in high school. You say you were weird. I was. Um talking about doctoral positions in high school, but I did. And and so I was talking to somebody about it a particular uh position that they had that was uh really not based found didn't find its basis in scripture at all. And um I was talking with them and and sh they they I was showing them passage I was actually citing for them passages of scripture. You know, you remember what you know what it says about this or what it says about that and citing different passages. She goes, you know what? She says she goes, you know what I don't really, you know, I'm not talking about study, I'm talking about experience here. So what do you think I did? I mean that was the end of the end of the conversation. If you are going to base your truth upon your experience to the compromise of the truth of God's Word, the discussion has ended. And do you know what else other people often do are very tempted to do? They impose their experience on God's word. In other words, the interpretation of a passage of Scripture becomes based upon their experience. They're looking at God's word through the eyes of experience. And folks, that will often distort the truth. What we must learn to do is look at God's word for what it is. And to compare Scripture with Scripture, and to look at Scripture in light of Scripture, and we glean our truth from that. rather than gleaning our truth from our experience and then looking at it through the eyes, looking at scripture through the eyes of our experience. There are several times in the history of our of our civilization that this has caused great problems. For example, in our nation's history, prior to the Civil War, there was a misinterpretation of God's Word that That had great effects, great serious problems for our country, and gave a foundation for slavery. And it was that the sin that the curse of Canaan found in the book of Genesis applied to all of its Which actually doesn't make any sense. The curse wasn't toward Ham, it was toward Canaan. But anyway, because Canaan was a descendant of Ham, it the it so goes that all of Ham's descendants are therefore cursed And so it was then right to own a slave because they were the cursed race. Folks, what what false lies? What sin How wrong is it for us to consider one ethnic group to be inferior to another? And the Bible, that is a misinterpretation and a misuse of God's word. If you go back further, even to the first century or prior to the first century, when Christ came on the scene, he had to deal with a particular group of people. And these group of people, this group of people were known to be great experts in the law of God. They knew the law of God supposedly better than anyone else And because they knew the law of God so well, they began to write additional truth, or what they said was truth, that would explain the law of God. And because there was no distinction between what they wrote and be f and the law itself, and they didn't make that distinction They began to people began to see what they wrote as truth. And in fact, they got the entire intent of the law wrong. And the people that I'm talking about are the Pharisees in the New Testament. The Pharisees believed that what God had expected was external righteousness, and that the purpose of the law was to demonstrate a restricted standard to external righteousness. And that there was no one that was able to sim uh apparently to be able to follow these laws. And so what they did was they wrote additional laws to keep them away from the laws that they couldn't follow. And plunge the entire nation into legalism and hypocrisy instead of realizing that the original intent of the author of the of this uh of the law, which is God, Was so that God man God or mankind really, the nation of Israel and mankind would realize that they could not keep God's law. And that they would look inside of themselves and realize that the standard of the out the e extern external expressions of the law caught would cause us to point to the fact that our hearts are deceitful and desperately wicked. And so when Christ comes on the scene, he says in Matthew, he says, You've got to, your righteousness has got to exceed the righteousness of the Pharisees. It's got to be internal righteousness. Which can only come by Jesus Christ. An entire nation deceived by a misinterpretation of the Bible. There are other examples that I could give. In the fourth century, there was a man who really codified the idea of allegorical interpretations of Scripture. So that the Bible doesn't isn't just plainly plainly seen the way it is, we're going to have to impose some spiritualized interpretation that wouldn't be in the text at all. The man was Augustine, actually. And although Augustine has some good things to say in certain areas, he did codify this method of interpretation of Scripture which plunged the church into the dark ages. Where there was great superstition, and everybody was seeing truth in their own eyes, it virtually almost snuffed out the true gospel. To the point where the Protestant Reformation had to revive things completely, almost completely. My point in mentioning these kinds of examples are simply this: you and I need to be as good Bereans. In Acts chapter seventeen, verse ten and eleven, it Paul it says that Paul and Silas by night unto Berea, who uh who cometh thither Went to the synagogue of the Jews. These were more noble than those in Thessalonica, in that they received the word with all readiness of mind. And searched the scriptures daily whether those things were so. They heard what Paul and Silas had to say, and they said, boy, this is, I'm going to receive this, but I'm going to receive this. And I'm going to check it out scripturally. I am going to search the scriptures to see that what whether they're saying is right or not. They searched the scriptures to see if those things that were said were so God desires for us as Christians to really know this book. And the greater you know this book, The greater you're able to understand this book by the working of the Spirit of God in your lives, the greater you understand this book, the greater you will know the truth. And the greater foundation you will have for the truth. I was this past week I've been uh past couple of weeks I've been really praying for a church that I've been in contact with is really struggling. It's not in the state. It's not in Maryland. And it it is a church who had a steady diet of many years of expository preaching of the Word of God. Just solid book going through books of the Bible. and preaching the Word of God in an expository manner. Something we attempt to do here every week. This particular church has essentially the pastor was retired and they have been without a pastor and they have rejected two to three candidates, I think it's two or three candidates that were expository preachers. and have just chosen a candidate that is that is a topical preacher, that just preaches his opinion every week. He may use scripture. I'm not denying that perhaps I'm sure he uses scripture, but he is using the scriptures to explain his perspective. Instead of his perspective his opinion being reflected from the scriptures. In other words, he's explaining instead of using the scriptures that way, he's using the scriptures in the wrong way. What we ought to be doing, folks, is we ought to explain the scriptures rather than having the scriptures explain us. You know proper preaching when what we're doing is explaining what God's Word says Now, all of this, folks, is vitally important for us to understand and be rightly related to, that we we we have a firmness and a conviction about sticking and staying loyal to the truth of God's word and knowing the truth. And what this ought to produce is a sincerity in our hearts. You see, it's not enough to have truth be something that is a head thing. Our head truth must penetrate into our hearts. Where there is a sincerity in our lives God desires for us to have this. First Peter chapter one, verse twenty-two says, Seeing ye have purified your souls in obeying the truth through the Spirit unto unfeigned love of the brethren. See that ye love one another with a pure heart fervently. If we are rightly related to the truth, it's going to bring a purity to our hearts. And that in turn is going to be a have a purity in our lives as Christians. There is more that I could say on this subject, and I'm going to flesh more out tonight actually when it comes to how we can be people of the truth. But we do need to move on to the next uh the next uh piece of armor and that is the breastplate of righteousness. The breastplate was, and we won't take nearly as long with this one. The breastplate of righteousness, the breastplate is And you actually see the illustration that is used there, it's really probably pretty accurate. It was it was actually in two pieces that were latched together in some way. And it protected both the front side and the back side. And its purpose essentially was to protect the vital organs of the body. So righteousness is also extremely important if we're going to put on the armor and defend ourselves from the deceit and the strategies of the devil. And we find here that we are, it says here that we are to put on righteousness. You'll recall, we won't take the time to turn back there, but you'll recall in Ephesians chapter 4, verse 24. that it combines this concept of truth and righteousness as it says that the new man is created in righteousness. So we have here positional truth. And then you also find in the book of Ephesians that there is practical truth in chapter 5, verse 9, if you'll remember, where it says that righteousness is a fruit. It's a result of having imputed truth. In other words, if you are positionally righteous before God, which we'll talk about what that means in a minute. then you will be practic the the outcome of that will be will produce fruit. And folks very practically, and we're going to look at this for just a few moments here, but very practically the problem in this area when it comes to positional righteousness versus versus personal righteousness. When you have a disconnect between those two things, it does not necessarily mean that you do not have a beauty of righteousness. It means that there is some sort of mental, usually mental disconnect, thinking disconnect, between imputed righteousness and practical righteousness. And we're going to see exactly what those are in just a few moments. But when we look at this concept of righteousness, we actually would have to go we need to go all the way back to the Old Testament for this one The Bible tells us in the book of Genesis that Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him for righteousness. And this word righteousness is used also in the book of Romans. In fact, it's quoting the Old Testament. And so we find that the concept of righteousness in the Old Testament is exactly the same concept of righteousness in the New Testament. By the way, that is not always the case. You've got to be careful with that. Sometimes people will take a word um in the Old Testament and they'll apply it to the New Testament, but you have two different languages there, Hebrew, Hebrew and Greek. You do need to see a biblical connection there, at least Uh there's a couple ways you could see that, but but the best way is when you have the New Testament old quoting the Old Testament. And then and then with when with righteousness we certainly have that. So it will help us to look at the Old Testament concept of righteousness, which provides the basis for us. Righteousness is a little bit easier to define In the Old Testament, it was used for the counting up and approval of the sale of goods. So if you were going to sell something to someone, They you would weigh this, uh whatever it is, the goods, and there needed to be a just measurement. And when there when it was deemed that w there was a just measurement It would say it would have said to have been an equal measurement, so it was righteous. It was the approval of what was right We find this concept in Proverbs 8, verse 18, and also 16, verse 11. In 1611 it says, a just weight and balance are the Lord's. All the weights of the bag, defining a bag of goods, are his work So we find, as with truth, that God is the source of righteousness. When we think of this concept of righteousness, we ought to think of what is going to be approved by God. That's righteousness. Whatever is approved by God is righteousness. Whatever God approves as right is right. And whatever God says is wrong is wrong. God, because he is the source of truth, also decides what is truly righteous. And so you and I must come up to God's righteous standard. And we find that when we get to the New Testament, as was already mentioned, Jesus Christ says that the kind of righteousness that God wants us to have is internal righteousness, according to Matthew 5, verse 20. And he says in Matthew chapter 6, verse 33, but seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. 2 Peter 1, verse 1 says, A servant and an apostle of Jesus Christ to them have obtained the precious faith with us through the righteousness of God and our Savior Jesus Christ. The Bible tells us in the book of Romans, chapter 1, verse 17, that right that the gospel is what reveals the righteousness of God. Verse 17 says, For in the righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith, as is written, the the but the righteous man shall live by faith. For the wrath of God is revealed from eat from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who suppress the truth in unrighteousness But the Bible in the book of Romans moves forward in explaining that the gospel actually imputes righteousness. That is, the gospel benevolently gives righteousness to the one who will accept it by faith. Romans 3, verse 20. Because by the works of the law, no flesh will be justified in his sight, for through the law comes the knowledge of sin. But now apart from a law, the righteousness of God has been manifested, being witnessed by the law and the prophets. Even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all those who believe, for there is no distinction. And then in verse 25, Romans 3, it says, Whom God has set before set forth to be the propitiation for through faith in his blood, to declare his righteousness for the remission of sins. that are passed through the forbearance of God, to declare, I say, at the time of his righteousness, that he might be just, and the justifier of him that believeth on in Jesus. Romans chapter 4, verse 22, and therefore it was imputed to him for righteousness. Romans chapter 5, verse 17 says, For if by one man's offense death reign by one Much more they which received abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness shall reign in life by one, Jesus Christ. And Romans chapter 5, verse 21 says, that as sin hath reigned unto death, even so might grace reign through righteousness unto the eternal life by Jesus Christ our Lord. Now folks, I took all the time to read all those passages, and actually there are more that I I've actually stopped short of there are more that I could read on this. To describe for you that the primary concept of righteousness in the New Testament has to do with imputed righteousness. This justification to be declared righteousness is done, is accessed by God is accessed by an individual when they will place their faith. and dependence on the work of Jesus Christ in his death and resurrection on the cross to pay the punishment for their sin so that they could be declared righteous. In other words, folks, what we're talking here is righteousness is essential like the essential content of the gospel. What is, or the result of the gospel, what is God doing through the gospel? He is declaring people righteous And what is he doing for believers? He is conforming them to the image of Christ. He is conforming them to Christ's likeness. And if you want to sum all that up, he is conforming them to righteousness. It is the essential concept of what the result of the gospel is in our lives, both positionally and practically. Now, folks, the problem comes is that isn't it true for every one of us as Christians that although we are declared righteous by faith alone, not by works, Not by the keeping of the law, not by being a good person. By faith alone are we declared righteous. Isn't it true that often our lifestyle does not line up with our position? In fact, all of us would admit that we know that God is conforming us to the image of Christ. We know that we are we are He He is making us more and more righteous, but we know that we fail often, don't we? What Satan wants to do is to take your failures and make you more discouraged. To take your failures and deceive you into thinking that you have even greater problems or that you can never match up or you'll never really be approved by God. Satan wants to deceive you. And if he does, if he's successful in doing that, it will create more practical righteousness failure in your life. I wrote down three common problems that cause us there to be a disconnect between imputed righteousness, positional righteousness, and practical righteousness. Number one, sometimes there's a failure to recognize that God has declared us righteous, that we are righteous and have a righteous standing before God. It's almost as though we forget that, or we don't really believe that it's true, if you know Christ is your Savior, of course, we're talking about here. We don't really believe that it's true. Or we forget to appreciate that. Can I just say to you that if you have by faith, what is biblical faith? Biblical faith includes agreement. Understanding and acceptance, Romans chapter 10. What's fible faith? It's not just agreement. Understanding is required, and acceptance, a dependency on it. If you have biblical faith and the Bible says you're declared righteous, it means that you are approved by God. Now, let me explain why this is so important. I'll do this by asking you a question. If you live a better life this coming week, if you live a more righteous life this coming week. Let's say from Sunday to Sunday, you come in next Sunday and you lived a more righteous life this coming week than you did last week, and you genuinely know Christ is your Savior today. Will you be any more approved by God next Sunday than you were than you are approved by God right now? Let me just make sure we understand this, because there should have been a little bit more of a response than that. Will you be any more approved by God next Sunday? Then you are approved by na God now if God has declared you righteous now. No Christian, do you believe that? I mean, really, do you believe that? If you don't believe that, the problem is a faith problem. It doesn't mean that you did not ever depend upon God, but you are struggling in your faith. Because what God's word says is so. Here's why this is so so um uh important to understand. If you don't believe that, what will why will you live righteously this coming week? If you don't believe that whatever you however you live this week But if you're truly declared righteous, if you don't believe that, believe that you will be approved by God next Sunday the same way that you are now. If that's the case, if you don't believe that, then how why are you going to live righteously You are going to live righteously to gain approval from God. Folks, that is the definition of legalism. It's the definition of it. To seek to gain greater approval from God by your lifestyle. And there are many people that don't understand this doctrine of righteousness correctly. And because they don't They are constantly trying to gain greater approval from God by their lifestyle. And God says: if you want approval from Him, you have to accept Him by faith through Christ. Now, let me just we're let me move on to the next one. Why do people fail fail in this? It's because, folks, they're doubting. The practice of righteousness results in their failure of human righteousness. In other words, they mess up and they wonder if they're really saved. They sort of mess up in this area. They're not righteous, and they say to themselves, well, am I really do I really know the Lord? And it causes greater defeat. It causes them more disapproval. Like they they just can't seem to get approval from God. But, folks, if you've trusted Christ as your Lord and Savior, if you are declared righteous by God, you already have His approval. So then, folks, let me just ask you this question: why then would you live righteously? Well I don't have to. Because God's already approved me so I can do whatever I want. No no. Romans chapter 6 says, What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? God forbid, how shall anyone sin who's who doesn't how shall anybody sin if they're dead to it? And you'll see practical righteousness throughout Romans 6 that we don't have the time to look at today. Folks, the reason that you would live righteously before God is because you love Him. Not because you're trying to seek approval from him. You say, well, one day I'm going to stand before him, aren't I in the judgment? Yes, you will. And what do you want from him? You want his pleasure. Why do you want his pleasure? Because you love him. Folks, it what it does is it gives you an entirely different reason for why you live righteously. You're not living righteously to gain approval from God. You're living righteously because you already have approval from God. So I I'm not yelling at you by the way. I'm just excited, okay? Sorry. I was talking to a preacher the other day and he said he said he's been accused of a yelling preacher, and I really am not trying to y I I'm not saying I'm just trying to get it in, you know, like really believe this, you need to believe it And folks, this is the problem. This is why you have got to put on the breastplate of righteousness. If you're going to keep Satan from shooting those darts into you of deceit and lies and fear and doubt, all of those things that Satan wants to do to create instability in your life, you've got to put on the bless Plate of righteousness, and very practically I'm going to give you four ways to do it. Four implications or applications of this. Number one Righteousness is imputed by faith. The Christian has God's approval. Number two. The wrong motive of pursuing practical righteousness is God's approval. The Christian already has it. Number three. Practical righteousness is the result of one who understands, accepts, and appreciates his imputed righteousness. Practical righteousness is a fruit of someone who understands what Christ has done for him. And number four, practical righteousness is pursued in order to please God, because we love God, not because we fear his disapproval or desiring to gain his approval. Folks, if you will f this is how you you clothe yourself with the breastplate of righteousness if you already know Christ as your Savior. Now, perhaps you're living, you're here today, and you're not clothed, you can't clothe yourself with a breastplate of righteousness because you have never actually been declared righteous by God. Perhaps you have thought of yourself as someone who is a good person, and of course God will accept me because I'm really a lot better than most of the world. Or you have thought to yourself, you know, I'm a religious person and I know I love God and that's why I'm going to be declared by righteous by God. It's because of my my lifestyle or my good works or my good really does outweigh my bad. Folks, God's standard of righteousness is perfection. Because he is perfect. And you will never match up to that. Only God can declare you righteous. By the work of his son Jesus Christ, who died to pay the punishment for your sin. When he died on the cross for you, it gave him the right to remove your sins. And the only thing that you've got to do and that you can do is accept and depend upon that only and completely by faith. And that when he rose from the grave bodily, he did that victorious over sin and death. And when you believe in that, God declares you righteous. And if you are not declared righteous because you've not understood that it is entirely by faith in Jesus Christ, will you come and talk to me? There is nothing I'd rather do after the service than talk with someone who needs to understand how they can be truly declared righteous by God. We are going to flesh this more. There's actually more here. We're going to flesh this out more tonight. And we're going to try to help people with putting on both of these parts of the armor, truth and righteousness. There's a lot here. I really encourage you to come back tonight if you're able to. Uh no judgment if you're not. That's not the way we do things here. But I encourage you to come back tonight so that you can get more on how to apply this armor to your life. Let's pray. Father, we come to you today and we are thankful that you give us every provision to stand strong against the strategies of the devil. that your strengths can be our strengths if you will ha if we will put on this armor. If we will cling to the truth and align ourselves correctly with the truth, if that will be foundational our lives and will allow that mental truth to invade our hearts and to penetrate our hearts so that we have a sincerity about us that just loves the truth and wants to follow the truth. And wants to be loyal to the truth and that when we live our lives practically, we are just people that are clearly just, we're just the truth. We're true We're not full of lies, and we're not full of distortions, and we're not full of those kinds of things. We are just people who speak the truth. And Lord, I pray for those who may be struggling in this area of righteousness. And there is a bit of a disconnect in their lives between God's imputed righteousness, your imputed righteousness, and your pra and the practical righteousness in their lives. May they really trust you by faith that you declare them righteous through the blood of Christ and the sacrifice that he made for them on the cross. And may we live righteously because we love you, because you first loved us and gave your son to die and be the propitiation for our sin. May that be our reason for righteousness, rather than trying to seek to futile gain your approval. Lord, may we be people who are strong. Because we're accessing the strength from your word through the gospel, and we're living by the gospel. We pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen.