All right, it's good to see a lot of familiar faces. I'm very, very happy to see family. Um now there are some people that I I don't know And so I would say, for those that I don't know that I'm Carrie Ann Raversky's brother, but I think I'd prefer to have an identity as Mary C. grandson or Eric Rowersky's brother-in-law. Maybe that might be a different a different kind of identity. So I I would also say that Jim and I have been friends since we were thirteen years old, but the problem with that is that Jim was never thirteen years old. He was born older. When I was a child I had my Binky and when Jim was a child he had his you know Bic Razor and his theology book. So uh he was born older. But incidentally, um, he's wearing the suit that he wore at my wedding. I'm incredibly impressed with that because my wedding was 11 years and 25 pounds ago for me. But for Jim, it's been eleven years and he's just the same. So that's uh neat. Very, very neat. But anyways, um I'm thankful again for the opportunity to be here. I'd like for us to take our Bibles to Acts two We're going to talk about that in a moment. For those again who are new to, I've not maybe met you before, I'm a pastor in Buffalo, New York. You say what's what's in Buffalo? We have wings. We have a lot of food. That's the problem. We have sports teams that have struggled for many, many, many years. Um but that's okay. I love I love the city. I love being where I'm at. Um we started the Gospel Life Church around boy, it's been about three years ago we began Bible studies in our home, or actually in our apartment And the Lord has blessed. We're now a group of about 40 people meeting on Sundays. And I'm just excited to see incredible diversity and yet unity in the gospel. One of the beautiful things in preaching Sunday after Sunday is that the majority of our people are first-generational Christians. So a lot of this is very, very new to them. Some of them are people that we've had the joy of seeing come to know the Lord. Some of them maybe found us through different means, but the vast majority are first generational believers. So a lot of things we may take for granted, you know, they're hearing for the first time. And so it's uh it's been incredible to see again how God can take a very, very diverse group of people and bring about tremendous unity in the gospel. As a church, we're learning to love one another, as Pastor Jim mentioned, so that by loving one another, we can love the world as well. So I'm glad to have the opportunity to share just kind of briefly with you this morning. We're in Acts chapter two. We find the church getting started. And in verse 42, we find a description of what is taking place with this new entity that we call the church. And so in Acts 2. 42, the scripture reads that after coming to Christ, they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship, to the breaking of bread and the prayers. And awe or fear came upon every soul. Many wonders and signs were done through the apostles. Verse 44. And all who believed were together. Okay, and they had all things in common. And they were selling their possessions and belongings and distributing the proceeds to all. In other words, they were demonstrating in very tangible and practical ways what it means to love one another as they in need. Day by day, attending the temple together and breaking bread in their homes Sharing life together, if you will, they received their food with glad and generous hearts, praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to their number day by day those who are being saved. There's a lot that we could expound upon here. But when we talk about this concept that Pastor Jim has been discussing the past few weeks about compelling community, this is really what we see. New believers or believers gathering together, centered around the fellowship in doctrine or in truth. Sharing life one with another, loving one another in very tangible and practical ways, the world looks at this and is less in awe, and in fact, in many ways, almost afraid. This is a a different kind of community that the world has not seen before. And so in this, God is being exalted, His church is being advanced, people are coming to know Christ. We know that this is what we want to be. as local churches. We want to see this happen. And we know that we can see this happen So in talking about compelling community, we talk about the church demonstrating the wisdom of God, I want to kind of have more of a discussion this morning. Practically How do we do that? Because clearly this early church, a lot of people were seeing this. They were observing it. They were seeing it. It was very tangible. It was very real. It wasn't something that was occurring outside of the context of ordinary life. It was occurring very much in the context of ordinary life, day by day, in fact. The world looking at this, they're left in awe, and people are being either added to the church or they're saying I'm not ready for that kind of commitment, but I revere these people. There's something about these people that is fundamentally different. We want to see that. Now, we're fast forwarding 2,000 years. We're here in a building. Most of us are dressed nicely. And We want to be that kind of a compelling community. And so practically speaking, how do we do that? How do we live in such a way where the outside world looks upon the people of God and they say, wow, this is this is something different. This is something fundamentally different than any other kind of quote community I've seen before. I mean again they've been exposed to Judaism, they've been exposed to other religious communities, but this community was something very different. So I want to kind of discuss, okay, that's great. This is theory, this is reality in the Bible. So how do we how do we do that? This is something we wrestled with early on in the establishment of gospel life. I'd love to share some stories with you about how this is practically occurring but I want to ask you when you look at this I think as a believer you read something like Acts 2 and it resonates with you You say, yeah, I want that. Like I really want to see that happen. I want to see God's name hallowed. I want to see his name exalted. And I want to see people seeing the body of Christ and saying, wow, something is distinct here, something is different here. We want to see that. Um but uh oftentimes I don't know if we really do And so how do we how do we uh how do we live in such a manner that these kind of reactions take place, these kind of characteristics become part of our fellowship? Any thoughts or comments on that? Can it happen? Say our RR is a skeptical world, Brother Micah. It is. It's beautiful when skeptics come to Christ. I love seeing agnostics. We have several agnostics in our church. Just atheist, agnostic, and now they're followers of Jesus. I love that. So it can happen. Yes. I think for me uh you can try to get an analogy. But I think having an instant relationship to Christ that it's like when you were going to school and you had your first girlfriend or boyfriend To your friend you couldn't stop talking about this new person that you met and and this stealing that you had and so on. When you have Christ And you have that intimate relationship with Him and with God, and the Holy Spirit's living through you, you can't help but tell others what it means to you. what is happening in your life and when everybody in Libinecore has the same boyfriend um relationship then you have that exact common and there's and God is doing special things in everybody's life all at the same time, working out things that are again uncommon and unusual in different ways you wouldn't expect. And now they use the phrase it's a God thing, right? That's the hip phrase. But but you know it's God's doing because there's no other And when that happens time and time again, it increases the faith and the strength, the encouragement, the excitement amongst the corporate body. Sure. They share the testimonies and they have more faith. increases and spreads like and it just begins to be like a fire that just continues to burn and and touch people around. So would you say that's happening? It can't happen. I think it can be happening. In in individuals' lives. They they have a sphere of influence and if you're learning, you're gonna get some people on fire around you. Sure. It it does begin obviously with as individuals are growing in the faith. We know that a walk with God is personal, but it's not individualistic. There's a fundamental difference between those two. I must walk with the Lord. That is a responsibility I have. However, I cannot walk with the Lord alone That's why God saves a people, collective entity, not just individuals. Okay? God saved Tony, God saved me. And if we're in the f same fellowship, boy, we need one another. Okay? Because Tony is not going to have all the gifts that he needs. Tony is not going to have the encouragement that he needs just by himself. We need one another. So agree, when you have many persons personally walking with the Lord and then collectively walking with the Lord. There is something of an attraction that occurs. So we we know this to be true. But I think what we're looking at here is the the world is observing this. The world is observing this, this collective entity somehow radiating this this hope, this love, this This Jesus that they're not really familiar with. And I'm asking, is is the world seeing that in Bethel? Is the world seeing that in a lot of our churches? If not, why not? And how does the world see this? Again, if the church is called to radiate the wisdom of God, we're called to radiate that sin. Somebody We're called to exhort one another, but that radiation is to spread. So how do we so I absolutely agree. By the way, what is your name, brother? Russ. Russ. Alright, I'm Mike. It's nice to meet you. So Russ, I appreciate your comments because again, if we as individuals are not walking with the Lord, there's not going to be a corporate power that comes. Certainly. Certainly. When you say walking with the Lord, I'm not even talking about, you know, walking in sin. Um you know, walking with the Lord versus walking in sin. I'm talking about focus and give it every day The Lord has given you an opportunity. He's got something for you today. He's got someone for you to influence in a positive way for the gospel. Lord, make it happen. Show Give me the right words to say, have my mark right with you. And when it happens, at 4. 30 in the afternoon, everybody's going out of the office. and that person comes around your pupil and begins the conversation and you start to talk about what God has done for you. And that's when, you know, happens hour later, 45 minutes later, you will know that God used you in a special way in plans to keep that part. Sure. And that again flows into the next day in the next Next day and next day. Definitely. Let me maybe let me let me share a story that maybe clarify the question a little bit. So um There was a story of a girl named Monica. She was my um she was my intern. I teach English as a second language. And so um Monica comes from an agnostic background, um really knew nothing of God, Jesus. comes from China. So uh this kind of stuff is all very, very new. Um no presuppositions. So one day um she's my intern, so I'm getting to know Monica and I said, you know what? Monica, we've got some people coming over to the house tonight. We're gonna just play some games. Would you like to come? She says, Oh yeah, sure, I got nothing going on. Why not? So Monica comes. She brings a six pack of beer and she comes into our home and Hey Monica, that was really kind of you to think of us. Thanks for thanks for doing that. You didn't have to bring anything. You just you just come in for the front So we all get together, some people from our church, some people from um different other friends. We're all getting together, we're all just playing games. Nothing um nothing out of the ordinary. Just, you know. Different random games. Next day she comes to me and she says, Micah, I uh She was very confused. And I just said, Yeah? She said, You your friend These are I I I've never met people that were so happy. And uh They were so loving. Like, where in the world? She said, Where did you get friends like that? Like what what planet did you drop off of? And um I said, yeah, you know what? Yeah, these are these are my friends. And I said, Well what what was it about these friends that you saw? She said they they just were so happy, like they didn't need beer to have a good time. Like I've never been a part of a party that there was no people drinking beer And she's like, but they just seem so happy. Like why are she asked, why are you guys the way you are? And so I said, hey, we have lunch break. Let's talk about it. And then for about forty-five minutes, I was able to explain a message that had already been authenticated by a Community. Not by an individual, but by a community. Did she come to know the Lord? Not at that time, to my knowledge, she still hasn't. But something happened in her life where she was exposed not just to a Christian individual but a Christian community, and it left a radical impression on her, so much so that she was struggling articulating the questions to me how what where do these people come from? Where how'd you get these kind of friends? Another example of a lady named Linda. Linda was one of my agnostic neighbors. So she proceeds to, we invite her over for a home to um Just a little um apartment gathering. So we had an apartment gathering, she comes to the house. And eventually she gets connected with my wife. And so they're meeting now. For tea a little bit, and then she gets connected with some of my other Christian friends, people who would be part of our church. And one day, after seeing the gospel authenticated by various people in the Christian community, she said, Micah, you guys act and talk about Jesus like he's real. I said, Miss Linda, he is real. She says, well, I didn't believe he was real before, but having watched you guys, explain this to me. What is this thing? What is this about? She wanted to know what's what's the what's this Jesus thing about because I've seen something different in this community of people. I've not seen that before. I've seen churches, but I've not seen this. Explain that. And so Gradually over a period of time, Linda, the agnostic, came to faith. Now through her influence, went out seeing her nurse's aide. One of her nurse's aides came to me and she said, you know. What happened, Linda? I know she's associating with you guys. You know, you guys, that's the term. You guys. She's associating with you guys. But um boy, she's so happy. She's not complaining, like what's going on. So now Patricia is seeing the gospel authenticated. Has she come to saving faith? Not at this time. But she acknowledged the other day to uh she acknowledged the other day, you know, what I'm understanding of Christianity having witnessed you guys is very different than what I understood Christianity to be before. And so something about this not just an individual being exposed at work, but a individual's being exposed to corporate community, somehow there's this Wow, something's distinct here. Let me share another example. Okay? A guy named Yafay. He was also an agnostic. And we met, and um he was an international student at the university. And um he had gotten interested in Christianity through the influence of some ESL teachers, English second language. He saw this these this love that these people had. He didn't understand why. And then he began to see verses from a basketball player's Twitter account that were Bible verses. And he said, this Bible book is very interesting to me. So he began to get exposed to the Christian community. So he began to connect with a number of us as individuals, but also together. Over a long period of time, Ephaias now recently come to to saving faith. And somebody asked me, well who led the faith of the Lord? See, there was a lot of people that led him to the Lord. Not one individual sitting down with No, there was a whole community of individuals that have influenced him for Christ. He's now a follower of Christ. He is now trying to influence other individuals. His life has been changed because he got in contact with the gospel word and he got in contact with a gospel community. He saw an action. And incidentally, he saw an action way before he ever attended a Sunday service. He saw that in action way before he ever walked into darken the door of a church. So what we're looking at here, that's what we call normal Christianity. That's what we do. As Christians, we live together, we love together, we reach people together. We see that in the at in the book of Acts, but I fear that we're not seeing this as much as we should. This should be a very normal occurrence in a church life. This is just normal churching, if you will. So the question is, okay, not just as individuals, but corporately, why aren't we seeing this? And And what do we need to do to begin to see this? Cliff. Definitely. Some people come in seeing The TV for great Christians with beef those fine you know, and tower under everybody and um especially in this area. Oh yeah yeah people are are in your face and um it's it's hard to break free that presupposition It is, without question. It takes time a lot of time. Um Yephay came to know the Lord two years after we first met him, after a long time of loving this dear soul. And loving in very tangible, practical ways, opening up our home to him, opening up our kitchen to him him. It's amazing how many people raid our fridge on any given week, um, opening up our life uh individually, collectively. So that he sees what Christianity looks like. Many people are attracted to Christians before they're attracted to the Christian message. But they have to see Christians, right? Because they have ideas of what Christians are like. Like you said. They have presuppositions. Um I've got a coworker of mine and interesting interesting fella. He's um got tattoos all over the iron And every other word is a uh non-rated G-word, let's put it that way. And um you know what it's like. You work with people like this, I work with people like this. And he's got his idea of what Christians are like. Um he's taken his idea of Christianity from Donald Trump. So I for it. He's like all those evangelicals like Donald Trump It's like, ah, well, you know, uh, it's actually not that way. Um But he has ideas of what Christians are like, right? He has all these i ideas and concepts. So you look at someone like that and you say, oh man, like no hope. It's been a long period of time. Gotten the Orion. Now we're going to get together, perhaps, we're hoping to get together this week, to have a talk about life issues. It went from like just work-related to now, and it took a long period of time. And what I'm hoping to do now is I've gotten to know him individually, but I want him to see It's not just a me thing. Like there's others out there. And they're walking with Christ and they're radiating Christ. And you need to see this community of people. But it's not going to happen on a Sunday morning, incidentally. Okay. It's not gonna happen there. I mean it it could, I suppose, but more than likely it's not. So the question that we want to really wrestle with, I keep going back here, because this is where we need we need to think about this How do we collectively see these things happening on a very normal basis? We live in a very individualistic society, we live in a very individualistic culture. And so this idea of this collective entity reaching people might be a little bit new. This idea of compelling community that the world sees Now back in the day we could invite the world into our churches. We could invite them into our gatherings. And it was a very normal occurrence. You had a special speaker, they came, a lot of people came, they were interested. There wasn't a lot going on So, hey, I'll go here. It was kind of a what we might call a at least a Christian-friendly culture, right? I mean, it may be uh politically advantageous to identify as a Christian. in the moralistic sense. So people would come to our events, they'd come to our gatherings, they would see the days of the the Billy Billy Graham, Billy, Billy Sunday, these big, big, big crusades people would come to. Now Think about your coworkers. I think about my co-workers. If I invite them to an event like this, the chances of them coming, boop, zero. If I invite them to my Sunday morning church, Boop, zero. Unless they're like, ah, Mike is my ESL feature. That'd be interesting to hear. Other than that, chances are very nil. Does that mean that the chances in seeing Christian community are also nil? No, it should be very vibrant. So, getting back to this question, how do we do that? How does the unsaved world see Christian community if they're not going to come into the doors of a Christian church? We us going out, but that's definitely true, because if we expect them to be here, you know, the the whole American what is it, field of dreams, if you build it they will come? We're gonna build a new sanctuary and they will come. Mmm, they're not interested. They're not inter unless you just have some very unusual unsafe friends. Those aren't my unsafe friends. But they don't care Well that seems like we're gonna have to stop just being concerned about our own family and our own schedule and things that we want to do and start inviting people to our community groups, our and developing relationships. Does that take particular giftedness, incidentally, developing relationships? I've heard people say, well, you know, some people are just better at it than others. Because we are human, if you're human here today, if you're a human and I'm a human, because we're human, we have relationships. God like wired us that way. They may be awkward relationships, they may be Whatever, we're human, therefore we have relationships. Therefore, it's not something of giftedness. Well, this person is just unusually gift. No, no, you're human, therefore you have relationships. So that means instead of It's kind of like, well, that's just a them thing. They're just particularly wired that way. No, no, no, no. You have relationships. Therefore, it's taking what you have and redeeming that. Inviting others into not just superficial casual relationships, but into your life. In fact, one of the individuals who's the best at this in our fellowship Before he came into our fellowship, his mother, his mother Facebooked me and she's like, My my son has awkward tendencies. Well, he's the guy that's like every time we have unsaved people, it's usually through this guy's influence. So it's clearly not an extrovert-introvert thing. Or I they have an unusual gift. But I don't no no no this is a human thing. And it's a Christian thing. And so we see this, and there's no example of like, well, this particular individual or individuals were Unusually no, this was just normal Christians doing very normal things, and this was occurring. Pastor Jim. natural abilities to do this. I actually think that it's possible in natural from what we've been sort of learning in the last couple of weeks from natural abilities may actually get interesting. Because if you have an un a supernatural ability because if you if God is really if you just show love to somebody uh throw it away away And it's something supernatural, something that's something that God is doing. Yeah. Rather than something that just from my own charisma or my own uh ability to be able to when friends and influence people. Um not that God can't use that, but I I almost wonder sometimes it it it would be more more of a powerful thing to an unsaved person. If they can see see somebody that maybe even is socially awkward but still knows how to show love and uh and how to love each other and we sort of see right that So this is the same thing. Absolutely. Absolutely. This is not Zig Ziggler theology. This is not Zig Ziggler Christianity. Okay, this is just normal. Very, very normal Christianity. Like I just mentioned, it's it's interesting. I would really appreciate you going to Acts 2. And if you look at Acts 2, the last verse there, verse 47, says the Lord added, the Lord added to the church. Daily such that you saved. There's nothing prior to that about an individual doing it. Not one word of this is an individual leading to Christ. It's all previous versions. How did this happen? Continuing in one accord in the temple and breaking bread from house to house. That means they're collectively going from house to house, doing it together. And to eat the meat the flatness and singleness apart, they're in unity together. Right, right, right It's very much a collective thing. It's not it's not an individualistic um thing. That's exactly what has to happen. God is doing the supernatural thing Right. Um and the community doesn't mean that everybody was at every house, every factory, absolutely As they broke bread, he was their focus. And so in the church, if he's our focus, no matter where we're at, physically, we will be in unity every single minute of every single day. We're all focused on the same thing. And you're right, you might not be able to go to the next door neighbor or knock on the door when they open it up and say, hey, I just want to know Sure. Right? Oh yeah. My neighbors are all about the laws, man. Right. But if he's working on his car And he needs a little bit of help or he's moving some and you were and you see that and you've been well praying Lord give me an opportunity to to talk to him and you John On the spot, he will not deny the help that you're about to give him. And guess what? When you're done, he already owes you. Right? Right? So you already God already creates an opportunity For him to listen to what you have to say because you display your concern outside of yourself. Now you're there to help and we can begin to develop that relationship is normal and yet God uses supernatural weeks. I don't think that's an accident when that happens. Look out the window when he's coming up God putting all this together. And got and God this is it. God puts all these things together. It's definitely of the Lord. And what we're looking at in these instances, God does like Acts 8, where Philip and the eunuch that come, you know, God brings us together. However, the majority of times what we're finding is not the Philip and Uniuch, it's the community and people on the outside. So those Phillip and Unich events happen. And it's it's a wonderful thing when it happens. But the bulk of times what we find is kind of normal is community outside people seeing believers collectively and they're like, wow, this is something different. So that's our time is almost up. And so what I wanna what I want to challenge us is um when we think about this It's not complicated, and yet at the same point it's something that we do need to be very we need to be thoughtful about. It's not complicated, but we do need to be thoughtful about this. I feel like in a lot of our churches we're so we have so many things and events and programs and then eventually there's no room for ordinary life together. There's just no room like man my schedule is packed. How in the world am I gonna add another? So I don't want to be thinking this in terms of adding another event Or I want to talk about, and what we find in the Bible is just that there's this love one for another. And the world sees it. It may be a few believers gathering at a pneera. It may be just very common, ordinary things where the world is looking and saying, wow, this is this This is interesting. This is very different. So it's taking the ordinary and saturating it with the gospel and inviting others into that. When Paul was on his missionary journeys. I love 1 Thessalonians 2. 8 because he said when I went to Thessalonica, I didn't just share the gospel. I shared my heart. So in other words, I didn't just share the gospel, I welcomed you into my life. Which means I welcomed you into my homes, not necessarily for a home Bible study, I just welcome you into my home. Just, you're with me, I'm with you, and in the ordinary course of life, in the ordinary course of events, because my love for Christ is supreme, and because we're trying to cultivate that love for Christ in our community, what happens? These conversations occur. These conversations are natural overflow of this interaction. So what we're looking at here and in thinking about the answer to this and thinking about what Axe 2 looks like in Glen Burney or Annapolis or wherever you live, Buffalo, New York. We can always look at the context and say, well, it just doesn't, you know, boy, this is this situation, this is this situation. But there is something that is powerful about community. Almost as minority and the world looks upon it and says, this is distinct, I need to find out more. That should be occurring. Like very normally. That should be the very normal course of a church where we're saying, oh yeah, it's my unsafe friend. They're part of this. So it means taking what we already do. Well, doing it collectively. And then inv and and of s having the unsaved flowing into our lives so that they see this as well. Just an example of how this may work. It's football season folks. It's getting close. Some of you you can smell it. You can smell, you know, the pig skin. You're you're pumped, you're excited, you're ready to go. Hey, the the uh the uh the that basketball team with that guy, with that guy, they just won, you know, so hey this could be Cleveland's year. Negative, it's not gonna happen. This could be Buffalo's year. Negative. We have Russia Ryan as our coach. So you know it's not gonna happen. He's gonna eat his way out of the wing joints. Um So anyways, so for example, it's football season. A lot of us are gonna be doing this thing called fantasy football, right? Some of you are gonna do that? Maybe you just say No, well somebody here gonna do it. So our church the other day is like, change, you're gonna do fantasy football, yeah. So you know, I'm thinking about doing it this year too. Hey Why don't we get a few of the guys in the church together? We'll do it. And why don't you we invite some some of our friends like coworkers from work? And let's just form a league together. Half will be Christian, half will be non-Christian. We're not going to call it a church league. We're not going to do that We're not gonna do that. I don't know why people go like let's let's give it a name. Let's get it. No, it's just a league. It's just a fantasy football league. And we're gonna come to my house, we're gonna all have wings, we're gonna have pizza, and there's gonna be Half unsaved, half Christian, and those are going to be natural relationships. And we're going to start doing maybe some flag football together, half Christians, half non-Christians. And because as Christians, our little community, we know why we're doing this. We're prayerfully, we're praying for friends, we're praying for other people's friends, and we're praying for gospel opportunities to flow freely from a very natural thing that we do in this culture. That's not that's not rocket science. It's not complicated. It's just taking something that we ordinarily do and we do it collectively. That's an example. There's so many ways. And so what I would encourage this church to do is to say, hey you know what? How can we encourage one another in this? How can we, and again, it's not through the creation of a highly organized event. It's just through If we're going to do life together, let's just invite some unsafe people into the mix and let's just see what God does. And then suddenly your unsafe coworker is like, you know what, that. Those people, we were at the house, they were nice people. What what what makes them so different? Boom. You've got it authenticated. Now you've got a platform. You've got a platform because it's been authenticated Does does that make sense? Let me let me uh tell you uh uh so something came to mind. I I'd I'll I'd like to give an illustration of how I did this Okay. Um this past Christmas, uh no, the Christmas before last. I decided I really wanted to reach our neighbors as much as possible, so I had a Christmas party in my with where the Christmas party were house. It was a small one, but we invited all of our neighbors and we had a few people come. Um and so we we had a good time with them. It was it was nice. But the mistake I made was I should have invited a few other Christian people too. Sure. I should my mistake I made was yes, I should have invited them. What we did was good, but they didn't see anything real special, I mean I hope they saw that we love them and I hope that we but I don't think any s I don't think they saw nearly as much as a special unity or love for another or anything like that. Because I I didn't say, well let me mix the two. So this cleanness of the Lord wills and what I want to do is I w I wanna have the same thing, but I want to invite a group. I can't invite everybody, but church. But I think that but we I want to write a write group of unsave of saved people to our church from our church uh so that They can witness what it's like to be in unity. If I invite you, you'll get your feelings hurt. I just when you were lit on listening, I'm going, yeah, I did that wrong. I I I mean it wasn't wrong, but it's not a few years ago. No, sure, sure. If I was by safety Yeah. So I know we're our time is up. So um I I hope this at least is getting us thinking along these lines. It's it's again it's not anything out of the ordinary. It's just taking the ordinary, inviting people into life. So that there's life on life interactions, life on life opportunities. By the way, incidentally, um, you know, if you invite a neighbor to a Bible study in your home, They're probably not gonna come. But if you invite them for a grill night, they'll probably come. Right? It's just ordinary stuff. And prayerfully waiting on the Lord to open up the door for those extraordinary conversations. Because it's not going to happen right away. We've got to be patient with that. Okay. Um I'm already late. I'm so sorry. I'm like a guest visitor and I like preach long. That's terrible. That's it goes against everything that I believe. And I just violated it. So let's pray and we'll be done. Father, we do thank you for just The wonder of conversion and what you do in bringing together a people who are now marked by things that were so different and so radical than what they were marked by before. And Lord, we we ask you that you would give our churches wisdom to display that unity in the ordinary in our society, in our culture, in our neighborhoods. in our in our spheres of influence. And so Father, I I pray that we would not have lives that are so busy that We fail to just take these ordinary opportunities and just saturate them with a gospel purpose. And so give us wisdom with that. Help us to love one another. And then to, in loving one another, demonstrate that love and to others. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you.