Oh, it's such a joy in my heart to be with you today, friends. I want to thank you from the bottom of my heart for all your prayers and support and doing everything you can, not only for us, but for other missionaries. Uh when you leave America you enter another world of people that are unlike Americans and they don't know God and it's lands of darkness and sadness and misery And we have the privilege together, you and I, to take the gospel of Jesus Christ, to give them hope, to give them love. to teach them of God's ways. And it is an honor that God can use us in this way. And you, dear friends, with your love for missions and your love for God are doing everything humanly possible to keep missionaries out there. And I want you to know right from right from the beginning here, um, we couldn't do what we do out there on the mission field without you guys Uh you're very much part of the team. Uh together we serve God. It's not that we're out there doing something marvelous for God and you guys are sitting here doing nothing. No, no, no. You have a big part in what we do. Uh we can't be on the front line of the battle without supplies. And you guys are with your prayers and your love and your what what you can do to help us financially is a tremendous encouragement to us and blessing. And I just want to say thank you. And uh really it's um it's a wonderful thing and only God can make it up to you. There's no way in this world we could ever repay you But our great God does, and He will continue to bless you and use you. And I trust that He will speak to all of our hearts this morning from His Word. I want to speak to you from a passage of the Bible that has been um misunderstood uh in most in most Christians' lives. Um It is the story of Jonah. He was an early missionary in the Old Testament, and I don't want to bring a typical message about Jonah. I want to try to help us to understand something different about this man Uh there's a story about a teacher of the fourth grade who was um an atheist and every year when her students would come to her she would uh try to uh to uh find out if there were any Christians among them and uh and then try to convince the children that there is no God. And so um Her class came and there was a in the beginning of the year and uh the teacher asked, uh there any Christians among you? And the little girl who is a Christian, fourth grade, she raised her hand and she said, I'm a Christian And uh the teacher said, uh, Oh, uh, do you believe the Bible? She said, Yes. Uh do you believe everything in the Bible? Yes, everything in the Bible. Uh do you believe About this story about Jonah and the Bible. Yes, I believe it is in the Bible, I believe it Well, how can it be that a uh that a fish, uh a whale, can swallow a man and the man live for three days inside of this fish and come out alive. How can that be? And the little girl said, Well, I don't know. Uh I believe it, it's in the Bible. I don't know, but Uh when I get to heaven, I'll ask Jonah how it was. So the teacher thought she had this little girl, so she crossed her arms and she said, Well, dearie, supposing when you get to heaven Jonah's not there And the little girl said, Well then you can ask him. Uh friends, um many people because of the story of the whale in Jonah, ninety-nine percent or ninety percent of the Christian people and other people know nothing about the book of Jonah except this fish. And that's not what this book is about. It it does have the fish in there It does have the the um miracle taking place. It it's not about God is not giving us this story to show that he's that you can't get away from God no matter where you go, although that's there. It's not teaching us that um Uh that that you know that that a person can live inside of a fish and whole books have been written about the possibility and all of this. That's that's not Look, that that those things are true, but it it's not like punishing a disobedient preacher and all of this. There's a central theme to this book of Jonah. I'd like us to read uh chapter one, the first three verses of Jonah, if you have your Bibles with you. If you don't, it's okay. I'll just read it to you. From the King James Bible. Now the word of the Lord came unto Jonah, the son of Amit Amittai, saying, Arise Go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry against it, for their wickedness is come up before me. But Jonah rose up to flee unto Toshus from the presence of the Lord, and went down to Joppah and found a ship going to Tarshus. And then over in chapter three, verses two through five. This is the second chance, and God is the God of second chance. If God uh God always gives you a chest second chance, friends, if you make a mistake, you do a sin or you do something else God is the God of second chance, third chance, a hundred chances. God never gives up on us. He loves us. Has Satan knocked you down? So what? Get up. You don't have to stay down. Get up and serve God. You can go on with it And uh Paul said this one thing I do, this one thing I do, forget those things that are behind. Okay, we all make mistakes You you've done some things you shouldn't have done. We all have. We're human. We're not God. None of us are as good as Jesus Christ, okay? We're not perfect. We make our mistakes. Forget those things that are behind. You can't do anything about yesterday. If you spill milk in the carpet, you can't get it out again. It's gone. You can be forgiven for it, and you will be if you confess it. That's the blood of Christ does that for you You got today. You don't have tomorrow. That's not here yet. You got today. Jesus said you live for today. You do what you can for Jesus Christ today. You have your devotions You have your prayers, you have your faith, you have your love, you go forward in the strength of Jesus Christ today. And every day you wake up, you open the Bible, read the pastor's devotional in the website and and and tell your friends about it and you ask God to help you for today to live for Him. So Jonah gets a second chance to serve God. Verse 2 in chapter 3. Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and preach unto it the preaching that I bid thee. So Jonah rose and went into Nineveh according to the word of the Lord. Now Nineveh was an exceedingly great city of three days' journey Jonah began to enter the city a day's journey, and he cried and said, Yet forty days and Nineveh shall be overthrown So the people of Nineveh believed God and proclaimed the fast and put on sackcloth from the greatest of them to the least of them. From the king on down, the whole city repented and came to faith in Jesus Christ. Jesus verified this. He said the people of Nineveh repented at the preaching of Jonah. Jonah went there and preached to these people and they became Christians I want to give you three points in the time that we have left here. Number one, God's love and compassion reach to all men. That's the first thing we want to learn what this book is about. God's love and compassion reach to all men. Number two. All men are capable of receiving that love and responding to it. All men, all women, all children are capable of receiving the love of God and responding to it. Number three Men who themselves enjoy the knowledge of God are often strangely and amazingly unwilling to share it with others. Number three, again, men who themselves enjoy the knowledge of God are often strangely and amazingly unwilling to share it with others. We know the truth and we don't share it often. Number one again, God's universal love. Nineveh was indeed a very wicked city. He says so. God says they were a wicked city. Now, God loved these people, even though they were wicked God loved them. God loves everybody. God wants everybody to be saved. He says he is not willing that any should perish, but that everybody should come to repentance. God says he has no pleasure in the death of the wicked. God wants us to take his love to everyone possible. Yes, we are to send missionaries overseas. Yes, we are to preach to our neighbors. You have to be an excellent soul winner. You have to understand how to lead people by faith in Jesus Christ. And you have to be actively doing that. That's what your missionaries need to be doing. Paul loved Timothy Timothy and Paul were were blood brothers, really spiritual father and son. And Paul said to Timothy, Do the work of an evangelist. God wants all people saved. God is not happy that the world lies in darkness. God wants everybody to know about Him. God gave us a free will. We're not responsible for whether people respond to it or not. We're responsible to tell them. And that's the challenge. telling them. We've got to know we've got to be able to tell them. We've got to know the gospel so well and we've got to be able to to not cram the Bible down people's throat. We've got to understand how to witness without being repulsive. You don't need to be repulsive in presenting God. You can show His love. You can teach people how God loves them and show them their need of it. So all people need this. William Kerry, his Nileva was Africa India. God sent him to India, that dark, dark country where Hinduism had the people in bondage for so many years. He preached the gospel there. Thousands of people came to faith in Jesus Christ. We're reaping the benefits of that in Georgia today. There are there's Baptists went there and they preached and started Baptist churches and there's a section of India where there are hundreds and hundreds of Baptist churches and Baptist people trying to reach India They're coming to me as medical students to Georgia. And not only are the Baptists coming, but the Hindus are coming. We have a great opportunity to reach these Indians, these Hindus, uh, and to preach the gospel to them and train them to send them back into India to strengthen the work of God there Uh God loves these people even though they're far from him and don't know about him. God loves all the people of Africa. They're in uh uh uh brother Moffat went to Africa and and the pagan lands where people lied in darkness and knew not our great God and God sent him there and today uh Nigeria and other countries have thousands, tens of thousands of born-again Christians there Lands that laid in darkness are now evangelized because the love of God wants these people saved. Missionaries have gone into the Amazon jungle where there were wild people there without clothes and without knowledge and lived among them for uh thirty, forty years and learned their language and taught the people the gospel and thousands of people from these uh go from these pagan lands have come to faith in God uh because you care and because God cares and you you love God and you send missionaries out there into these far-flung countries because God wants some from every nation, every language, every tongue, every tribe. He wants some in heaven from these peoples. Because why? Because he loves them. When you are conceived inside your mom, there is life given to you by God And God has a plan for your life, and God has a God has a will for your life. He's not willing that you would perish. He gave you human life and he wants to give you spiritual life forever with him in heaven. But you've got to know about it And how will you know without a preacher? How will you know unless somebody tells you? So keep up the good work of sending missionaries and do what you can for spreading the good news here among uh people in your area here. Be a missionary right here in Glen Burney. So God says, go, the Great Commission. And as you go, evangelize. Disciple those who come to faith in Christ. Don't just put the baby on the doorstep and walk away. Disciple them, tell them some things about give them the ten-step discipleship program. Have a Bible study with them and show them, teach them. And number three, baptize them. That doesn't just mean get them wet It means get them here into the church. It means let them see that we're normal people. We're not strange people. We're we're just ordinary people who love God. And they see us and come among us and become one of us. And number four, teach them everything I've taught you. Jesus wants us to be teachers of his word and teach people. And he we do that on the mission field, and that's how the gospel advances. We've got a w our generation dies The apostles are dead. All the other missionaries are dead that were down through the centuries. We're not. We're alive. It is the the baton has been passed to us. We've got to now take this wonderful message of God's love to the peoples who don't know him, whether here or abroad. We've got to do everything in our power. We are servants of the Most High God. We are his instruments in his hands. He wants to use us He doesn't send angels to do this work. He sends people. We are his mouth. We are his hands. We are his feet. We are his people. And we've got to be active, actively serving God with every way we can, in every way we possibly can. Number two. The capacity for repentance. Jonah was told, go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry against it. Their wickedness has come up before me. Jonah didn't want to go. He didn't want to go. But God said they were a wicked people. It's said by historians That the people of Nineveh are so wicked that when they would they had a they were very militaristic, they had an army of trained soldiers and would go out and kill other tribes of people decapitate them and put their heads in a stack like a pyramid at the entrance, the two entrances of their city, to uh to so that as you enter the city you see that this is a very fierce people Uh Jonah maybe didn't want to go there because he didn't want these people saved. He wanted them judged. He wanted the fire of God to come down. He he had the exclusive idea, I'm a Jewish person, I I've I'm one of Abraham's children. God has me saved and I'm I'm trusting in my ancestry and God everybody else is an enemy and and they were wicked peoples. They had child sacrifice Can you imagine uh the terrible god Moloch? They had an iron statue of him with his arms out like this and a a hole in his belly on iron. uh figure with a demon head and and burnt and put fire in there and made it extremely hot, red hot, and take their precious little babies And put them in the hands of this Moloch God until they would scream and perish. And they had m chanting very loud and loud music that they wouldn't hear the screams of the baby You say that's terrible. Yes, it is terrible and wicked. It should never be to take the life of a little innocent baby, a mother who's to protect her little one, feeding it to the fires on on a false idol in God. What about today? They did it to thousands of babies. Do you know that America has aborted 55 million babies 55 million babies? Life that God gave and put inside of this mother, inside of her, it's not her body. It's a life inside her body. It's another body in her. It's not hers to kill I like what the Christian doctor said. The woman went to this Christian doctor and said, Uh, I want an abortion. And he said, Well I'll tell you what, I'll make a deal with you. You bring the baby to term. I'll deliver it for you and I'll hand you a knife and you kill it if you want it dead. I'm not going to kill your baby. Fifty five God God's not gonna turn if God God has every reason to judge our country if we don't if we don't start living for God and repenting from as a nation. to turn away from these wicked sins. And what about Sodom and Gomorrah? God rained down fire on them because of their evil uh homosexual things that they were doing, even to try to do it to angels We have a society of people today that accept homosexuality as a normal thing. Just another kind of lifestyle. TV announcers come on and say I'm I'm gay and it's accepted. That's wicked, that's wrong. We need to stand up and say, no, that's not right. Well we're not to do it in an ugly way, but we have to step by our principles. But this is an this is a wicked city, God said. And he sent his man Jonah there to preach against this city. To tell them, I love you. Why? Because God loves everybody, even these wicked people who were so heartless, who would do such evil things Uh you you you even thinking about them, you wouldn't think God would even care about them, but he does. God cares about your neighbors. God cares about You people at your work, at your school, God cares about everybody, and God has put the responsibility on our shoulders to tell them We we we can't control whether they believe it or not. They've got a free will. But it's our responsibility to tell them. You don't have to tell them in an ugly way, but in a in a way where they can respond to it So the capacity for repentance is there. These people of Nineveh repented. They changed their mind. They stopped their wickedness. They repented from their sins. They they put on sackcloth from the king right on down to the last one of them. And God was very pleased with this. But you know what happened? Jonah didn't stay there as a resident missionary. Jonah was glad to get away from there. He preached the gospel and they responded and he left He didn't teach them to teach their children. What did God say about our children? Teach them four times a day. Teach them when they wake up in the morning. Tell them about me When they sit down to eat, tell them about me. I'm an invisible God. They they need to hear from you. Mom and Dad, they need to hear from you. When you walk with belong to shop. To buy some food, tell them about me all through the day. When you put them to bed at night, tell them about me. God wants us to to tell the our children from the infancy on up to indoctrinate them, to teach them God's ways It was in Timothy, it was in his grandmother and his mother and in Timothy. God wants our his doctrine, his life, his under understand. He wants our children to understand. And it is our responsibility to tell our children. Jonah never stayed there Two generations later, because the there was no missionary to remain in Nineveh, God had to send judgment against that city. because they didn't pass the information on to their children. My daughter was a missionary in England first well not not to England but she was teaching English as a second language into third world countries and um she had to write radio programs and answer correspondence when the when people had questions about what she had to bring the gospel in in simple English, her boss made the huge mistake He and his wife said, oh, we're not going to tell our kids about God. Uh when they grow up, they can choose, they can make their own mind up. Both his children As young teenage children decided they didn't want to believe in God, and it broke his heart and his wife's heart Their children are on their way to hell because mom and dad never told them about God. God tells you, you instruct your children You pray for them, you guide them, you counsel them, you give them God's counsel, God's wisdom, and you make sure they stay connected to God and you love them. Um and your grandchildren, you you have every influence you can. Moffat in Africa went there and told them about God's love. They said to him, I tell you what, there's a man here, an African chief named Ofric Honor. Uh I I guess I'm pronouncing his name right. And um they said he's a very bold, strong man, a very anti-God man. If you get him saved, I'll believe in missions. If you can't get him saved, it's impossible. Nobody can be saved. Moffat prayed for this man, made an appointment to go and see him, preached the gospel to him. Ofreconor became a Christian. Ofreconor became one of his most loyal disciples, following him everywhere he went, completely changed. In Tbilisi, we encountered a man named Tomori. He was the son-in-law of a preacher there. The preacher said to me, we got a problem with my son-in-law. He's been a narcoman for twenty years. A narcoman is a man who's a who's addicted to some sort of substance, some narcotic alcohol or something. This man was about ready to get a divorce totally ruined by this substance he was taking like a zombie, like a stupid man. We sent him to a re rehabilitation center, gospel that our mission operates in Ukraine. He was there four or five months, came back a totally changed man, received Christ, got off the plane and said to his father-in-law I got a confession to make. I stole from you when I was an archoman. This guy has been so transformed. His whole life is different. He's living for God. He loves God He sees he wants to start a narco center, a home for rehabilitation center in Georgia. There's never been one. He wants to have this to help friends. He knows many narco men who were lost everything in their life because of some substance. God loves all these people. There's hope for them. In the bottom of the human heart there's hope. There's an emptiness. There's a craving for God When when when God made Adam, he he he formed Adam out of the dust of the ground, formed him into a perfect human being. And Adam laid there on the ground dead And God breathed into him the breath of life, and Adam stood up and could walk and talk and see and hear and think and could reason. He He he made man in the image of God over above all the other creatures. And God made man so that God could adopt this man into his family. God wants a family in heaven. He wants children And he's he made us in his image and he's going to take us when we believe in Jesus Christ and repent from our sins. He's going to take us to heaven and we have a great future ahead of us. He wants everybody in on this. God wants the whole world to be saved. Any God that can take dust and form it into a human and make it live, a God that can do that can do anything. And God can do anything. He what was Jesus' name at birth? His name will be called wonderful because he is wonderful. His name is wonderful. It is wonderful. He is the mighty God. He is the counselor. You got problems? Go to take them to Jesus and counsel with him. He he's He'll tell you what to do. His word guides you as to every problem you've got. It addresses it. He's the counselor. His name is Wonderful Counselor. Mighty God. He's got power. He can do anything. There's nothing impossible with God. Many things are impossible for us, but for God nothing's impossible. He can save everybody. But we've got to tell them He is the everlasting Father. I didn't say your earthly father. Earthly Father's try, but we have our shortcomings. We we we don't we're not perfect Uh he's talking about Heavenly Father. He is perfect. He can do nothing wrong, he can think nothing wrong, say nothing wrong, do nothing wrong. So there's there's no sin in Jesus, none at all He's our counselor. He's our father. You can take your troubles to him and you can say, Dad, I'm sorry, I just made a mistake. I just sinned. I did so please forgive me. And he says, Sure, son, and he wipes the tears from your eyes. Sit you in his lap, kisses you, and you're forgiven. What a wonderful God. He's the He's the Prince of Peace. Jesus the Prince of Peace How could he stay on that cross with the muckings and the beatings and the other things that he took for abuse of people and had perfect calm in his heart? He looked at the thief who got saved and saw the travail of his soul while he was there. This man hanging alongside of him on the cross said, Remember me when you come to your kingdom. How is a man dying talking about a coming kingdom? Because he believed in the resurrection. He was told somewhere along the line he heard Jesus preach and he understood that there's a coming kingdom and he wanted to be part of it. And he became a believer. And Jesus said, Today you'll be with me in paradise. Normally a man stayed on the cross three days. They came with a lead pipe and smacked it against the legs. The thieves were hanging there with their knees bent a little bit, and they would straighten themselves up to breathe. The the force of life is strong in everybody. These men would be going up and down for three days. So if they didn't do that Their ribcage would collapse and they'd die very quickly. The Romans made sure that they would live by doing that to make them suffer more But when the soldiers came and broke the legs of the first the second thief, they couldn't go up and down anymore and they died from asphyxiation, couldn't breathe. When they came to Jesus, they said he's dead already. Shoved the spear up into the heart of Jesus and blood and water came out. Medical people tell us when you die your blood coagulates and the red corpus will stick together and the water separates from your blood to prove that Jesus Christ was dead. He died for every one of us The Muslims don't believe that Jesus Christ died. They believe that he there was a look-alike to Christ and he slipped away into the crowd and the look-alike died on the cross They don't have a Savior. The Bible says if Christ didn't die, we are yet in our sins. Jesus Christ died on that cross and they put him in the tomb and three days later he came back. And that Jonah is a testimony to that, that as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the whale, Christ is three days and three nights in the heart of the earth And the capacity for repentance is in everybody. There's a need, there's an emptiness in every human heart for God. Some people call it a s a God-shaped vacuum there, and everybody needs to hear about it. Oh friends, please learn to be a soul winner. Learn to witness the final point The reluctant preacher. Jonah didn't want to go. He was angry at the Ninevites. He was angry at the way they were killing babies. He was angry for what they may have done to some of the Jewish people. They were enemies. of God. And he was reluctant. The Apostle Paul said, The love of Christ constrains me. There are some people who go out to be they say they're going to be missionaries because um they they want to be humanitarian, they want to teach people how to farm better. Okay, it's good to teach people how to farm better, but we're interested in their soul. We want to know how to get them into heaven through the blood of Jesus Christ. Proverbs says He that winneth souls is wise. Daniel said, You will shine as the brightness of the stars forever and ever if you are a soul winner We'll we'll know whether you're whether you're a soul winner or not when we get to heaven. Yeah, we'll we'll know it. If you're shining bright, we'll know that you've been a soul winner. If you're like a little candle, a birthday cake candle, just kind of flickering a little bit, we'll know that you didn't you didn't do very much by way of soul winning. Statistics tell me, I don't know who takes these statistics, but they tell me that 90% of the American Christians, born-again Christians, have never led one person to faith in Jesus Christ in their entire life. Not one Yet we have the greatest message ever in history, the message of God's love. Paul said the love of Christ constrains me. It is not through teaching them to be a farmer, it's not through teaching them to be business people, it is teaching them the love of God. Teaching them that God loves them, that He wants to save them, that He wants them in heaven, that He wants to forgive their sins, that He went to that cross and bore the agony of it in order that they could be saved and be there forever. And it is our responsibility to go and kill them. We've got to learn to be soul winners and be faithful at it. Okay, we have weaknesses and we make mistakes and we but forget about that. That's that's yesterday. Learn today, learn to do what you can. You've got to learn to speak to people's hearts and soul winning. Say to a person Do you consider yourself a good person? Everybody will say yes, I I consider myself a good person. You ever tell a lie? Sure, everybody tells lies. What do you call a person who tells lies? A liar. You ever taken anything that didn't belong to you? Oh yeah, I I've taken a few things. What do you call people who take things that don't belong to them? A thief? Okay. You ever looked at a person in an unholy way? You ever, as Jesus said, you ever lusted after somebody in your heart? Well, yeah Okay, so if God judges you on the Ten Commandments in in the in the future in heaven How do you think you're gonna do? You're you just admitted you're a lying, thieving, heart adulterer, and probably a blasphemer, if you've said curse words You're not going to do so good at the judgment. And you have now pricked their conscience. They have admitted that they have done wrong And now you can tell them about the forgiveness of Jesus Christ and his love. And it'll it'll be much more effective because now they you you you bring them face to face with reality and they're they're not so cocky and sure of themselves that way. Friends, Moses, Moses could have been the Pharaoh that came out of Egypt He could have had anything he wanted. Egypt was the superpower of his day. He went to the university under the sun. He was trained in military things and medicine and trained in all the ways they could train him. Very intelligent man He chose, the Bible says he chose, uh Hebrews uh 1136 I believe it is, he chose to suffer affliction with the people of God rather than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. Sure sin is pleasure. If it was painful, who would do it? Everybody, sure the devil makes sin fun. But y it's because you only see the beginning of it. You don't see the end of the of the thing. God God doesn't stop you from doing the sin, but it brings emptiness into your life. It brings judgment, it brings pain. It's it's It gives you cirrhosis of the liver, it gives you lung cancer, it gives you all kinds of bad problems and diseases. And God is separates from you and doesn't hear your prayers. God says, uh your sins have separated between us and I do not hear what you're saying. I won't listen to you We've got we've got to be careful about our lives and be holy people. Moses made a choice. He was maybe he wasn't sitting in church one day, but he made a choice somehow. He said, God, I may not I may be a sinner, but I'm not stupid If I can give my life to you to do what you want, if you will help me and work through me. I will do what you want. I'll do your will. Friends, God made every one of us, he had in his mind what he wanted you to do with your life. You didn't know about it. I didn't I used to be an atheist. I didn't know that God had a had an idea for me to be a missionary. I found out and and I I said, God, I don't feel qualified. Who am I? I'm just a Maryland boy, I uh I've never had any aspirations of anything great. I said, God, if that's what you want from me, you've got me. The Apostle Paul said, for me to live, speaking of himself, for me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. What did he mean? He meant that he was a living sacrifice. He gave himself to God. A living sacrifice. And he said, God, I I'm dead to what I want out of life. I want for me what you want from me. I want you to relive your life through me. I I I'm just a I'm just a human, but whatever you want me to do, I'll do it. Your pastor has obeyed that. He's come here and he serves God and every one of us are thankful for it. I know as a missionary I'm grateful. I come here and I see what God is doing here. And and I I'll just Redouble my efforts to pray for you and to get this building down the road here that may become available to you. Moses made the choice, Hebrews 11, 36, because He was looking for the reward. Wow. He's he's not stupid. He said, wait a minute. If I become the king of Egypt, I can have everything humanly possible to have for the next 40 years, then I'm dead If I give my life to God for the next 40 years and suffer in a desert with grumbling people, it's not easy. But when I die, I've got tremendous rewards in heaven. Nobody would want to go through the 40 years that Moses went through, but everybody would love to have Moses' reward In heaven, you can. You give your heart to God, you give your life to God, you learn what you can and you do what you can, you serve God, you become a living sacrifice, and you serve God with everything you've got. And what happens God keeps a record book in heaven. He will give you a reward. He says, I come back and my reward is with me. He says you got treasure in heaven. He says you will you will shine as the bright stars forever and ever. He says God is generous. He's he pays he pays handsomely. You in in look I was in the American military and they have ranks. They got S they got, you know, high high officers, generals, they got sergeants, they got you know lieutenants, they got common foot soldiers like me, you know, everybody's there. In heaven you can increase your rank. There's there's archangels, there's angels, there's there's archangels, there's uh presence angels and different levels of angels You can increase your rank in heaven by being faithful to God now. You can increase your reward. Moses was looking for the reward and he obeyed God and stayed faithful to God I want the best for you. Pastor wants the best for you. Pastor can't do it all alone. He can't reach everybody that you know. You know lots of people he doesn't know. Invite them over to your house for coffee. Sit at a restaurant and sit and talk with them. Tell them, you know, I've got something important to tell you. How God changed my life. You mind if I share with you? And you learn how to be a soul winner and you practice that. And then you teach them uh ten lesson discipleship or whatever pastor offers here, discipleship. He gave me a booklet already today that I want to get translated and use in Georgia. Friends, my time's gone, but look, God loves everybody. God wants everybody to be saved. Everybody can be saved. Even the most wicked Ninevehites could be saved and did become saved. The reluctant preacher didn't want them saved, and it is amazing how little we do for God in relation to evangelism. We're like Jonah. Shame on us. Shame on us that we're ashamed of Jesus Christ. With all the love he has for us and for everyone. The fact that he would go to their cross For us and for everyone, and give his life's blood, and take that beating, and take that mocking and other things. Think of it. The God who gave us life came among us And allowed us to spit in his face, allowed us to slap him, allowed us to pull out his beard, allowed us to whip him, allowed us to mock him and say that he had a devil and say that he was a liar, allowed us to nail him to the cross Why? Because he loves us. The love of God constrains me. We go out to serve God in our neighborhoods, in our mission fields. We go out because the love of God is in our heart The love of God wants to reach everybody. The love of God controls us and constrains us and sends us forth. It is his love working through us and reaching other people with the love of God. I'm finished. But I'll pray for you. God bless you. If you're here today without receiving Jesus Christ as your Savior Oh friends, don't make that mistake. You don't want a devil's hell. You don't want to be down there with Hitler and Satan and all those evil people You don't want a bed of fire every night for all of eternity. You want to be in paradise You want to be there with the angels of God and with the children of God and with God Himself and with Jesus And you can be there through faith in Jesus Christ, only through him. He said, I am the way, the way to heaven. I am the truth. I'm not going to lie to you. Hell I'm absolute truth. Absolute truth. Two plus two equals four. That's absolute truth. The Bible contains absolute truth. The Bible does not lie. What you read in the Bible is true. You can believe it and put your life on it. Jesus said, I'll save you if you believe. You can put your finger on that verse. That's absolute truth. And you can be God's child through adoption in the life of faith of Jesus Christ. I urge you, if you have not become a believer, if there's any doubt in your heart, See pastor or see me or see somebody and and and make sure that you're a Christian and make sure your children are saved and your grandchildren. Do what you can to lead them to faith in Christ Uh Pastor Howder should we close? Uh okay, let's stand for a closing prayer, please Heavenly Father, we want to thank you again for the truths that we read in your wonderful word. I thank you for these dear friends, Lord, who love you and want to serve you. Lord, I pray, Lord, that you will help us. We're only human, Lord. We have our weaknesses. But Lord, we have a pure heart because of you. You have purified us, Lord. And you have given us a desire to serve you and to follow your ways. And God, we want to do that, but we need your help God, we want to be strong in the Lord and the power of your might. We want to understand your word and we want to understand your will for us. And we want to follow you. And we want to teach our children. And we want to be soul winners. And we want to support your programs and do everything we can for you. The time is short, Lord. The second coming of Christ, we believe, is very near The days are short, and the night cometh when no man can work. Help us, Lord. Help us to fulfill your will. Bless these dear friends now, Lord. If any here are not yet saved May this be the day that they give their heart to you. And friends, while our heads are bowed and our eyes are closed and Christians are praying, if you're here without faith in Christ and you've never actually repented in your heart and believed on Jesus while the others pray for you. Would you like to have me pray for you in the closing prayer to where you will understand The Bible says we've all sinned. The Bible says our sins will take us to hell. The Bible says that only through faith in Jesus Christ can we get into heaven The Bible says we have to believe in Jesus Christ, and that He is God, that He died on the cross, that He rose from the dead. The Bible says we have to repent from our sins and say, God I sin, please forgive me. Come into my heart and save me. Isn't that what you want? Don't you want to be a real Christian right now while our heads are bowed? If you have a doubt of your salvation, would you look up just for a moment? And by the uplifted eyes, you're just saying, Pastor, pray for me. I need Christ. I need forgiveness. I'm not sure what will happen to me when I die, but I want to be sure. Please pray for me in the closing prayer. Anyone? Yes, I need Jesus. Pray for me. Could it be that we're all saved? I sure hope so. If you have doubt, please see Pastor or somebody and make sure about this Heavenly Father, thank you for these dear friends. Thank you for their faithfulness and their love and their love for missions and their love for your kingdom. I pray, Lord, that you will help us all. to do your will. Help us all. Lord, we want to be forgiven for the mistakes we made yesterday. And we want to live for you today. And we want to give this day into your hands. Use us as you can Train us, Lord, and teach us. Lord Jesus, you said, come unto me, all you who labor and are heavy laden. We want to come to you, dear Lord Jesus. Take my yoke upon you. Lord, it is your yoke and we want to we want to yoke together. You lead us. You're the we yoke with you. You show us which way to go. You are meek and lowly in heart. Teach us, Lord, to be meek and lowly in heart like you are. We need you, dear Jesus. Help us. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.