Take your Bibles, please, if you would, and turn to Ruth chapter two. I need to make another announcement. Um and Um I apologize for not making it yet. Um Myrna and Jean are both candidates for membership now. They've gone through our our orientation class, and so in a couple of weeks we'll be bringing them in into membership, Lord willing. Pray for Jean though. She is not feeling well today. Um so just uh be in prayer for her. And um and so um but we'll look forward to bringing them into our membership. We're thankful to Lord. bringing them our our way providentially. Ruth chapter two, I'm going to begin by just really asking this question. Do you when you think of God's um attitude toward you Do you think of God as one who just who will provide for you? But really, all you can really expect is to be provided for just enough. Like, he's going to make sure you survive. But maybe not so much really thrive. Maybe not really be that God would really want to give you abundant blessing. Sometimes I think, at least the way we live, it's like, yeah, I know God will s God will help me survive, but it's gonna be up to me to m to to thrive. That's my role. I gotta m make it happen as far as that's concerned And what we're going to see here in a very tangible way through really the life of Boaz as he relates to this woman Ruth Is that God's disposition toward us is one where He wants to bless us. He wants to abundantly bless us. He wants us to thrive under His working and providence in our lives, his sovereignty in our lives. Now we because we're such you know, corrupted creatures, we have to sort of remember that God's idea of thriving might not be our idea of thriving. God's idea of abundant blessing might not be our idea of abundant blessing. But what we see in this passage today in Ruth chapter 2 is that God truly desires to bless us not just the ability to survive But he wants to give us abundant blessing according to his wisdom, according to his will, according to his perfect understanding of what is really best for us. And what it really has to cause us to do, and we're going to see the response in Ruth today, there is a particular response that we need to see from Ruth. in how we're to respond when when God does bless us. And we'll go to the Lord in prayer and then we'll get into the text this morning. Father, I pray, Lord, that you would help us to see in a tangent and tangible and vivid way, you in this text. May we have a greater view of who you are. May we understand in a fuller way that you are our good, kind, Heavenly Father. No good thing will you withhold if we will walk uprightly. And we confess before you, even before we begin this, that we don't know what is good. You are the author and the all-wise God on what is good for us. And we may think we know, but we are just children. We're dumb sheep. And we don't really know what's good for us. But Father, as we look at your word this morning, may we just be reminded of your goodness. your provision, your graciousness to us, your desire to bless us with abundant blessing, not according to what the world sees as blessing But what you see as blessing. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. So what manner does God desire to bless us? Well, last uh, of course, we began began a couple of weeks ago this series in the book of Ruth. And in Ruth chapter 2, picking up here in verse verses 1 through 13 from last week, we saw that Ruth in his in her faithfulness desired to follow through on her her declaration of faith that she would take care of Naomi. And that she would be faithful to her and be faithful to her God. And in fact, that her God, Naomi's God, would become her Ruth's God And we see as she began to go out and to be faithful in providing for her mother-in-law. We pick up in verse 3 of this chapter and we see Through through an interesting way of describing in a narrative, uh we see God's providence in leading her clearly to Boaz's field. Verse 3 says, And she went and came and gleaned in the field unto the reapers, and her hap was to light on the part of the field. It's like it happened to be that way. She happened to b happened to be uh come to this particular field. Now, it's worded that way because Ruth has no clue. That this field was a particularly going to be a particularly beneficial field for her. She had no clue about that. But we know from the story that God's providence is involved in this. And the key to our receiving what God wants us to receive. And He's the author of what's good, not us. is that we need to be faithful in doing what God has called us to do. And He will place us where He wants to place us. And give us the blessing that he wants to give us. And we see this clearly in the book of Ruth, as now she is in Boaz's field. And Boaz is, if you recall from last week, Boaz has this strength of character in inquiring about who Ruth is. He sees Ruth working hard and being diligent and he hears of the faithfulness of Ruth and leaving Moab and coming to uh this nation of Israel and and a and believing in the one and only true God and now serving her mother-in-law and he is and he desires and and he knows a lot more than Ruth does at this point by the way. Ruth doesn't have a clue who Boaz is. She doesn't know that Naomi's husband was related from the same clan, the clan of Elimelech. She's not aware of this. And but Boaz knows, Boaz knows what's going on and and she know and he knows who Ruth is, and he he knowing what he knows just wants to provide. You have this story of Boaz just desiring to provide for Ruth. And not only provide for Ruth as we learned last week, but also protect Ruth. Ruth was in a in a hostile place in a sense because she was a stranger, she was a foreigner in this land. But Boaz took great kindness toward her, and we learned last week as well. that this book of Ruth has has has God's kindness throughout it and also the fact that God desires for his people to be a conduit of kindness to others. We see that as well in this book. Now with all that in mind, we come to chapter 2, verse 14. And we pick up here and Boaz Ruth has been invited to glean from the field and to not go anywhere else, to continue to glean from Boaz's field. And Boaz decides during one day of her gleaning. Uh this actually probably was the same day as before. During the lunchtime hour, Boaz decides to go now even a step further. Now he has already done th things that have been un that is unheard of to actually tell Ruth that she can be exclusive on this one field and in fact to stay close to her to his his uh maidens sort of as a protection from the rudeness of men in that area as they as they were very rude to foreign women. He has already extended great hospitality and great provision to Ruth But now he wants to go just he wants to go a step farther. He wants to go beyond this. And you'll we'll pick up in verse 14 and we'll see this And Boaz said unto her, at mealtime, Come thou hither, and eat of my bread, and dip thy morsel in the vinegar. And she sat beside the reapers, and he reached her part parched corn, and she did eat, and was sufficed, and left. So we find in verse 14 that there is this invitation that is given. That Boaz now invites him, her to sit down at the same table with him. That's an unheard of kind of gesture. for a s for a stranger to do that to do that um for another stranger here. Of course he knows that there's this relationship behind the scenes, that this family relationship connection But he in nonetheless does this. And there is this intimacy in in in eating together that he extends to her as well. Back in those days, there was this camaraderie and this this intimacy that was associated with eating a meal together. I think we still have that today to some degree But not to the extent that they did in the Middle East, and actually still do to this day in the Middle East. There is this sense of family, this sense of closeness when you are invited in to sit at the table. There are some interesting things about this. He first says, come here, or it's it's it's he he says essentially come close. And the reason he's saying that here is because there's it implies that Ruth is sort of keeping her distance. She knows the appropriate place. for a stranger. She knows the appropriate place for a foreigner and she's keeping her distance from Boaz. Despite Boaz's great um des uh uh provision and and protection, she's still sort of Be showing great respect and reverence for Boaz, but when he invites her to come closer and to sit at the same table, there is this invitation of intimacy. And he says here to there's a, it says, the eat of the bread. The bread indicates that this is already a prepared meal. And it says, dip, and he says, dip thy morsel in the vinegar. This is a kind of wine vinegar that was used more than likely as a condiment for dipping bread. And this was very common. There are different kinds of in the Middle East to this day there are different kinds of dip Perhaps you're familiar with hummus, for example, that's a a kind of dip that have crossed over the pond into this area and you can go into a store and get hummus and dip bread into that. That came from the Middle East. And there are other kinds of dips as well. There's one that's Arabic called Baba Ganoush. I grew up eating that one. That's a that's an eggplant dip. And anyway, they're they they're very there's very common for them to do that. And but there was this there's a connotation here with this. It's like this commonality. Dip here We could he could have just said, come eat bread with me and eat your bread. But to he did he wanted her to receive the exact same kinds of um uh blessing that he was getting, the same case that he was getting. He wanted her to receive that as well. And there is this commonality with a certain kind of thing. It's like fondue today. You're how many of you all gone to like the the I I don't really understand it. Um why in the world you would pay those prices to go to the melting pot, you ladies do this, to make your own food. I don't I don't I just don't understand. I went the other day to a place that was a lot less expensive of to this fresh pl it said something fresh on it. And I said, well fresh sounds good. So I went there. And like you had to make I was so confused. I was like they had meats and vegetables and all kinds of stuff and I said I I looked at this thing I said I I said, just make me something And they they said, okay, we do have something that anyway. Um but apparently that's the new thing. Just come in and make your own food. We'll have it all there for you. And then you pay the same amount as if you made it. I I don't get it. I really don't understand it. But anyway, uh but you ladies like to go to the melting pot and have this time where you dip stuff in stuff and have this great great thing that you do. Well I think it's kind of the same thing here. Okay? Uh I really have never been to melting pot. I am not paying those prices. Anyway, but uh I have no judgment on those who do, by the way. I it's perfectly it's perfectly fine. I I totally understand. Um Uh I actually don't understand, but I I I I accept it. Anyway, so all that to say, that's essentially what he's doing here in this passage is he is extending for them uh for her this commonality, this intimacy. Now, I just want you to see this. It's like, it just reminds me of Psalm 34. 8 where it says, O taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man who trusts in him. David is saying, just experience the goodness of God. Have you ever sat back and just for a while thought about the goodness of God in your life? Let me just tell you, you don't deserve nothing. I use a double negative. My daughter will will correct me later. You don't deserve anything. And neither do I. And if we would just take some time to sit back as Ruth did, she's a Moabitus and she's a Amazed by this to taste and see that the Lord is good. We need to do that And he is so good that we find a word here that describes just how good Boaz was to Ruth and how good God is to us. It says, and he reached her part corn. By the way, it's uh the idea there is basically there's this roasted corn that he was giving her, and he was actually serving her. Which is incredible. And then it says, and she did eat and was the word there sat suffice or satisfied. She was satisfied. And this is such an important concept. It's again repeated later on when she's talking to Naomi. It says that she was satisfied. Ruth was satisfied. Did you know that your God is so good that He wants to bless you to the point of your being completely satisfied? Now you say, well, I'm not satisfied, so what's the problem? You. Honestly, me too, by the way. I'm not I like it, me too. The problem if we're not satisfied is us. It's not God. God wants to bless us. So that we're satisfied, that we're full to overflowing. It's like Paul said, I know how to be abase and I know how to abound. I know how to be empty and how to and to be full. In all things, I have learned to be content For in all things Christ strengthens me. That's God's disposition toward you. It is to bless you to the point of your being satisfied. God can do that for you. He can do that for me where we're entirely satisfied in him because God is more than enough for us. And you see that in this passage, clearly displayed. Psalm says this, Psalm 17, 15. As for me, I will behold thy face in righteousness. I shall be satisfied when I awake with thy likeness. Psalm 63, 5. My soul shall be satisfied satisfied as with morrow and fatness. My mouth shall praise thee with joyful lips. Psalm 65, 8, or 65, 4. Blessed is the man whom thou choosest, and causes to reproach unto thee, that he may dwell in the courts We shall be satisfied with the goodness of thy house, even the holy temple. God's desire is for us as we know him. and are known by him to be satisfied by him. But Boaz's Provision for Ruth and desire to bless Ruth doesn't stop there. So Ruth, in her faithfulness, gets up, rises up from eating this noonday meal with him. And gets up and goes again to glean. That's an interesting thing, is it not? All of this provision for Ruth. This overwhelming kindness toward Ruth, but Ruth just stays faithful in doing what God called her to do. She knew how to abound, apparently. She was abounding at this point, and yet she just stayed faithful. And she got up and she went and she gleaned in the field Boaz commanded his but and Boaz isn't done with her. He says, Boaz actually is really not done actually as we go through the through the through the book. But Boaz commanded his young men, saying, Let her glean among the sheaves. And reproach her not. He says, he says, uh he he says, of course that we learned from last sun Sunday that The law was that that the Jewish people should not, when they were plowing, they should leave the corners for those who were who were foreigners. and widows to come and glean from those corners. Now Boaz is doing something else that is unheard of. He's saying, hey, you know what, guys, let her let her glean from the main part. And she's going to go after the corners, but as you go, as you go and do your plowing, you need to leave some of the good stuff behind for her. And he says, and by the way, don't you dare talk to her the wrong way. It's like this protective instinct came out. You do not rebuke her. Don't uh don't appro don't reproach her. You You're not to ever not to do that at all. He's sort of reminding her. It must have been a I'll just say this, there must have been a real problem with racism back then There must have been a real problem in this day with in that day with m with people looking on foreigners and and and not treating them well. And I'll tell you what, that was never God's intention. Did you know that? We won't take the time to turn to the various passages to demonstrate that, but it was never God's intention for the nation of Israel to shun foreigners. It was always God's intention, actually, to be a light to the nations. So what we find here in this passage is that Boaz is basically telling them what God had always intended for them, not to be a reproach. to Ruth. Verse 16 And let fall also some of the handfuls of perp uh of purpose for her. Intentionally leave them for her, and leave them that they may that she may glean and rebuke her not. Verse 17 that says this So she gleaned in the field until even, and beat out that uh she had gleaned, and it was about an epha of barley. Now let me mention something about Boaz's character here. Of course we've already mentioned a lot about Boaz's character, but I want to mention a couple of things. Number one, Boaz is ha Boaz has sterling character because Boaz was desiring to provide for those who really From his perspective, I'm sure, didn't want, wasn't going to be able to return anything to him. And we find this in Deuteronomy chapter 10, verses 18 through 19. He doth execute the judgment of the fatherless and the widow, and loveth a stranger in giving him food and raiment. Love ye therefore the stranger, for ye are strangers in the land of Egypt. God had actually commanded them To love the widow and provide for the widow, and to provide for the stranger. And Boaz was following after this. And you notice something interesting about Boaz? All of this provision, all of this dialogue between him and Ruth, and here's one thing that's sort of missing. He never introduces himself. In other words, she knows his name, but he never says who he is. She ne he never says, I'm from the clan of Elimelech. I could be your kinsman redeemer. I could be you know he he never he's never mentioning any of that to her. And you know why that is? Well, probably it's for a couple of different reasons. One is is that he was demonstrating true love for her, provision for her, kindness to her, expecting nothing in return. He didn't care what Her perception of him was. That was not the point. There is this purity of kindness that he is expressing to her. And then also this, I thought this, I was thinking about this last night. Boaz could have said, hey I'm your kinsman redeemer. You could stop working. I'll take Naomi and I'll take you and Naomi in, and I'll just take care of you and provide for you. And you don't have to work anymore. Boaz does not do that here. Now why would Boaz not do that? Well, you think it's because perhaps, and this is just this is a little bit of extrapolation here, it's not directly in the text, but I think it perhaps might be because Boaz wants Ruth to continue in her faithfulness and doing what she said she would do. You know, God is intended for us as He provides for us to be involved in His provision. God rarely ever says, okay, you just stop doing anything, and I'm just going to throw tons of blessing at you. That's not the way God does it. God allows us, really, it's for our benefit. God allows us to be intricately involved in His provision. As we are faithful, he is faithful to us. Now, is God faithful to us despite our faith our lack of faithfulness? Aren't you glad He is? He is faithful even though we're not sometimes. But there is a sense in which to really realize the faithfulness of God and the goodness of God, to really understand it We, the more we are faithful to him, the more we'll really experience his faithfulness to us. God set it up that way. And he set it up that way for our good and for his glory. And I think you sort of see that here with Ruth. I I you know if you don't agree with that, it's it is definitely implied in the text, so that that's okay. That's kind of my opinion there. But I I I I at least sort of see that here, that why Boza Boaz at this point would not just take them in and and do that. It really was out of love for Ruth and love for Naomi that that wasn't the first initial manner of provision. Ruth was being faithful, and Boaz wanted to work with her in this way. And we see, I think we do see God's own character in working with us. Now I want you to notice something else about Ruth here. Ruth has been faithful, and this woman is diligent. She's extremely diligent. It says that she was able to glean in one day an epha of barley. Now, an ephah was equivalent to what was called a bath, which was a liquid form in Ezekiel chapter 45, verse 11. We won't take some time to turn that. You can write that down if you want. And that was equal to 5. 8 gallons. Okay. So that was that so she's carrying roughly two-thirds of a bushel or five point eight gallons. I think it's easy for us in liquid form. We all know what a gallon of milk feels like, right? Well she's carrying five point at the end of the day, she's collected five point eight gallons of that of of of of that kind of barley. What is more impressive is that it only takes one day's ration is one liter. Okay, so if you do the math, she has collected in one day roughly 22 days worth of food. Now that's actually extremely impressive. That is more than the average man would glean in a day. This woman is extremely diligent. She is very faithful. It's not as though she said, Ah, you know what? Every day I know I can come back. I've got I've got this sort of exclusive relationship with Boaz now. I can I can handle all this and I can just do what I want to and I want. No, no. She stayed diligent. She gleaned everything she could glean. And she took full advantage of the provision that Boaz was providing her. The truth of the matter is, in two months, at that rate And the harvest time was around two months. Two months at that rate, she was going to be able to provide for her and the Naomi for roughly a year. Because by herself, if she stayed at this rate. Now the point is simply this, and I think there's a clear application for us. You know, the truth is God, when God provides for us We need to be faithful with God's provision. We have a responsibility when God provides for you in benevolent ways, perhaps, in generous ways. There is this responsibility not to take it for granted, but to use it the way that God has intended for you to use it for his purposes and for his glory and faithfulness to him. He desires for us to respond in faithfulness. This reminds me of what the Apostle Paul said in Romans chapter two verses three through four actually to the Jewish Jewish people in that in that uh context. He says this O man, you judge those practicing such things and doing the same that you will escape the judgment of God. Do you not despise the riches of his goodness? forbearance and long-suffering, not knowing that the goodness of God leads you to repentance. Did you know That God in his character actually le is good to people to lead them to repentance But there is this warning that he extends to the nation of Israel in Romans chapter 11, verse 22, where he says, therefore consider the goodness and severity of God. On those who fell severe with severity, but toward you goodness if you continue in his goodness. Otherwise, you will be cut off. There is a limit to God's goodness. And if the unsaved person, if the unbeliever does not see that the goodness of God is drawing them to himself, there is a point at which he says, okay, it's done. Now, we don't pretend to all understand that, and my point is not to discuss to get into all that, but there is this principle that I want to gain from this, folks, is that God wants us to be faithful with his goodness. He wants us to do as Ruth did and glean all we can from his provision. And what you're going to see as Ruth is faithful, Boaz has the opportunity to give more, to do more. He keeps doing more, as Ruth is faithful to receiving Boaz's provision in the right way. Now then we we turn the scene here and Ruth has has um has collected all of this and now Ruth is going to go and show all of this to her mother-in-law. And we pick up in verse 18. And she took it up and went into the city, and her mother-in-law saw what she had gleaned, and she brought forth and gave it to her that she had served. After she had sufficed, it's that satisfied again, we see that there. And her mother-in-law said unto her, Where hast thou gleaned today? And where waddest thou? There's this amazement. Wherest thou Glenoday? Where wast thou? Blessed be he that did not did did take knowledge of thee. He does she doesn't know who it is yet And she showed her mother-in-law with whom she had wrought, and said, The man's name with whom I wrought today is Boaz. Now, really to understand what's happening here, we need to remember where Naomi has been. What has Naomi's attitude been like so far? Naomi has been despondent. She has been paralyzed by the seeming lack of kindness of God toward her. In fact, we find as she enters back into Israel coming from Moab, people start calling her by her name, Naomi. And if you'll recall from Ruth chapter 1, verse 20, she says this, call me not Naomi, call me Mara, for the Almighty hath dealt very bitterly with me. I went out full, and the Lord hath brought me home again empty. Why then call ye me Naomi, seeing the Lord has testified against me? And the Almighty hath afflicted me. No Naomi ret so Naomi returned and Ruth of Moabitis, her daughter-in-law, with with her, and she returned out of the country of Moab, and they came to Bethlehem in the beginning of the barley barley harvest. Do you see that there? She is absolutely despondent. I don't think what we see here is that she's absolutely turning her back on God. Perhaps that is what's happening. But she has she is she is just doesn't know what to do. She is in despair. She does believe that God is against her here in chapter one. And she says, Don't call me Naily, call me Mara. I am call me bitter. Well, when Ruth comes with this big thing of barley, Ruth doesn't say, hi Mara, how you doing? We find here her referred to as Naomi in this passage. Why? It's not necessary. She goes from being very low to being very high. Why? because of the faithfulness of Ruth. You see, God used Ruth as a conduit of his kindness to Naomi. Naomi looks at what God was doing with Ruth and providing for Ruth and really providing for Naomi as well as as a result. And she's amazed at this. And she goes from being very low to very high. She finally sees the grand blessing of God, the abundant provision from God. And whoever this is, there's this general blessing. Blessed be God. You know, it's really interesting that God does things this way. The truth of the matter is we are so full of sin and corruption. That sometimes God's got to do that with us. He's got to bring us really low before he can really provide for us. What we see throughout the book of Ruth is that Ruth stays faithful. But there's a reason that Ruth stays faithful. It's sort of implied throughout this text. Ruth doesn't forget where she came from. She's a Moabitist, and it's repeated over and over again in these first couple of chapters. She knows who she is. She knows she deserving of nothing. And it's that lack, it's that constant awareness. of the fact that she deserves nothing that actually puts her in an attitude of just staying faithful. You know, that really is the the key, is it not? If we're really to stay faithful to the Lord, we've got to realize we deserve nothing. So that when when when bad things happen and when we're brought low, we sort of go, okay, I don't deserve any more than this. And then when good things happen and we're brought high, we say, I don't deserve anymore. I don't deserve this. It keeps us in this constant relationship with God where I'm low and he's high and I don't deserve it and he if he gives me anything is from his benevolent hand. And that is the really, folks, that's the key to staying faithful to your God. I remember I I was doing some reflecting on this last night and this morning. And I think I I just really feel compelled to sort of give an illustration just of our own church. I remember uh when I was uh I the end of 2013. When I came here, I think there were probably fifteen to twenty people. Um somewhere around that. And uh I came I honestly I just said Lord if you can use me somehow I I just want to come by faith and just trust you and and And and um frankly I had some people that said, don't do that, and I said, Well, I'm just gonna trust the Lord. Um And uh and I came and we had to get we had to deal with some things uh in the f early stages of that and um and we actually lost a few people and it we we got I mean it was the I hope I'm not saying this wrong or in any way offensive, but we were pretty low when I came and then I think God brought us a little lower I remember the end of twenty thirteen I and saying, Lord, I think we're as low as we can go. You know, but I mean this And just saying, Lord, would you just do just do something with us in two thousand fourteen? If you if you would choose to I don't know what's gonna happen, but Lord would you just choose to and if you would want to. I remember praying. I remember having a meeting here at the church uh with Kim and Amanda actually and and we were all sort of discussing the fact that, you know, things had been it was we were sort of discussing the situation. And I remember just driving home and saying, Lord If you want to use us, we're here and we and and the truth of the matter is, if you use us, we'll know it's all of you. It it it'll be because you chose to. And God began to really supply in 2014 and in 2015 and in 2016 and He is continuing to supply. That's God. I ain't I ain't taking no credit for that Another double negative, my Caitlin's really gonna get me. I'm not taking any negative any credit for that at all. I'll just tell you, God will take the people that are of the lowest and he'll do something with them. The Bible says that in 1 Corinthians, he says he uses the poor of this world to confound the wise. And I just want to say this. I don't know what God's going to do with us. He seems to keep providing for us in ways that I am totally surprised by And there is an opportunity that the Lord might be moving us to another location, just a few miles away if it's his will And I just want to tell you that we were sitting in a deacon's meeting the other day and and talking about all this, and one of the deacons said to me, you know what, said to all of us, said, you know, if God puts all this together, it's going to be him. I'm going to tell you ahead of time. If God puts all this together, it's going to be Him. And I'll tell you that on the other end of this as well, if the Lord provides. And if the Lord doesn't provide, it's still him, by the way, right? And if he doesn't provide for us in that way, he'll give us something else. Now I'm I I'm diverting a little bit here because and I didn't intend to I mean I didn't chose this passage because we ha we're gonna we're looking at going on a contract for a billing. I just I sometimes every once in a while I just sort of sit back and say, okay, Lord, I I i I it's just h healthy I think to realize where we where God has brought us from and what He's doing with us. And just to affirm it's God who's doing it. It's Him that gets the glory. And it isn't because of us, because the we'll mess it up. There I remember time many times in my as I'm pastoring I I I say to the Lord, Lord, just help me not to get in the way. Help me not you do what you can do and help me not to mess it up. Folks, God has brought us and provided for us over the last few years and you know ev I think every one of you, if you just take some time to think about your own life You can see God's provision in your life. You can see how you don't deserve what you have. And you can see how God just continues to provide for you one step at a time. Folks. Don't trust in the provision. Trust in the God of the provision. God will always provide in the way that he wants to. And we have to just realize that God's disposition for us is to abundantly bless us. And here's the thing. What's awesome about this is that God used Ruth as a conduit of blood. What was that? That's a dumb bird. Okay, anyway. As I was saying, uh we can get our attention back here. Um uh God wants God used Ruth as this conduit of blessing that Naomi could see. Would that be wonderful if God uses that with does that with us? I think he already has. I've talked to n some neighbors around here and they're seeing what's happening and some of them are really upset because we keep parking everywhere and uh certain things are happening to your cars. I apologize, but it's not Uh not that it's my fault, but anyway. Um so park try to park in the right spots. Anyway, but um which it may be why the Lord might provide a building for us. We'll see how that all goes. But I I say all that to say that sometimes people are saying, well, a I always say, you know, I like they'll say, what's like what what are you doing? Like what what's going on over there? Look, I'm preaching the word and God's blessing. That's what's happening. And we go through valleys, we go through the heart. It's not like we but that's the bottom line. It's just we're preaching the word and God's blessing. And that's got and God doing it in his time, in his way. And that that needs to be our constant mindset that God is providing and God is blessing, and it's Him that gets the credit and Him that gets the glory. And I want you to notice what you see here in verse 20. Notice this. This is incredible. This is great. Verse 20. And Naomi says unto her daughter-in-law, Blessed be he of the Lord who hath not left off his kindness. To the living and to the dead. Did you catch that? Now let me ask you a question. Who is Naomi blessing here? Boaz or God? Look at it again. Blessed be he of the Lord who hath not left off his kindness to living and to the dead. Commentators say this is extremely ambiguous. It's really hard to tell. And you know what I think? God had that on purpose. Blessed be he of the Lord. Blessed be Boaz. Great. God's blessing Boaz. Blessed be God. Great. I think it's both. I think what's happening here is that Naomi is seeing God use Boaz, and he's and she's blessing Boaz and blessing God. It's like you can't tell the difference. That's the way that way it ought to be in our lives. When people see God's provision in our lives, they ought to be saying, praise God for what he's doing in Jim Ganam's life. Not praise Jim Ganam. Obviously God's blessing Jim Ganam if God's doing that. But praise God. There's got to be this, there there is it it's the way it's worded here essentially That there is this there is this reflection toward God because of Boaz being a willing participant. In God's provision. And the same thing we have with Ruth, that same conduit of God's provision is what we see in this passage. And folks, that is a very important thing for us to understand. as Christians, that God desires for us to be a reflection of who He is. Now verse 20 is an extremely important verse for interpreting the whole book actually Because what we see here in this passage in verse 20 is it says, Blessed be the Lord who hath not left his kindness to the living and to the dead. And Naomi said unto her, The man is near of kin unto us. He is our next kinsman. Now, this is a very important verse because now Naomi is recognizing for the first time what Boaz probably already knew That Boaz had the ability to be the kinsman redeemer. Now we talked about this a little bit last week, and the connection between Christ in the New Testament being our spiritual kinsman redeemer and what God intends for us to understand about Boaz as a type of Christ. I want to just mention this. We will get into more about the Leverett marriage and all of that in the future when we get into chapter 3. But I want to mention this as well when it comes to the idea of redemption as it is. displayed throughout the Old Testament. This concept of redemption begins in the Pentateuch. It's not something redemption we think of as a New Testament concept. Redemption, folks, is an Old Testament concept and it's a devet, it's a fully developed concept, really, over time. And we learned last week that redemption means to be bought back. But I want to add something to that. It is bought back specifically for a purpose. In Exodus chapter 13, verse 30 13 through 15, It says, and every firstling of a ass that shall redeem with a with a lamb, and if thou wilt not redeem it Then thou shalt break his neck, and all the firstborn of man among the children shalt thou redeem. And it was specifically in that passage, as well as the next passage in Numbers 18, verses 15 through 17, that there was a purpose. In Numbers 18, 15 through 17, we find this about those firstborn. and also um firstborn of beasts and all of that, it says, For those who are redeemed from the month old shalt thou redeem, according to thine estimation, for the money of five shekels after the sh after the shekel of the sanctuary, which is uh twenty garas, but the firstling of the cow and the firstling of the sheep, the first thing of the goat for sh first shall be redeemed. They are holy. They are set apart And thou shalt sprinkle their blood upon the altar, and thou shalt burn their fat on the offering made by fire for a sweet savor to God. I just want to mention this in terms of redemption. Redemption is the idea of being bought back, but what we see from those two passages is that redemption includes bought back for a specific purpose. And folks We, if you know Christ as your Savior and you have been redeemed, you have been redeemed for a specific purpose. Ultimately, I'll say it this way: you have been redeemed to be a sweet savor to God. Did you know that? You are a sweet savor in the nostrils of your God, not because of what you have done, but what he has done. He has redeemed you. Now we're going to learn much more about this as we continue in the book of Ruth. But understand that Naomi is beginning to describe in verse 20 this blessing that she is seeing from Boaz And recognizing that God may be using Boaz to redeem them and to redeem Ruth for a very specific purpose. And then Naomi and Ruth both respond in verses 21 through 23. And Ruth, the Moabites He said unto me also, Thou shalt keep fast my young men, until they have ended all my harvest. And Naomi said unto Ruth, Her daughter-in-law, it is good, my daughter, that thou go uh said to them to her daughter-in-law, it is good, my daughter, that thou go out with his maidens And they meet the not in any other field. There's a little bit of humor in that. Did you catch that? Naomi goes, it's good you're hanging around with young women. It it's good you're not really ha going to other fields and hanging around other other men. Naomi's sort of going he might be the one the lever marriage thing might work the can he said it's it's good just stick with the women. I I don't know, I think that's funny. But verse verse twenty-three, and she kept fast by the maidens of Boaz. She did what she was told. She gave she got that advice and she went that way. to glean unto the end of the bar of barley harvest and of the wheat harvest, and dwelt with her month uh her mother-in-law. Ruth continued to respond in faithfulness to God. And folks, that is really our application, our role in all of this. Is that we need to be faithful as God provides. We need to continue to be faithful as God provides. Whether I'm talking about corporately as a body of believers or individually. As God provides, you and I have got to stay faithful with God's provision. To as much has been given, much shall be required. And folks, you know why sometimes we're not faithful? It's because we see God as the one who provides for what we need, but then we work for what we want. That is a bunch of baloney. God gives us what we need, and frankly, God, benevolently from his hands, gives us things to experience and to enjoy as well. When we begin to see God is the provider not only of what we need, but the things that we want that are good for us, And he is a provider of all of it, then we will begin to realize we're undeserving of any of it, and we will begin to be faithful to him. We'll stay faithful to him. And so, in conclusion, I just point three things out to you. Number one, we must bless the Lord and forget not all his benefits. every day of our lives. That's a quote from Psalms. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits. We ought to wake up every morning blessing the Lord, oh our soul, and not forgetting his benefits. Number two. We should desire to display God's benevolent blessing of provision to others. We want to be a display of that as individuals, as well as a body of believers. And I got a little wordy here, but we must remain unflappably faithful. Unflappably. I just like that. Unflappably faithful. Not only in times of abasement, but in times of abounding. Are you that faithful? God desires for us, no matter whether we're base or whether we're bound, whatever state we're in, to be content. so that we can have his provision, so that we can be faithful with his provision, so that we can be a conduit of his provision to others. And that's what we see in this text. May we respond to God's abundant blessing with faithfulness. Let's pray to Him. Our Father, we do come to you and we see in your word this great picture. Of your desire to bless us abundantly. And Lord, I think I can speak for all of us to say that we know you have You have blessed us abundantly. Not only in material things, but more importantly in spiritual things. I think of Ephesians 1 that says That you are blessed, and that you have blessed us with all abundant blessing in Christ, spiritual blessings. Lord, help us to bless you and forget not all your benefits. Most importantly, is the benefit of your dear son, who died for us. Who, because of his death on the cross, forgave us of our sins and put us in right standing if uh uh assuming we've trusted you by faith Lord, as we just anticipate here the communion time, I pray, Lord, that we would focus on you Focus on the great work that Christ did in purchasing our redemption for your purposes and for your glory. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Tame, Amen