Luke Chapter Luke Chapter ten, we're going to recover from the Christmas spirit this morning. a different kind of spirit than uh a different kind of attitude than than the Christmas spirit that we should want to emulate. Um I do need to make an announcement that I had forgotten before. Uh would you be in prayer for Mr Smith His nephew came by yesterday and mentioned that uh he is really not doing well. He is um just in in really bad shape. Uh I will be going to visit him this afternoon. Um and so uh just be in prayer for him uh during this what seems to be pretty pretty difficult time. Luke chapter 10, and we're going to be looking at the characters of Martha and Mary this morning as they interact with Christ. Picking up here in Luke 10, verse 38, it says. Now it happened as they went that he entered a certain village. A certain woman named Martha welcomed him into her house. And she had a sister called Mary, who also sat at Jesus' feet and heard his word. Martha was distracted with much serving. And she approached him and said, Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Therefore, tell her to help me. Jesus answered and said to her, Martha, Martha, you are worried and troubled about many things. But one thing is needed. Mary has chosen that good part which will not be taken away from her. Let's go to the Lord in prayer Father, as we are ending now the holiday season and anticipating January and the new year, I pray, Lord, that you would help us to look at the At this contrast between Martha and Mary and Jesus' commentary on all of this, and I pray that it would help us to Um make sure that things are aligned correctly in our own lives when it comes to our communion with Christ. And we admit before you that because we are fallen and Live in a fallen world and have that old flesh that uh will not leave us until we see Christ. We there is always that tendency to be drawn away from Christ. The hymn writer got it right when he said, prone to wander, Lord, I feel it, prone to leave, the God I love. Although we would not, most of us would not say those words, sometimes in our hearts we can depart from an intimacy with Christ that He wants us to have. And I pray this morning we would be encouraged and challenged again to have a communion with Christ that is not only necessary, but is a privilege that we have for those of us who know you as Savior And so we pray for this time that you would use it in our lives. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. How many of you have ever been vacuuming before? And you when you're vacuuming, you're trying to get every corner you possibly can. And as you're trying to reach as far as you possibly can to try to get into the outlying areas of a room, the cord becomes unplugged. Who maybe you've ever experienced that before? Everybody if you're like me, you try to get the most mileage out of the one plug you possibly can. So like if you can get into the next room and not change plugs I you know, I thought about that how illogical that is. It doesn't take that much time to switch plugs. But anyway, uh if you're like me, you're trying to get as much as you possibly can out of one plug and Don't want to take the time to switch plugs, and before you know it, you've lost you've been become disconnected from the power source. And you and I as Christians sometimes can do that as well. We can become disconnected from the power source. We can become so occupied even with good things. That we're so even preoccupied in those ways that that as we are being as we are focused on doing this and doing that and getting that done and Solving that problem and figuring that kind of thing out, that we become disconnected from the power source of Christ. In our story in Luke chapter ten, Jesus has come to Martha and Mary's house, and the passage tells us in verse thirty-eight That Mary has received her. He is, she is, or Mary and Martha both has received Christ into their house. Martha particularly, it says, welcomed him. And we shouldn't necessarily see Martha or Mary in this passage as some evil people. They're people with good motives, and Martha has good motives and wants to do the right thing and and welp welcoming Jesus into her home and and taking care of Jesus. That isn't a bad thing and we shouldn't necessarily see Martha as this horrible person, how terrible she is. Sometimes it can be portrayed that way. But on the other hand, it is clear from the passage that Martha had some problems. The primary problem that Martha had was that she was preoccupied. Tells us this in verse 39. And she had a sister called Mary, who also sat at Jesus' feet and heard his word, but Martha was distracted, the King James says, cumbered about with much serving She was preoccupied with good things. The problem is that when we become preoccupied as a Christian with good things, Sometimes in our preoccupation we become disconnected from the power source. And we're going to see that that is essentially what happened In Mary's in Martha's life as well, she is distracted from what is most important. She is preoccupied. I wrote down five things that are true of a preoccupied Christian that we really can glean from this passage. First of all, a preoccupied Christian is distracted by lots of good things to do And Martha's not distracted by evil. She's not distracted by all kinds of evil things and pursuits that would not in any way be or should be in a Christian's life. Martha is preoccupied with good things. She's preoccupied with hospitality and serving Christ. But nevertheless, she is still preoccupied. She is distracted by lots of good things. The word distracted here has the idea of being encumbered, uh being sort of uh Too busy actually, the word uh can can mean that, to be driven about mentally, um, to be distracted. I wrote down a few reasons why sometimes we get into this mode of being distracted by a lot of good things. One reason is sometimes it's to cope with a hurting heart. There's a pr we have a heart that is hurting, and as a result of having a hurting heart, one way or another, we figure that the best thing that we can do is just to distract ourselves. By the way, there is a sense in which when you're grieving to be able to occupy your yourself with things to do is not wrong. As long as it is not it is in conjunction with having a relationship with the Lord, which we'll look at more in a few moments. To soothe a guilty conscience. Sometimes we're feeling guilty about something that we need to confess or deal with in our our lives as Christians, and instead we just preoccupy ourselves with one activity after another. I wrote down, sometimes we just are trying to seek a place of fulfillment in our lives. We want to feel fulfilled. And we are pursuing tasks in order to feel fulfill fulfilled. And then sometimes it is to fill some void in our life, but really it can only be met by God Himself. So a preoccupied Christian is one who is distracted by lots of good things to do, like Martha was. But we also see in this passage that Martha is not only distracted, but she's also comparing herself with Mary. In fact, it says that Martha was distracted with much serving, verse 40. And she approached him, Jesus, and said, Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Therefore, tell her to help me. She is comparing herself with what Mary is doing. So, number two, a preoccupied Christian. Makes comparisons with others. You ever find yourself being realizing how busy you are, and you begin to compare your schedule with somebody else's schedule and And you think to yourself, well, they're they're busier they're not as busy as I am. They're not as you know, they must be lazy or I'm working harder or trying to console yourself with your busy schedule. So you're comparing yourself with somebody else. That is an indication of being some of one who is is a preoccupied Christian. Or perhaps you're actually judging somebody else's schedule. Now the truth of the matter is we we none of us knows really what each other's schedule really is. Sometimes people just Their their demeanor is less busy and so um they don't seem like they're as busy, but it doesn't necessarily mean they're not busy. Other people their demeanor is busy, but perhaps they're not really busy. We sometimes get this false impression that um that uh that you know if we have Facebook friends we can see everything they do and so you know if they don't post a lot they're not busy and if they post a lot they are busy. Well that's a bunch of nonsense. Sometimes people are too busy to post a lot. But if we have to be careful about comparing ourselves with others, Scripture is clear that we should not do that. Comparing ourselves with others is unwise, according to 1 Corinthians. Number three, we get into something more deep and something that we need to really consider, and that is that a preoccupied Christian can begin to question the love of God. Did you notice that in this passage? Jesus, Martha comes to Jesus and says, Lord, do you not what? Do you not care? My sister has left me to serve alone. Lord, do you not care about all that I have to do? Lord, do you not care about everything that's on my plate? Lord, do you not care? And a Christian that has been disconnected from the power source, that is preoccupied with all kinds of tasks and responsibilities It becomes very easy to think to yourself, you know, Lord, do you really care about all the things that I have got to do? And why is my load so much heavier than someone else's load and they seem to have the time to be able to to to have devotions and sit at your feet and And and and I can't do that. And Lord, why? I mean, don't you care? Can't you get them busy to help me out? You can almost imagine someone who is frustrated in their preoccupation actually saying that to the Lord. Mary obviously says that here. And we have to be careful about this. These are indications that we are really not connected to the power source of Christ anymore. We're not in communion with him the way that he wants us to be Number four, we are preoccupied uh preoccupied Christian struggles with anxiety. Well, the truth of the matter is when you are preoccupied with all kinds of good things to do and you're not getting a spiritual spiritual energy and strength that you need from the Lord Then then it can lead to a place of anxiety. Your emotions can't keep up with everything that is happening. Just can't really even process all of that. And so it's not long before you begin to feel anxious and You feel like you feel like uh you're always if you're not doing something, you ought to be doing something and and and and just constant anxiety. Uh this is this is illustrated in the uh illustrated in those of us who have cell phones and keep them in our pockets. You ever you ever felt your your your leg buzz and your phone's not in your pocket? Don't tell me you don't no y I don't have no clue what you're talking about. You all know. Or maybe in your purse you feel your purse vibrate if you don't say I s I don't have any clue what you're talking about. Well that's okay, I'm glad you don't know. But I've had that before. I'm like And my there's nothing there. We we sometimes we we are so busy doing this and doing that that that we struggle with with anxiety. We have to be careful about this. Now let me hasten to say this. You know, a Christian that's connected to the vine is actually going to produce more fruit, according to John chapter 15. I'm not suggesting to you that a person who is spiritual is one who is not active That is not at all the case. In fact, if you look at the book of Acts, you're going to find a very active group of apostles running all over the place. But they are clearly under the influence of the Spirit of God and empowered by the Spirit of God as they do that work. But if we are not empowered by the Spirit of God, And we continue to try to do what we really can't do in and of ourselves. Anxiety is going to settle in. Then finally, a preoccupied Christian is bothered by many things. Jesus says this about Mary. First he says, verse 41, Jesus answered and said to her, Martha, Martha, you are worried, that's that anxiety, and you are troubled about many things. You ever find that you're just troubled about everything? Like everything bothers you. This thing bothers you, and that thing bothers you, and that thing bothers you, that thing bothers you. You know what it indicates is when everything is bothering you or when many things are bothering you, everything seems to be bothering you There is this desire to control what you're not supposed to be controlling. Desire to try to harness what you can't harness. God wants us to have a very different approach to this, but it is very as we look at at what it means to be preoccupied, this this concept of of worry and anxiety, which really go together. Worry, anxiety, and being bothered or troubled. The word trouble means to be to make a noise or to uh uproar, to be turbulent. It's Something in your spirit that you're just unsettled, there's not peace to be disturbed, to throw into confusion. Illustrated of a city, it's an an uproar. The Bible is very clear, Christ's teaching is very clear, that we should not have this kind of spirit, whether it's worry or being bothered by many things, this is not something that is of the Lord. In Matthew chapter 6, verse 25, we're reminded Therefore I say to you, do not worry about your life, what you will eat, or what you will drink, nor about your body what you will put on. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing? Look at the birds of the air, for they neither sow nor reap, nor gather into the barns. Yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not of more value than they? Which of you worrying can add one cuba to his stature? So why do you worry about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They neither toil nor spin. Well, the question then becomes, where did Martha go wrong? Why did this happen to Martha? Why does this happen, let's broaden it a little bit, why does this happen to Christians? I am curious, how many of you would say, you know, I can at one time or another, maybe not right now, maybe, maybe, maybe right now, maybe not right now, I can identify with these things. I would certainly raise my hand with you those of you who are brave enough to raise yours as well. How does this happen? Why does this happen? It happens because we try to find our identity in what we do instead of who we are in Christ. We are trying to build our identity or find our identity in what we do. The world teaches us to do this. You are what you do. You are defined by what you do. And folks, that puts us in a place where we are constantly feeling as though We've got to accomplish in order to prove something, either to ourselves or to others, or perhaps even to God. Let me illustrate it this way if I can. Imagine you're starting in a new vocation. Let's use electrician uh electrician just for random thing. a vocation to use. And you're beginning in your work as electrician. You've done all gotten all the licensing and education in order to be electrician. But you started on your new job, you're employed by by an electrical company, you started on your job, and and you really want to make a good impression and you really want to do a good job. Why? So that you can be a good electrician. And that's admirable. Somebody who takes their job seriously and does their a good job in order to be a good l electrician, uh that's something that we would applaud. A employer would look at that and say, you know, he's really working hard. to become a good electrician. But there comes a time in all in a person's life and their vocation. Whether they're an electrician or a mechanic or a plumber or whatever, where they're no longer trying to prove themselves anymore. They don't really have to prove that they're a good electrician. They are a good electrician and now they do what they do because of who they are. Rather than trying to continue to prove who they are. You think of a middle-aged person who's been doing the job for maybe fifteen, twenty years, he's subtle about who he is, he knows he can do a good job And now he begins to serve the employer not because not because he's trying to prove something to the employer, but simply because he wants to do a good job for the employer. He wants to, can we say it this way, he wants to please his employer. Folks, we you and I as Christians, if we're not careful, we can do what we do to be a good Christian. What God wants us to do is to do what we do to please God. And there is a difference. Do you realize that Christ has done all that needs to be done? The work of Christ is entirely sufficient. To make you a good Christian. So that when someone comes to Christ, they no longer have to work to be a good Christian. They are a good Christian in Christ, not because of what they've done, but because of what Christ has done. Now they can simply serve at the pleasure of their master. They simply do what they do to please God. You and I need to Realize that what we do, we ought to do not because not to become a good Christian. But because we are a Christian, a child of God, and we need to, we want to please our master, well, why do we want to please our master? We want to please our master because we love him. Well, why do we love him? Well, what does 1 John say? We love him, why? Because he first loved us. See, that brings us to this relationship that God wants us to have. See, I I want to please God because I love him. And I wanna him to please I wanna uh why do I love him? Because he first loved me. So that His commandments according to first John, his commandments are not uh they're not bondage. They're not um enslavement, their freedom, because why? We're not doing it because we have to. We're not doing it to become something. We already are what we are in Christ because of who he is and what he's done for us. And accomplishing the work. There's there's a sense in which you get to start as a journeyman electrician, and you can begin to just you just start as a Christian and you serve to please your God because you love him and because he loves you, not to become something, but because of what you already are And that is motivating by a relationship, by a love relationship between you and your God. You see he loves you. And you love him in return. And you want to please him because you love him. That really brings us to observing Mary now in verse 39. Mary is, it says two things about Mary. First, it says that she's sitting at Jesus' feet. And then it says that she heard Jesus' word. Jeremiah 9, verse 23 says, Thus says the Lord, let not the wise man glory in his wisdom, neither let the mighty man glory in his might. Let not the rich man glory in his riches, but let him that gloryeth glory in this, that understands and knows me, that I am the Lord which exercises loving kindness, judgment, and righteousness in the earth. For in these things I delight, says the Lord. When it says here that Jesus was sitting at Jesus' feet. I want to suggest that there are four implications that we can gather. That a worshipful pop pop posture fosters communion with Christ. And we see this posture, there are there are four things that we can infer from this passage. Number one Mary humbled herself. She's sat at Jesus' feet and she humbled herself. The Bible says In James 4, 6, but he gives more grace, wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud, but gives grace to the humble. We see from this passage that Mary is in a place of humility. Martha is in a place of veiled pride. Well she's doing this and doing that, Jesus thinking that she's pleasing Jesus and compares herself to what Mary is doing and it really really is not in a place of humble, of humility. Mary is number two submitting herself. James 4. 7 says, submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Mary has a submissive heart The word submission means to arrange under. It's a spirit of Lord, whatever you want to do, whatever you want to teach me, I'm going to arrange myself under you. And Mary has done this. I'd like to suggest also that Mary had stilled herself. Such an important thing in life that we take time to be still. Psalm 46, verse 10 says, Be still and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the heathen. I will be exalted in the earth. And the hustle and bustle of life, it's very cliche, even that statement. The truth of the matter is, we don't hardly even know how to be still. We don't seem to even understand what it means to meditate on the Word of God, to contemplate and to consider the character of God, to To bask in the love of God. It's something that seems to be just fleeting from us. We are occupied with if we have a if we have a half a moment, we are on our phones. looking at some sort of thing to buy or weird cat video or whatever it is that we find ourselves uh looking at Instead of really just taking moments throughout the day and being still, knowing that God is God. And number four, Mary worshiped and enjoyed the Lord. She enjoyed God. Psalm 29, 2 says, Give unto the Lord glory due unto his name. Worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness. When was the last time you spent time with the Lord because He's beautiful? Because there is just this intrinsic beauty in his character by looking at perhaps the Psalms or the Book of Isaiah or any anywhere in Scripture. Seeing his character and realizing how amazing it is, how glorious it is, how beautiful it is. There is this, there is this idea of enjoying him. When is the last time you enjoyed your God? Well, we need to really, by way of application, get back to that place, do we not? To get back to the place where we are still before God. And there is a discipline among Christians that has been going on for For centuries now, called just personal devotions. It's almost like we don't really think that's important anymore or something. It's been it stood the test of time. It shouldn't be the only time we're worshiping the Lord. But there ought to be a desire to spend some time with God every day, enjoying Him, worshiping Him. Praying to him, being energized by his presence, focusing on him, and that ought to carry us throughout the day. That is We continue to focus on Him throughout the day. We continue to think about Him. We continue to meditate on Him. Spiritual devotions should not just something be, it shouldn't be the end-all to our relationship with God. It should be the the launching pad for our relationship with God. And yet we struggle sometimes even with having personal devotions. There is sometimes a spiritual struggle. It's actually something in our hearts, something in our thinking that is not quite right. One time I was talking with a person who said to me, you know, I just don't feel like I'm getting anything out of my personal devotions. And I asked them, I said, Well when you sit down with your Bible open in your lap, what what do you what is your first thought? What comes to mind? And they said to me, guilt is the answer. Guilt. I feel guilty. And I said, Okay, why do you feel guilty? He said, um the person said to me, because I feel guilty because I didn't do devotions yesterday. Now, you know, that that's an honest truth. That that happens. And you know the truth of the matter is, is it is it do you get a lot out of a relationship when you come to them in guilt? I mean just think about your a friendship or a a marriage or some sort of relationship. If every time you approach them, you feel guilty. How how enjoy uh how much enjoyment are you going to receive uh from that relationship? I'd like you to take your Bibles for just a few moments and just go over a couple of very simple principles from the book of 1 John. 1 John chapter 1, and I want us to just look at a few things when it comes to fellowship with God. Help us to maybe realign our thinking when it comes to this vitally important area. Because in some cases, there is a spiritual reason why we are not consistent in our time with the Lord. You all are familiar with 1 John 1:9. We confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us our sins, cleanse us from all unrighteousness. But did you know there are verses around that? And it usually is helpful to look at the verses around a particular verse to really help us to understand and to see what we need to see. If you are approaching God with a sense of guilt, if you're coming to God and you are immediately thinking about your sin, it's possible that there is a sin you just need to confess. But it is also possible that you have you have this guilt in you that you don't know where it's coming from, and the reality is it's really just a continual focus on self. Which will actually keep you from a relationship with God. And that's why John, in helping us to understand how to have fellowship with God, which is the stated purpose of 1 John. We pick up in verse 7 and it says, if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another. The blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses us from all sin. If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. I'd like to really strongly advocate to you this morning that the way that you continue you spend time with the Lord is that you begin first not by looking at yourself at all. But you begin first by walking in the light. For it is only when you are in the light that you can see yourself correctly. If you have some sort of a wound or some sort of a abnormality or something you need to look at on your own body, your arm or leg or whatever, and you try to do it in the darkness, you are not going to be able to. You might know that there's something wrong. You might know that there's something hurting, but you can't really look at it if you are not in the light. What we need to do is walk in the light of God's righteousness. The word light there is an idea of God's transcendent righteousness. But as we approach God and we begin to know Him from His Word, the light is shined on us, and then we will see things the way we ought to see them. And if there is sin that God reveals to us, then the next step is we oughtn't, we better not say there's not sin there. That's what we need to do is agree with God about that sin. Confess it and realize that the blood of Jesus Christ, His Son, cleanses us from all sin. Don't continue to walk in the darkness. Walk in the light and let God's light show you where there is true sin. But then agree with God about that sin. And then continue to walk in the light. See, in other words, folks, the mode of a Christian should be to walk in the light. Until God reveals a sin, confess that sin, and then keep walking in the light. And you know what we do oftentimes? It's the exact opposite. We walk in darkness. Perhaps it's because we don't want to admit that there's a sin that we need to confess to the Lord. We're not agreeing with God about our lives. We're walking in darkness because we're not. Or perhaps we are in darkness for some other reason. Clearly, in this passage, the answer is that we first focus on God. And then let God show us who we are and what there what needs to change, what needs to adjust to him. And there are other things I can say about this, but for sake of time, I won't. I want to mention one other thing about what we see here in Mary's life. Mary, it says, she heard the word. She was sitting at Christ's feet and she heard the Word of God. She was receptive to the Word of God. She heard the Word of God. And I just want to say this that Mary was doing this in in conjunction with relationship with Jesus Christ. She wanted the content of the Word of God, but she didn't learn the Word of God with that being the only purpose. Her goal was to learn the Word of God so that she would know Christ. To sit at Christ's feet, to listen to his words, to learn them, but that she would draw closer to Christ. Let me ask you a question. Is it is it okay to view the Word of God as an academic subject? And I would suggest to you that the answer to that is yes, as long as it doesn't stay there If you look at the Old Testament and you see the meticulous nature with which the scribes read and copied and interpreted the Word of God, there is no question that there is a careful detailed consideration of God's word as we look at it in the Old Testament, the New Testament, church history, you see that to be the case. But folks, it not ought not stay there. And I would admit before you that if there is an area of weakness uh in our church, probably because of it's an area of weakness in my life. Is that if I'm not careful, I can analyze the Word of God, and it can become an academic subject But I've not really personalized it. It's not become something that that I know God more intimately by And that knowing God then causes me to conform to Him, to His character. There is a way of taking God's word so practically that you're taking it the wrong way. When someone takes the word of God so practically that it's actually focused on self rather than God, they've taken the word of God the wrong way. And some preaching is that way where it's simply a self-help book. Here's how to do this or how to do that. And that's not the way God's Word was intended to be read or studied. The way the Word of God was intended was that we would see the details of the Word of God. And know God, that the word reveals who God is, but then When we see who God is and we see ourselves, then we conform to the image of Christ. Then we conform our lives to his character. That is a crucial step. All three steps are necessary. Understanding the text, knowing the God of the text. But then that last step of application where we conform to the character of God, we must not neglect it. And it's important for us to understand that we have not really dealt with the Word of God until we have come first full circle. And applied the text in the way that God would have us to apply. Folks, the way that we do that on a daily basis is in communion with God. That's why the Word of God and prayer go hand in hand together. When I study the Word of God in my own time with the Lord, to take time to pray that through, to To reflect on it in a prayerful manner, to find the command of the word and say, Lord, would you help me to do that? To personalize the word of God. That happens when you have a healthy devotional life with God. Can I ask you a question, brother or sister in Christ? Do you have a healthy devotional life? We will fall short of allowing the Word of God to do all that God intends if we do not And that's why Jesus, in his concluding remarks about what Martha is saying, says, one thing is needful. One thing is needful. One thing is preeminent. The Bible says in Psalm 28:4, one thing have I desire the Lord, that will I seek after. That I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life to behold the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his temple. One thing To know God, to commune with God, to spend time with God, one thing is needful When we look ahead of twenty nineteen I've got all kinds of plans. I've got all kinds of things I'd want to do and I want to lose weight and exercise and uh study certain things and read certain books. I want our church to do certain activities and I've got all kinds of things in my in my head. I'm kind of that way. I've always got something going on in my head. For good or bad. But folks, one thing is needful. We need to spend time with God. In fact, this text would indicate that if we're going to apply this, we are going to take that one thing that is needful and we are going to center on it. And everything else is going to be subservient to that one thing. Spending time with God. Spending time with God is more important than spending time with your kids. It's more important than spending time with your spouse. It's more important than spending time with your friends. There is nothing more important than spending time with your God. And what Christ is saying here is this cannot be taken away from Mary. She has this relationship. And she is and one thing is needful, this relationship that she has with Christ, that's the one thing that's needful. That means that my schedule is going to have to rearray be rearranged in order to have time with God. That I'm going to have to look at things in a way. That whatever I've got to do, whatever it is I have to do, and sometimes it requires it requires severe things. In order for me to have adequate time with God. Because here is the thing that we know to be true. When we are preoccupied with good things, We will neglect the one thing that is needful. And I would just conclude this way, and I really encourage you to spend some time considering this. Number one, Are you preoccupied as a Christian? Are you preoccupied? Number two, are you humbly enjoying fellowship with and worship of God? Is this something that is happening in your life? And number three, will you choose to center to center on communion with Christ as your single greatest priority? Because whatever priority you have, there's no greater priority than this. Mark it down. Understand it. There is no greater priority than this. If we allow our lives and our flesh to invade with other priorities, it is not going to be long before we are going to end up like Martha. What I'd like to do is just spend a couple of times in silence before the Lord. We are embarking on a new year. And I'm praying and hoping that this uh frankly this message has convicted me before it ever got here. I prayed this morning in my own time with the Lord. I said, Lord, may this be true of me. And I want to give you just a few moments in silence before the Lord. To just reflect on these truths and to ask the question. Uh will I make this my singular priority? Are you willing to put around to to put away your schedule? Are you willing to To rearrange your schedule to make this your greatest priority. We'll have a couple minutes of silence and then we'll pray together. Father, as we come to you, we do pray that you would help us. We certainly admit before you that there is this tendency to to become preoccupied with the tasks of life. And no longer be doing it for out of love for youth, be doing it out of sheer obligation. To become frustrated and to not have that peace that you give us. Think of your word that says, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me. Lord, may we learn of you. May we take on your yoke, Christ's yoke, so that we can have rest for our souls. That means, Father, that we are going to be more fruitful than we ever otherwise would be. So I pray, Lord, that you'd help us in this area. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.