Of the Art Ruth Chapter Four. How many of you shop on Amazon? How many of you shop nearly everyone shops on a lot of people anyway shop on Amazon. I I there are two things. I love to shop on Amazon. I love to buy books on Amazon. That should be a surprise to most of you. And uh I like to buy electronics on Amazon. So I that would def does that define me as a total nerd? I think it probably does But um either way, um I you know if you think of the process of of buying things on Amazon uh or really any other website, you you have to find what you're looking for and you sort of examine it, sort of look at the reviews and see what people are saying about the product and then you'll make your purchase and then you sit there and wait. How many of you all like to do the tracking? Like you'll track it and you'll see every day where where it's going? Okay, I do that. I I'm bad about it. I'm like where is it today? It's you know, you really get worried what's going the wrong direction, you know. How I how's it gonna get there when it gets anyway? So so you find but but when the day it finally gets here, it's like, man There's just something about opening up that Amazon box and pulling out those books that you've been wanting and looking for, and some of you are going, What in the world? Pick something else, man, beside books Just i whatever you would pick is fine. The best part about getting things from Amazon is not the buying. It's not the searching and looking at the reviews, it's not the tracking. The best part is the fulfilling, right? Where the order is filled and you get that box and you are opening it up and you're finally using what you have purchased. Well, we're now to the very final section of Ruth here where we're going to see All of the things that have so long transpired through the redemption that Boaz brought to the family of Naomi and Ruth. now culminates in this fulfillment. It's like the Amazon box has arrived and we get to open the thing up and we get to be we get to see how this whole thing is going to be fulfilled. And as we look at this, I want us to really just, I just, our my prayer is that I I I almost hate to leave this book. Because it is so challenging. Is not Boaz and Ruth just challenging? You'd be hard-pressed to find any other characters in the Old Testament as challenging in their dedication. as Boaz and Ruth have been. And more importantly, the reflecting of God's character in this book. The providence that we have seen and God working behind the scenes and the actions of Ruth and Boaz and Naomi have been quite incredible in this book. It is one of those books that I am just hoping as we we wrap all this up that we will really be be challenged challenged with this and it would leave a lasting impression on our lives. That's a tall order. So let's go ahead and go to the Lord in prayer and ask him to help us with this Father, as we look at your word this morning, I pray that you would challenge us as only you can do with who you are. With your sovereign working, your providential acts on the behalf of m men and women who will choose to follow you and dedicate their lives to you single-heartedly and wholeheartedly and faithfully. And look, Lord, as we look at your word this morning, may we be challenged to do the same. May we be challenged by what is in this text here. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, there are several things that we want to look at this morning just to help us understand this passage. First of all, I want us to notice that if you recall from last week, the two verses prior to this passage in verses 11 through 12, are blessings that come from the people, things that the people are actually praying that will happen to Boaz and Ruth, things like fruitfulness and uh a perpetual name in Bethlehem and those kinds of things. prophecies almost, if you will, about what will happen by the union, because of the union of Boaz and Ruth, the marriage of Boaz and Ruth. And now Boaz and Ruth in this very short passage actually for As Much Is Gonna Happen. In fact, this passage is spanning about a year's time in verses 13 through through uh seventeen is probably about a year's time that this is all taking place. Obviously because you you know it takes nine months to make a baby so obviously it's at least nine months probably a total of about a year. And so we have that here in this passage. I want us also to realize that that this the focal point has been like on chapter th two and three was on Ruth. Then it moved to Boaz as being the main character in chapter four. Now it's going to revert back to Naomi. Naomi was the main character, do you recall in the beginning of the book? In chapter one, Naomi was really the main character. And now the book is going to end again with Naomi as the main character. But you're going to see a totally different Naomi. The Naomi in the first chapter of the book of Ruth is an empty Naomi. She is purposeless. She is destitute. She is completely in need. She is without hope. She doesn't even want people to call her Naomi anymore She wants her to call him Mara because she says that God has she feels as though God has cursed her, though he hadn't at that point. She just felt as though uh he had We see all of this now, and now we're going to see a totally different woman here with a totally different set of circumstances. And folks, what we see here then is that that is the effect of redemption. Chapter one is emptiness, destitution. Lack of purpose, lack of future. We find redemption in Boaz, and now we find fulfillment and joy and life and happiness in these verses. What we find here in this passage is then is that redemption results in true fulfillment. And we're going to see that in this passage. The other thing that we need to see in this passage as well, just help us interpret it correctly, is that at the end of the passage in verses 18 through 22, you have Actually, verse 17 connects 18 through 22, and you have all of these names. You say, well, you're not going to preach, you're really going to preach on all names, are you Yes, I am. Don't worry, I won't preach on each individual one, but there is a particular message within those names that is expressing Extremely important. If we miss that point, we miss the point of the book actually. And so we see all of this coming together, culminating in this passage. Now, with all this in mind, then we will pick up in verse 13, and we're going to find that Boaz and Ruth are finally married. Verse 13, so Boaz took Ruth, and she was his wife. And when uh when he went in unto her, the Lord gave her conception, and she bare a son. Now this passage is pretty straightforward. She married Boaz married. Boaz had a very romantic relation that culminated in a physical relationship that culminated in a child. There is something very interesting about this verse though. The passage could have just said he had a child. It doesn't say that, does it? It says the Lord gave her conception. There's a reason for that. The reason that this is included is for us to be reminded that this was all according to God's fulfillment, his plan, his sovereignty. This is in answer, actually, to the prayer of Boaz that we find in Ruth chapter 11, where he says to Naomi, It has been fully reported, I'm sorry, Ruth chapter 2, verse 11, it has been fully reported to me all that you have done for your mothers and mother-in-law. Since the death of your husband, and how you have left your father and mother in the land of your birth, and have come to people whom you did not know before. The Lord repay your work. and a full reward to be given you by the Lord God of Israel, under whose wings you have come for refuge. He prayed would that the Lord would give her what she's looking for, a full measure of what is want what is needed. And we see that this child is actually an answer to Boaz's prayer. That does tell us something, doesn't it? And remind us of something. Prayer is so vitally important in the Christian life. We see here throughout this book, we see actions on the part of Naomi and actions on the part of Ruth and Boaz. But we see, and we see the sovereign hand of God behind the scenes on multiple occasions, as we see here in this verse, God actually giving Ruth conception. But let us never forget that intricately involved in this whole plan is the matter of prayer. God wants us to pray. For his will. He wants us to pray that his work would be done. He wants us to pray that his plan would be fulfilled. This past week I was Thinking through various things and decisions that I needed to make. You ever overwhelmed with the amount of decisions that you you have to make in life? You ever overwhelmed with the result of those decisions? The truth of the matter is sometimes it isn't overwhelming. And I I just recall one day last week where I just stopped in the middle of my seat while I was Where I usually live, which is in my basement and my office, that's where I was. That's where I spent a lot of time. And um I sat there, I just sat in my seat, I kind of stepped, pulled away from my desk, and I just said, Lord, I need to just pray. I need to come to you You gotta work here. And it was a situation I was just thinking through. I was actually thinking about three or four different situations that seem to be impossible situations or really situations where God, we I just want to see God work. Sometimes we get so overwhelmed by those impossible situations, and what we need to do is look at those situations and say those are actually opportunities For God to do what only God can do. And you know what tunes our hearts to that? It's prayer. How much are you and I praying We cannot really see God's plan, and we really can't see the fulfillment of God's plan unless we're praying. There is just something about Seeing God bless and looking back and saying, you know, I prayed for that. And I saw God answer that prayer. Let me just encourage you, what we see here in this first verse is a fulfilling answer to prayer. Don't forget to pray, work, serve, commit, but don't forget to pray. Pray. Pray Well, Ruth bears a son. And this, then we see the attention is turned to Naomi. There's these women. Verse 17 tells us they're w neighbor women. This, by the way, you might say, what this is so strange for have to have waiver neighbor women coming over and proclaiming all of these blessings. That doesn't usually happen. You know There are some days I just really would love to live back in that day. Where the community of the of the family and the nation of Israel where it was a close-knit community and They were involved with each other. They were involved in what was happening. They were praising the Lord for what God is doing. We have such a community in the church, actually. God desires for the church to be a close-knit community whereby we're seeing God working in each other's lives. We're sharing in fellowship, as I was talking to the teens about today. God wants us to have that kind of thing happening, and that's really essentially what's happening here in this passage. The neighbor women are getting together and they're just sharing with Naomi over this great blessing of a grandson. Grand grandparents, you like your grandkids? They're all right. They're better than your kids, aren't they? And maybe not really, I don't mean that exactly. Sort of, but not exactly. All I can say is you grandparents, you you have a joy about your grandkids that I'm not sure you had exactly when you had your kids. That's all I'm gonna say. That's my that's my observation. I was didn't some of you I didn't know when you had your kids, but just I'm just observing that. And Naomi's a grandchild grandmother here. And Naomi is reveling in the blessing. You're going to see this. Notice what the neighbor women there noticing the blessing that Naomi has. And by the way, I can't help but remind us again. If you look at Romans, or I'm sorry, Ruth chapter 1, verse 3. Naomi lost her husband. Naomi lost her sons. Naomi lost her land. She lost her livelihood. She lost in her mind any possible potential of any future at all. That was Naomi. She was absolutely empty. This is such a contrast. She says in Ruth 21, 121, I went out full. And the Lord brought me home again empty. She went to Moab full. Now she's empty. Now she's full again. And that's redemption. Redemption makes us full again. Verse 14: And the women said unto Naomi, Blessed be the Lord which hath not left thee in this day without a kinsman, that his name may be famous in Israel. So we see three things actually that of uh blessings that this these neighbor ladies proclaim on Naomi. Number one, that this little baby's name would be famous in Israel or his name would be perpetuated in Israel. He would have a lasting legacy in Israel. Number two, that he would be unto thee a restorer of thy life. There is a sense in which Naomi was, there was a deadness in her soul in chapter one. It's like she was dead, at least metaphorically. Now there's he this this young boy is going to be restorer of life to her and a nourisher of thine own age. You know, there are really three three blessings of redemption for us as well, aren't there? At least three. There's more, but at least three. There is legacy in redemption. There is restoration in redemption. And there is great provision and care in redemption. You know, I some of you rub shoulders with unsaved people more than I do, people that don't know the Lord. People that don't know the Lord, there is an emptiness in their soul that they don't even realize. They are trying to fill it, they're trying to put something in it, they're trying to pursue something that will fulfill them. There is this lack of lasting. Legacy that they just don't have and they want. But you and I as Christians, we have a eternal legacy, don't we? The Bible actually tells us that we have an inheritance that is incorruptible and undefiled, that does not fade away, and it's reserved in heaven for us. We will not, our last life is not now. It's uh it we we will live for all of eternity and we'll continue to serve God for all of eternity, and we'll continue to have purpose for all of eternity. And we'll continue to know God for all of eternity. We have a lasting legacy, just the fact that we have eternal life. But folks, we have a lasting legacy in the fact that we have the opportunity to help others have eternal life. And we have a lasting legacy in the fact that we can help people grow and be disciples so that they can help others grow and be disciples. There is much lasting legacy And thankfully, frankly, the truth of the matter is our own physical children are a legacy to us. But can I be very candid with you? Being a disciple of Christ is a greater legacy. Greater than your own children and mine. Now the best part is if my own children would come to Christ. Right? Because then you got the best of both worlds. Your lasting your children are physical, but they're also a spiritual legacy. And those of you who are parents who have children that have come to Christ You ought to be thankful for that. But let me just tell you this: there is this legacy that happens as a result of redemption. There is also a restoration of life. Christ said, I am come that you may have life and that you may have abundant life. And then there's great care, isn't there? Very simple verse in 1 Peter 5, 7, casting all your care upon him, for he cares for you. I have a question though. Do we sometimes not experience these benefits of our redemption? I mean we have them. God's given them to us. There's a sense in which they are set in stone, but on the other sense, there's another sense in which are we not sometimes living as though we have no legacy? Or living as though we have no life in us. We're looking for the next high, as it were. Or as though we are lonely and we have no one to take care of us. If we have those kinds of thoughts and those kinds of feelings, folks, the reality is we are not experiencing the redemption. That God has given to us if we know Him. Now, it's possible that we don't know Him, and that's why we're not experiencing those results, but it's also possible that we know Him, but we're not experiencing them for another reason. And we're going to learn a little bit more in a few moments about that, why that is, but I want us first to notice also here What these neighbor ladies say in verse 15 about this woman, uh about this young boy, and and what's going on here, and about Ruth particularly. He's they say, For thy daughter-in-law, which loveth thee, which is better to thee than seven sons, hath borne him. The word love is this Hebrew word that is a it's this covenant commitment kind of love. And they recognize that Ruth's kind of love, and Ruth is so dedicated to her God, and so dedicated to her mother-in-law. that she is better than seven sons. Now there is a significance of the word seven. Sometimes people make uh make too much out of the word seven, but this is a literary device That's used in narrative passages in the scriptures. And so seven in this instance is talking about, more than likely talking about like the ideal number. Seven being the ideal number. They're going to use again later on the passage, you'll see it in a few moments. But it's better, in other words, Ruth Is the comp is complete. It's like the complete fulfilling of what God had planned for Naomi. You don't need anything more, Naomi. You've got all you need, is essentially what it's saying here. And they l then I want you to notice this. Verse 16 is such a such a neat verse. And Naomi took the child and laid it on her bosom and became nurse unto it. Now, here's what this passage is not saying. reality would tell us what it's not saying. It's it's not saying that the that this lady actually nursed nursed this child in the way that we would think of it. Actually, the word bosom could actually be translated lap or just you know drawing the baby close. And nurse could be translated just to care for it, take her take care for care of it. The picture here is a grandmother who is delighting over her grandson And scoops the little son little boy, well, it's probably baby at this point, up into her lap, and with loving, caring eyes and just joy that's unspeakable, looks at this little boy. with great fulfillment. It's a great picture, isn't it? God intended for that picture for us to s for it to for it to our us to look at that picture and go, you know, that That pictures the fulfillment that we can have in our own redemption. The sense of total satisfaction. The sense of total fulfillment. that this Naomi has with with um her grandson You know, I mentioned before that sometimes we don't experience the kind of fulfillment That we really ought to experience from the blessings of redemption that God wants us to experience. And the truth is there is a reason for that. What is embedded in this passage, and we have talked about it before in this book, is this sense of purpose. In the very first chapter, you see that Naomi lost, was empty and lost her sense of purpose. Ruth, through her amazingly unselfish loving act, devoted herself to Naomi. And throughout the rest of the book, you see this relentless pursuit of purpose. Of fulfilling God's plan, of being obedient, of loving and fulfilling the commitment, that kind of thing. Do you think at this point Boaz and Ruth are just thrilled with all this? The truth is this passage is full, whether it's Boaz or Ruth or Naomi, this passage is full of joy and fulfillment. And the reason, folks, is because these people stayed focused on per the on fulfilling the purpose that God had given them. And you know, there's a truth in which the reason that we do not have, we do not Sometimes experience this benefits of the blessings of our redemption is because we don't stay focused on the purpose of our redemption. The purpose of our redemption is to glorify God. The purpose of our redemption is to make God known. It is to know God and to make Him known. That's the purpose of our redemption. And you know, we run to every other diminished goal, we run to every other thing that Think that we think will bring us fulfillment, will bring us satisfaction, and eventually all those things will bite us They leave us empty. They leave us unfulfilled. You can pursue anything in life. And if you pursue it to the exclusion of pursuing after the purpose with God which God saved you and redeemed you, you will end up feeling and experiencing emptiness in your life instead of legacy. and life and care that God wants to give you as a Christian. Are you knowing God? And are you making God known? That is our purpose. It's that simple. That is our purpose in life. To know God and to make Him known. If we will do that, and we will stick to that purpose in whatever way God leads us. Then we will begin to experience the blessings of our redemption in Christ. It will be a life that's worth living. Verse 17, then we see here it says, and the woman her neighbors gave it a name, saying, There is a son born to Naomi, and they called his name. What was the name? Obed. Now, by the way, they didn't actually name the son, more than likely. This is another literary device here that more than likely is just saying that they were commenting on the name that his parents gave him. But I want you to notice this. This is really the key to this verse, extremely important. He is the what? The father of who? The father of who? David. Now, catch this. He's going to say the exact same thing in verse 22. Like why would why would it be said twice here? Why would it be highlighted Verse 22 says, Obed begat Jesse and Jesse begat David. So why why would you why would you do it twice? There's a reason for this, folks. Because now God is going to show us what can happen when one person, Ruth, And another person, Boaz, wholly dedicate themselves to God as a family Folks, the reality is it didn't just fulfill and perpetuate their family. It didn't just give them legacy as a family. This was expanded way beyond that. Let me put it this way. I just want us to think just very broadly for a minute. This is the book of Ruth. What book is before the book of Ruth in your Bibles? Now if you have a phone app you might have a hard time with this. If you have a Bible, you can just flip over a little bit. But phone apps are good too. I'm not trying to diss them. I just Judges. What do you know about judges? Just just generally know about judges. A lot of good folks in judges? Not not so much, right? The Bible says that people and judges, every man did right in his own eyes. You have corruption and actually you have weirdness in the book of Judges, I gotta tell you. I mean it's all divinely inspired. I'm not i it it's good, it's important, but it is there is weird stuff that goes on in that book. And there's and there's corruption that goes on their book in that book, and complication and sin. Why? Because every man is doing right in his own eyes. Well, I want you to think about this for a moment. You have Judah. You have the twelve tribes of Israel. And you have Judah as one of those tribes. Well, we'll get to that in a minute. Just keep that in mind here. But then I want you to notice something else. What book is after the book of Ruth? It's 1 Samuel. What's in 1 Samuel? You have the making of a you have the development of a kingdom in 1 Samuel. The end of being the Davidic kingdom. It ends up including the Davidic covenant. You have the the moving from a family in Genesis and Exodus. to the making of a nation in Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy, Joshua. And what was the link that made this thing into a nation? A vital link was Boaz and Ruth. Do you see the impact that this family had for the cause of the kingdom? It affected the entire nation. All of Israel, which was God's program for this time, was affected by this one family's dedication to him. This is incredible, is it not? This does not challenge us to be dedicated and you know the really the the fo the reality is they very likely did not know how much of an impact they were making. They probably had no clue. They have this point experiencing the present fulfilling, the personal fulfilling of obedience and following after Christ. But to know that there is this eternal ramification, this this this kingdom work that's being done behind the scenes on behalf of Boaz and Ruth, it's incredible. And do you know that there is a sense in which if you and I as Christians will take ourselves andor our families And we will begin to use them for the cause of Christ. We may not ever know the result, but we do know what God can do, and we know from this book. I want us to notice a couple of things more specifically about this. Because I think this is absolutely vitally important for us to get. I would encourage you to write these passages down just so that we can understand sort of specifically what we're dealing with here. In Genesis 38, we looked at that last week and we saw that Judah through a very sinful relationship begat this person Perez, gave birth to this this man Perez, who is who was who settled in Bethlehem. Judah was not a godly man. I mean he was, maybe he was sometimes, but I mean he really did some toward the end of his life he did not he was not faithful But God in his own redemption allowed his own redemptive ability to be allowed Perez to be able to produce offspring that finally ended up in Boaz. I want you to notice then the rest of this passage in verses 18 through 22, it says, now these are the generations of uh pharahs or perhaps who begat Hezron, Hezab Hezron begat Ram, and Ram begat Aminadab, and Aminadab begat Nashon, and Nashon begat Salmon, and Salmon begat who? Boaz. Now if we won't take the time to do this, but if you compared this to Genesis 46 through 49 and Numbers 26, 20 through 22, And you compare it all the passages, what you're going to find is that this is an abbreviated list. They did all beget each other, but they skipped generations in this, and they did it for a reason. There are a total of ten names. Why are there ten names? There are ten names because it matches the amount of years of emptiness of the first chapter of Ruth. There were ten years in the book of famine in the truth, ten in chapter one. And this is basically saying that you have this great, grand fulfillment. The opposite of this ten years of famine. There's this contrast going on. But there is orchestrated for that specific reason something else here in the passage. Would you notice the seventh name? What is the seventh name? Well you'd have to count. I'll give it to you so you don't have to count. 21. The name is Boaz. Boaz is the seventh name in these ten names. Not only make more of this than it really is, but they're there It is very likely that there is a literary device being used here to demonstrate that Boaz is like the completed person that was the redeemer that allowed the rest of it all to take place. He is the kinsman redeemer of this story. In in chapter 49, verse 10 of Genesis It actually says that the kingdom or the scepter would remain. Boaz is a descendant of Judah, as is Obed, as is David. And what we find here is that Boaz and Ruth and their relationship is this redemptive relationship that ends up That ends up bringing about the kingdom in fulfillment of the prophecy in Genesis 49. In other words, folks, there is a lot going on here in this passage. And the bottom line is that you and I, if we will wholly dedicate ourselves to the Lord with biblical purpose and not live for ourselves, but live for our God. We do not know what God will do with us. God may choose to do great things with us. It was said this way A Hesed shown by Ruth, Hesed is this kind love shown by Ruth, Naomi, and Boaz has repercussions not just for themselves in their lifetime, but for the nation of Israel for many generations to come. It now concerns the life of the entire nation, for in the son born to Naomi, the history of God's rule from David has begun. The theme of family continuity becomes the theme of national continuity. The Book of Ruth is the bridge between the era of Israel as a family or tribe and Israel as a nation. Now here's my question. How does this apply to us? God's central way of working in the world in the Old Testament was through what Israel, no question about it. It was God's chosen nation, which brought forth God's chosen people, which brought forth eventually the Messiah. It was the nation of Israel. That was God's central work in the world. Can I ask you a question? What is God's central work in the world today? It is the church. Now folks, this is vitally important. Charles Ryrie says this about the church. He says the importance of the church can scarcely be overstated. It is that which God purchased with his blood of his own son. It is that which Christ loves, nourishes, cherishes. and that which he shall present to himself blameless in all her glory one day. Building his church constitutes Christ's principal work in the world today. Through his giving of spiritual gifts. Thus the exercising of those gifts by believers aligns us with what Christ is doing today. The exercising of those gifts as believers aligns us with what Christ is doing today. What is Christ doing today? He is working through his church. It is the principal work of the world today, as was Israel in the Old Testament. I began to reflect on this, just thinking of passages like Ephesians chapter 3, which says, to the intent of the now manifold wisdom of God be made known by the church. To the principalities of powers in heavenly places. Did you get that? Angels look down at the church and see what God is doing and marvel. That's how important the church is. According to the eternal purpose which he accomplished in Christ Jesus. Eternal purpose. You see, there is, folks, a very strong sense, Scripture. That if we are going to fulfill our personal purpose as a Christian, it must be within the context of the local church and the purpose of the local church. We cannot think that we can do it on our own. We must realize that it must be as we contribute, as we serve, as we give to the local church And I want to use this illustration. Thought quite a bit about this illustration, whether I should use it or not. You have to be careful. I always have to be careful with personal illustrations. And um I just feel like this could be helpful. When I was, I am really glad that I did not grow up in a pastor's home. Now, I'm not against pastors homes. That would be a problem. But I am personally thankful I did not grow up in one. Here's why. My dad, he's right over there, worked a normal job. He was a training mechanic and then ended up in the supervisor in the TC. He worked not normal hours. He worked very stressful hours, usually midnight shift. We lived in a fairly normal home, except that that home needed a lot of work. That home is not nearly as high maintenance as it used to be, thankfully. But at one time it was very high maintenance. But my parents and I I'm you know I'm I I I hope this is in no way bragging. I'm not trying to do that. I just I'm just gonna tell you my experience and and And if you can take take it for what it is, I appreciate it. I'm not bragging about myself. I might be bragging about my parents. That could be happening here. But my parents, ours, the center of our activity was the local church. The center of our activity was the local church. I remember I remember my dad teaching Sunday school and being a deacon and then being an elder eventually and being whatever else they needed to be. And we were over, we were at work days and we the center, it was the center of our of my mom directed vacation Bible school and And uh taught Sunday school and um was my my mother would have ev I don't know how you all have been to my house, it's not that big, especially in the in the The downstairs there. We have like four levels now, so it's kind of big in that sense, but it wasn't that way growing up. She would invite the whole church to our house on Christmas Eve. And most of them would come. And we all kind of complained about it a little bit. I look back and say, I wish we wouldn't have done that. But it was a big it was a I mean she uh She was just hospitable. And our house was not that I mean it was a God's provision, but it wasn't like this big house that we had to do what God wanted us to do But God, my wife, my mom just said, we're gonna use it for God. I remember the biggest complaint about my parents' house was that they spent so much time on it that they wish they could spend more time devoting to their church. But they it they just were preoccupied with the maintenance of the house because you had to I really didn't have to. It was kinda bad. Um bad, bad. I didn't live in a you know, uh it was it wasn't bad, but anyway. Hopefully you know what I mean. Um it was high maintenance, that's the best way to put it. I remember them saying, you know, that they wished that they could spend more time serving the local church because my parents understood That the local church is God's central place of working in the world today. There are other potential pursuits. There are other possibilities But if you really want to see what Christ is doing in the world, you have to be part, intrically part of a local church. Now what I have seen in our culture in the last decade is a shift We are far more asking what our churches can do for our families instead of asking what our families can do for our churches. People are looking for the right program and the right thing to satisfy their kid and the right thing to You know the truth of the matter is we got it backwards The truth is what we need to be asking ourselves is what can my me and my family do for God in the local church? It is God's principal work in the world, according to God's word And I am in no way trying to give any kind of guilt trip here. I just want to fight the culture on this. Because our culture is such a selfish culture. It is constantly thinking, what's in it for me? And occasionally I think it's wise for us to ask ourselves the question, are we just adjusting the culture? Because here's the truth. The more you say the more you choose to give in time, talents, abilities Finances even, the more you choose to give to God's work, the local church, the more you get I have met families that have said to me, we're just not getting what we ought to be getting out of, I'm not talking about our church necessarily right now, although maybe in the past, but not currently The family churches that have said said we're just not getting what we want to get. Well start giving what you ought to give. Now I'm not talking here just about finances. If that's included, fine, but if it's not one I I'm saying that there is this perspective, look folks, I'm gonna say it very bluntly here. If in your life you have your life and you have school, church, work, and it's sort of like one of those things you do, It's not quite right. It's not a s it's not a segment of what you do I don't know how to get this across this any other way, but we need to have a different perspective on this. And we've got to fight even our Christian culture on this kind of idea Because here's the truth: the best life we can live, the best family we can have, is not a family that is constantly looking at what the church can do for them It's a family that is constantly looking at what it can do for the church, which is God's church. And do you know what you'll have when you have a family and you're training your family to look in those kinds of terms? You'll have unselfish kids. Imagine that. That's almost a paradox. But think about it. Kids that say, hey, we're gonna go and we're gonna do something for God in the local church. Instead of we're gonna get. And we just came from vacation Bible school and The kids went to camp and I all that thing all of that is good and I'm thankful for all of it. But you know, let's just remember, kids, I hope my kids, I hope you're listening. Let's just remember that God's work Is for us to say, what can we give? And the truth is it is more blessed to give than to receive. But the truth of the matter is, is when you give Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness and what? All these things will be added to you. I just can't emphasize enough. That is what God would have us to do as individuals and as a family. And I am eternally grateful for a family who just said that is going to be our priority. It may be part of the reason why I'm a pastor today. Because I see the importance of the local church. And I would just encourage you, maybe there's not been a real conscious thought about this It's so easy to get caught up in the culture, in these kinds of things. It would be wonderful if you, fathers and mothers, would say to yourselves, What could we do? Or just as an individual, what can I do in God's work through the local church? To see God do great things through me and through us. Number one, we need to just wrap all this up. Number one, we must live with an awareness of redemption's results. Legacy, vitality, and care. And we ought to accept no substitutes. If you're not living with the benefits of your redemption, Get back to biblical purpose of your redemption. The more we fulfill the biblical purpose of our redemption, the more we will experience the benefits of our redemption. Number two. We must grow an unwavering dedicated love for God. Man, don't lose that. That's what Ruth was all about. An unwavering, dedicated love for God. Number three, if we are not realizing the benefits of our redemption, it is likely we are not faithfully fulfilling the purpose of our redemption. And number four, we ought to ask: how can I and my family serve God's great cause in the world by serving his church Not how can the church it's you know it's it's so reminiscent of uh the one president, who was it that uh said, ask not what your country can do for you. Yeah, Kennedy And I I I have real I'm like even a stop clock is right twice a day, um, with Kennedy. But th that's I think some some of what we need to do. Now let me also say this, and I do need to say this. I am thrilled with with there are many of you families that are doing this. You are you have this philosophical mindset that your family is here to serve God through his church. I'm just grateful for you. I am just thrilled with that. I'm so thankful for that. Keep it up. Thank you. And for the rest of us, we need to ask that. And frankly, we could so we could get so sidetracked on this, we need to keep asking that question. How can I serve God's great cause in the world by serving his church? Let's pray together. Father, we have seen through a divine picture in this book of Ruth. A vivid illustration of the work of redemption. Many of us profess that work of redemption in our lives. But I pray, Lord, that if there that we would do some soul searching and that if there is If we're not experiencing the fulfilling blessing of those redemp of that redemption Maybe it would cause us to challenge ourselves with regard to our focus on biblical purpose. I thank you for our church and I thank you for the families in our church. Thank you for many fathers and mothers who have said to themselves, I and my family want to be a blessing to the to your work in the local church. I pray that this would remind us, and I pray, Lord, that you would help us to understand just exactly what you can do through us. And we may we may not know this side of heaven All of what happens as a result of our dedicated, faithful service. Lord, I pray that you would help us to just stay focused on those things. To follow after the heart of Boaz and Ruth, to allow them to be an example to us. And Father, I pray More importantly, that we would see you and Christ's redemptive work through this, that we would just glory in our Redeemer. And I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.