Please take your Bibles and turn to the book of Acts, Acts chapter five. Let me begin by asking a very simple question. What do you think of when you think of the word courage? I think what immediately immediately comes to mind for me is the image of a soldier. Back quite a few years ago now, my grandfather took me up to Gettysburg one day, uh Gettysburg National Battlefield. I'm sure many of you have been there before as well. And of course there are many different monuments and memorials up there. There was one particular memorial, I believe it was the Virginia Memorial. I'm not a hundred percent sure about that, but I I think that was the one that he there was one particular one we stood and looked looked at And we were we were observing it and we noticed that uh and and there's my grandfather pointed something out to me. It was a bunch of soldiers that were fiercely fighting. uh in battle. Uh that was the image that was depicted there. But um if you looked at the feet of one of the soldiers, you could see all five, I believe, of hit his toes were ex were were exposed outside of his boot. And the the artist obviously who did that was demonstrating that these soldiers were under great um great opposition not just from the enemy but uh many of them there were even civil war people that died uh soldiers that died in starvation and The conditions that they fought in were extremely severe. The battle raged on far longer than anybody thought, or the war did. And there is this overall perseverance that you see in this image of a soldier, as someone of great courage. Courage is moving forward in the face of fear. Someone who has courage is not someone who has no fear. Someone that has courage is someone who moves forward in the face of fear. Have you ever felt as though As though you just can't get a break. Like it seems to be like one thing after another after another. One hurdle. Another opposition, another distraction, another problem, and never you never seem to get on course. You never seem to be able to, as it were, catch a break Well, I think if you can kind of imagine that in a much more severe way, that's what the disciples or the apostles are going through in the book of Acts. Now they're making great strides for the sake of the gospel. Many people are coming to Christ, but if you recall, beginning in chapter 2, where they preached at Pentecost, you had 3,000 souls saved And then you had opposition. And then you had in chapter 3 you had the lame man who was healed. And great, lots of people came to Christ. And you had the Sanhedrin that arrested them. And then you had internal opposition in Chapter 5. with the uh with the with Ananias and Sapphira. And then you had victory after that. But then you had the Sanhedrin that are again uh arresting uh the the apostles I mean it is it is it is great victory in the book of Acts as we as we have embarked on this journey, but in the midst of of the victory there have been problems There have been hurdles. There have been opposition. There has been opposition. And it's important to realize You know, it's easy for us to just sort of read through the passage and not realize or put ourselves in the place of the apostles. All they are trying to do is serve the Lord And they are valiantly and boldly preaching the gospel. Do you ever imagine that when these guys get arrested, they sort of go, oh, what now? Why is this happening again? I think sometimes we read through the book of Acts and we see all this opposition and we sort of we get used to it. But if we think of it in terms of where these apostles are at and what they're doing and what they're trying to accomplish It very well could have been that these apostles and others that were in the early church could have become very discouraged as a result of the opposition. But they were not. And we're going to see this in incredible ways in this passage. They were absolutely relentless in their focus. They absolutely would not stop. Their courage was incredible. In fact, in this passage, there is a contrast between the Sanhedrin and these men. The Sanhedrin in the beginning of this passage are fearful. They're men who have the fear of man in their hearts. And it's contrasted by these by the apostles who are very bold, who speak very plainly the gospel of Christ to the Sanhedrin. And so you have this contrast between what the fear of man looks like and what courage looks like. And we're going to see that in this passage. Let's pick up here and just read some of this passage together. Let's pick up in Acts chapter 5 and we'll look here Let's pick up at verse 17 of the passage, and uh that'll get our bearings for us a little bit, and we'll read through the passage here. We'll read just through verse 29, just so we can understand what's going on here or remember what's going on Acts 5. 17 says, And the high priest rose up and all those who were with him, which is the sect of the Sadducees, and they were filled with indignation, and laid their hands on the apostles and put them in the common prison. But at night an angel of the Lord opened the prison doors and brought them out and said, Go stand in the temple and speak to the people all the words of this life. And when they had heard that, they entered the temple early in the morning and taught but the taught. But the high priest and those with him came and called the council together with all the elders and the children of Israel, and sent to the prison But when the officers came and did not find them in the prison, they returned and reported, saying, Indeed, we found this prison shut securely. And the guards standing outside before the doors. But when we opened them, we found no one inside. Now when the high priest, the captain of the temple, and the chief priests heard these things They wondered what the outcome would be. But one came and told them, saying, Look, the men whom you put in prison are standing in the temple and teaching the people And the captain went with the officers and brought them without violence, for they feared the people lest they should be stoned. And when they had brought them, they set them before the council, and the high priest asked them, saying, Did we not strictly command you not to teach of these of this name? And look You have filled Jerusalem with your doctrine and intend to bring this man's blood on us. Peter and the other apostles answered and said, We ought to obey God rather than men. The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom you murdered by hanging on a tree. Him God has exalted in his right hand to be prince and savior. To give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins. And we are his witnesses to these things. And so also is the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey Him. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you and we thank you for a passage that gives us an example of men who are truly courageous. Contrasted by men who fear fear man and choose to do wrong. And Father, I pray as we look at this passage this morning that it would just encourage our hearts and challenge us. to fight the good fight of faith, as it were. To, as Paul told Timothy, endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. Knowing that when we do that, we will accomplish kingdom purposes in our lives and help us to understand Why setting the right priorities in our lives will lead us to a place where we have this kind of courage. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, we see in verse, we pick up here in verse 26 and we find that that as they apprehend these men again, they're going to be very careful. Because they fear the people. We had already noted in the previous passage in verses 12 through 16 of the same chapter. that the the apostles were were preaching the gospel and although many would not uh would not actually accept their faith and and join the church Many many did, but many didn't, but many respected them even though they didn't. And so there was this sort of respect, if not popularity, that they were gaining among many of the people. And as a result of that, these Sanhedrin were absolutely fearful. And so this time they treated them better. They did apprehend them. But they didn't use any violence when of course they're in they're in Solomon's portico so they're in the pu in a in the public eye in the midst of all these people But the reason very likely that Luke points out that these people feared man in this passage was to set up a contrast because we're going to see later that there's this great boldness on the part of the people, on the part of these apostles. Notice a couple of things about these men who are fearing man. First of all, the fear of man causes caution with them, and we see that in verse 26. Proverbs 29, verse 25 says, the fear of man brings a snare, but whoever trusts in the Lord should be safe. We then see in verse 27, the fear of man causes suspicion. And you're going to see this as we go through this passage. In fact, what do you notice in verse 28 of the passage that we just read? It says, you have filled Jerusalem with your doctrine and intended to bring this man's blood on us. The Sanhedrin point out that they have told them before that they are not to, that the apostles are not to continue to propagate their doctrine. And indeed, that's exactly what the Sanhedrin told them before. In Acts chapter 4, verse 18, you can look over there for a moment, you'll see this. Just as we recall this, it says, So they called them and commanded them not to speak at all nor teach in the name of Jesus. Verse 19 But Peter and John answered and said to them, whether it is right in the sight of God to listen to you more than God you judge, for we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard So when they had further threatened them, they let them go, finding no way of punishing them because of the of the people, since they all glorified God for what had been done. So, in that passage in chapter 4, when they were told not to continue to preach the name of Christ to the people, they immediately said, You judge whether or not we should obey you or God. And they said to the Sanhedrin in chapter 4 that they cannot but help preach to the people. They had to preach. They were compelled to do so. They were very bold there. There was great courage there. They didn't even I mean they you would have thought that maybe they would have said nothing. That they would have just simply Maybe they weren't going to listen to the Sanhedrin, but they would have not they in in order to not antagonize the Sanhedrin, they would have said nothing at all. But they were very upfront and transparent with them. And now they're accusing these the apostles of uh of bringing this man's blood on us, talking about Christ's blood. In other words. These Sanhedrin were afraid that when these people were preaching the gospel, when the apostles were preaching the gospel, they were afraid that that that they that the Sanhedrin were going to be blamed for the death of Christ. In other words, he's saying they're saying you're trying to pin it on us. Well, is that true or not? It kind of is true. And what the apostles then are going to do is they're going to speak very definitively about what the gospel means and their role in all of this, and we're going to see that in a few minutes. But first What they are going to do is establish this clear directive. He says this. We ought to obey God rather than man. That is a very well-known statement in the Bible. We ought to obey God rather than man. It's a statement that has been taken out of context on occasion and applied incorrectly on occasion. To create civil disobedience as though we can, we, we are in, God desires for us to obey Him instead of government. And that, of course, is not what it's saying. But the emphasis on this passage is on obedience. You're going to see again in verse 32, would you notice it says, and we are witnesses of these things, and so also in the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey Him. There is this emphasis in this passage on obedience. We ought to obey God rather than man. And then in verse 32, the Holy Spirit is given to those who obey him. There's this emphasis on obedience. Peter, later on, who is the spokesman here, is going to write an entire epistle for people that are going to undergo persecution. And he's concerned As they undergo persecution and suffering, that they be ready for this. In fact, in 1 Peter, in fact, go ahead and take your Bibles and turn to 1 Peter for a moment. I want you to see this. In 1 Peter chapter 1, picking up here in verse 6, you'll see this, it says, In this you greatly rejoice, though now for a little while If need be, you have been grieved by various trials, but the genuineness of your faith being much more precious than gold that perishes. though it is tested by fire, may be found to praise, honor, and glory at the revelation of Jesus Christ. So Peter says that the trials that they're going to undergo, the suffering that they're going to face, Is going to be the kind of trials that is going to strengthen and fortify their faith. And he is going to go on, for example, in chapter 5, verse 12 of 1 Peter, where he says Think it not strange when fiery trials come upon you. And ever since then, Christians have gone have had to endure persecution and suffering for their faith. To varying degrees. Obviously the degree to which the persecution was in the first century is not the degree to which we are persecuted. But on some level in the life of a Christian, we're going to face suffering for righteousness' sake. The Bible says all who live godly shall suffer persecution at one point or another. Now, with that in mind, I want us to understand the emphasis that Peter makes on this whole idea of obedience. For example, in 1 Peter 1, verse 2. It says, elect according to the foreknowledge of God, the Father, and sanctification of the Spirit, for obedience and the sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ. In chapter 1, verse 14, just a few verses later, it says, as obedient children. In chapter 1, verse 22, It says since you are since you have pure purified your souls in obedient and obeying the truth through the Spirit. In chapter three, verse one it says, Wives likewise be submissive to your husbands And that even if some do not obey the word. In 1 Peter 3, verse 6, it says, Sarah obeyed Abraham. In 1 Peter 4, verse 17, it says, For the time has come where uh for judgment to begin in the house of God, and if to be uh and if it begins with us first What will be to the end of those who do not obey the gospel of God? The point I'm simply making is this that one of the major keys to undergoing persecution and suffering and difficulty in this life is To realize that our call by God is obedience. And this is an application for us, regardless of whether or not we are We are going through persecution or just suffering or trials. In other words, folks, when you go through difficulties in this life, when you go through things in this life, it is very easy to get derailed And what the Apostle Peter was concerned about when he wrote his first epistle was that these people would be derailed by trials. They would be derailed by tri by the persecution that was coming, and he didn't want them to be. And so he emphasizes, one of the things he emphasizes in that passage is obedience. We must obey. The song got it right, folks. Trust and obey. For there's no other way to be happy in Jesus but to trust and obey. Our call by God is to obey. We will not always have everything we want. We will not always be able to plan everything the way we get to plan it. It will not come to pass the way we think we expect. But what God wants us to do as we travel through this life and through the curveballs and the difficulties and the obstacles, God desires for us to simply obey Him, to live in obedience to Him. Peter in 1 Peter also says that we ought to obey government. This brings us to the second point. Why do these people have such courage? They have such courage, first of all, because they emphasized in their lives obedience. But they also had the right priorities. They had the right priorities set in their lives We ought to obey God rather than man. There is a level of priority. Peter was not saying that we ought not obey the governmental authorities that are over us. In fact, in his epistle in 1 Peter, he says, Therefore, submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake, whether to the King as supreme Verse 14, or to governors as those who are sent by him for the punishment of evildoers, and not for the praise of those who do good. So in the in the very pat in the very The epistle where he says to obey God and emphasizes obedience, he says we ought to obey those who are placed in authority over us, every ordinance of man. though what uh ever the king or whoever is in charge and in the governmental authorities. But also we have Old Testament prep precedents as well as New Testament precedents that when When there is, when we, when obedience to government causes us to disobey God, we must disobey government. One of the most clear examples of this is in the book of Daniel. Do you remember in Daniel where Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego Abednego were were was t told to To bow down to the idol that Nebuchadnezzar had set up, and they wouldn't do it, and they were brought before the king. And they said, We have no need to answer you in this matter. In other words We are simply not going to bow down to this idol. They were clearly in disobedience. And Daniel chapter 3, verse 17, it says, if That is the case. Our God, whom we serve, is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace, and we will deliver us, and he will deliver us from your hand, O King. But if not, let it be known to you, O King, that we do not serve your gods, nor will we worship the gold image which you have set up. Then Nebuchadnezzar was full of fury, and the expression on his face changed towards Shagrach, Meshach, and Abendago. He spoke and commanded that they heat the fur the furnace seven times more hot seven times more than it was usually heeded. So there are times where if you have the right priorities in life, you're going to obey God rather than some other delegated authority. We've talked about this before, that what we have to see is that the supreme authority is God. The sole authority, our sole authority for faith and practice is the Word of God. You say, well, how can it be your sole authority? Aren't there other authorities? And the answer to that is yes, there are other authorities. But all other authorities are delegated by the sole authority. The sole authority is the Bible. And there are other, the Bible actually names other delegated authorities like government And the church and marri family m uh and the hu husband and the family. Those are examples where there is delegated authority But the supreme authority, the sole authority in the is uh is the Bible and God. John Scott says it this way. He says the ordained the God-ordained purpose of the of the power have been given of the power that has been given is to promote good and punish evil. What shall we do then when they use it rather to punish good and promote evil? We must resist. Civil disobedience is a biblical concept in that case Since the state's authority has been delegated to it by God, we are to submit to it right up to the point where obedience to the state would involve disobedience to God. At that point, it is our Christian duty to disobey the state in order to obey God Now folks, I want to make this application when it comes to courage and to living a very focused, a very gospel-focused kind of a life in the midst of opposition and suffering and struggles. There is no question that the apostles had their priorities right. Their singular priority is to further the cause of Christ Their singular priority was to serve God and to live for the furtherance of God's kingdom. And every other priority was submitted to that supreme priority. Why is it that sometimes as we go through life we get derailed? We get off track when it comes, and sometimes we even feel like God is not with us, or God is against us, or he's not really helping us, or those kinds of things. And often the reason is because we are not, we have got our priorities that are not in the right place. That we have misplaced priorities. For example, It's very easy for a man, or a woman for that matter, to get so preoccupied with his vo his or her vocation Where he's just living for work and living for doing everything he can to get promoted at work. It is something that is consuming him. His identity is wrapped up in his work. His fulfillment is wrapped up in his work. When he prays, he prays to God to help him with his work. When he has a bad day, he asks God to give him a better day the next day at work. And he's so preoccupied with work that when work goes wrong, when everything falls apart at work, he is devastated. Why is he devastated? Because he is everything is is submitted to work rather rather than understanding. that he is to ultimately serve God. And that in order to serve God, he will work in order to serve God. But if everything goes wrong at work, That doesn't mean that he no longer serves God anymore, because his focus is on God rather than on the work. The same exact thing can happen to a marriage, where a husband is so focused on his wife, or wife is so focused on her husband. that they are that they be that becomes the singular pursuit. And they may even think in terms of, well, I want to do this and I want to be be consumed with this. And I want God to help me in my pursuit. It may not mean that they have no prayer life anymore, but they're so focused on that particular area. Another area is with mothers with children. It is the the the strongest instinct of a uh uh probably on this earth is a mother toward her child. It's a natural instinct. But if we take our inst uh if we take that instinct and we make it something where it is the prime pursuit, if something goes wrong with our kids. We blame God. God, why aren't you doing what you said you would do? Why aren't you helping me with this? These are my kids. What's going what's wrong here? When in fact, if we serve God and we realize that in serving my family, I am serving God. But God must come first. He must be my priority. He must be my sole the sole person to whom I am serving, then when things go wrong with my family that I don't expect to happen, it will not shake my faith. It will not be something where I am derailed It's something where I'm going to be able to stay true because my goal is to serve God. I have known of people who have really desired to raise godly kids. And at some point in the experience of when they're teenagers something goes wrong, they choose to go their own way. They rebel against the things that they have been taught by their parents. And sometimes the parent is so devastated by that that they they sort of begin to they lose their relationship with God. Folks, if that is the case, if that happens, it demonstrates that they have been too focused on their kids rather than realizing that God must be the focus The kids must be secondary. Everything must be secondary to service to God. When we choose to make our make the gospel our focus, To further the kingdom, however, God chooses that we further the kingdom. When we choose to do it that way, then there is nothing that's going to dissuade us. There's nothing that's going to derail us. There's nothing that's going to detract us from that goal. Why? Because God already promises that his kingdom will come. That His will will be done on earth as it is in heaven. That's something we ought to pray, but we know it's something that will take place. And so we have this confidence of knowing that God will bring forth what He will bring forth. And our responsibility is to be in line with that. Why did these apostles have great courage? Because they did not focus on the well-being of their own lives. on the well-being of some other pursuit. They simply wanted the gospel to go forward. That's why after being released from prison they could go directly back and begin to preach the gospel once again. in the portico and the public square again. And they're going to then respond to these people, these Sanhedrin here, in a very direct way. You would think perhaps that they would begin to try to defend themselves as the Sanhedrin are leveling accusations against them. It is, of course Not the intention of these apostles to see the Sanhedrin be put to death because of their their view against um because of their their working against Christ and putting him on the cross. But they don't do that. They don't try to defend themselves. I'm okay, Pat, thank you. Uh they they they try to they they don't try to defend themselves. Would you notice in the text what they do instead? Picking up in verses 29, verse 30 here, they're going to, in a very succinct way, they're going to preach the gospel. They're going to give basic statements about the gospel. But notice how they start off in verse 30. They say The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom you murdered by hanging on the tree. The very first thing out of the mouth of these apostles, as they're being questioned and accused by the Sanhedrin Are to say Christ, God's intention is to exalt Christ. Now, we might ask the question, why do they emphasize the exaltation of Christ? Why is that something that they ought to emphasize, that they are emphasizing here? I mean, why don't they say, for example, well Jesus died to pay the punishment for your sin? Why instead are they saying that God's intention in all of this is to exalt Christ? And the answer to that, folks, is simply this. But the gospel must always first start by understanding God's overall goal. For example, in John chapter 17, verses 1 through 3, The Bible tells us that Christ prayed before his father in an intercessory prayer, prayed to his father. And he said, Glorify your son. And glorify yourself as I go to the cross. He prayed that he and his father would be glorified through the cross. And that was the primary intention of God, to further the kingdom of God, to glorify the Father. We often think in terms of what the gospel can do for us. But we must first understand that all the gospel does do things for us. In fact it saves us. And it's first Purpose, the gospel is for God to glorify Him, and secondarily to align us to be able to glorify God. So we see here some very specific language about exalting Christ. We also see in the passage it uses this term hanging on a tree. This is likely a reference to Deuteronomy 21 verse 23, which says, his body shall not remain overnight on a tree. But you shall surely bury him that uh by that that day, so that you do not defile the land which the Lord your God is giving you as inheritance. For he who is hanged is accursed of God. This passage teaches that, the Deuteronomy passage teaches that when Christ went on the cross, he was cursed by God He was hung by and accursed. In other words, he took upon the sins of the world and he received the full wrath of God on himself. The apostles wanted these people to understand this. They wanted them to understand what had happened on the cross. And so they also say this as they're giving the gospel. All of this is done. So that Christ would be both prince and savior. The word prince there in that text is basically could also be translated ruler. God's intention for Christ is that he would be the ruler of all. This same kind of thing is said in Philippians chapter 2. Wherefore God has highly exalted him and given him a name above every name. To the name of Jesus, every knee shall bow, and every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father. God's intention when Christ came and was humiliated on the cross was to exalt him to the place of rulership, where he was ruler over, or he is ruler over all And he rules on the right hand of the throne of God now, and one day when he comes for us, he will rule and reign for a thousand years on this earth, and then in a sense, eternally. In verse 32, we have this, verse 31 also, we have it says, to grant repentance to Israel and the forgiveness of sins. Notice how it says that. That Christ as the ruler, as the prince, as the savior, did all that he did So that he could benevolently grant repentance to Israel and the forgiveness of sins. Well, who were they talking to? They're talking to the leaders of Israel. The leaders of Israel were listening to what was going on, and Paul or Peter was basically saying, look, God is grist will grant you A change of life, a change of direction. He will grant you this. You have this opportunity if you will choose to take it. And it's and it's not something that you deserve It's not something that you can earn. It's not something that is of any merit of your own. It's something that Christ is granting you to take for your own if you would choose The way that it's put here, it sets up Christ as the supreme authority over all things, the great king of all. And the way it's set up is that there's only two possible responses. One response is to bow in humility and to humble yourself before the mighty hand of God and to repent. They had that option at this point. The other option was to recoil in pride, in indignation, and that's exactly the option that they choose. You'll notice what it says in verse 33. When they heard this, they were furious and plotted to kill them. This idea of being furious is Is the it's it's rendered uh to divide by a saw, to be cut in two, to be rent in two. You know, back in the old days when you would write out a letter by hand Some of the some some some people might still do that and not that many anymore. But you imagine writing something by hand and not figuring out how you could write it w write it in a in a clear way and you write write it and you're just so disgusted with what you've written that you just get you just write destroy the thing in two and throw it away Well that's the kind of idea here. They are absolutely disgusted. They are absolutely incensed and incited by what's going on here, and they cannot continue to do what they are going to do. They are absolutely frustrated with us. And more than frustrated, they're furious. In fact, they are mentally sawn through, according to uh the way that it's it's put here by this word. It's also interesting they're plotting to kill these people. That is a problem because the Sanhedrin don't have the authority to do that. Now the Sanhedrin can try to influence the Roman government to do it. The Sanhedrin did have governmental power, but it came short of actually putting somebody to death. And so it's interesting that they're about to do something essentially, or they're plotting to do something that is illegal. Just as they attempted to do something with Christ, except in that case they convinced Ru they convinced Rome to do it uh uh to do it so that it was legal. In this case, it looks as though they're not trying to do it legally this time. They're going to plot to kill him on their own. Except there is a man who decides that he is going to step in at this point. This is a man that is of great respect among the Sanhedrin. He is not a Sadducee as most of them are. He is from the line of Pharisees. He is this man Gamaliel. Gamaliel is just very one of the what just obviously he was a statesman in that day. He was a very highly respected, wise man um in among the Sandhedron. He was extremely knowledgeable. If you were taught at the school of Gamaliel, you were taught at the highest school. In fact the Apostle Paul says he was he was under the he was he sat at the feet of Gamaliel. And this man sits back and looks at the situation, and he's now going to point out something that is important to be aware of, picking up in verse. 34. Then one of the councils stood up, and a Pharisee named Gameliel, a teacher of the law, held in respect by all the people, and commanded them to put the apostles outside for a little while. And he said to them, Men of Israel, take heed to yourselves what you intend to do regarding this these men. For some time ago Thutius Rose up, claiming to be somebody, a number of men, about four hundred, and joined him. For he was uh he was slain, and all who obeyed him were scattered and came to nothing. After this man, Judas of Galilee rose up in the days of the census, and drew away many people after him. He also perished, and all who obeyed him were dispersed. And now I say to you, keep away from these men, and let them alone. For if this plan or this work is of men, it will come to nothing. But if it is of God, you cannot overthrow it, lest you even be found to fight against God. Gameliel's argument is very simple. First, he says, let the apostles step outside the room. Which is probably a wise thing to do in the first place. And then he explains simply this. He said, we have seen insurrections before. He names Judas and Theudus here. And in both he said in both cases they gathered a crowd, they they started an insurrection, and in both cases the leaders died. They weren't executed by the Sanhedrin. They died maybe in a fight or whatever, in some sort of skirmish or whatever. And then once they died, the thing dissolved. He says, this there's no reason for you to take this illegal action here. You don't need to do this. Don't take things in your own hands. He says, instead, just let this thing, it's possible that this thing is going to die off. He says, on the other hand, if this is of God, you don't want to fight against it. That is very good common sense, isn't it? In fact, in fact, he was really following the rabbinical writings of the day. The rabbis said this, and many times the rabbinical writings were a little suspect, but in this case they're pretty good. Men may disobey God, but his will would triumph notwithstanding. This will of men was not fettered. But what they willed would be overruled by God for the accomplishment of his own purposes. That was something that was taught in the rabbinical writings of the day And so he basically says, look, if this is of God, it's going to continue. Don't fight against it. And if it's not of God, it's going to die off. Don't take this action. And this is obviously wise advice. And because it comes from a very wise source, in verse 40, they decide to agree. They are calmed down by this. They get their emotions in check, they think through things logically, and they decide in verse 40 that they're not going to do this illegal action of putting these people to death. Notice though then it says what they do what they do is they they beat them. They beat the apostles. So they don't put them to death, but they they beat them. Now, would you notice what it says in the passage? This is just quite amazing. In verse 40, it says, And they agreed with him, and when they had called for the other apot uh called for the apostles and beaten them. They commanded that they should not speak in the name of Jesus and let them go. So they departed from the presence of the council, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for his name. Did you catch that? These men were beaten. By the Sanhedrin, and it thrilled their souls. I mean, it doesn't even sound right. It doesn't even strike us as possible But these men who were beaten, very likely in the same way Christ was beaten, perhaps exactly the same way with the Count of Nine Tales and the 39 Lashes. They were beaten in this way and and for that for that to thrill them, for them to have joy over this, is something that is otherworldly. This is not This is not hard. This is hard for us even to imagine. But is on the other hand, doesn't it strengthen our faith? To see these men be joyful in the midst of persecution, to just be thankful to be counted worthy to suffer to suffer in this way for the cause in the name of Christ. It's really quite profound. And throughout church history, we have had other people do this as well. Peter mentions this great honor of suffering for the cause of Christ in his epistle. In chapter 2, verse 20 it says, For what credit is it when you are beaten for your faults, you take it patiently. But when you do good and suffer, if you take it patiently, this is commendable before God. 314, but even if you should suffer for righteousness' sake, you are blessed. Do not be afraid of their threats, nor be troubled 317. For it is better, if the will of God be full so to suffer for good for doing good than for doing evil. The mentality of the first century church, the mentality of the disciples, God's perspective is that when you suffer for righteousness' sake, when you suffer in the right way, this is something that is an honor And throughout church history, we have examples of this. One of the most prime examples, one of my favorite examples is by a man by the name of John Huss. John Huss was a Catholic priest in the fourteenth century. And he was one who um He was one who began to read the Word of God, to see what it said, and realized that the Word of God was not in the language of the common man. He was preaching in a chapel of 3,000 people on a weekly basis. He began to see that and he began to copy, he he he met Tyndale, who was copying over the Bible in the language of the people. And he copied his own version of that and began to distribute it to his own people in his congregation. And he began to see other problems with the Catholic Church. For example, and he would be they began to do some art on the walls, which is very common in Catholicism, to do art on the walls that depicted a contrast between the Pope And and Christ, the Pope, uh Christ, for example, washed the disciples' feet. And the Pope, people would kiss the feet of the Pope There's these contrasts between the humility of Christ and the pride of the Pope, the humility of Christ in the New Testament and the pride of, and the exaltation of the papacy. And as a result of this, they began to persecute him. And there were great threats to put him to death. And he said, This, I will gladly die. In July 6, 1415, he was formally condemned to death. He was handed over to the secular authorities to be burned at the stake. When he was at the place of the churchyard, a bonfire was was, he was walking toward his own execution. A bonfire of his books were being burned. And he looked at those and he was not even discouraged by that. He said, this will be some aflame that prevails to further the work of God in the future. He says this when the executioner gave him one final chance to recant, and he says these words, God is my witness that the evidence against me is false. I have never thought nor preached except with the one intention of winning men, if possible, from their sins. Today I will gladly die. As the fire was lit and the flames engulfed him, it was said that John Huss sung a hymn. Christ, thou son of the living God, have mercy upon me, were the words of this hymn. How can a man like John Huss be burned at the stake and yet sing songs of praise to God? How can these men who were beaten praise God and be filled with joy to suffer for the name of Christ? Folks, the answer to that is simply this. It is something spiritual. It is something divine. It is not something that we can really understand. But if we have to come to the place where we suffer for Christ's sake, we can be sure that if we will obey, if we will follow God faithfully, If we will be courageous, if our course will be true, if we will not relent, then we will have that same joy as well. That if we are ever called to be persecuted for our faith, that although we can't imagine having the great kind of joy after being beaten that these people were. That the same Spirit of God that lives in them lives in us. And we actually can joy in the sufferings and with partaking in the sufferings of Christ. A very important verse we must note in verse 42. Verse 42 demonstrates that the work of God continued through all of this. Verse 42, and daily in the temple and in the e and in every house they did not cease teaching and preaching Christ. As the Jesus as the Christ. Isn't it amazing? All of this opposition, all of this persecution Being beaten. Everything that's happening. And the gospel of Jesus Christ is going to go forward. And it's not even going, and it's going to continue to be, they're going to publicly do this in the temple. They're still going to publicly proclaim Christ And to teach him faithfully to others. The work of Christ moves on in the book of Acts because of the Spirit's work in the life of these submitted apostles. Who are courageous and persevere through the persecution that that they are undergo that they underwent So how do we summarize all this? There's a lot here, isn't there? Number one, when we make the gospel our highest priority, We stand courageous when all other priorities fail. If you find in your life that there are certain priorities that you have, and you're failing at those priorities, You will stand as long as the gospel is your highest priority. You will stand if the gospel always remains your highest priorities. There is nothing wrong with having goals. There is nothing wrong with having plans. But all of our goals and plans and priorities must be submitted to the will of God And if we keep the gospel as our highest priority, then we will be able to stand. Number two The ability to communicate the gospel gives us a ready defense in the face of opposition. These people, they responded with the gospel. When there is opposition in our lives, even opposition from Satan We ought to respond with the gospel. We ought to clearly be able to articulate the gospel. The gospel is something that we ought to rehearse every day of our lives. That we ought to live every day of our lives, that we ought to know every day of our lives. It is something that we that would that should be something that is that is indelibly marked on our hearts. Number three, the one who places the gospel first will be joyfully honored when he or she must suffer for the cause of Christ. If we live our lives. Placing the gospel first. If there is a day, and there may be a day, folks, if there is a day that we are called to suffer for the cause of Christ, we will stand strong. Because the gospel has been our highest priority. We have put it first in our lives. Let's pray together. Before we pray, I just want to mention this. Every uh go ahead and keep your eyes closed, it's fine. If there is anybody here. That you you're listening to all of this and you have never actually received the gospel for yourself. There's never been a time in your life where you You realized that you are a sinner and that your sin separates you from God And that you need to accept him as your Savior, let me encourage you to please come and talk to me or someone else after the service that you trust. Help us, let us take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure. that you have a relationship with God, that you have the kind of faith that these apostles have in in believing the gospel. These stories are great for strengthening our faith as Christians. But if you don't know Christ, you can see the work of the gospel. It's true. The gospel's true. It's true because people gave their lives for it. People lived for it and died by it. And it it authentic it gives credibility to the gospel. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and we thank you that we can relentlessly focus on you with courage If we will keep the gospel our primary priority We must seek first your kingdom and your righteousness. And all these things will be added unto us. Lord, would you help us to do this? Would you help us as we as we saw your word this morning to emulate the courage of the apostles? to stand aware of the danger, of the fear of man that we saw in the Sanhedrin. And to choose to live and die by the gospel. We pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen.