To go to the Johns Hopkins um Bible study. And you know, it's kind of funny, I don't know if you ever feel this way, but you ever feel like not doing what you're supposed to be doing? I just didn't feel like going. I Honestly. I just you know, most of the time I'm kinda into what I'm doing and but I was driving there going, Man, I don't even feel like doing this. I'm just gonna I'm being really transparent with you. But you know, be really careful about not doing something you don't feel like doing. Because sometimes that's when the Lord really wants to work and and that was really I felt the case last night. I I was meeting there was about five ladies or so there. And one of the ladies that were there is a Ph it's not only for ladies, by the way, it's for men too, but unfortunately we don't have Many men come. But anyway, there was this lady there, Cho is her name, and um she's been coming. She doesn't know the Lord. She's been coming for a little while now. And she asked this question. And I want to pose this question to you and see how actually I'll I'll give you my initial answer to the question. And then she asked and asked a follow-up question, and I want to see what your response is. She asked a very point-blank question that all of us would love to hear from an unsaved person. How do you have a relationship with God? That's a great question. Right. I mean there's no greater questi it's like, oh wow, this is an open opportunity to give the gospel. And so that's what I did. I just I said, Well, the Bible says that we have a relationship with got with God through his Son Jesus Christ We have to understand that Jesus Himself is God and that He died as a substitute for us in our sin. And I just big, I just kind of went through the gospel very as clearly as I could with her. And then she said this. She said, no, no, no, that's not what I mean. She said this. She said, if I want to get to know, and she turned to the person next to her. to her, her name is Nora. If I want to get to know her, then I do stuff with her. And we get, you know, get to know each other. She said, how do I know God? She said, I can't touch him. I can't see him, I can't hear him, how do I get to know God? I know how to get to know other people, but how do I get to know God? Now, let me ask you this question. How will you answer her How would you answer her? Okay, so certainly we get to know God through his word. What else? Okay. Yeah, you hit the nail on the head. Um what I explained to her was this. I I of course that's true. It's Bible and prayer. I I I mentioned both of those. But you know how you get to know God in a relational sense, what God has provided for us, that is through other believers? We get to know Him through His body. Now just think about this for a minute. Can we see Christ visibly? We can't. What is Christ visible? The body of Christ. That's Christ visible If you want to see where that is, that's in Ephesians chapter 2, verse 19, for example. It's actually all over the book of Ephesians, but Ephesians chapter 2, verse 19 says, Now therefore you are no more strangers and foreigners of fellow citizens was saints of the household of God and built up upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone. And I I won't take the time to go through the rest of that passage, but if you look at Ephesians chapter You find that we are a building, we are a body, we are an habitation of God, we are Christ visible to people. If you want to get to know God better, you've got to get to know his children or his body better. That is how you get to know God. Now that is quite significant, isn't it It does for us give us a very significant responsibility. When people walk into this room into this sanctuary on a Sunday morning that don't know the Lord. They get to look around and they get to rub shoulders with people and we are their representation of Christ. Now we know this, but sometimes I don't think we think of it in those kinds of terms from like an unsaved person's perspective. We know we're supposed to represent Christ. Christ. We know we're supposed to witness. We know that we're supposed to, you know, people are see supposed to see Christ in us. But when you think of it in terms of how how someone is to have a relationship with God It is it is you can't see him, you can't feel him, you can't hear him, you can hear his word, but if you're but there isn't but there is an element to which that we are If we're going to experience God, it is only through experiencing each other. That's why I think these home groups are important. It's just one option. It's not the only way, but it is a good way to be able to get to know each other. Because when we get to know each other And when you get to know how God is working in each other's lives, we get to know God in a much more tangible, real, personal way. And what and the truth of the matter is, last night The majority of us there in that Bible study knew the Lord. But there was one girl there, at least, if not a couple, but at least one that didn't know Christ. And she got to observe, we were studying through Ephesians, we're going through the book of Ephesians. Ephesians on the Bible. So you can tell I like to kill birds with stone, t two birds with one stone. So I already studied through the book of Ephesians, you know, to preach here and now I'm doing Anyway, so um so we're we're we're we're going through the book of Ephesians and Ephesians chapter chapter four is what we're on, and we're talking about how the church is supposed to work. We're studying God's word, and she's observing this. So that what it tells us is that what we do as Christ's body Corporately is really important. James so far in chapter one has really dealt with the responsibility of an individual before God. You really have it, you know, count it all joy when you fall into diverse trials and temptations, no trial or your patience. It's really all individual stuff. Hey, if you Christian, come aga come up against a trial, count it joy because this is what God is doing in your life. You need to make sure you don't fall the temptation. You need to make sure there's all these kinds of admonitions and prohibitions and things in the first chapter of James. But now James is going to turn to James chapter 2, and we're going to see here now a corporate command. Now he's going to say this, James chapter 2, verse 1, my brethren, plural. Have not the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory, with respect of persons. Now, let me put it this way: what is he saying here? He's saying, do not hold to the faith. When the Bible says the faith, it's really talking about The person and work of Christ. So if you say, I have faith, that's a belief in this. But the faith is like the doctrine. Okay? It's the person and worship work of Christ. And he says, don't hold to the faith with partiality, he says, with favoritism. He says, don't do that. What is he saying here? He is saying don't contaminate your corporate representation of Christ to others Don't do that by being by showing favoritism to individuals. Now, I have a question for you. This is the very first in the book of James, the very first admonition that we could tell to the corporate body. Hey, as a church, as a whole, you guys need to not do this. Or be careful about doing this. Why would he do that? Why would James start there when he begins to address these people corporately? In other words, why is this so important that people don't do this? They don't show favoritism, they don't show part partiality, they don't have respect of persons. Why is this so important? Any ideas? is not the people how to do that. Good. Very good. Cliff? Good. In fact, we find that God is not a respecter of persons in multiple places. Um I found at least three different uh three different um places where it says that. Romans chapter two verse eleven Ephesians 6. 9 and Colossians 3. 23 all say that God is not a respecter of persons. What else? Harry? Okay, good. Good, very good. Okay, now here's what I want to do at this point because all of those answers are correct. If we're really going to understand the weight of this and why this is so important, we do need to sort of recall a couple of things about the gospel itself. So with that in mind, would you take your Bibles and turn to Romans and we're going to look here at the at well let me ask you this question. I've already tipped my hand as to what book we're going to turn to If you had to go to like the pinpoint, like the center of the gospel, of the message of the gospel. And you're in the book of Romans, where would you go? Like if you had to hit the bullseye. Any idea? Where would you go in Romans? Okay, five eight's not bad. But what's the bullseye? Okay, the bull's eye is three twenty-one. Okay. Chapter 3, verse 21. Would you notice what it says in chapter 3, verse 21? You see those words but now? That's a very strong statement. He has primarily before that been talking about the lostness of man. Chapters 1 through 320. And now he's going to say, but now, and what does he say as we hit the bullseye of the gospel? The righteousness of God without the law is manifested, being witnessed by the law and the prophets, even the even the righteousness of God Which is by faith of Jesus Christ. Okay, so what is the gospel? What is the bullseye of the gospel? It is the righteousness of God applied to an individual by faith in who? Okay, that's the bullseye of the gospel. I don't have righteousness, I need righteousness, I need righteousness applied to my account. It's Christ that does that. I get it by faith. But did you know do you notice what it says here? A couple of words here. Look at what it says. Unto all upon all them that believe, for what? I mean, we're we're talking about the bullseye of the gospel here, and it says this: for there is what? No difference. I mean, central to the gospel message, to a pure gospel message, is that it's like this level playing field. Everybody comes across the same way There is no difference. He's going to say use this term no difference again in Romans chapter 10. Would you turn there? Romans chapter 10, verse 11. For the scripture saith, Whosoever believeth on him shall not be ashamed. Notice what verse 12 says. Romans 10:12, what does it say? For their what? There's no difference between the Jew and the Greek, for the same Lord over all is rich unto all that call upon him. What is central to the gospel message is that the gospel views all people the same. We're all sinners. There is no greater value in one person over another person. Now, prior to the to the fullness of the gospel in the Old Testament, you have the Jewish Jewish people that they think that they they think they've got an angle on on nationality and all kinds of things. But Christ came to abolish all of that, and so that there is no difference between the Jewish Jew and the Gentile when it comes to the gospel, when it comes to having a relationship with God. Would you notice then let let's just look for a few moments then at look at at Ephesians chapter two, verse eleven So having you flip a lot tonight, Ephesians chapter 2, verse 11, it says this Wherefore remember, that ye being in time past Gentiles in the flesh, who are called uncircumcision, by which is called the circumcision, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other But now is cr now in Christ, you see that same term, but now it's the same in the Greek as as Romans Romans 3. 21. But now, like a strong adversive here, in Christ Jesus, ye who sometimes were far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ For he is our peace, and hath made both one, and hath broken down the middle wall of partition between us, having abolished in the in the f in his flesh the enmity, even the law of commandments contained in ordinances, to make in himself twain of one new man, so making peace, and that he might reconcile both unto God in one body by the cross, having slain the enmity thereby. And we're going to find later on in Ephesians chapter 4, verses 1 through 6 there that the core, the central way that we are to find We are to fulfill the gospel message, to walk worthy of the vocation we're worthy or called. If we're going to fulfill the gospel in our lives, it's going to be In unity with the body of Christ. Because there is one God and one faith and one baptism. That whole passage is talking about oneness in Christ. Why? Because that is what reflects the gospel most accurately. Unity and oneness in the body reflects who Christ is most clearly. So that when people see it, when unsafe people see it, they are able to respond to it and they they say there's something different about this place, or these people. And beyond that, really, folks, we learn more about God. And so when James is dealing with, he's saying this: he's saying, don't contaminate contamination. Your representation of Christ to others by showing partiality. Is that easy for us to do? Is it easy for us to show partiality, to show favoritism to other people? It is exceedingly easy. It was not just easy for the Jewish people that read this letter, the Jewish Christians that read the book of James. It's easy for us. We tend to size people up in the first 10 seconds of meeting them. It's understood in real estate that a person buys a person a house, they make a decision on buying a house within the first 15 seconds of seeing it. They just, okay, this is the one. We are very quick to assumption. We're very quick to judgment, and we are very quick to making an assessment And we it's very easy for us to have to be respecters of persons, to, to, to show favoritism. Now, in in this passage, what we find, and I don't have a lot of time here, but in this passage what we find is what scripture says about this. He says this, verse two, for if there come unto your assembly a man with a gold ring and goodly apparel, by the way, that's a status simple. Clothing is a little bit of a status status symbol. symbol today but not so much as it was back then. It's like if he if he drove up in a Rolls Royce, you know, a brand new one or something. Or grow drove up it would be more like a car perhaps would be today. Perhaps. Okay. So this is a real status symbol, or even a house, maybe, would even be a better um uh Example. And there come in also a poor man in vile raiment. So, you know, you got the guy with the beater outside in the old pinto that's just basically clunking along to get here. You got another guy that comes in. comes in with a Rolls-Royce or a BMW and he's got his hair slicked back and uh maybe not dial that. I'm now I'm just starting to describe a lawyer, not a person of Anyway, um and and and if we're not careful we can gravitate you know, that guy with with the old beater outside and he comes in and he's not too clean shaven and he's not too sophisticated and we got another guy that comes in, he's sharp, he's gregarious, he knows how to ro you know, work with he knows how to be with people and he's got a nice c I mean, it it's very easy to gravitate to the wrong person God says don't do that. God says we've got to be very careful about showing favoritism. And notice what it says here in the passage. It says verse 3, and ye have respect to him that weareth a gay clothing, I would try for, you know, uh New King James might And say unto him, Sit thou here in a good place, and say to the poor, Stand thou there, or sit here unto my footstool. Are ye not then partial in yourselves and have become judges of evil thoughts? What does he say? He says, the person that does this, what is he accusing them of? He says, you're A better word for of there would be with. He's saying, look, you have become a judger, a judgmental, you become judgmental with evil intentions. What are the evil intentions? When you see somebody coming up in a pinto, okay Do you think to yourself what benefit I get for I can get from them? Boy, maybe I can, you know, maybe I can get become his friend and he'll he'll he'll give me a right Oh it's oh you okay and it's an old it's an old uh clunker car that never worked right. They they made them in the what 1970s or something? Sixties, seventy I I I remember yeah, it's an old clunker car basically. They were made real cheaply and anyway. So whatever old I don't I know nobody has a pen to that's why I picked that. But anyway, um so so uh or or versus a B of W. Um Well maybe I don't want to ride in that either. Maybe we got we need to say, you know, a a nice truck. I don't know. Sorry here, yeah. My the point the point is this. The point is this. One, you see you're you're trying, there's like this personal gain that you can that can our motives can kick in there, even just wanting to be their friend. versus someone that may have nothing to offer. God says when they come in those doors, it doesn't matter what we should not be showing favoritism the one over the other. Or when we are rubbing shoulders with people in the in the workplace, or when we're we should not be showing favoritism. Doesn't mean we don't use wisdom and caution, those kinds of things. But God is saying be very, very careful about that. This. Because, and he gives this argument in the passage, he says, has not God chosen the poor of this world to be heirs to his kingdom? You know, there's a whole lot more poor people that know Christ than there are rich people. That's true. And God essentially has chosen the poor things of this world to confound the wise, 1 Corinthians chapter 1. Because in order to come to Christ, you've got to be humble. In order to know Him, it requires humility. And so what why James deals with this with such sharp language is he wants to make sure that this church is not compromising their reflection of Christ to others by showing favoritism. And it is a warning for us today. It is on two levels, I think. Number one, it reminds us of what our responsibility is as a church, isn't it? Reminds us of that. We got we're more how do people get to know God? Through us. How do we get to know God? Through each other. And secondly, we need to be careful about showing favoritism and partiality. Because we want to represent Christ in a way that really can genuinely really benefit really uh uh be able to show people Christ. And they can Very, very important. Um I didn't get into all the the passage, I didn't have time, but very very important um truths here for us to be reminded of and to to think Alright, let's pray together. Father, we do it does It is good for us to be reminded of of what your word tells us about what uh that your church is supposed to be And we admit that we often forget in all of our busyness of various ministries And just even getting here and the busyness of our life and various things, Lord, we we forget that we're here to make you known that people can have a relationship with you through Christ alone, but to know you is going to be Through us, and for us to know you also is through each other. Lord, I do uh think that in our church, not necessarily But in the church in our society that is so individualist we're so individualistic and I'm not sure. our culture. We're missing some things about who you are. And I pray, Lord, that you would help us to to Understand how important it is to have fellowship with others and to to know you through knowing others, Lord. And help us to be able to to do that here at our church. And I do pray that we would be able to represent you with clarity and with purity to people That come in here as well, or even as we rub shoulders outside the walls of this church building as well. Help us to not show favoritism or partiality. Based upon status or position or those kinds of things. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.