You may be seated is turn to Luke chapter one. Luke chapter one this morning. And we're going to be looking this morning, eventually here at verses. forty six through fifty-five of Luke chapter one. It is so easy for us to go through the ritual of Christmas. And not really consider the significance of what Christmas, at least for the uh Bible believing Christians should represent. In fact, and it's obviously because we go over and over and over and over this every single year. In fact, you've probably heard somebody say from the pulpit something like that over and over again that we've got to remember the same thing. We've got to remember the real meaning, even to the point where we have trite sayings like you have to you it's the r you know you have to know the real reason for the season, which has now become trite in and of itself. I mean It's this never ending problem of of not really responding to Christ's birth in the way that that perhaps Perhaps he will want to, or at least to struggle to do so, each time we come around to this kind of time of year. And yet God does desire us to do so. And to really really help us to understand this and to really kind of uh encourage us this way, um I have an illustration. This past this past uh summer I took a trip down to Florida down to see my um my in-laws and um on the way down we had uh a little movie thing in the back of the in the in the suburban that we have, uh the little D V D player. And uh I could hear everything going on in the DVD player without seeing it of course. to to hold off on doing that. It was a good move on my part. But but basically uh during that I we listened all the way down to Anna Green Gables And all the men went, What? You couldn't have picked something like Star Wars. Anyway, I have three On the other hand, um we also did the same thing on the way back as well. We listened to integreen Gables on the way back. And there's this one there's this one scene between Marilla and Anne that that I I sort of recalled as I was studying this mess for this message. Marilla Cuffwert says to Anne, you set your heart too much on frivolous things and then crash down into despair when you don't get them. And Shirley replies, I know. I can't help flying up on the wings of anticipation. It's as glorious as soaring through a sunset. Almost pays for the thud. Marilla Cutford replies, well maybe it does, but I'd rather walk calmly along and do without flying and thug. And so I heard that so many times in the car I I I recalled it almost verbatim but I did check the internet to make sure you know of course the internet that's always right so I checked it to make sure it was right. And the truth is I think Marilla as a pretty wise lady. And for a lot of people, I often think to yourself, you know, would you just calm down? You might not have the flying, but you also might not have the thug But folks, there are certain kinds of things that we ought to fly high when it comes to worship of God. Incarnation, responding to the incarnation in the way that God wants us to, it ought we ought to be overwhelmed and filled with with A sense of joy and rejoicing and satisfaction. We ought to fly up on the wings of anticipation, and on this particular thing, we ought never fall with a thud. We don't need to, because the effect of the incarnation is that Christ is our Savior and our Lord. As we look at Luke chapter 1, we're going to see Mary's worshipful response to what she has heard She has been told by the angel Gabriel that she will bear a son, and that his name will be called Jesus, and he shall save her people from their sin. And so Mary is going to now, we're going to learn about Mary's response in this passage. First, let's go to the Lord in prayer and ask his blessing on our time together. Father, as we come to you And we look at your word this morning, I pray that you would help us. Would you cause us To know how in a new and fresh way to respond to the incarnation as we follow Mary's example. We pray, Lord, that we would really see your sovereignty, your power, your holiness, and your mercy. In what you did in sending your only begotten Son into the world to become a man, to humble himself, to condescend to this low estate. To become a baby born of poor, a poor Jewish couple, in a stable Lord, there is a humility about what occurred there, and I pray, Lord. That we would see the greatness of what you are doing and what you did do as we look at Mary's response. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. We pick up our story as Mary is perhaps on a donkey on a long journey. This is not the journey that you're thinking of. This is the journey before the journey where they traveled to Bethlehem with Joseph. This is the this journey, Mary is alone. As far as we know, she's alone. She was alone. She certainly was not with Joseph at this point. And she goes on this long journey. In fact, the journey is roughly around 50 to 70 miles from Judah, or I'm sorry, from Nazareth to the city of Judah is what it's named there in verse 39 of chapter 1. She is on this long journey. She has had already this encounter with the angel. And she has a lot of time to think. We know that Mary was a very thoughtful young lady. Later on in Luke chapter 2, it's going to say when she encounters the interactions with Eli and Hannah with Christ and all that setting there. It says that Mary pondered these things in her heart. Mary was a very thoughtful person. We know that Mary knew the Word of God well, knew scriptures well. We're going to find that out as we see her. Responses. So Mary is taking all of this in. She has been told that she's going to bear a son, even though she has never known a man. She is Working all of this out more than likely as she is traveling these many miles to see her cousin Elizabeth. Can you kind of imagine that journey? What must have run through Mary's head Mary perhaps was thinking about the fact that she was going to be ostracized by her family. Because according to Deuteronomy 22, 23. through twenty-four that they were really put in a different social class when they when something of this nature happened and there was an ostracism and a and you know Usually sort of a a a sa there was a separating of the family uh of the of the lady from the family so as not to not to uh defile the rest of the family and under Jewish um Jewish law. And she was thinking about that. Surely no one would ever believe her that she's bearing a child. No one would ever believe that she didn't she didn't wasn't married yet and she didn't know any She was also considering the fact that for 400 years there has been silence. From revelation of God. And that God in the Old Testament had promised that there would be a redeemer. And that now of all people this angel comes and says, I, that that Mary, Mary says, I am she may think I'm the one to whom you're going to fulfill your plan, your sovereign plan that's been prophesied throughout the ages Can you really just imagine Mary's thought process as she traveled these 50 to 70 miles on this journey to see Elizabeth? Well, she finally does see her cousin. Of course, you know the story where Mary is encountering Elizabeth, and Elizabeth goes and sees And they see each other, and Elizabeth responds with great joy. And in fact, she's carrying John, who will be John the Baptist. And there have been all kind there's several prophecies that have come to Zacharias at that or one prophecy that have come to Zacharias at that point, and Elizabeth knew that whom she was carrying was special, and then you know you remember the story about how her John left in the wom And all of that. There was this great joy and rejoicing over this final or this this revelation that both Elizabeth and Mary was getting in their part that they were playing in the fulfillment of prophecy over time. I mean, this was an incredible occasion. And Mary finally After meeting Elizabeth and thinking through all of this great journey and doing and going through everything that she's going through, it's like she can't Managed to stay quiet any longer, and she bursts forth with a hymn. A hymn of worship. A hymn of praise to her God. A hymn of awe and rejoicing and thanksgiving. And that's where we pick up in Luke chapter 1, verse 46. It says here in verse 46 of Luke chapter 1, and Mary said, My soul doth magnify the Lord. And my spirit hath rejoiced in God, my Savior. We know that Mary was someone who was of great, must have understood Scripture well. It's estimated that at least a minimum of 12 various references to the Old Testament is used in this hymn that Mary had prayed. Mary knew her Bible well and she began to draw from various passages of Scripture, but one of the main passages that she drew from was Hannah's prayer over in 1 Samuel chapter 2. 2. You'll remember that. Hannah was barren. She was without child, and she prayed to the Lord in chapter 1 that the Lord would give her a child, and he did. And he responds she responds in great rejoicing. And so Mary sort of latches on to that great great other hymn that we find in that passage. And we're gonna see we're gonna see sort of the different different quotes peppered throughout Mary's hymn that goes back in that hymn uh in 2 Samuel or 1 Samuel. But she says in this passage, she says, My soul doth magnify the Lord, and my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Savior. When she says that my soul doth magnify, she is talking about the fact that she exalts God. The reality is we should respond in worship because of God's personal provision. And God saw, or Mary saw what God was doing as personal provision. For her. And she wanted to exalt him. She wanted to magnify him This word that's used here in verse in Matthew 23, 5, it's used of actually the Pharisees. And they are putting on their phylacteries and they're putting on their garments because they want to be seen of men. This great, grandiose kind of a word that's used in the bad sense for the Pharisees, Mary uses in a good sense. She doesn't want to be. seen of men, but she wants God to be seen of men. She wants God's working to be seen of men. She is exalting and magnifying her God. And sure perhaps and very likely she thought about the prayer of Hannah, who prayed this in 1 Samuel 2. 1. My heart rejoiceth in the Lord. My horn is exalted in the Lord. My mouth is enlarged over mine enemies, because I rejoice in thy salvation. And then this not only does she say she exalts the Lord, but she also rejoices in the God her Savior. And the rejoicing of this term is just an idea of a response, this overwhelming kind of response to what God is doing. In John chapter 3, verse 20. twenty one, which we looked at just very briefly last week, it says this But he that doeth truth cometh to the light, that his deeds may be made manifest, that they are wrought in God. When someone is doing the truth, when they are being used of God, when God is working in their lives, when they see God working in their lives, they want God's working to them To be manifest that it's wrong in God, that the source of what is do what is happening in their life is from God. And they don't want themselves to be seen, but they want God to be seen through them And that's what Mary, her sentiment is here. She wants others to see God through her life Uh several many many years ago now. Well, to some of you it's not many, many years ago, to me it's many, many years ago. Um I uh I remember getting a chemistry set for Christmas Christmas one year. And you know, most uh kids' chemistry sets, there's nothing particularly harmful in them, um, although they were more harmful now back then than they are now. Now they have plastic tests Back then they were actually glass, believe it or not. And so we had uh there were I I I we I set up this little place, this little makeshift workbench in the in the basement, and I set up all my chemistry set in there. And um and I began to mix different chemicals. And and uh I would actually find other I'd go into my mom's kitchen, I I I would get these, I found uh from a friend uh that had a lot of babies I found a um they she had these glass um little little jars that she gave me and I put different ingredients in those jars. I'd go in my mom's kitchen and put the different ingredients in And do you know what would happen when I would mix things? Absolutely nothing. I mean I would mix all kinds of different things together and I'm like very little ever happened. I'm just mixing stuff all over all together and hoping something will happen. But there was one thing I found that worked every time and caused a reaction. You all probably know what it is. It's baking soda and vinegar. You put baking soda in the bottom of a s of a of a test tube and then you pour some vinegar and you will get every single time without fail you will always get this explosion. And so, you know, any time I felt a little discouraged about the other things I mix I just get some baking soda and vinegar and just throw them in there and they just kind of explode. Uh and and I feel a little better about myself. So I did a I got a I used a lot of my mom's vinegar in baking soda But that does illustrate the kind of worship that God wants us to have in our lives. God wants us to prepare in our souls, as Mary did, in our hearts, to know God, to know what He is doing. to know how he is working, to know how his character is displayed, to the point where it just wells up within us like we can't be quiet about this Like you recall the passage where it says that the rocks will cry out if we stay silent. How should we respond? That is how we should respond. That is how we ought to worship God. Our worship ought to be like that. Welling up inside of us and springing forth with great joy and rejoicing for what Christ has done in our lives. And it all started, in a sense, with the incarnation. So the question then becomes what mixture, if you will, what combination of thoughts brought Mary to the point where she was just bursting forth with worship. And we find the answer to that in the next several verses. And we're going to see here from this passage, she says a few things, verse beginning in verse 48. For he hath regarded the low estate of his handmaiden. The word handmaiden there could easily be Easily be translated. Bond servant. In fact, most of the time the New Testament is translated that way. She was saying, Mary was saying, I am I'm I'm a slave. She was the lowest of the low, and she says, For the low for he hath regarded the lowest state of the handmaiden For behold, from henceforth all generations shall call me blessed. For he had that is mighty, hath done to me great things. And holy is his name What mixture causes Mary to just be overwhelmed with the kind of worship that she had? She realized that God was providing for her. This lowly person was working, chose to work in the likes of her, to do to that all men would call her blessed, that that all that that God would would send his son through Mary. I mean this is what was It's just an amazing discovery. In 1 Samuel chapter 1, verse 11, Hannah praised this. And she vowed a vow and said, Lord, O Lord of hosts, if thou wilt indeed look on the affliction of thine handmaiden, and remember me, and not forget thine handmaiden, but will give unto the handmaid a man child, then will I give him the the Lord all the days of his life, and there shall be no razor that come upon his head. Why was Hannah's prayer so so effective? It was because of the humility that Hannah came to God and God answered her prayer the same way that Mary Mary didn't perhaps pray this, and doubt doubtful she did, but she perhaps was praying for the prophecies to be fulfilled. You know, it's sort of interesting That mankind is sort of in the human soul to really to really feel like You want to root for the underdog. And you have in literature these stories of rags to riches. And you have all kinds you have that a lot in the human soul. You sort of have this desire to root for the person that's that's the underdog. For example The uh Charles Dickens in 1860 wrote Great Expectations. How many have read that before? Just curious. Okay. And in the classic work, the Victorian literature, uh sh uh uh A Journey of Pip, a young orphan. who finds himself uh the recipient of a l of a large inheritance through the financial journeys and heartbreak and realization fortune he is he is limited uh um and he is uh and finally he's able to have success in those times. Probably more popular for us is um is like Star Wars, for example. And um You know, remember Anakin, um, in uh in one of the Star Wars uh I think it's the Phantom Menace where you know he's a young child, he's he's in in slavery, his mom and him are in slavery. I mean whose heart didn't go out for the for for the mom and her and this young child and eva eventually uh I don't know why I'm mentioning Star Wars. I just it's in on my mind. But anyway, and uh and it goes into slavery and uh And uh we all just are and then she he he's he's released from slavery to become a Jedi. What a great story. And of course, we all know Charles Dickens' A Christmas Carol. And uh who's your favorite character in Charles Dickens' Christmas Carol? Christmas Carol. Well, of course, it's Tiny Tim. I mean Tiny Tim with the broken leg, and he says, Merry Christmas to everyone, or something like that. God bless us, everyone. Yeah I should have read it. God bless us everyone. I mean there is this this this this human human n uh desire to leap forward when you see somebody go from rags to riches. I mean think of Tim Tebow. I mean whoever expected him to do the things he did of course now he's not a exactly doing a lot but but uh he did at one point everybody was I mean he was like everybody was a big fan of his because nobody expected to do what he did Well, folks, the human race was destined for failure. We are poor. We are in our low estate. Of Israel that was the same way. And so in order to be filled with the kind of worship that God wants us to be filled with, we've got to realize how undeserving we are Of God working in our lives. We've got to empty ourselves of ourselves. And then we're ready to be filled by God. And worship in the way that God wants us to, and we see this example in Mary's life. So when God worked and was in the midst of working in Mary's life and in Elizabeth's life and in Joseph's life and really in the entire incarnation act and what he did, what kind of character was God displaying? And really for that matter, when we're worshiping God, what do we first see I really think Mary says it here and says it well. Verse 49, for he that is what? Okay, look at your Bibles for just a minute, or your iPads, or your cell phones. Verse 49: For he that is what? Is mighty hath done to me great things. You first see, you see that God is mighty, that God is all powerful. You see, when we see how weak we are and how poor we are and how destitute we are spiritually spiritually. Then we and we begin to see then that when God works in our lives, He's displaying His might. He's stronger than we ever imagined. He's able to take us and use us in ways that we never could imagine. I mean, it is incredible how great God's power is. When we look at our own lives and we recognize how lowly, like we're a lowly bond servant. But why? Why is that so amazing? It's amazing for this reason. It's amazing because of God's holiness. And I want you to see this. Would you take your Bibles and would you turn to Isaiah 57 for a moment? I want you to actually Turn to this one, Isaiah 57, verse 15. This is going to talk here about God's holiness, and you'll see See here how amazing this is. Mary goes from God's power and might to the fact that He is a holy God. What does he want what what's he what's he doing here? Verse fifteen For thus saith the high and lofty one that inhabiteth eternity. What is his name, folks? Whose name is holy Now let me pause for a minute and ask you a question. When you think of holiness, what is holy? I mean, immediately at the very basic of what holiness is, what does it mean? It means to be separate. When we think of God's holiness, we think of the fact that God is separate from his creation. He is the high and lofty one. He's separate from his creation. He's transcended above his creation. He's so transcendent he cannot be touched with his creation. He is the holy God. So it's amazing. What God would choose to work through us, wouldn't it? Isn't it? I mean, we're we we don't think of God being first holy. And the reason because we don't think of God first being holy We're not astounded by the reality that God would work with the likes of us. We are not amazed by it But God is holy. He's separate from his creation. He is the high and lofty one. But there's one exception. He does work with one kind of people. Would you look at the passage with me? I dwell in the high and holy place with. Do you see that word with? With him also that is of a what? A contrite and humble spirit, to revive the spirit of the humble, and to revive the heart of the contrite one. It's it's as though God is holy, he can't be touched with his creation. Creation has has fallen. It's it's I mean we see that all over the place. I mean the whole creation groaneth and travaileth together to now. Creation is in a really bad place, and God is holy, but there's one kind of people that God is with. He is with the humble and the contrite in heart. And I would just say this: if you are stagnating in your worship experience, if you are struggling, like you're just staying at this, you know, you're a marilla when it comes to worship. You're not flying on the wings of anticipation. Perhaps it's because there's a problem with our hearts. Perhaps we are not humble and contrite in the way that God would want us to be. Because what God says is when we are, that's who he's with. It's incredible. And it then causes us, when we think about the holiness of God, and that God is able to reach down and to Be with those who are contrite of heart, those who are humble in spirit. When that occurs, when we think about that, the basis of that, why can what's what connects the two? It is God's mercy. It's God's mercy. God is a merciful God. Would you see that of the passage? For he is mighty, verse forty nine, hath done to one me great things, and holy is his name, and his mercy is on them that fear him from generation to generation. Mary reflects on the fact of God's provision for her life. She reflects on the fact that God has done great things for her. And she reflects on the fact that God has displayed his might and his holiness. But he said she says, you know, it's not just me that God has done this for, he has done this for generation after generation after generation. After generation, he has expressed his mercy, but you can't appreciate the mercifulness of God unless you appreciate the holiness of God first. And she realizes how holy God is, which causes her to realize how merciful God is. Verse 451. He hath showed strength with his arm, and has scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts. We see here finally that we should respond in worship because of God's character displayed to all, but we should respond in worship because of God's sovereign working in the lives of his people. You see, when you begin to think about how God is working in your life, what God is doing in your life, and you're awed by his power and might to redeem And you're awed by His holiness, and you realize that all of this is only by God's mercy And you begin to see how what you're doing and how God is working through you potentially can touch the lives of other people. In Mary's case, whose lives would her life touch? The whole world, past, present, and future. You know, I'll be honest with you, we as we as you know, we in our our good, solid Protestant Independent Baptist Foundation Biblical foundation, we sort of diminish Mary's importance. And we do it for a reason, because there's another denomination that raises her importance too. But I'll tell you what, God used Mary in an incredible way. Mary was a woman, a humble, contrite woman with whom God could choose to use And I'll tell you what, what a great example for you ladies out there and you young ladies out there. Mary's a great example, really, for all of us. And she realizes that what God is going to use her, God's going this is bigger than her. This is way bigger than her. In fact, this God is going to be fulfilling his promise to the entire the entire nation of Israel. Would you notice this? She says this. Verse 52: He hath put down the mighty from their seats and exalted them of low degree. He hath filled the hungry with good things, and the rich He hath sent empty away. He hath hopen his servant Israel in remembrance of his mercy. As he spake to our fathers to Abraham, and to his seed forever. And he end she ends there She says, God exalts the humble, God puts down the prideful. God puts an authority whom He will. And we see in this passage that that's exactly what Mary understands God is about to do. It does bring up an interesting question. Is it not true in the book of Romans? Is it not true that God ordains all to be where they are in authority? And there's no question about that in Romans chapter 13. That whom God puts in power, he puts there by his ordaining. The Bible says, let all subject be all souls be subject to higher power, for those are of they be of God and and and And ordained of God. In this passage, Mary is saying that what God does is he puts the humble into power. Well then, why are there so many prideful people in power? You ever wondered that? I mean, if God puts everyone into power, And God delights in putting the humble into power, then why are there so many people in power that are not humble? Well, let's just think about this for a minute. When you think of you're going, we're going through 2 Samuel in Sunday school. We went through 1 Samuel first. Which is usually a good idea. And you started off with Saul. Saul was a man who was full of himself. Was Saul God's choice or the people's choice? It was the people's choice. But when God wanted to bless the nation of Israel, he put the runt of the litter in. He did. I mean if you read the account of David about how he's chosen, I mean four other b big strapping brothers went before him and finally th they weren't the right one 'cause I mean he didn't he wasn't you know, why how could he this small little run be be And it went from there. I mean, he had one humble experience after another, after another, after another. Because God wanted to bless the nation of Israel through a humble servant. But you know you fast forward thousands of years and you get to the point where the nation of Israel is full of idolatry and full of pride and full of their own arrogance and full of themselves and God wants to God wants to judge them and chasten them. What does he do? He puts Nebuchadnezzar in power. He has the Babylonian captivity. Babylonians come in and take over the whole nation and put the whole nation in God did that. We know that from the Old Testament. Why? It was in judgment. See, you see, God shows mercy to whom He shows mercy, and He shows judgment to whom He shows judgment. When God puts a person with a proud heart in office, he does so in judgment When God puts a person with a humble spirit in office, he does so to show grace and mercy to the people. And what you find here was Christ, when he came to earth, was he humble or not? Christ was very humble. The Bible says he humbled himself and became humble A man. God wanted to show his mercy and grace in a way that was unimaginable, that they had never seen before. So they He put, I mean, if you really think about the context with which Christ came, it was the simplest way he could possibly come. Why? Because he's the greatest blessing of God to all mankind in the nation of Israel, all mankind ever. And one day, aren't you glad that one day Christ will come again? He is He came the first time in His first advent to redeem his people. But he will come again and he will rule and reign. And he will be a blessing to the nations. And he will fulfill the Abrahamic and the David covenants of the Old Testament. He will fulfill all the prophecies. And Mary saw all this, she she she had all this time to ponder under all of this and she couldn't help but just express everything in great praise to God God is a covenant-keeping God. God is a God who will fulfill his promises. I'd like to ask you question this morning. Are you worshiping God in ritual or in rejoicing? I mean really, I mean just think about it folks. Are you worshiping God on if you look back at the last six months Or the last year, have you been worshiping God in ritual or in great rejoicing? What maybe you look at our corporate setting, maybe you look at our Sunday morning Mornings and you ask the question: Are we worshiping God in ritual or are in or in great rejoicing? But probably more important than that, we could look at our individual settings on a morning. On a day-by-day basis. Are we worshiping God in ritual or are we worshiping God the way Mary worshiped God in great rejoicing? And if you find by way of application, you can put those up there, Tony, just by way of application, if you find that you are not uh you're not doing that. I just skipped a lot, so you can go all the way to the end. Sorry. If you find that that you're not doing that, the key to being filled with gratitude and joy to overflowing is to empty empty yourself of yourself. God, who is God with? Who does God fill? The humble and the kind Contrite of heart. We've got to empty ourselves of ourselves in order to be filled by God to the point of great rejoicing and worship to God. The greatest provision that God ever made is when he sent Christ to earth. And God wants us to come and adore him. And I just would say this as well if there is anybody here who has just sort of made a trite decision Maybe you prayed a prayer to trust Jesus as their Savior, but they never understood that Christ died, He sacrificed Himself to pay the punishment for your sin so that you could have your sins forgiven. Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures and that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures and he was seen. The Bible is very clear about this, folks, that there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. It's Christ. And if you're putting any kind of dependence in any other way, you must Must understand that Christ is clear about this. He says, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and thank you for who you are. We thank you for your word, and we thank you for Mary's example to us on how we ought to be worshiping you. And Father, we pray, Lord, that you would help us and fill us with yourself. So that we can rejoice in the way that Mary did. May we worship you and may we adore you. And we pray also All these things in Christ's name. Amen. Let's stand and sing about this how we