Please take your Bible and turn to the book of Luke, Luke 1, this morning. And we'll be looking at verses 26 through various verses within 26 through 48. The story has been published of a little girl who caught who was caught in the pre-Christmas swirl of activity. And uh her mom and dad were rushing around doing different things and uh patience was wearing thin and the Mother was uh wrapping presents and trying to get Christmas dinner, like trying to get things prepared for the next day for Christmas dinner. This is on Christmas Eve and the And the father was sort of stressed out because the mom was stressed out and everybody was stressed out. Uh he took uh the father took his daughter up to bed and she began to pray the Lord's Prayer, but instead of the normal words to pray, she prayed, Lord, forgive us our Christmases As we forgive those who Christmas against us. And uh sometimes that that is unfortunately this time of year As I mentioned already, it's almost cliche that there is so much busyness and hustle and bustle that we really don't stop to ask the question, how should we respond? to the Christmas season, how should we respond to the virgin birth and the incarnation? And today we want to we want to do that. We want to respond in the way That would be pleasing to the Lord. And the way that we know to do that, um one way we can know is by the very response of Mary. We're going to look at the example of Mary, and we're going to find that Mary is quite an incredible example of how to respond correctly to the coming of Christ. And there are denominations that lift up Mary as something beyond just human, that she was she was herself born of an immaculate conception and things of that nature. That of course is not biblical. There's nothing in the Bible that indicates that Mary was a sinner, just like you and I are. But on the other hand, if we're not careful, we can make the mistake of not seeing what we ought to see in the life of Mary. And how she responded to what had happened. If you look at Luke chapter 1, verse 39 for a moment here, you're going to see Mary is in the middle of a journey. Luke 139. It says Now Mary arose in those days and went into the hill country with haste to a city of Judah. Mary had received, as we're going to learn, she had received from the angel Gabriel the message that she was with child, but she had also received the fact, the message that her cousin was with child. And so she goes on this long journey to go visit her cousin Elizabeth, probably a 50 to 70 mile journey, depending on how the hills were were laid out what route she took. It was a long journey. And very likely during that time Mary had a lot of time to think. A lot of time to contemplate. Perhaps she was riding on an animal, or more likely she was walking the entire time. And sometimes walking is one of the best things you can do to just sort of think and walk and Keep doing that and uh exercise as you think is sometimes something that's helpful. And Mary very likely during this time had a lot of thinking to do. We know uh that she writes a very uh worshipful or she speaks a very worshipful song. Uh Mary's Magnificat is what it is called now. But during this time she is in this journey I'd like to suggest to you that this is a journey that we ought to look at, and we want to actually look at the beginning of the journey as she is as the end of the Angel Gabriel speaks to Mary and talks with her about what is going to happen. And for that we're going to pick up in verse twenty six of this passage. And We're going to see that the, and I'm going to also suggest to you that this journey that Mary was on was a journey of faith. The kind of journey that we ought to be on as well is also a journey of faith. So what did this journey of faith look like? We're going to see that beginning in verse 26, but before we do, let's go to the Lord in prayer. Ask his help on this time. Father, we thank you for this time of year that we can celebrate the virgin birth and the incarnation of Christ. And uh regardless of whether or not you were really born during this time of year, uh we in our culture have uh set aside this time and so it is certainly appropriate for us to consider um all that Christ did in coming to earth and in being a being uh one of wealth beyond all measure and all splendor, and yet coming and condescending to us. All that transpired in order for that to happen, I pray that we would stand in awe of the miraculous this morning. Lord, may we understand and reflect on our own faith journey as we see Mary's today. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Let's pick up here in verse twenty-six it says now in the sixth month, the sixth month, by the way, is talking about uh Elizabeth, actually. That's the previous the previous passages on Elizabeth and um when she came to uh uh when she was pregnant and so she had been she had been with child for six months The angel Gabriel was sent by God to a city of Galilee named Nazareth, to a virgin betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph. Of the house of David, the virgin's name was Mary. So this is Gabriel, the angel. She he's come to Nazareth. Nazareth was a city that was a sort of very plain city. Not a lot happened in Nazareth. It wasn't really the center of anything. Wasn't really like a center of commerce. It wasn't particularly indust industrial. Really, this this term Um city here is kind of a stretch. It's actually the the Greek doesn't have a word for town. And so, whether it's a town or a city, it's the same word in Greek. In this case, it by no means is Nazareth a city. Nazareth is a town. Uh it's in fact a small town, it's of not particularly noteworthy, and you we know this from the fact that later on when Jesus is ascribed as the Son of God, there's a group of people that say how could any c good come out of Nazareth? This is uh coming out of obscurity. And yet this is this is how this uh this Gabriel, the angel Gabriel comes and comes to Mary. And it says very distinctly and very specifically in verse 27: it says, to Mary, to a virgin betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David. I want to note that this is not folklore. This is not some sort of um grand idea within religion. Now these rel various religions have different kinds of stories in order to in order to uh make some religious point This actually happened. This was clear, and the Bible is not depicting this as something that could uh that that was just a story. This is The Bible is depicting this as something that has very specifically and very clearly happened. And we know this because of a couple of chapters later. If you'll go flip over just to chapter 3 for just a moment, you're going to see this In Luke chapter three, we find uh the we find the description of the um verse 23 picking up there, we find the uh the genealogies there. We won't take the time to go through all of those genealogies, but you'll recall from previous messages that in Matthew, we have the genealogy of Joseph, which showed the legal line that allowed Jesus to become the rightful king to take the throne of David. And that genealogy, if you'll recall from Matthew chapter 1, began with Abraham, and it worked its way to Jesus through Joseph. In this particular genealogy, you're going to see very specific names. And unlike the genealogy in Matthew 1, where there was m several women mentioned. You have absolutely no women mentioned in this genealogy. In fact, you don't even have Mary mentioned in this genealogy. In verse 23, you'll see there it says, the son of Joseph, The son of Heli. Heli is actually the father-in-law of Joseph, not the father of Joseph. So this is actually Mary's physical line. And you'll notice also that in verse 38 of this passage, you'll see where does this whole thing start? Where does the genealogy start? It starts all the way back to Starts back to Adam. And Luke's point is that this is actually a man. This is actually a person, a man, a human being. who was born of a virgin. And and so we should by no means think that this is in any way uh some sort of story. This was truly a miracle. And very candidly, if you and I do not believe in the virgin birth, we literally gut the Christian faith. There is no substance anymore. Because you don't have the incarnation, you then don't have Christ being qualified to die to pay the punishment for our sin. You have no resurrection, you have no gospel without the virgin birth and without the incarnation. Now, with that in mind, we can turn back to Luke chapter 1, and we're going to then begin to see a description by Gabriel of this woman Mary. And all that is going to take place in Mary's life. And if you can just imagine, let's suppose Mary, Mary's uh probably about 12 years old, 13, at the most 15. She is no law no older than fifteen. But probably more like twelve or thirteen at this heart at this time And she is verse 28, and having come in, the angel said to her, Rejoice, highly favored one. The Lord is with you. Blessed are you among women. That word rejoice is actually a term that that is it's actually kind of like sort of a greeting. It's a it's more of like uh uh uh uh some of the ver your modern versions might say hail or or hello. I mean Gabriel is literally coming in saying hello. Um how are you? Mary's taken aback by this greeting. She's she is concern obviously concerned about what's going on here and she's perplexed. And it says, rejoice, highly favored one. The Lord is with you. Blessed are you among women. We see from verse 28, first of all, that Mary is highly favored. That means that God, by his choice, has given favor to Mary, not above all women, but among all women. And we find later on in verse 30 again, it says, For you have found favor with God. Now, another word for the word favor is actually the word grace. It's really the same word, the same concept. What is grace? Grace is favor. It's unmerited favor. It's undeserved favor. And we're going to find from Mary, Mary did not see the favor that she was being given as something that she merited either. So folks, it is accurate to say that what that what Mary began with in her journey was an understanding that God had given her his grace. And that is how we ought to begin our journey of faith as well. We need to understand that God has given us great grace. In Ephesians chapter 1, verses 2 through 6, it says, Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in heavenly places in Christ, just as He chose us in Him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love, having predestined under the adoption of his sons uh by Jesus Christ himself, according to the good pleasure of his will, to the praise of the glory of his grace By which he has made us accepted in the beloved. If you know Christ as your Savior this morning, you are a recipient of God's grace. And if you aren't, if you don't know Christ as your Savior this morning, You have available to you the grace of God. The Bible says it's the grace of God that brings salvation that appears to all men. And clearly we see in this passage that Mary begins her journey with grace. What allowed Mary to receive this grace? Was there any qualification at all? That caused Mary to be able to receive the grace that she is being given here. We find a little bit of a hint to that. If you'll just turn over for a moment over to chapter 1, verse 46, you'll see This begins Mary's magnificat, her song of worship to God, and you'll see here it says, My soul magnifies the Lord And my spirit has rejoiced in God, my Savior. He has regarded the lowly state of his maidservant. And behold, henceforth all generations will call me blessed. He says he's regarded the lowly state. Mary saw herself as lowly. She was humble before her God. She did not see herself as some great accomplisher or had some great sort of way about her. She was humble before God. James 4, 6 says, but God gives more grace, therefore he says, God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. If there is one qualification to receiving God's grace, it really is humility to receive God's unmerited favor. We must be realized that we have no ability to merit anything. It just is in the definition of the very word of what grace is Mary did not receive the what was said here by the angel Gabriel and thought that somehow in her own ability and somehow in her own competence she was special. No, she just saw that God chose in his greatness to lift up someone who was a lowly maidservant to do His work. And she understood this and she received this. She was humble before God. We're going to learn next, then, that grace must be applied and received through faith. Now, this is very important for us to understand. If grace is a car, then faith is the key. That's very important for us to understand that we cannot and receive God's grace, frankly, as a Christian or as an unbeliever, we can't receive God's grace. Without faith. How many of you all uh uh this is kind of a dumb question, how many of you all drove in cars this morning? I probably near uh most of you except for the Kill Cops, the younger Kill Cops, everybody else uh drove in cars this morning And uh can you imagine uh some of you more gentlemanly people, you went in and and you you maybe you heated the car up for your your your your family, you turned the car on, got the whole thing heated up, everybody uh p Most of you guys are going, who does that anymore? Anyway, actually I didn't either. I drove separately from my rest of my family. Anyway, so you're you y you heat the car up and And everybody gets in the car and you're ready to go and just and you decide, men, you decide just I'm you're gonna get out of the car and push the thing. And just push it to church. How well is that going to work? It's not going to work well at all. See, your effort to try to push that car is going to be futile. It's going to be far better if you just push the pedal. If you just push that pedal down, the car will go somewhere. And grace is that way. You can't receive grace if you have your own self-effort involved. It's got to be entirely in humility by faith. And the question then becomes: what is real, genuine faith? What is faith? If faith is how we receive grace Whether you don't know the Lord or whether you do know the Lord, how then do you are you be able to identify what faith is? And I'd like to suggest to you this this morning. That faith is something that does it there is a process to faith. We u we often don't realize that. Sometimes we Think of faith as simply going from unbelief to belief. And there is a sense in which that is true. But in a journey, there in the journey of faith, there is a starting point And there is a process that you and I must go through as we learn to trust God in our lives as Christians, or as we learn to trust God to be our Savior. And our Lord. And I want to begin by noting the the contrast here in this passage. The contrast is actually Between the appearance of Gabriel to Zechariah and the appearance, which is pre- in pre the previous passage, and the appearance of Gabriel to Mary. I want to note first of all that the journey of faith can be short-circuited by doubting and fear. Would you notice then if you'll go over to verse 5 of chapter 1? We'll pick up there and we'll just read a few verses to see to remind us of that story of Zacharias and Elizabeth and the prophecy that Elizabeth would give birth. Verse 5 of chapter 1, it says, There was in the days of Herod the king of Judea a certain priest named Zacharias of the division of Abaja. His wife was the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth. And they were both righteous before God, walking in the commandments and ordinances of the Lord, blameless. They had no child because Elizabeth was barren, and they were both well advanced in years. So it was that while he was serving as priest before God in the order of his division, According to the custom of the priesthood, his lot fell to burn an incense when he went into the temple of the Lord. And the whole multitude of the people was praying outside at the hour of incense Then an angel of the Lord appeared to him standing in the right hand of the altar of incense, and when Zachariah saw him he was troubled And fear fell upon him. Now, notice he was troubled, and we're going to see that word again with Mary, but then also fear fell upon him. And the angel said unto him, Do not be afraid, Zacharias, for your prayer is heard, and your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you shall call his name John. You will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth. For he will be great in the sight of the Lord, and shall drink neither wine nor strong drink. He will be filled with the Holy Spirit, even from his mother's womb, and he will turn many of the children of Israel to the Lord their God. And he will also go before him in the spirit and power of Elijah to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, the disobedient to the wisdom of the just. to make ready the people prepared for the Lord. And Zechariah said to the angel, How shall I know this? Now notice the question. How shall I know this? For I am not I am an old man and my fa my wife is well advanced in years. And the angel said answered and said to him, I am Gabriel who stands in the presence of God, and I was sent to speak to you and bring you this these glad tidings. And behold, you will be mute and not able to speak until the day that these things take place, because you did not but notice what he didn't do. You did not believe my words, which will be fulfilled in their own time. So Zacharias asks the question. He asks the question, how shall I know this? Of course, if you put yourself in that Zacharias's place, this is a very unnatural thing. His wife is well up in age. They have he is past childbearing years. She never has had a child before. And he's really questioning whether this is going to happen. In fact, he's saying, how am I going to know this is really going to happen? Now, the other side of me sort of goes, well, an angel is talking to you about this. That might be a clue. But for whatever reason, he is not believing that this is going to happen. Let me ask you a question. Is it all right to question God? Can you or should you question God? Folks, that in and of itself is a trick question. Because there is a sense in which it is perfectly fine to question God. And God actually wants you to question him And there is another sense in which it is unacceptable to question God. And the contrast we're going to actually see here between Zacharias and Mary. Is that Zacharias questioned God that led to unbelief? Whereas Mary questioned God in a way that led to belief. You see, there is a way to question things with a skepticism that is going to lead us to a place of unbelief And that is prohibited by God. That is something that God is not pleased with. You know, is it true that in any kind of discipline or any kind of circumstances you can You can find error if you look hard enough. Haven't you found that to be the case? I remember uh in in college, and I wrote lots of papers. And I remember one particular teacher explaining one particular professor explaining that the way he l reads papers is with a sympathetic eye that He reads them because he and he's looking to he's looking the at the best possible way to take it so that so that he can he can give do s give give us the benefit of the doubt. I had one other teacher in in college. I I'll never forget her as long as I live. She gave me 20 points off. I'd never gotten this low grade on a paper. I think I got like a C plus on the paper, and I had never gotten that uh anything close to that before And uh she gave me 20 points off for having one sentence with a subject verb agreement that was wrong. And uh I went to her And I said to her, I said, uh I I'm really a bit confused by this. I said um I said I y there was hardly any other marks on my paper. This is the only And she said, I have the liberty to take up I have the liberty to take between up from one to twenty points for that. I said, thanks a lot. You gave me the maximum. Maximum. I think the reason that uh she did that is because she didn't like me very much. But the feeling was mutual, so it's fine. She uh she was a m an American lit teacher and uh I pointed out in her class one day that the twentieth that um that uh there was some certain literature we were we were dis we were reading and given as assignment that was in the uh twentieth century literature and it it just didn't seem appropriate for a Christian college and I pointed that out to her. She said, Well what what what would you recommend? I said the left behind series. That wasn't a very nice thing to say. The whole class laughed and she didn't. So anyway. Um so maybe I deserve the twenty points. But anyway, so you can if you find Kevin's like what crazy. Anyway. So if so so you can if you try hard enough you can you can under scrutiny. figure out what you need to figure out. And you can find error, you can find problems. But there's another way to say, okay, well I I really don't understand what's going on here. Lord, what are you doing? I don't get it. I don't understand. Would you help me to understand? I know that you're good and you're faithful, but I don't really understand what's happening. And that kind of questioning is something that God wants us to do. He wants us to question in that way. We pick up here and we're going to find then that the journey of faith is characterized by struggle. There is a legitimate struggle if you are on a journey of faith. What do you notice in verse, picking up here in verse 29, the perplexity on the part of Mary? Verse 29 it says, But when she saw him, she was troubled at his saying and concerned uh and concerned, consider what manner of greeting this was. She was troubled in this saying. She was perplexed. The word means perplexed. She she's she's this is I mean it is a pretty perplexing saying that she's Just consider she's twelve, thirteen years old, she's um betrothed to uh uh a a man who she has not physically known, she's a virgin, and this this uh angel Gabriel just appears to her and and says um and says uh hey you're gonna be with child and and uh this is this is perplexing And so she says, pick up here in verse 30, then the angel said to her, Be not afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. Verse 31, Behold. You will conceive your in your womb and bring forth a son, and shall call his name Jesus, and he will be great, will be called the Son of the Highest, the Lord God will be will give him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever. And of the kingdom of uh there will be no end. And Mary said, Mary said to the angel, verse 34 Another question: how can this be since I do not know a man? How is this possible? How can this happen? See, those kinds of questions are perfectly legitimate questions to ask In fact, God wants us to question things, to really think through things The Bible says in the Old Testament, my people are destroyed for lack of knowledge. The word knowledge there is understanding, a lack of really understanding and knowing and thinking through things. God wants us to question the text. How do we know what the Word of God is saying if we don't question what it's saying? There is a way to ask legitimate questions. But folks, here is the key. We're asking questions to see what is true. Not to try and try to try to disprove something that we think is false. Does that make sense? And there's a real big difference between the two. What Zacharias did, he questions in unbelief. What Mary does here is she sort of says, okay, I'm getting this, but I don't understand. I'm not doubting that this is true, but I don't understand how it can be true. So there's this struggle that goes on in Mary's mind. The struggle is, there seems to be an indication that there's some emotional struggle here. And there is some physical, there is some mental struggle here in understanding how this all works. She's troubled emotionally, and then she's she's mentally saying, how is this possible? And it is important for us to ask those kinds of questions as we sift through things to really find what the truth is. There are you'll find this as as children get uh I found this as as my kids get older and I'll all of us w find this to be the case. There's sort of a simple faith that just believes what mommy and mom and dad says. And that's fine. Nothing wrong with that. But as a child gets older, there is this questioning that sh that is appropriate of what is truly of the Word of God and what is truly accurate and That kind of thing begins to happen so that a child makes their faith their very own. And it actually can be dangerous for a child to to think that they have trusted Christ as their Savior at an early age and then not had the time to actually really sift through things and think think through things uh in the way that is is uh is uh Mary's doing it here. And so we have to be careful about that Mary questions in an appropriate way here. And there is that kind of reality. There is struggle, there is searching. In this journey of faith. And frankly, isn't that true for Christians as well? Remember in James chapter 1, it says that the trying of your what works patience. The trying of your faith. Why is the Christian life a struggle? Because your faith is being tried. It's being strengthened. It's growing. It's But in the process, there are trials involved. Which is why in that passage we see that we desperately need wisdom. Thirdly, the journey of faith is a journey that's anchored to the character of God. This is so helpful for us as we Sift through things and and really really was it ever going to be completely logical that Mary was going to have a baby as a virgin? Was she really going to be able to understand how this was going to to happen. And it um Gabe Gabriel gives this explanation that's somewhat detailed, but but there is this still mystery, and finally we find in verse 37 Mary just simply says, for with God nothing will be impossible. She sets in her mind this reality that, you know, okay, wait a minute, I've got to remember, God is God. And with God, nothing will be impossible. And you know, there are times in our lives as Christians where we're wrestling with one thing or another. Why in the world is this happening? Why is that happening? How did that happen? Uh how did it happen this way and why did I all of that and we f we sort of have to just sort of settle in and finally say, you know what, um I don't understand all that, but I know God is good. Or God is faithful. Or God is true, or God is wise, or God is omnipotent. In this case, the question was, how is this possible? Well, the answer is God can do the impossible. He can do anything he wants to do. And so Mary's faith began to be established. She asked the questions, she she she She tried to figure this out, but finally it was settled in the very character of God. And Mary knew enough to know that with God nothing shall be impossible. By the way. I want you to think about this in Mary's life. There's a sense in which Mary was trained to actually not believe that God could become man. That was an entirely foreign thought to the nation of Israel Culturally, that would have been a totally unacceptable idea that God could become man despite all of the all of the prophecies and prophecies in the Old Testament There are cultural things in our day that keep us from wanting to believe. The main one, I think, is the fact that we don't want to believe in the things that are miraculous. We shy away from anything that isn't isn't a naturalist point of view. And yet there are different cultural barriers, but the stret the The struggle is still the same, and the result has to be that we find we find our faith centered and and and founded in the character of God. And then also the journey of faith will result in surrender. The journey of faith will result in surrender And being a place of surrender. Notice what Mary then says here in verse 38. Then Mary said, Behold, the maidservant of the Lord, let it be to me according to your word. And the angel departed from her. She says, okay, behold the maidservant of the Lord, I'm here. I'm your maidservant, God. I'm here. And let it be according to your word. Just let it be. I am here, I'm available, I'm surrendered to what your word says. There is this sense of surrender in verse 38 in Mary's life. Mary has to set aside all of her plans, all the things that are normal for a young woman to think about in that time in her life when she's ready to be uh ready to be joined with a young man and and possibly and frankly uh probably thinking about the the fact that her reputation is going to be at stake as she As she goes down this road and people aren't going to understand, people are either going to think that that she is she has been unfaithful to Joseph or that she has been uh inappropriate with Joseph, one or the other, but she is She is having to go down a road that is very uncomfortable, struggling with all of this, I can imagine she just finally says, Okay, your work Gabriel's here. God's word has been spoken. God's character is what it is, and I just simply have to surrender. And Lord, just may it be according to your word. There's this surrender. Can I ask you a question, brothers and sisters in Christ? Are you surrendered? Can you just really say in your own heart, okay, I am surrendered to whatever the Lord has for me? You know, it's really easy for us to s get on the altar of surrender or surrender, but sometimes we just fall off. Like we get up, okay, yeah, Lord, whatever you want, whatever it is, I'll be and then we just sort of fall off that altar. God wants us in this process to really just surrender our lives and our souls and our well-being to Him. There are two questions that I think are helpful in testing whether or not we are truly surrendered to God. The one question is, are you willing to obey anything the Bible says to do, whether you understand it or not? Are you willing to obey anything the Bible says to do? Whether you understand it or not. Now what I don't mean by that is whether you understand what to do. You understand what to do, you just don't understand why you're supposed to do that. Are you willing to do And to obey anything the Bible says to do, whether you understand why it says to do it or not. There are times, folks, that God is so high and so wise that there are certain things in His Word that just simply we just must obey We just must follow, regardless of if we understand why or not. And then the second question is, are you willing to trust God and anything He sends in your life, whether you understand it or not? Are you willing to trust God in anything He sends in your life, whether you understand it or not? I think that's probably the harder of the two. Because the one, we can trust what's on the page. But the second we have to trust the providence of God and the sovereignty of God and His working in our lives to simply So simply be willing to trust God in anything He sends our lives, even when we just simply don't understand. And if we are saying to ourselves, well, I have to understand before I will obey, or I have to understand before I will trust, then folks, that's not faith. Faith is believing without seeing. And without faith it's impossible to please him. For he that cometh to God must believe that he is his character. And that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. We must fully surrender to God, and those are questions that we ought to answer in order to really see whether we are not. And then finally, the journey of faith is a journey that is fully developed by spirit-filled relationships. Now, I want you to take take you to the text and you'll see this in the text in verse 39. So Mary gets up and This brings us back to where we were before as we started the message. Now Mary she rises up in the in those days and went into the hill country with a with haste and to a city of in of Judah and entered the house of Zacharias and greeted Elizabeth. Did you catch that by the way? She answers the house of Zacharias, and what does she do? She greets Elizabeth. Well, why does she greet Elizabeth? Zacharias can't talk. What's he gonna say? He can't speak at this point, right? So so she greets Elizabeth. The other reason she probably greets Elizabeth is why. She's having a baby. So when a woman gets together with another woman that has a baby, there's this whole club thing that goes on. It believe me, and there's all kinds of things that happen and that men we have no idea. I we all we do is peer from the outside and we can see all this sort of this sort of camaraderie that's that's that that develops um among all of this. And that's exact that's what you have here. But in the midst of all this, you actually see God is is doing something here and strengthening the faith of Mary and Elizabeth as well. Notice what it says in verse 40. Verse 41 rather, and it happened when Elizabeth heard the greeting of Mary and that the babe leaped in her womb. And Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit. So this baby, do you remember what John's purpose was? John the Baptist's purpose was to was to foretell of the coming of Christ, was to be the preparer of the coming of Christ. So he's already in the womb beginning to fulfill that role as he is under the influence of the Spirit of God. Verse 21, verse 42, then she spoke out with a loud voice and said, Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb. But why is this granted to me that the mother of my Lord should come to me? For indeed, as soon as the voice of your greeting sounded in my ears, the babe leaped in my womb for joy. Blessed is she who believed, for there will be a fulfillment of those things which were told her from the Lord. So Mary goes on this long journey, fifty to seventy miles. She is reflecting on the things that God has given to her and and all that Gabriel had said to her. in anticipation of greeting Elizabeth and congratul congratulating Elizabeth. And uh most s most suggest that Mary's magnificate later here is actually she she's probably formulating a lot of this During her trip over to see Elizabeth, and that seems reasonable to me as well. Mary's faith is celebrated in verse 45. Elizabeth identifies the great faith of Mary. The fact that Mary is going on a fifty to seventy mile trip to see Elizabeth based upon Gabriel's word is an act of faith itself and Elizabeth identifies the great faith of Mary and say, blessed are blessed is she who believed. For there will be a fulfillment of those things which were told her from the Lord. Now All of this, Mary's faith is strong at this point. There's no question about that. It's being attested by Elizabeth here and Mary is strong in faith. She's trusting God. She's worked through the questions. She's established her faith in the character of God. All of us that know the Lord can think through that process and realize that we've been through that process probably many times in our lives and circumstances that where we've had to trust God with things. But what Mary is now going to do in verse 46 is she is now going to begin to worship God, to fully worship Him. And there is a transition between surrender to worship That we must take, that bridge that we must go from surrendered faith to worshiping God. Now to illustrate it this way. If you can imagine, uh this is true, there is roughly 93,000 miles between the earth and the sun. Now, if you can imagine that that represent is represented by one sheet of paper Okay, got it? 93,000 miles between Earth and the Sun, and it's represented by one sheet of paper. If that's true, then the closest star is fifty feet high, a stack of paper 50 feet high. The closest star. I'm just trying to put this in in relative un relative understanding to for us to grasp. The diameter of the Milky Way galaxy is then 300 miles And there are reportedly many, many, many galaxies like that. Our the world is vast, the universe is beyond fathomable. It is extremely vast. And yet God says this in Hebrews chapter 1, verse 3, who being in the brightness of his glory and the expressed image of his person, Upholding all things by the word of his power, when he had made himself, purged our sins, sat down at the right hand of the majesty on high. That verse tells us that Jesus holds all of this by the word of his power. That before the foundations of the earth, and then once the creation was created, the universe was created by Christ, it is sustained by Christ, and he holds all of this by the word of his power. And our only response ought to be that he sh is my master and my lord. That kind of surrender to Christ's authority and worship of Christ's greatness Will bridge the gap, understanding the greatness of God. And that's why Mary would then say in verse 46: My soul magnifies the Lord. My spirit has rejoiced in God, my Savior. Why, verse 48? For he has regarded the lowly state of his maidservant. And behold, henceforth all generations will call me blessed. For he who is mighty has done great things for me. And holy is his name, and his mercy is on those who fear him from generation to generation. He has shown strength with his arm. He has scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts. He has put down the mighty from their thrones and exalted the lowly. He has filled the hungry with good things, the rich He has sent away empty. He has helped his servant Israel in remembrance of his mercy. And he spoke to our fathers to Abraham and his seed forever. We won't take the time to identify all of what is going on in this passage, but I want to make note of a couple of things as we look at the worship of Mary in this passage. I want us first of all to notice this, that Mary worships with Scripture. Did you know that in this short song, there are 12 Old Testament passages referred to? From Isaiah, 2 Samuel, Zephaniah, and Micah. Mary, Mary, this 12, 13-year-old Mary, her heart and her mind were full of the Word of God. It's incredible. She was her reservoir of scripture was full, and so when she was she was putting all of this together. She was able to understand what Gabriel was saying and what she was what he was doing as she reflected on the truth of what Scripture was saying, and she recalled things like Hannah in the Old Testament. Women like Hannah in the Old Testament, who was barren. And by Hannah's prayer, praise in 1 Samuel 1:11 that God would give her a child. And God answers his prayer, and Hannah says, My heart rejoiced in the Lord, mine horn is exalted in the Lord, my mouth is in large over mine enemies because I rejoice in thy salvation. 1 Samuel 2. 1 It's incredible that Mary had the knowledge of Scripture to be able to take that reservoir of Scripture and worship God. in the circumstances and to make the connection between what God was doing in Elizabeth's life and her barrenness and what God did in the Old Testament with Han with Hannah and that what God was doing in her life with bearing the Son of God. Her nature was one of worship. Mary's heart was lifted up because and and and what was clear in all of this, and as we worship God And we respond in faith and in worship, we must see God as high, and we must see ourselves as low. That's what that is so clear in this passage. God is great, and I am small, could summarize Mary's song. So I'd like to ask this question. I actually have three questions to ask. Just in concluding all of this. Number one, where are you in your faith journey? See I had not really thought of faith as a journey, but it there is a journey It could be at a point of just questioning. You're questioning things. That's okay as long as you are looking for the truth. You're not asking whether or not the word is true, you're just asking How does it work and what is the truth? We ought to question things. There is a movement then to simple acceptance and surrender. Are you surrendering? Or are you at a place where you are totally worshiping God for who He is? Frankly, we don't stay in any one static position, do we? We tend to move from one to the other in our lives depending on our circumstances But understanding what Mary went through can really help us to respond to the coming of Christ and all that He did, and realizing that we as well need to move from faith to surrender to worship. Are you truly surrendered to God? Are you completely surrendered to him? And then finally, are you worshiping him with all of your heart? Where do you find yourself today? You find yourself in the questioning phase, you find yourself in the surrendered phase, or do you find yourself in the place of worship? Now I'd encourage you, as we think about a season that's so busy and full of all kinds of things and many good things, things that we can enjoy, seeing family and all that. May we really consider these questions and where we are in responding to the coming of Christ and all that he is and what he did. And may we be able on a personal level to worship him with all of our hearts and to worship him collectively with all of our hearts. as well. That's pretty good. Father, as we come to you this morning, we pray that you would help us to Do enough soul searching in our own lives that we ask that question, Am I really surrendered to you? Do I Am I willing to accept whatever you give, knowing that you are a good God, you're faithful, you're all powerful, you're wise based on your character rather than my own understanding. I pray, Lord, that you'd help us as well to That it would drive us to a place of worshiping you with all of our hearts. May this be a season where we are truly in a place where we can worship you because of your greatness. May we be like Mary in spending enough time with you, contemplating your word, looking at our circumstances, and although we don't understand it all realizing that we can worship you in spirit and in truth through it all. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.