By God's grace, do here at Bethel Baptist Church. And the principal work that Christ did is his death, burial, and resurrection. And we are here today to celebrate it. If you take your Bibles, turn to Luke chapter 24 this month morning, Luke chapter 24. Right after the death of Christ, after he was put up on that cross and suffered And then placed into a tomb. There was much confusion about what was going on from his close friends and from his disciples. They couldn't understand what had taken place. Their expectation was significantly different than what actually happened. And in the first thirteen verses we find that there is a lot of confusion about what has taken place because if you'll recall A week prior to the resurrection of Christ was Palm Sunday. And of course, as you probably know, that was the day where Christ sat on upon a donkey and prop in fulfillment of prophecy. And rode into Jerusalem. And his disciples thought at that point that he was going to take the throne, that he was going to overthrow the Roman Empire. And he was going to be their physical political deliverer. God had something far greater in mind. He will one day sit on his throne on this earth. But before that could happen, before Creation could be redeemed before there could be everything set right from a political or governmental perspective, on from a kingdom perspective, there had to be An internal change in the hearts of men and women. This was not something that the people understood that were close to him. And in fact, in most cases. Even when they went and saw the empty tomb, it actually brought confusion for them. Where did the body go? Who stole the body? In fact, as far as we know, the only disciple that seemed to believe believe immediately once he saw the empty tomb was the disciple of John. John was present at the crucifixion and he was then when he went to the tomb, he went inside the tomb and he saw and it said, then he believed. Seems as though all the other disciples and friends and everybody that went to the tomb were confused and had to be explained by in as we learned in our sunrise service had to had to be ex uh the the whole thing had to be explained by these two angels at the tomb. And they reminded these women that came They said to them, you know, Christ said he would do this this way. And the ladies were sort of, they realized that that was the case. But and they went back to the disciples, they went back to the eleven apostles, and when they went back, the eleven apostles did not did not believe their testimony. Even though the eleven apostles also had heard Christ say that he was going to die and he was going to be risen from the grave. I mean Christ said he was going to do that when he was alive, and these ladies run back to these to the to the disciples and they're not at all um they don't believe it they say it's like a fable to them and they're really kind of living in a fog You ever feel that way? You ever feel like you're kind of living in a fog? You ever feel like you're living like things just aren't very clear It seems as though there is confusion and there is just it's things just don't seem clear. How many have ever driven in the fog before? Probably everybody has driven in the fog at one time or another. Or driven in heavy rain, you'd have the same kind of effect. You can't see far in front of you. In the physical world If you're driving, sight is helpful. But in the spiritual world, sight is not helpful. Faith is helpful. In fact, faith is necessary in the spiritual world. In other words, folks, in God's economy, faith is sight. That is, if a person does not have faith, they cannot see things spiritually as they are. And the core, the crux of our faith has got to be in the literal bodily resurrection of Christ. That is why it says in 1 Corinthians 15, verse 12: Now if Christ be preached that he rose from the dead, how say some of you among you that there is no resurrection of the dead? But if there be resurrection of the dead, then is Christ not risen. And if Christ be not risen, then is our preaching vain, and your faith is also in vain? Yea, and we are found false witnesses of God, because we have testified of God that He raised up Christ, whom He raised not up, if it so be that the dead rise not For if the dead rise not, then is Christ not raised. And if Christ be not raised, your faith is in vain. You are yet in your sins You see, there are all kinds of religions out there that claim to be the truth, that claim to have the way. But folks, the Christian faith is not just sort of theoretical, you can believe it or not believe it, and it, you know, it's just one way. The Christian faith is based upon the Bible. And the Bible says, as it quotes the words of Christ, I am the way, the truth, and the life. And no one comes to the Father except through me. And Christ said that in order for him to pay the punishment for our sin, he was going to have to die and he was going to have to be risen from the dead. But the disciples are very confused about this and they're on this road. to a p to a village called Emmaus, and that's where we pick up in verse 13. So it's this is this is after the resurrection of Christ, it's after the death of Christ, after the resurrection of Christ, but they're really confused about what's going on and they're not aware that that uh of why the resurrection has taken place at this point in verse thirteen. And it says here in the Bible here in in Luke twenty four, thirteen, and behold, two of them went that went that same day to a village called Emmaeus. which was from Jerusalem about three s uh three score furlong. It's going to take them about seven miles journey, and it's by foot that they're there. So it's a long journey And they talked together of all these things which had happened. So they're discussing what has taken place. And it came to pass that while they commune together, And reason Jesus himself drew near and wit with them, but their eyes were holden that they should not know him. So these two disciples are on a road to Emmaus and they're talking one to another and they're trying to figure out what in the world is going on, basically. And Jesus comes up, maybe come you know, comes up next to them and begins to walk with them and But he conceals his identity to them. They can't s they're not going to see immediately that that is Christ, and he chooses to do it that way for a reason. And they are in, they are in a place of confusion. There are things, folks, that tend to cloud our judgment so that we are not clearly having the faith that God wants us to have. And in our sunrise service, we named two of those, the cloud of confusion and also the cloud of skepticism. But there's another thing, there's another cloud that clouds our faith. And that is the cloud of discouragement. Have you ever been discouraged? Well, every one of us who've lived for any length of time Has found themselves in a place of discouragement. And this happens, discouragement happens when you expect one thing and get another. All of us have had misplaced expectations in life. All of us have had had circumstances that have caused our our dis Discouragement is sort of set in because we expected things to be one way and they're not the way we expected, and it causes in us a sense of discouragement and it causes it's like you're in a cloud and I think probably everybody here knows what I'm talking about. We find here that the real problem is that the disciples are discouraged. It's what's clouding their judgment. We pick up here in verse 27 it says, And he said unto them, What manner of communications are these that ye have one to another as ye walk and are sad? And the one of them, whose name was Cleopas, answered and said unto him, Art thou also a stranger in Jerusalem, and hast not known the things which that are come to pass there in these days? And he said, so the this disciple says, Don't you know what's going on here? Why are you guys so he Jesus comes and says, Why are you talking about these things? And he says, Well, don't you know what happened? The irony of that is kind of interesting. Verse 19, and he said unto them, What things? And they said unto him, concerning Jesus of Nazareth, Riff. which was a prophet, mighty indeed and word before God and all the people, and how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death and have crucified him But we trusted that it had been he which should have redeemed Israel. And beside all this, to uh today is the third day since these things were done. The disciples said, We trusted that this man who was mighty in word and in deed was going to overthrow Rome and redeem Israel. When he says redeem there, he's not talking about the spiritual redemption that we know of the day. He's saying that they're going to deliver, they expected Christ to deliver Israel from a tyranny of Rome, and they're not doing it. He didn't do it. He died instead. And they don't understand Discouragement clouds our judgment. We have misplaced expectations as a result of our discouragement. And that's what we have in the life of the disciples at this point. Well, why do we get misplaced expectations? Why, in other words, folks, why is misplace misplaced expectations such, why would it be so discouraging to us? Well, what we find as we go under the deepest problem is that discouragement feeds our unbelief. The more you expect something to happen a certain way, and it doesn't happen the way you expect, the more you are tempted to become more and dis more discouraged, and you begin to say, well, is What I don't know about this God. Does God really love me? I mean things are not happening the way I expect. Is God really all powerful? I mean, maybe he's not as powerful as I thought he should be. what or or what what the Bible claims them to be. Discouragement leads to unbelief, and unbelief really feeds discouragement. And you have this cycle going on where you're there's unbelief and discouragement and then there's unbelief Discouragement and unbelief, it's a very bad problem. And these folks in this passage are in this state of sort of unbelief and dis Discouragement and really coming to a place of confusion and despondency. Well, how do we deal, how does Christ deal with them? Would you look at verse 22? Yea, and certain women also of our company made us astonished. So he says there were these women that came and told us about this which were early at the sepulchre. And when they found not his body, they came, saying that they also they had also seen a vision of angels which said unto he was alive. And a certain of them which were with us went to the sepulchre and found it even to us, and the woman had said, But him they saw not. Then Christ said these words in verse 25. Then he says unto them, O fools. Now here's what they think is a stranger. saying to them, O fools, and slow of, what's the word there folks? Slow of heart. Well, I mean if you're low in heart, if you lose heart, probably you're going to be a bit slow in heart. To be O fools, O slow in heart, to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory? And he's going to clear things up. He's going to supposedly clear things up for them here. Verse 27. That supposedly he does. How does Christ clear them up? Now they still are not aware that he is Christ, but how does he clear things up? Verse 27, and behold, and beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning him. So he begins to open the Bible. He opens the Bible and he shows them. He says, look, what has happened Lines up with the Old Testament prophetic revelation. It lines up with the Bible. And the word of God clarifies confusion. It pierces the cloud of discouragement and produces faith. The Bible says faith comes by what? By hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. It's really interesting at this point that Christ doesn't clarify the whole thing by just saying, here I am. He first shows them the Word of God to clarify things before he identifies himself. Now as we continue on on through this passage, we're going to begin to see here folks that uh well we'll just see what happens here. Let's look at the passage. It says in verse 28, and they drew nigh unto the village whither they went. And he made as as though they uh as though he would have gone further, and they constrained him saying, Abide with us. So he's saying these things and and he taught teaches them the old testament law and and old testament sc scriptures and and and And he says, they say, hey, would you come and ab and abide with us on the uh this? Um verse 30, and it came to pass As he sat at meat with them, he took bread and blessed it and broke it and gave them. Oh, okay. Christ has done this before, hasn't he? And their eyes were opened, and they knew him, and he vanished out of their sight. And they said one to another, Did not our hearts burn within us? while he talked with us by the way, and while he opened to us the scriptures. Now just look, just consider this. Christ reveals himself by offering them the Lord's Supper, by offering them the communion. They break bread together. And when he vanishes, when he leaves, they realize who he is. And they also begin to realize what happened to them. As a result of the Word of God, the Bible being taught to them. They said, did not our hearts burn within us? See, that's what happens when there is a true understanding of God's word. A misunderstanding of God's word will actually bring more doubt. Or could can bring more doubt. A misunderstanding of God's word can cloud things even further. A misunderstanding of God's word will c can bring even greater discouragement. But a right, correct, biblical understanding of God's Word, the Bible, will bring clarity in the midst of community. Confusion will produce faith in the midst of discouragement. And so there is the clarity about the things that have happened. And so they're going to go to the disciples and they're going to report what they have seen to the rest of the crowd, the rest of the disciples. disciples. We pick up again, though, in verse 36. Would you notice in verse 36? And as they thus spake, Jesus himself stood in the midst of them and saith unto them, Peace be unto you. But they were terrified and affrighted and supposed that they had seen a spirit. Jesus appears to the in this room with all these people these disciples and they still be I mean he's right in front of them and he's they still believe that maybe this is a ghost So what does he do? Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself, handle me and see, for a spirit hath not flesh and bones as ye see me have. And when he had thus spoken, he showed them his hands and his feet, and while they yet believed not for joy and wondered, he said unto them, Have Ye here any meat. And they and by the way, folks, that's why we're talking here about a physical, bodily resurrection. He ate food after he rose rose from the grave. And they gave him a piece of a broiled fish and of a honeycomb, and he took it, and he did eat before them. But I want you to notice a further understanding, a further clearing of the clouds by Christ in verse 44. And he said unto them, these are the words which I spake unto you while I was yet with you. So he says, hey, here's what I said to you. When I was before with you, before I died and rose from the grave? That all things must be fulfilled, which were written in the law of the Moses and the prophets and the Psalms concerning me. What does he do again? He again points them to God's word, the Bible. He points them back to Scripture. Why? Because the Bible says that the method with which people gain faith is through his word. And even though they had Christ right there in bodily form What was even more important was that they would understand the scriptures and what the scriptures say. And the scriptures clearly affirm the resurrection. Now, what's really neat is that all of this confusion is clarified very much so. by Christ appearing and by his using God's word to demonstrate his plan to them in what he did. I mean, there was witness there were many eyewitnesses to the literal bodily resurrection of Christ. And in fact, this was this witnessing of the resurrection of Christ was so important that in order to be an apostle, you had to be one who witnessed the resurrection of Christ. In fact, it says in Acts uh in Acts chapter 1, we find that to be the case. It says, um, well, we actually see the importance of the resurrection just by the fact it's mentioned in the first first uh three verses of the book of Acts. But then we see in Acts later on the verse first chapter in verse 21 it says, Wherefore all these men which had have accompanied with us all the time that the Lord Jesus the Lord Jesus went in and out among us. being from the baptism of John unto the same day that he was taken up of us, must be ordained to be a witness with us of his resurrection And so when they began to look for another apostle to replace Judas, they knew that that person had to be a witness of the resurrection. Do you remember over in Acts chapter 2 verse 42, it says they continued steadfastly in the, do you remember what it said? The apostles' doctrine. Do you know what the apostles' doctrine is? The apostles' doctrine is the resurrection. That's what it is. In fact, if you read through the book of Acts and you listen to the accounts of the first century, the emphasis of the early church was placed on the resurrection of Christ. I mean they knew that the death of Christ was a historical fact. There was really no question about that. It just happened But the resurrection of Christ is what they preached. And in fact, if you read extra biblical literature in the first century, you find that people think they're crazy. All these crazy Christians that think that Christ actually rose from the grave. What kind of religion is this? It's the truth. Why is the resurrection so important? What was Christ ultimately wanting to do Would you take your Bibles with me and turn to the book of 1 Corinthians chapter 15? 1 Corinthians chapter 15. Peter in Acts emphasized greatly the resurrection in his inaugural address that opened up, started the church as a whole. But I want you to turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 15 and verse 21 here, and I want you to see what it says here. Actually, if you're at chapter 15, would you notice a couple of initial verses that Harry read when he was up here? For unto you, verse 3, chapter 15, verse 3, I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received, how that Christ died for our sins, according to the scriptures. And that he was buried, and that he what? Rose again the third day, and you see it twice, you see it again, according to what? To the scriptures. Again, now the emphasis is placed on what the Bible says, what the scriptures say. It's not about what man says, folks. It's not about a religion and what a religion says or denomination. As you drove up on Stuart Lane, you you went by the sign that said Bethel Baptist Church. And that's fine. That's not a problem. But folks, more important than being Baptist is being biblical. In fact, if there's a reason I'm Baptist, it's because it's because Baptists hopefully in some cases are biblical. Not all cases, but some. It really has everything, folks, to do with the Bible. The basis of our faith has got to be that we take the Bible for what it says. And we take it literally, and that includes the resurrection of Christ. In Acts chapter 15, verse 21, I want you to see the ultimate goal of God's overall plan. Because remember we were talking about these clouds of discouragement and how everything is confusing. And before we actually get there, I'll just want to emphasize this, folks, isn't our world a mess? I mean it's a disaster. Uh things are c I mean, you know, it's like why even watch the news anymore? Um you should probably occasionally you know have some an acids next to you, you know, with your ne you know But it is, it's it's a mess. And it's not getting any better. And and the problem, folks, is because of sin. That's the problem. Sin complicates things Sin confuses things. Sin clouds things. But not only does Christ, through his death and resurrection, want to do an internal work in the heart of every person who will accept him by faith. Christ, by his resurrection, is going to set all things right. Verse 21. For since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, Adam is the one that brought us sin and death. Even so in Christ shall all be made alive. For every man in his own order, Christ the first fruits, after that they're Christ at his coming, then cometh the what, folks, the end. When he shall have delivered up the kingdom to God, even the Father, when he shall have put down all rule and all authority and all power And he must reign till he hath put all enemies under his feet. The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death For he has put all things under his feet. Folks, he's going to rule and reign someday. He's going to set everything right politically. He's the only one who can. He's going to be the one that will set down and put and and he will he will he will rule and reign for a thousand years. He's going to set everything right And when he and after he does that, verse 27, for he hath put all things under his feet, but when he has said all things put under his feet, it is made manifest that he is expected. Which did put all things under him, verse twenty-eight, and when all things shall be subdued unto him, when everything is made right, when he is ruler over all Then shall the Son also himself be subject unto him, the Father, that put all things under him, that God may be all in all. What does the resurrection do? The resurrection clarifies everything internally in the life of a person who will accept it by faith. And the resurrection clarifies everything ultimately because it will all come under Christ's rule and it will all be where God is all in all. Everything's going to be set right. You know why? Because of the resurrection. Now, folks, let me just make this very practical for us. Have you ever accepted Jesus Christ? Christ as your Savior There are a lot of people in the world that have made professions of faith. They've prayed a prayer, or they've walked an aisle, or they've been faithful in a church, or they have been a good person. But none of these things, literally folks, none of these things will bring a person to a place where they are connected with God. You see, the problem is that we are born disconnected from God. The Bible says, wherefore, as by one man's sin entered the world, and death Death meaning separation from God by sin. Therefore, death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned. The Bible says we're not born children of God. We're not born righteous. We're not born connected to God, and then society messes it up, and then we're not. No, no, we're born disconnected from God We're born away from God. We're born sinners. And all of us are. The Bible says, all have sinned and come short of the glory of God, and it doesn't matter who you are. I've sinned and you've sinned. We have all sinned. And the problem is that God is holy. He is 100% perfect. He's never done anything wrong. He is completely high and holy, the Bible says. And we are not. We've sinned. And so the Bible says that we have this thing called death, which is spiritually spiritual death, which is separation from God. We will physically die one more. One day. But there's something worse than that. There's spiritual death where we are separated from God. The Bible says that Jesus Christ, in 1 Corinthians 15, right in this passage, that he died for what? Our sin. Christ died for our sin according to the scriptures. And he was buried, and he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. See, we deserve death. But Jesus Christ as our substitute, he died in our place. So that we could be rightly connected to God if we will place our faith on the work of Christ on the cross for us. If we'll do that. The Bible says thou shalt be, and it uses this term, saved, which means to be rescued from the punishment of your sin. And if you will do that and accept the that the the the blood accept Christ by faith, that He is God. That he did die to pay the punishment for your sin. And he rose from the grave victorious over sin and death. Then the Bible says that you can have what it calls eternal life. John chapter 3 verse 36 says, these things are written that ye may know that's actually 1 John 5. 1 John 5 says, These things are written that you may know that ye have eternal life. The Bible's written that you may know. A lot of people say, well, you know, I I hope so. I think I've been a good person. I've done good things. I hope I can. The Bible says it's written that ye may know that ye have eternal life. It's that you know so, not out of the conceit. Because it's not in your works for something that you do, it's in what Christ has done for you. Titus 3. 5 says, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us by the washing of regeneration. John 3. 36 says, He that believeth on the Son hath life. But he that believeth not the Son Hath not life, and the wrath of God abideth on him. The choice is very simple. Will I accept The finished work of Christ on the cross, who died in my place, will I receive that gift of eternal life completely, holy, not okay, I'm going to keep keeping one foot here and another foot over here. I'll just kind of make sure I got all my bases covered. No, no. Christ says, I am the way, the truth, and the life, and no one comes to the Father except by him. If you will do that, the Bible says in John 1. 12, But as many as received him, to them gave you the power to become the sons of God. Do you have clouds of confusion and skepticism and discouragement The Bible says what you need is faith. And faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. Maybe you're saying to yourself, you know, I just don't know if I can really, really place my trust completely on what Christ did. But I but I'm interested, but I'm just not sure I can really place my trust. God's word is what what is necessary. And in fact, there are I would love to take a Bible and show you more how you can know for sure that you have eternal life through Christ. I'd love to uh we have people here that would love to have a Bible study with you to so that you can delve more into this and search the scriptures to see that what I'm saying is right. But our desire for you is that, and the whole reason that we do what we do here is so that we you can know God through his Son, Jesus Christ. If you are not, don't have an assurance myself or see somebody else that you're comfortable with, we will gladly take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you have eternal life. Look at every head bowed and every eye closed this morning. Maybe you're listening to this message and you say, you know, I never really had heard it put that way before. I didn't realize that that's really what is necessary. Maybe you're really struggling with faith Let me just encourage you to talk to the Lord. And to maybe and a purpose In your heart, even now that you will search the scriptures. Maybe you are ready to accept this gift by faith from God's Word. encourage you come and talk to I'd I'd be thrilled if somebody came to me and said hey could you just show me more from God's Word? And there are other people here that would be that as well would be thrilled as well. well. Where our desire is for you to know Christ. Father, we come to you today and thank you for who you are. We We thank you for the gift of your Son Jesus Christ. We thank you for his death and resurrection. And we do pray that if there's anybody here that is not assured Lord of knowing who they are in Christ, I pray that today would be a day where they you would work in their hearts, that their hearts would burn within them the way the disciples' hearts burn within them. when Christ showed them the scriptures, would you use your word and the understanding of your word to produce your faith in your pe your And people that you choose. And I just pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen.