This morning, please take your Bibles and turn there if you would. John chapter three We are a very needy people, aren't we? When you think about our world, we're needy. When you think about yourself and you look inside, you're needy. When you look at your family, you're needy. But it is very unfortunate that because of the of the fall, and because of our hearts, even though we are all needy, we very often do not meet the needs that we have in the way that God provides. Because sometimes we misdiagnose our own need. For example, I'll just use a practical illustration. Maybe you've heard this before. Did you know that some people who are dehydrated Become dehydrated, actually don't crave water, but instead they crave salt. Sometimes when you go for that bag of chips, it's because you're dehydrated. You say, that makes no sense. I know. It doesn't make any sense. Make you more dehydrated. And yet our minds tell us we need something that we don't really need to fill a need that we actually do have. If you followed all that. Children will do this. Kids listen up. Sometimes our kids are hungry, but they do not usually ask for celery sticks. They're not usually asking for carrots or fruit or vegetables. Usually they are asking for ice cream or sweets or those kinds of things. And as much as we try never to introduce any of those things to our children, our world does not allow that. And so they are always it is always on their mind. And so when they get hungry, their desires do not go toward those things that will give them the most amount of nutrients. Why? Because they've got a need, but they've got a want that is full and that they're they're fulfilling their need in the wrong way. But folks, do you realize that we do this same kind of thing spiritually? And our world, those who don't know Christ, do the same kind of thing. There is a void in their life. There is unfulfillment in their soul. They know that something is not right. And so they have all kinds of pursuits that they they just go after because they are going to meet their need. They want to meet, they know there's some sort of need that is deep in their soul. There's a void and they're going to try to fill it in their way I would imagine Nicodemus perhaps was in that kind of a position. We know that he had something going on in his mind and in his heart that perhaps was a little unique from the other Pharisees because he comes to Christ by night. And he asks Christ, how can I see the kingdom? That's really the question implied by Christ's answer to him, that you can't see the kingdom unless you are born again What Christ does is he identifies not just the desire, this desire to see this grand kingdom. That was a desire in the hearts and minds of the Jewish people from the time that it was pro prophesied that they would be part of this kingdom and that there would be a deliverer, there would be someone that would come that would set up his kingdom. They knew this was a possibility or that this was going to happen And they wanted to be part of it. There was a sense of which they wanted to be part of something bigger than themselves. There was this need that was deep in their soul. But Christ says, I know how to meet it You must be born again. And Nicodemus had absolutely no idea what that meant. It was very difficult for him to grasp this. How can someone go back into your mother's womb and be born? And of Christ course, as we recalled last week No, that's not what he's talking about. He's talking about recreation of a different kind. He's saying you must be born of water, that is, you must be cleansed of your soul And you must be born of the Spirit. You must have new life in Christ. And it must be done through the work of the Word of God in conjunction with the Spirit of God. What Nicodemus is then going to do is it's still perplexing for him. He still doesn't get it. He still does not understand. And you find in verse 9 then, he is going to say, How can these things be? I don't get it. Now let me just ask you a question this morning. Have you ever talked with somebody about the Lord and they just don't get it? It's like it's just like they don't get it. You understand it. You've understood it for years. You've understood in more facets and more a fuller understanding over time. And you and it seems to be a simple concept. I mean you just gotta be reborn again. You've got to be reborn, you've got to be recreated. God's gonna make you new. And you understand it is simple, and they just don't seem to get it In fact, is it not the case that the majority of people don't get it? The heart of man is deceitful and desperately wicked. We do not have an innate ability to get it. There is none that searcheth after God, Scripture says. And what Christ is now going to do in this passage is he is going to delve into the depths of why someone does not understand. Why they cannot understand. So we're going to look into this. And this, folks, this will be very helpful on a couple of levels. One, it will be very helpful for us as we rub shoulders with unsaved people to understand why it's so hard for them to understand. But folks, there's another level here that I think we need to grasp for our own hearts and minds, and that is this. There is a sense in which we do not apply Christ in our lives, even as believers. We don't apply Christ and we do not experience new life in Christ because sometimes we don't understand. And we're going to learn exactly what Christ's commentary on all this and his answer to this as well in this passage. Let's first go to the Lord in prayer. Father, as we come to you today and thank you for who you are, I pray, Lord, that you would help us as we discover Christ's own commentary on why people do not understand. The need for the rebirth. And we see in our culture a desire to make people what they want, for people to make themselves what they want to be. They want to recreate themselves, but what they need is Christ's recreation. And I pray, Lord, that you would give us just a clear understanding of this, that it would not just help us in our uh in in in as we rub shoulders with others who who need christ, but it would help us as we look into our own hearts and lives and understand and begin to think about why we don't apply the new birth to our lives like perhaps we ought to And I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. What I want to do before we get into the details of this verse, I I was intending to go all the way from verse 9 through 21, which is like not ideal or impossible. Um and I'm stu I've studied the entire passage this past week and decided I can't even possibly get through all of it But I do want you to see the forest before we get into the individual trees. And so if you'll put that next slide up, you'll see this here. In verses 9 through 15, applying the new birth requires understanding. That's going to be in this passage that we're going to look at today. In a future time, we will look at applying the new birth, which requires the universe will offer an exclusive belief. So you have understanding, you've got belief And then you've got acceptance in verses 19 through 21. You've got all three of those aspects of receiving the new birth. Christ says, your problem, Nicodemus, is you do not receive our witness. You don't receive it. Why don't people receive it? They don't receive it because they don't understand it. They don't receive it because they don't bel Leave it and they don't receive it because they don't accept it And so then John is going to take this entire idea, and he's going to expound on what Christ said in verses 1 through 15 John, the writer here then is going to expound on this in verses 16 through 21 to describe the necessity for exclusive belief. the universal offer to the whole world, but the exclusive belief it must be in Christ alone, and then why people don't receive it, why they don't accept it. Verses 19 through 20 But for today, for our understanding, we're going to go into chapter 3, and we're going to look particularly at verses 9 through 15. And we find this question that Nicodemus asks after after much of the after um After going through Christ explaining that he needs the new birth, he says, How can these things be? You'll have to remember that Nicodemus was a Pharisee Nicodemus was one who was well read in the law and the prophets in the Old Testament, and he was a teacher of the Old Testament. And what Nicodemus would have been teaching was reformation. Was here is how you what you must do. You must reform yourself to the Levitical system, you must reform yourself to the law, you must have these external reforms in your life, and therefore then you will have access to God. Christ, of course, is going to say, no, you need more than that. You need internal righteousness, and you don't have it, and what you need is you need new birth And Nicodemus is choking at this. He's gr can't get it. He's not grasping it. And so he says, how can these things be? It may be, first of all, I mean it's it It may be at this point that um he he he's still thinking about the impossibility of going to somebody's in the in the in your mother's womb and being born But Christ has at this point made it clear we're talking about something of the spirit. It's very clear he's mentioned that several times. It is a spiritual thing that Christ wants to take place in the life of a person In order for them to be able to have access, entrance into the kingdom of God. But beyond that, Nicodemus is probably thinking to himself, I just don't get it. I don't understand. And what Christ then does is He points out the initial problem. The initial problem, he does this through a rhetorical question. Well, before we get to the problem, actually, he then says, Are you not a teacher of Israel and don't know these things? Verse 10. Do you not know these things? What Jesus is pointing out in verse 10 is this. He is saying that, Nicodemus, you have all of the information necessary in the Old Testament to come to the same conclusion that I just came to. You've got it all. You ought to be able to look at the New Testament or the Old Testament and you ought to come up with the fact that man is sinful that he it call falls short of God's glory, you ought to be able to come from the ca to come to the conclusion from the Old Testament that you need to be reborn. In fact, God says he is going to s go that is necessary in the Old Testament. As we looked at last week. So Christ is saying this. This is going to be very important for us to understand that all the information was necessary that was necessary for for Nicodemus to understand the new birth was there, but Nicodemus was still not understanding it. He was still not getting it. And the question is, why? Why was Nicodemus not getting it? Would you look at verse 11? Christ says this. Verily, verily, I say unto thee, We speak that we do know, and testify that we have seen, and ye receive not our witness. He says, your problem is a matter of reception. He says, you are not receiving my witness. We're testifying, we're telling you about these things. Even we are giving, we are showing miracles to authenticate our message. And he says, you are not, you're not receiving what we are giving to you. In other words, let's put it this way, you're not believing me You're not placing your dependence on me. You're not trusting me. Then the question is, why not? What then does Christ say? He then gets into the reason for the problem. The reason for the problem is in the next verse, what you see in verse 12 If I have told you earthly things, he says, and ye believe not, how shall ye believe if I tell you heavenly things? You see, what Christ points out by pointing out that the problem is that Nicodemus is not believing, and that really, by extension, all the nation of Israel is choking. They're not believing in the way that they need to believe. We saw this from the previous chapter, that they're believing on the miracles that he had done, but Jesus was not accepting their belief because it was an unacceptable kind of belief. The kind of belief that he is talking about is this dependency, this receiving, if you will. Why? Because he says you're not able to grasp Heavenly things and you can't even grasp earthly things, he says. The reason for the inability to understand is that you can't grasp even earthly things. Now, let me pause and just ask you a question. Has that not been your experience when you talk with people that don't know the Lord? When you talk with them about certain things, it seems that they can grasp it. They can understand that Christ is a historical figure. They can understand that Christ historically even died for the sins of his or died for his people. Or even the sins of his people for that matter. They understand that Christ offered himself up. They can understand these physical things. To some degree, but it they choke when you begin to go into an earthly realm. They choke when they be you begin to go into things that are heavenly. If you tell somebody, Christ, Christ has made me a new creature, I mean just try that sometime Talk to somebody who doesn't know the Lord and say, Jesus has made me a new creature. And they will look like you look at you like they have you have four heads. They will look at you like you are some kind of fanatic. They'll look at you like you are something there's something wrong with you. Won't they do that? Have you not experienced that? And folks, you could say it in the kindest way possible. You could say in the most peaceful way possible. You can be just the nicest person in the whole world. We're not talking about people balking at your disposition, which happens also sometimes. We're talking about just you say Christ has made given me a new life and they balk at it and they say, yeah, okay, I'm glad that works for you. They don't get it, they don't understand. And what Christ is talking about here when he talks about this earthly thing, the identity of the earthly thing, a lot of people have suggested that earthly thing he's talking about is different things. I think it's very clear in the context. He's actually talking about the new birth. He's talking about being born again. On what, where, what location are you born again? On earth, that's where you're born again. You wait till heaven to be born again and you've waited too long. You must be born again on earth. You must receive new life in Christ on earth And so it is, by that understanding, an earthly thing. Yet Christ says you can't get even that. How can I begin to show you heavenly things? Remember in the very beginning, Nicodemus' question was, how can I see the kingdom of God? And he says, he moves, Christ moves and says, you cannot enter, or basically talks about the entrance into the kingdom of God. He says you can't see the kingdom of God until essentially you enter the kingdom of God. The entrance of the kingdom of God is to be born again And he says, you can't understand, the problem is you can't grasp even this earthly thing that would connect you to the heavenly things. And therein essentially lies the problem. It goes something like this: I need to believe, but first I need to understand. But in order to understand, I need to believe. Do you see the problem? If you talk to a person who doesn't know the Lord, perhaps they are open-minded and they're open to new things, they're open to different things. And the problem is they're having a problem believing because they don't understand But the problem is that what Christ is essentially saying here is to understand, you must believe. You need belief in order to understand. Therein lies the difficulty. In the Old Testament, you have the nation of Israel, they have all of this information, they have everything that they need. to come to the same conclusion that Christ is presenting here, and yet they don't. Why? The problem is unbelief. And I would just say by way of application, this is kind of a side point, but it is a helpful application. When you come to God's Word, when you come to God's Word, are you looking first to understand before you believe? Or you first believing and then hoping and wanting to understand. In other words, folks, if you come to God's word and you say, well, I'm going to under- I need to understand this, I need to understand this, and I need to understand this. And then when I understand, then I will depend on the Lord. You are coming on the you are coming with the wrong approach. But if you will say, I have full dependence on the Word of God, I believe the Word of God. I know it to be right. I know it to be true. I know it to be what I need. And then you go to the Word of God, you will begin to understand. Now I'll just say from by way of personal testimony There have been times I have looked at a passage and studied it and read it and I said to myself, I don't get the significance of that passage. I don't understand it And what you can do, one of two things. You could say, Well, I don't get it, I'll move on. Or you could say, no, no, if I don't get it, it's my fault. If I don't get it, it is because I I have got to have a dead level belief and trust that this word is the word of God and it will, it is what I need And it is, there is great significance here. And if I'm not seeing the significance, I just have to keep studying harder. I've got to be do be more diligent. I've got to work harder at this The problem is my belief. If you go to the God's Word and you say, I just believe that God's Word is significance for my life, and God's Word is significance so that I can know Him Then you will begin to then understand. And usually it takes a significant amount of diligence to do so. That kind of is a side point, but it does, it is direct application from this text. And so we see the problem is earthly versus heavenly things, and the problem of not even being able to understand earthly things. Now, what we're going to do then is Christ is going to offer then his solution. And what he's actually going to do is he's going to give us two heavenly things. Would you notice that? Look at verses um look at verse 13. He says, And no man hath ascended up to heaven, but he that came down from heaven, even the Son of Man, which is in heaven. Now, on first reading that, folks, is that easy or hard? It's a bit difficult. How about the next verse? And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up. Now you know you know what that means if you know Christ It's not hard for you to grasp what that means, at least at its basic form. But folks, do you realize that for someone to hear that and not know Christ, I mean, let's go try that witnessing approach. Hey, I need I need something in my life. I need something different in my life. Hey, you sinned and as Moses lifted up in the wilderness, even so the must the Son of Man be lifted up. Okay, go ahead and do what you need to do I mean r that both of those are really actually hard sayings. They are essentially heavenly things. Now, let's just pause for a minute and get the full weight of this. Nicodemus is standing here. He's perplexed. He's confused. He doesn't understand what's going on. He's really just not grasping the thing. And and have you ever have you and and and of course we have I mean the world is like that. Everybody's like that. They're not grasping the truth that they need to grasp. And you get into a comparative religions class and you find that there are all kinds of different ways of trying to grasp what you can't grasp. And everybody thinks they've got an angle on this thing, and nobody's got an angle on this thing And what it you know I could imagine two people talking about their various points of view and not being in not having Christ and their two various points of view and they're one person's going out at this angle, another person's going at this angle. Well I think this and I think this and I think this and I think this and I think God's this way, I think God's that way God's benevolent, he's tolerant, he accepts all these kinds of different things. And then finally somebody says, you know, wouldn't it be wonderful if somebody just comes down here from heaven and tells us exactly what we need to know That's exactly what Christ says He is doing. I mean look at the passage, look at what it says. And no man has ascended up to heaven, but he that came down from heaven. He says, Nobody's gone up there, folks. He said, nobody's gone up there and come down except the one that's already been up there. I have. And I've come down to you. And I'm going to ascend again. I'm going to ascend He's identifying a point in which he's looking forward to the future, his ascension. You're going to see why that's important in a few moments. He says, the person who's going to ascend has already come from heaven. And he says, look at what it says here. But he that came down from heaven, even of the Son of Man, which is in heaven, he says, even the Son of Man, he says, I'm here and I've come from heaven. He is pointing out here a few different things, but really to get the full weight of this, when Christ said the Son of Man, which John uses 13 times in his gospel And in fact, it is the term son of man is the most it's really Christ's favorite term of re of apply of when he refers to himself. When he says this, we've already seen this Son of Man turn before in John chapter 1, verse 51. And we in fact go ahead and turn there. Just look real quick, flip a page back and just look at it. Chapter 1, verse 51. And he said unto him, Verily, verily I say unto you, hereto ye shall see heaven open, and angels come, descending, and ascending, and descending upon what? The son of man, of course, that's a fulfillment of the prophecy of Jacob's ladder, if you'll recall. We see this term, son of man, again, and when Nicodemus heard this, Something should have popped into his mind, a particular passage in the Old Testament that was frequently quoted by Pharisees. It was in Daniel chapter 7. I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn there Now from this point on we're going to be actually turning to several different passages. So if you'll just kind of get your fingers ready if you have a Bible and your thumbs ready if you're using a phone. Either way, Daniel chapter 7 is where we need to go to And verse 13. Or your stylus ready if you're using a tablet? I didn't have to use to say all this stuff. Anyway. Daniel seven thirteen. Now they're getting really good with voice activation things. We want none of that here. You're not gonna nobody's gonna say, Siri, turn your Bible to turn the Bible to Daniel 7. Let's try to avoid that if we can, okay? Um verse 13. I was watching in the night visions. And behold, this is Daniel's prophecy. Behold, one like the Son of Man cometh with the clouds of heaven You see the term there? Son of man. And where does he come? He comes with the clouds of heaven. He came to the ancient of days, and they brought him near before him. And what who what happens with this man? Then to him was given what? Dominion and glory and a kingdom. That all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his kingdom the one which shall be destroyed. You see, when Christ used the term son of man, he was not saying, by the way, I am a man. I'm the son of man. He was not emphasizing, folks, his humanity when he said that. He's emphasizing Old Testament prophecy. What he's emphasizing in a sort of veiled way is authority. I am the person to which God is going to give all authority and dominion and power and rule forever. I'm here, he says. I'm here. His point, what he's saying to Nicodemus, he is saying, I am the one who is before you, who has all authority to tell you what you need to know. You want to believe, you got to believe in me, you've got to believe in my authority to say what I am saying. And that's where it starts, Nicodemus. It starts by my being the authority. You actually have to shi shift, don't you? Because everybody in the world thinks they're their own authorities, or at least in the Western society. I'm my own boss. I'm my own authority. I'll make myself who I want to be. I can be who I want to be. I'll do what I want to do. That is the Western mentality of thinking. I am my own authority and there's got to be a switch. There's got to be a switch that says no. Christ is the authority. And before we're going to believe anything or even understand everything, we're going to have to admit that Christ is the authority. Folks, that's hard, isn't it? That is hard to grasp. Not for somebody who knows hand knows the Lord, but that's hard to grasp for somebody who doesn't. It's difficult for somebody who doesn't know the Lord. to to just say, okay, I'm laid open before you, Lord. I'm yours and your and you're the authority in my life. Now, teach me what I need to know. So he points to this issue this thing this issue of authority and he says, and he and he prophesies in a sort of a small way about his ascension in this passage as well. Now, then what he does at that point is he moves to the second prophetic example. And that is, he says, as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up. And that prophetic example you can find in Numbers chapter 21. Would you take your Bible and turn there? Numbers chapter 21 And if you look at this narrative, what you're going to find is that God in a this is this is, folks, a biblical type. Okay? There's a lot of people that run around, you have whole books on typology. And I would just argue that you need to be careful with it. When you call something a type, I would recommend that there is an anti-type. The antitype in the New Testament is essentially when something when a New Testament writer or Christ himself says, that is a type of me In other words, we don't have to guess at the types in the Old Testament. We know what they are. They're already given in the old in the New Testament for us. And this is one that is clearly given. Now you might see pictures or references or you might see other things like that in the Old Testament to Christ that wouldn't be actual types. But I would just suggest that we ought to reserve that term type for when there is an antitype in the New Testament when you can actually see somebody referring to that type in the Old Testament. Now, Numbers chapter 21, verse 4, we see this type of Christ. And they, meaning the nation of Israel, journeyed from Mount Hor by the way of the Red Sea to compass the land of Edom. And the soul of the people was much discouraged because of the way. And the people spake against God and against Moses, wherefore have ye brought us up out of Egypt to die in the wilderness? Now let's just pause there for a minute and ask the question What did the people do? They spoke against who? Against God. They said, God, why are you doing what you're doing? Why? What plan do you have? They spoke against God's will. Isn't that exactly what everyone is doing who does not know Christ? They are working against They are speaking against God. When they do their own thing, their own way, they are saying that God's way is not the right way. My way is the right way. Verse 6: And the Lord sent fiery serpents among the people, and they bit the people, and the people, and much people of Israel died. Therefore the people came to Moses and said, We have sinned, for we have spoken against the Lord and against thee Pray unto the Lord that he take away the serpents from us. And Moses prayed for the people. And the Lord said unto Moses, Make thee a fiery serpent, and set it upon a pole. And it shall come to pass that every one that is bitten, when he looketh upon it, shall live. And Moses made a serpent of brass and put it upon a pole, and came to pass that the serpent had bitten on any man, and he beheld the serpent of brass and lived. Now, what you have here in this passage is an earthly thing that happened. You have an actual disease. It killed people. God sent it to do so. It was a result of their defiance, their rebellion against him. It was really like this collective defiance against him. You have then a physical solution. You've got this serpent that's put up on a pole, and they are healed. And when God did this for the nation of Israel, he knew that this would be an accurate picture, an earthly picture of a with a heavenly meaning, an earthly picture of what actually Christ is going to come to do and do on a spiritual level. Do you see the effort? In other words, folks, do you see the effort that God has made, even in the Old Testament, for us to be able to grasp earthly things so that we are a then able to grasp heavenly things. And yet and yet we can't, because we don't believe But the intrinsic value in what Christ is saying here. In fact, go back to John and I want you to see this. And what Christ is saying here has to do with two words in this verse John chapter three and verse um thir fourteen And as Moses, what's the next two words there? Lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be what? Lift it up. Folks, we've got this twice in this passage. The emphasis is on this lifted up. When Christ used this, and when John uses it, in fact, Christ uses it, and then John records it, of course. When he uses this lifted up term, what does he mean? Well, we don't have to guess. John uses it, he records this a couple of other places. Would you take your Bibles and turn to John chapter 8, verse 28? John 8. 28. I want you to see this. What we're going to find when we look at this is this whole idea of lifting up. This whole idea, we'll call it this exaltation of Christ. We're going to find what the purposes are. Number one, look at John 8:28. Then said Jesus unto them, When ye have lifted up the Sir the Son of Man, then shall ye know that I am He, and that I do nothing of myself. But as my father has taught me, I speak. He says, when ye have lifted up the Son of Man, same term, Son of Man, words lifted up. He says, when you've done that, what do we know about that? What will happen? You'll know I'm from the Father. He says you'll know something. It has to do with their knowledge. They've not understood before. They've not known who he is. He says, when I'm lifted up, you'll know. Now, in this lifting up, he is talking primarily about what? The crucifixion, right? I mean, when you'll when you lift me up, it says. In other words, when you put me on a cross, you'll then know who I am. Now, would you then with that in mind turn to um turn to John uh Hmm. I'm I I missed the I think it's chapter 12. If I rem if my memory is right, it's chapter 12. Actually missed the chapter there. Um let me make sure. Yes, thirty two try got glad my memory kicked in right. That's un that's unusual. Alright, chapter twelve, verse thirty-two. Christ says this, and I, if I be, there's our words again, lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto me. Then he says signifying so so another so right off right off the bat here, what do we see? Why does Christ why is Christ lifted up? He says what? I'll do what I'll draw all men unto me. Now, what would that signify then? If someone is drawing somebody to himself, is that a dead or alive person? It's a live person. So this lifting up has not to do with the crucifixion. Well, it's not entirely separate from the crucifixion, but the emphasis is not on the crucifixion. It's on what It is on the ascension of Christ. We've already seen him use this term ascension before in the previous verse of John chapter 3 that we've looked at already. We now have this lifted up as the ascending work of Christ. And when Christ is ascending, what will he do? He will draw all men to himself. That's what the passage says. Now, if you'll keep reading, you'll notice something. This he said, signifying the death he shall die. The people answered him, We have heard out of the law that the Lord abideth forever And how sayest thou the Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is the Son of Man? The people hear this and they say, Well, okay, how do you say this? And who is this Son of Man? What does Jesus say to them? He says this, verse 35. And Jesus said unto them, Yet a little while is the light with you. Now keep keep that in your mind. The light is with you. Christ is John's going to use this term later in this passage. We're not going to get to it today, but he uses it later in the passage. Yet a little while is the light with you. Walk while ye have the light, lest darkness come upon you. For he that walketh in darkness knoweth not whither he goeth While ye have light, believe on the light that ye may be the children of light. Now, let's just follow this for a minute. This is really an amazing truth. Who is the light? No question. Christ is the light. What does Christ say they are in without him? They're in darkness. He even says to them, while you've got the light. It almost assumes that one day the light's going to be gone. He says, While the light's here, you better follow the light. Now, let's just extrapolate a little bit. Before the light came to Earth, was there darkness or light? There was essentially darkness. If you look at the Old Testament, you've got God's revelation through His Word, that's light. But as a whole, you've got darkness. My people who have walked in darkness, Isaiah 9 says. And here you find that Jesus is saying to them, you've got the light with you, follow the light. What's the significance of this for us? Christ says the light is going to leave. But when it leaves, that is, when he dies, rises from the grave, and ascends, when he ascends, then what is he going to do? He is going to uh spread this light to the whole world. The light is here for you, nation of Israel. It's here, follow it. Follow it while you can. Follow it because you'cause otherwise you're gonna be in darkness. But one day the light is going to spread. What's the significance of the ascension of Christ? The exaltation is both the crucifixion of Christ, the resurrection of Christ, and the ascension of Christ. And what's the significance? The Old Testament, they're in darkness. They don't have the full revelation of Christ They can't see these earthly, they can't grasp these earthly concepts that would lead them to these heavenly concepts. And Christ says, I'm here And I'm going to be ascended. I'm going to go to the heaven and ascend into the right hand of God. I'm going to do it so that everybody can come to me, that there is a bright light. So the question for us is simply, what are we looking at? Are we looking to Christ? He is the light. He is the one that brings belief. He is the one that draws men to himself. He is the one. He is the one, folks, that brings to light the hidden things. He is the one by which all men are born again. On January 6, 1850, a snowstorm almost crippled the city of Colchester, England. A teenage boy was unable to get to church, and so he decided to go to uh to his normal church where his dad pastored. And so he he went to a church that was closer to him. It was actually a primitive Methodist church. And he walked into the very small church, and there was a lay preacher who was rather ill-prepared. He, in fact, was preaching as a substitute for the main preacher, the pastor of the church, because the pastor couldn't get to that church. And so he was preaching, and he was preaching on a text, Isaiah 45, 22. Look unto me and be saved all the earth. Just look to me and be saved all the earth. The young man sat down in the pew, heard these things, became overwhelmed with conviction. He was miserable. He was just miserable. And the lay preacher looks at him and identifies how miserable he was and says to the young man, young man, you look miserable. Can you imagine that here? Like I point somebody out and I say, you look miserable. Look to Jesus, and that's exactly what he does. He says, you young man, you look miserable. Look to Christ. And on that day, Charles Haddon Spurgeon came to Christ. Look to Jesus. Hebrews chapter 12, verse 1 says, Wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight and the sin that which does so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us Looking unto Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith. He's the author, folks. He's the finisher of it, who for the joy that was set before him, the joy that was set before him. When you see Christ talking over and over about his exaltation. He says to Mary, my time has not yet come. What does he mean? He means that one day he's going to be exalted. When he says here, the Son of Man will be lifted up. What does he mean? That one day he's going to be exalted. And he's not just looking to the death to his own death. He's looking to the fact that of what that death allows him to do. He looks at all the people, he has love for them, and his death will bring resurrection, which will bring ascension, and he can call everybody to himself, and that's what he's looking forward to. So that now folks, boy, life becomes simple. I mean the message is simple. You you you're you we're working through things and it's all complex. It's all complicated. It's all difficult. And Christ says, look to me. Looking unto Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith, whom for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising his shame, and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. He sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. Look to him For consider him that endureth such contradiction of sinners against himself, lest ye be wearied and faint in your minds. He says There's this indication by the writer of the book of Hebrews that if you do not keep looking to Christ, you are going to get weary. You're going to get faint. You're going to lose heart. You are going to lose heart And the answer for you and for me is to look to Christ. And that is our application. It's look to Jesus. And let me just ask you, are the things that you are going through in your life so complicated and so difficult that you are becoming wearied and faint in your mind The answer to your complication is the simplicity of Christ. You think even of the Lord Suffer, it's very simple. We break bread together, we drink juice together. It's simple. Isn't it wonderful? That in the complexities of the world and all and frankly sin just complicates things, isn't it wonderful, folks, that we can look to Christ? Who brings in our minds and our hearts simplicity. Oh, how we need this. And that's what everybody needs. I mean when you think when you're talking to somebody on the street corner or you're talking to somebody in in the neighborhood or you're talking to somebody at work and they say, boy, I am having a rough I'm having a rough day, I'm having a rough difficulty. I'm trying and you know what? I can get home and I can do such and such. And then I'll be relieved. That's only temporary relief What they need is Christ. And when you are going through difficult times and trials and stiff stiff difficulties, and you don't know what to do, and you think, well, if only I can do this. Boy, if I'll do that, if I go and do this, then I'll be relieved. It's only temporary relief. What you need is to look to Christ And we have the opportunity to do that today collectively. Why does you know why? You remember why Christ put this ordinance for us to do? It's because we have really good forgetters. We are really, it's like the one thing we're good at. We're good at forgetting. And we forget of the immensity, the significance of the death of Christ. We forget it. And we need to bring to remembrance those things. What I'm going to have you do for just have us all do for just a few moments is just in the quietness of your own heart. before the Lord. There there I mean I there can't be any better message to focus our hearts on Christ than a mo message that is telling us to look to Christ. And I will just say this. Is there anybody here that doesn't know Christ? If you are not sure that you know Christ, if you're not sure, look, please come and talk with me. We're going to have communion. We're going to have a time of communion together. Boy, I tell you, if you don't know for sure that you know Christ, would you just come and talk with me? I would be glad to help you look to Christ, to show you from the Bible how you can understand Christ. If you'll believe. For the rest of us, we need time, don't we, just to reflect, to focus our hearts and minds. And like every head bowed. I'm seeing some kids with eyes open. They need to have their eyes closed at this point. Like every head bowed and every eye closed, and just I want to give you a time just to pray before the Lord in quietness before the Lord. And turn your heart to Christ. And then we will come together and we'll sing of behold the Lamb, and then we'll be able to partake of the Lord's Supper together. Does it have to be trouble? Yeah, that's why I'm going to go to the house. Father, as we enter into this time of communion, may you help us and our minds and hearts to be focused on this time. I pray, Lord, that you would just bring to our minds the sacrifice that Christ made when He Broke his body and shed his blood on the cross for us. And may we worship an appreciation and celebration of what Christ did in sacrificing himself. So that one day he could be exalted and draw all men to himself. Whosoever believeth on him shall have eternal life And we pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen.