Of Luke. Luke chapter one this morning. Of course every pastor ever throughout the years uh comes each year to a the season of Christmas time and um has to decide what he's going to preach on. I will tell you that there is so much material in these I don't think I'm on guys What's going on? Maybe I am. Okay, I guess I am. Uh um I will tell you there's so much so many so much material in these uh uh in these sections of scripture when it comes to the birth of Christ that I don't find it difficult. In fact I find it difficult to to narrow it down to one message. And uh so we're not. So I'm gonna preach two Christmas messages this week this year, uh one today, and we will uh cover some more material next Sunday. Let me ask you this question as we begin. What is the Christmas spirit? If you watch Christmas movies or you talk with people, both secular and perhaps even religious, you will hear this expression, Christmas spirit. You might read it on a card, a Christmas card. Hope you have the Christmas spirit or why don't you have the Christmas spirit? Or are you a Grinch or something and why you the Grinch didn't have the Christmas spirit? What is the Christmas spirit? Some people probably say that it's the receiving of gifts. Usually of the younger variety might say that. It's the receiving of gifts, waking up Christmas morning and receiving gifts. Or What's that? God the Holy Spirit. Okay. Amen. That's very that's very true. The Holy Spirit did work in in bringing on bringing Christ Then we have uh the uh um possibility of peace, joy, and goodwill. You'll hear that sometimes. That's what the angels said uh to um to the shepherds. Or you have what I would suggest to you if you consider all of the different narratives of Scripture, if you look at Zacharias and Elizabeth, and if you look at Simeon and Hannah If you look at the response of the shepherds, what you find is that the Christmas spirit is worship. It is to worship Christ. All of the responses of everybody in this Christmas story, they all end up with the same expression. It is this expression of worship toward God. And I think one of the best examples that we find in the scriptures with regard to the birth of Christ is this woman, Mary. A couple of weeks ago I had the opportunity to go to the Naval Academy with Elizabeth and we went to see the Messiah, Handel's Messiah. It was a wonderful time. It was extremely well done down at the Naval Academy. uh the Glee Club down there joined forces with the that's a funny way to say it, but anyway, joined uh forces with the uh um Annapolis Orchestra and they just did a uh uh just a superb job And as I was listening to I I love listening to the Handel's Messiah. I I think it's an amazing work of music, but what I love about it is all of the scripture. that is woven in there uh in a way that tells the whole story, not really just of Christmas, but but the whole uh story of human history and God's God's working and providence in that great um oratorio is what it's called, apparently, as I researched it. But did you know, and I was listening to that, and I was thinking about all this past, I said, Handels uh Handel must have been quite a a knowledgeable man when it came to scripture. But as I looked into that uh more of Handel's Beside, how it came about, it wasn't Handel that came up with the scripture passages that are you know all the way throughout that oratorio, it wasn't a man by the name of Charles Jennings Charles Jennings was not a pastor. He did go to uh he did he went to Oxford, but he didn't graduate from there And he was a man who, though, was very learned in Scripture. He knew much about Scripture. He was known as being the anti-theist. If you remember what deism is, basically it's the idea that God is not intricately involved in the affairs of man. He is there, he created everything, and he sort of spun it like spun earth like a top to go, and then everybody does what they want. And this was man was known as the anti-deist. He did not believe that at all. He believed that the that God was intricately involved in the lives and the affairs of man. And so he knew scripture very, very well, and so he and Handel teamed up to write an amazing oratorio that has stood the test of time and is probably one of the most uh well liked and and best known uh oratorios of its kind. But there's a song With nearly not as much scripture, but maybe as many references to scripture, that was that is certainly no less profound in this passage. That was written by a teenage girl. Her name was Mary. And it is known as Mary's Magnificat, starting in verse 46 of this passage. How in the world could Mary, this young Mary, be able to worship God, as Kim read earlier, we saw this great passage, this great expression of worship. How was she able to do this? And we see in the beginning when Gabriel came to him that grace was bestowed on Mary. And in the end, we see that she worships God. And what we want to look at is that journey from grace to worship. And we want to see how we as Christians can go have that same journey. Let's go to the Lord in prayer and ask his blessing on our time. Father, we come to you and we ask that you would help us As we look at your word this morning. And we look at this journey of Mary from grace to worship. And we pray, Lord, that you would help us. to um to understand it and then that we would be able to have that same journey in our lives as well. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. In Luke 1. 39 it says, And Mary arose in those days and went out and went into the hill country with haste and into the city of Judah. She went roughly between 50 and 70 miles from the place that she was after she heard the announcement of Gabriel, and she goes to a place to see her cousin Elizabeth. And on that journey, can you imagine all of the thinking that went on? How she was processing this announcement, how she was thinking through all of this, Well, we know that when after she came to Elizabeth and she had an inter an exchange with her, saw the miraculous work that God was doing in Elizabeth's life, uh she was about five months pregnant at that that point. We know that she responds in worship, and you see that clearly in verse 46 here of this passage. Verse 46 it says, And Mary said, My soul doth magnify the Lord. And my spirit hath rejoiced in God, my Savior. How did Mary get to that point? Well, we begin by understanding that the journey that Mary was on began with the with Mary being given God's grace. You'll notice in the passage in John chapter I'm sorry, and not I've been in drawing a long time. Luke one verse twenty eight Would you notice what it says here? Picking up in verse 28 it says, And the angel came unto her and said, Hail. The word hail means to rejoice. Thou art highly favored. That's exactly what grace is. Grace is unmerited favor. Thou art highly favored, and the Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou among women. In our circle, sometimes we're so busy trying to diminish the influence of Mary because of those who have tried to make it more than it is where Mary is the bestower of grace, that sometimes I think we miss the great influence that Mary did have. and the great response that Mary did have, and how God used Mary. And so we see here that the beginning of her usefulness Was announced by this proclamation of favor. Mary, you are one of great Favor. You are favored by God. It isn't that Mary was the bestower of favor. She was the receiver of favor. She was the receiver of God's grace. And it says here, you're highly favored, not above women, but among women. And then we see the same kind of statement in this passage in verse 30. And the angel said unto her, Fear not, Mary, for thou hast found favor. Some translations actually say, You have found grace. It's the same word. You have found favor with God. And you know the reality is our journey starts there as well, doesn't it? Our journey starts with realizing God's grace in our lives. When we think of the book of Ephesians, chapter 1, it says, Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in heavenly places in Christ. Just as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love. When is the last time you realize God's great grace in your life? Sometimes we are so busy running around and doing different things, we need to just stop and reflect on the favor that God has shown us. And the grace that God has bestowed on us. We are blessed. We are accepted in the beloved. God, by our own, by no merit of our own, has given us this great grace. And if you want to appreciate your grace, just take a few moments and look at your sin. If you look past at your life, none of us have lived the perfect life. We look past our life. None of us have looked at life and we look back and we say, Boy, you know, it's a really good thing that God God's given me favor 'cause, you know, I deserve it. You take any time amount of time and you look at your own sin and you're going to see how gracious God has been to you. Every one of us that knows him as our Savior, we've seen his grace. God's grace is extended to all who will accept it by faith. And somebody who hasn't accepted that by faith, the grace is there, they just haven't received it yet. And I have to say to you that as I look at this passage and I think about the favor that God has given Mary, I look back at my life and I say, boy, God has been gracious to me. His grace has been on me. I don't deserve it. And that's where God wants us to live He wants us to live there, constantly reflecting and meditating and understanding the reality of God's grace in our lives every day. Mary's journey began with grace. Now the question then would be How did Mary receive that grace? There isn't any question that Mary was had the full receiving of God's grace. Well, how did Mary do that? And I think there are two things that you see that's apparent in this passage. One is Mary had Mary's heart was humble. Her heart was humble. And you see that from her describing herself as a handmaid of the Lord. You see that as you look at her at her prayer and she says in her prayer that she is that that God has dealt with the poor graciously and she's really referring to herself and to her cousin Elizabeth. Mary's heart is humble before God. That is consistent with James 4 or 6, which says He gives more grace. Therefore he says, God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. If you are and I are to receive a full measure of God's grace, it is going to only be as we have a spirit of humility. As we realize we deserve nothing, as we realize we deserve actually punishment God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. And if you say to yourself, you know, I don't know if I really am seeing God's grace in my life. Ask yourself the question, are you sin are you humble before God? You see nothing but humility throughout Mary's Mary's responses to the announcements, to her interchange with Elizabeth, to this great worship experience that she had as she as she proclaims the goodness and greatness of God, you see nothing there but humility in her life. And secondly, we find, just cursory looking at this passage, you can notice that Mary's mind was full. Of Scripture. Did you know that in this great prayer, are you aware that there are probably twelve different Old Testament references Mentioned in this prayer. Mary's mind was full of scripture. From Isaiah to 1 Samuel to Zephaniah to Micah, there are that, there are many, many references The Old Testament scripture in Mary's prayer. You know what she did? She just sang scripture. It's profound. Could a teenage girl really be that knowledgeable when it comes to the Word of God? Could the teenage girl really understand Scripture that well? Well, apparently the answer is yes. Because Mary did. And something that's very uh something else that's really interesting about all this, as Mary was Mary was interacting with Elizabeth. We know from what she says in her prayer that her mind went back to a scriptural example. We know she went back to the example of Hannah in the Old Testament. Perhaps she even thought of Sarah, and maybe even of Rachel. Do you know how many times in the Old Testament God used barrenness to demonstrate ultimately his glory Sarah was prom Abraham and Sarah were promised a son. And when they finally received the announcements, what did they do? They laughed because they were so old. Rachel cried out to God. Hannah did the same And when Mary thinks about all this, maybe it's we don't know for sure whether she was thinking about Sarah, but we know that she was thinking about Hannah because she writes about it and she sings about it. In fact, what we find in this passage is that Mary, because she has this reservoir of Scripture in her mind. as she is thinking about all this, is able to respond by taking present-day circumstances and reviewing Scripture and seeing the significance of what was happening. That's called great wisdom at this very young age. She's humble. She has scriptural understanding. And she has, because of those two things, she has wisdom to see to apply correctly the Word of God in her particular circumstances. And to worship God with the Word of God. Elizabeth com uh Mary comes to Elizabeth and she's been pregnant about five months at this at that point, according to Luke 124 And she sees the greatness of God in the life of Elizabeth as well. And then you notice this as you come to 1 Samuel Uh uh as you come, we won't take the time to turn there, but if you'll come to first uh verse forty-six of this passage, you'll notice what he says, what she says. And Mary said, My soul doth magnify the Lord, and my spirit hath rejoiced in God, my Savior. 1 Samuel chapter 2 verse 1 says, And Hannah prayed and said, My heart rejoiceth in the Lord, mine horn is exalted in the Lord, my mouth is enlarged over mine enemies, because I rejoice in thy salvation. It is actually a direct quote from the Septuagint, and it's a clear reference back to 1 Samuel chapter 1. We find later on, then she says in verses 49 through 50, she identifies Christ as the mighty one and refers to Zephaniah chapter 3, verses 16 through 17, which says In that day it shall be said to Jerusalem, Fear thou not, and to Zion, let not thine hand be slack. The Lord thy God is in the midst of thee and is mighty. He will save, he will rejoice over thee with joy. He will rest in his love. He will joy over thee and with singing. Mary was so full of scripture that she identified everything with God's Word and she worshiped with the Word. Do we do that today? You know, with the with the rise of Twitter and Facebook and all these different things, and I you know I use them, I'm not saying I don't, I do. Sometimes I think we're just more concerned about our own opinions than we are what God's opinion is Sometimes I see things uh on Facebook and it's posted, tell me what you think. I'm not saying that's wrong. I'm not saying there's a problem with that. What is your view of this? Well, I mean, none of that's wrong. But sometimes I think we ought to really far be far more concerned about what God thinks. It seems like our favorite thing to do is to give our opinion rather than to know what God's opinion is. How many of you have watched Elf? Everybody in this room, not everybody, but most people. Watch the movie Elf. Remember when um he says to the store manager, he's like smiling real big and uh and the store manager says, Quit smiling and El says, Smiling's my favorite. And the store manager says, make work your favorite. He says, Okay, I'll make work my favorite. I'll make work my favorite. Sometimes I think we need to make scripture our favorite. We're so worried about everything. Let's make scripture our favorite. Let's make the word our favorite. Let's make what God says, what he thinks, our favorite. I I I can get your question after this after the sermon, okay? This is a this is a one this is a sermon is intended to be a one directional conversation. Okay. I'll I'll talk to you later afterwards, okay? No, I mean I just wanted to know if you keep saying Mary what John I'd be glad to talk with you after the service. So what we have here then in this passage is what he's is is that she uses scripture And to uh in God's uh to apply apply what God says. Then we find here a couple of things. Verses chapter 1, verse 41 through 45, and we won't take the time to look at all of these. She refers to many passages, to Isaiah, to 1 Samuel. To Psalms. And we see in verses 41 through 55 that God protects his people and he provides for his people. God promotes his people. And God helps his people. He gets e i that that's what we find here in this passage. And he has revealed himself to the pa to the patriarchs in in 55. We see here in this passage that Mary applies the word of God to her situation in such an amazing way. Now let me ask you this question. What we find here then is we talked about the grace of God and how God bestows grace on Mary's life. And then we have that God worshipped, that Mary worships God. Then there is in between this journey. What is that journey? And I'd like to suggest to you that that journey is a journey of faith. What we find in Mary's response in her humility and in her scriptural understanding is that she responds in faith. And this is really in contrast to another man that were to another person that we find that got that was appeared to. And you remember Zachariah and how he responded? Well, you take your Bibles for just a moment and look at Luke chapter 1, it won't maybe flip a page over, and you're going to see this in this passage. Luke chapter 1, verse 18. And Zachariah said to the angel, How shall I know this? For I am an old man, and my wife is well advanced in years. And the angel answered and said to him, I am Gabriel, who stands in the presence of God, and was sent to speak to you and bring to these glad tidings. But behold, you will be mute and not able to speak unto the day these these things take place, because you did not believe my words, which will be fulfilled in their own time. Can you see a little bit of humor here? Zachariah says, how am I supposed to I I don't know if there was any humor here, but I I sort of see this. Zachariah says to this angel who's appeared to him, how do I know this is going to take place? And Gabriel says, I just told you it's going to take place. I was in the presence of God, and I brought you his word. And he did not, Zachariah did not respond in faith. Zachariah did not now. He ultimately did, and he worshiped God too. But at in the beginning stages, he says, Well, how do I know this is true? And he that's why he was struck mute. And until he actually saw John the Baptist come, he was going he he did he wasn't able to speak. We see a real contrast here. Would you notice in Luke 1. 38 now, would you see Mary's statement after she speaks to Gabriel? Then Mary said, Behold, the maidservant of the Lord, let it be according to your word. And the angel departed from her. She says, let it be according to your word. Do you see the contrast there? I don't believe your word, Zachariah says. Mary says, let it be according to your word. We see this expression of, okay, Lord, it's what you want. And Gabriel, okay, let it be according to what you said. This is a clear expression of faith. Now, what I want us to do is to look at some things about this journey of faith that Mary was on. And I want to begin with this point. That Mary was on a journey of faith that included struggle. Mary's journey was a journey of struggle. Would you notice what it says in chapter 1, verse 29? one twenty nine. It says and when she saw him she was what? She was troubled at his saying and cast in her mind what manner of salvation salutation this should be. Mary was emotionally troubled by what she heard at first. Now that's interesting, isn't it? This troubled is the same kind of trouble that the disciples were, remember in the book of John, when Christ says, I'm going to leave you. She is emotionally troubled over what she has been told. You know, sometimes we think that faith is something where we can't we can't even feel bad about something. Or if I'm going to have faith, well, you know, I ought not to feel too sad about this. And really, did you know that the journey of faith is going to include emotional struggle sometimes? Some of you are going through difficult things in your life. You're going through heartache and trouble. And you know that it is not a it is not a uh uh um a misstep of faith. To recognize that you're just sad, that you're struggling. There is an emotional struggle that is part of the journey of faith. We find this in Mary's life. Her faith included a mental wrestling, considering what manner of green this was. She's like, what in the world is this? She wasn't distrusting. She wasn't doubting. She was just looking at the whole thing and startled, surprised. Are you ever surprised by what God does in your life? She's surprised. She's she's struggling with this. She's like, what manner of greeting I this has never happened to me before. I don't think I've ever heard of this happening before in you know modern times. If you recall, it's been 400 years to that that anybody has been spoken to until this all of these events took place. Now, Mary's faith is a journey of struggle, but secondly, Mary's faith is a journey anchored in the Word of God. Oh, let me let me mention this as well when it comes to the struggle. There are emotional struggles, there are mental struggles, but there are also questions, isn't there? Do you ever question what God is doing? Do you ever question how could that possibly work? Do you know Mary questions? Notice what it says in verse 34. Then said Mary unto the angel, How shall this be, seeing I know not man? She says, now she is not asking a question from like like this is I don't believe you. She's just saying, how is this supposed to work? You ever ask that question in your life? You ever see what God is doing? And you sort of look at it and you go, okay, Lord, I see where I'm at, but how is this supposed to work together? I know your word says God works all things together for good to him that loved the Lord. But how is that, I don't get it. How is this supposed to work? Do you know that that's part of the journey of faith? It's part of the journey to say there's a struggle and I'm struggling with questions and I don't understand. It's okay to do that. It's acceptable. It's not from a point of doubt, how am I ever supposed to believe this, Zachariah says, but from the point of faith, a good, deep faith is going to ask questions. See, there's some people that think that faith is sort of this, well, I just need to check my brain out of the door, and I just need to sort of blindly believe. That's not faith. That is very weak faith. Well, I don't really need to think about this. I don't need to really wrestle with this. I just need to just sort of sort of blind leap kind of a thing. The problem is, folks, is that the Hebrews tells us that faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. Faith is going to reasonable faith, deep faith, true faith is going to ask questions. And you might not always get an answer. But you know what the answer here was? The bottom line, the Holy Spirit's going to come upon you. It's going to happen. And God is the God of the impossible. Nothing's impossible without Him. And you know what for Mary? That was enough. She said, okay, I that's fine. That's if that's what you say, that that that that'll that'll work. God is the God of the impossible What it tells us, folks, is that it's not wrong to wrestle with these things, but at the end of the day, what we need to do is we need to have our faith firmly planted and based upon two things. the word of God and the character of God. And she did that. We see all the passages that she understood and knew and put together. And we see even Gabriel quoting some things from the Old Testament. And we find here finally that he says, Let it be according to your word. She she f her faith is firmly established in the Word of God And her faith is firm firmly established in the in uh in in those things. And then we find uh in in the character of God And then we find that our faith that faith was based upon uh clearly stated confession, and we've already read this confession before But it says in verse uh verse 38, and Mary said, Behold, the ham may of the Lord beat unto you unto me according to thy word. And the angel departed from her. So Mary hears all of this, and it even says in the passage that Gabriel spoke of Elizabeth And said that Elizabeth was also with child. And Mary knew, of course, knew that Elizabeth had been barren and wanting a child for many years. And Mary goes to a to decides I'm going to go and go I'm going to go to Elizabeth. And she takes a 50 year a 50 year, 50 hour, uh 50 uh mile, sorry, 50 mile journey. There. What is then this journey? Well, she begins to reflect on all this. She begins to think about everything that she has been going through. She begins to probably reflect upon her own reputation and could to consider a young uh uh a young girl having a baby and not having not being she's been uh she's been betrothed but not completely married yet. She thinks about Deuteronomy twenty-two, twenty-three through twenty-four, perhaps, which says that this is something that is not acceptable. But of course, this is acceptable because God's w God's word is is doing this, and this is not Uh this is not uh a failure in any way. She has to think about all of this. And folks, I think what we can assume from this, sort of imply from this, is that she was she was with God. I think we can infer from this passage that as as as she was in this journey, she's thinking about all this. Really, when she sings the song, there is this sense of prayer. And so she is contemplating all this, and she sh I I I I have no doubt as she is working through all this in her mind on this long journey, she's praying to God and saying, Lord, how's this all supposed to work together? But there's something else that we see This journey includes sharing faith with both God and with others. Do you see the joyous occasion that she is able to share with Elizabeth? Would you notice what it says there in this passage? Mary arose, verse 39, in those days, and went into the hill country with haste into a city of Judah. and entered into the house of Zacharias and saluted Elizabeth. And it came to pass that when Elizabeth uh heard the salutation of Mary And the babe leaped in her womb, and Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Ghost. And she spake out with a loud voice and said, Blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb. And whence is this to me, the mother of my Lord should come to me? For lo, as soon as the voice of thy salutation sounded in mine ears, the babe leaped in my womb for joy, and blessed uh is she that believes, for there shall be a performance of those uh which were told her from the Lord. And Mary said, my soul doth magnify the Lord. She talks with Elizabeth, and Elizabeth says, I'm with child, and Mary said, and she recognizes that Mary is a child. And the Holy Spirit uh moves upon Elizabeth the reality that this is this is occurring and they're sharing this and they're rejoicing with it over this. And Mary is not so preoccupied with her own that with her own uh bearing that she doesn't recognize God's working in Elizabeth's life, they're sharing what God is doing in each one of their lives. And when then as that happens, she then comes and she's able to express this worship worship to God. You know, in Acts 2. 42, what we find in that passage is that there are several components necessary for true worship, and part of that is fellowship with one another. And fellowship happens when we are able to share with one another what God is doing in our lives. And I would just tell you this, that that's important for us to understand. It's important for us to grasp how we ought to, when we have a journey of faith, it's important for us to understand that We should not be living on an island. Yes, we need to have this relationship with the Lord, but we ought to share with others what God has done in our lives. We ought to share this journey of faith with others. And we ought to be able to rejoice with each other what God is doing. And when we do that, there is this corporate worship that occurs as a result, where we can in unity say, well, how great God is. And that's what we find. So we find here, folks, that God gives grace and it ends in worship. Mary's journey, though, is a journey of faith. And that's where our journey is as well. The Bible says, without faith it is impossible to please him. But he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. So I would have these three questions for us. Number one. Are you constantly recognizing God's grace in your life? See, that's where it starts. Worship uh begins with recognizing God's grace in your life. Number two Heart of humility. Is your heart humble and your thinking scriptural? Are our hearts humble and our thinking scriptural Mary had a humble heart, and Mary knew the word and was able to use the word with wisdom because of her humble heart when it came time to do so. And number three, are you sharing your faith journey with God and others? Maybe you're listening today and you don't know. That journey of faith, because you've never come to a place where you've understood that Christ came and was born ultimately to die for the sins of the world and to rise from the grave. Maybe today would be a day that you would say, I need to accept that by faith. Or maybe you're living your life And you want a greater worship with God, whether it's individual or corporate, you say, I want to worship God greater. In a greater way. Well, if you know Christ as your Savior, you know He's given you His grace. And you know He wants you to worship you, worship Him. What needs to happen? We need to have a humble heart before Him, and we need to know the Word. Let's pray. Father, we thank you, Lord, for the example of Mary. We thank you for the faith, the journey of faith in Mary's life. We know that it all starts with your grace And will ultimately work its way out to an expression of worship, both of our lips and our service to you. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to glean from this passage and from Mary's example the kind of faith journey that we ought to have. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Let's sing the game