Book of Romans, chapter twelve. I have to confess that uh when Pastor Jim slated me for this day, I did not recognize And so as when my wife told me that Four or five days ago, I said, Oh, too late. So in in in a very real way, this is not a Mother's Day message But, as my wife so graciously pointed out to me as well, there are some significant implications that mothers have on our text today. And I think it'll be a powerful illustration for us when we get there. You're there in chapter 12 in Romans Let's go ahead and read that first verse of Romans chapter twelve. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies A living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. You ever heard of the term identity crisis? As a kid, as a teenager, I can remember throwing that phrase around with other people. sort of a joking. It's one of those jokes that as a kid you say and you don't even realize why it's funny. And I can remember throwing that term around. And as I studied and meditated on this message This concept came to my mind. The Oxford Dictionary defines identity crisis like this. Says, a period of uncertainty and confusion in which a person's sense of identity becomes insecure, typically due to a change in their expected aim. Or role in society. A period of uncertainty and confusion in which a person's sense of identity becomes insecure, typically due to a change in their expected aims or role in society. We find our value in how we identify ourselves Whatever we identify ourselves as is what we will feel is most valuable about ourselves. In a conversation when you maybe first meet somebody, especially between men, I know that one of the first questions that will come up is: what do you do? Meaning, what do you do for a living? What's your occupation? And we do that because we really identify with each other by what we do for a living. And many men find their identity in what they do for a living. But back to this concept: whatever we identify ourselves as, whatever we call ourselves. That is what we view as most valuable about ourselves. Therefore, it is important about then how we identify ourselves, is it not? Because if we incorrectly identify ourselves We will have ultimately misplaced our value. And then when we think about this concept, about having our value in our identity. What happens when that thing we value most about ourselves is taken away? Then what You've all probably read about it. You've probably seen it on some TV station, maybe even heard about it on a radio. That that superstar athlete Who for maybe two decades or more just excelled at their particular sport. And then eventually that athlete retires, right? Can't do it anymore. And he has real struggles adapting to that new way of life, not being that superstar athlete And you can probably think of people who have were retired and they came out of retirement, right? They they try, they go back at it again because they just can't figure out how to live apart from being that. baseball player, that football player, wh whatever sport it might be. But really doing that only delays the inevitable. They eventually have to stop. Their body breaks down. It can't compete at that level anymore. Some some of these individuals even experience discouragement. And worst case, even depression. What happened to them? What happened to them? Well, that element about themselves that they valued so much and they found great worth in is now gone. And there's nothing meaningful to take place that identified themselves. How they identified themselves is over. And they have nothing meaningful to replace it with. With this concept in mind, then, with this definition in mind of identity crisis, is it possible that Than for a Christian to have a sort of identity crisis And if so, what does that look like? Let's put it this way. If we as believers have valued something about ourselves that ends up being taken away from us Perhaps our role in this world changes dramatically. Perhaps goals that we had now can never be achieved. These types of events and others lead to confusion and instability. Our foundation, even our bedrock, can be shaken. When you think about it, okay, when you think about it, anything that we value about ourselves, anything, can be taken from us. Anything that we value about ourselves could be stripped from us in a moment. Anything except for one thing. If you are willing to accept it, there is an identity That we have, that no matter what, it cannot be taken away from us. Why do I say if you're willing to accept it? Well, I say it that way because when I said that, when I said there is an identity that we have that no matter what, it cannot be taken away from us. from us. It's what is truly valuable, I guarantee you, it's not what you're thinking. Because right now you're probably thinking, well, my position in Christ can never be taken from. me. Which you're right. It's true. I'm adopted into the family of God. That can never be taken from me. I am, I belong to Christ. And you're right. But may I suggest that that is God's perspective on us and we embrace that reality. What I'm calling us to do this morning Is how do I we identify ourselves from our perspective? Does that make sense? How are we identifying ourselves? And how are we doing it from our perspective? What is our thinking about us? So often what we value about ourselves is what we think about ourselves. Perhaps you are a mother and you feel that that is where you are most valuable, or a wife. Perhaps as a husband you feel yourself as most valuable. Perhaps as a coworker, as a church member, as a brother or sister in Christ, perhaps you are a business owner Any number of things that we are and the roles that we have, that is where we can often gravitate to in order to find our sense of worth. To find a real sense of value. But as we mentioned already, any of those things can be stripped from us in an instant And then what? And then what? What are we left with? What is the one thing that cannot be stripped from us? We are asking the question this morning. How do you identify yourself? And are we identifying ourselves properly? Or are we way off? If you are wondering, where are we going with this? Good. I'm glad that's your question. So let's go to the Lord in prayer and let's unpack this section of scripture. And I believe we were challenged by his word today. Let's pray. Father, we do need your help this morning. I need your help. I can Cannot speak apart from you. So, Lord, I pray that you would use me to only speak your words to convey your truth to your people. Lord, I pray that this message would impact the people of Bethel as it has impacted me. Help me to be clear. Lord, I pray that you would help us to find our sense of worth in the right place. And I pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen. Our text today begins with beseeching or asking. It says that, I beseech you therefore, brethren. There is a call that Paul has as the author of Romans. And we must first look at this one aspect. We are looking at our response to God's glorious and merciful plan. That is the title of this message this morning. And we're looking at how are we supposed to respond? How are we supposed to respond to God's plan and his mercy? We're looking then, first of all, the basis for our response. You see there in our first, in the first section of our verse, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God. So Paul is calling to us, he's exhorting, and he's encouraging us to do something, and it's on the basis of the mercies of God. What does the mercy of God entail in this context? Well, the reality is it encompasses the eleven previous chapters of the this book. And obviously we do not have the appropriate amount of time to deal with all of those 11 chapters. But suffice today is to say and summarize it this way. As so many of the Pauline epistles, the first half of this book is doctrinal in nature. Verses chapters 1 through 11 is doctrinal in nature, and it deals with deep rich theology. It deals with man's sinful state And it deals with the answer to our sinful state. You may even remember just a couple weeks ago when Bob Metz was speaking, he spoke out of Romans chapter 5. Dealing with Christ, dealing with us having peace with God by because we are justified through our Lord and Savior. And then talking about how that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for the ungodly. Ungodly is you and me, that's all of us And we really see then the unfolding of God's plan to save humanity. Romans 3 details in in in graphic nature, the state of our souls, and how and how far removed it is from a holy God. But in chapter 3 and 4 and 5, the hope is there. And he gives us this hope That Christ died for the ungodly, that we might be reconciled unto God. Because Christ has appeased the wrath of God by taking it on himself. And and as you think of our salvation, one of the things that I always consider in my mind when I think of our salvation and and and and a section of scripture like the first half of Romans is is is that I could have never in my wildest dreams come up with a plan. Like God did. I mean, we sang about it today, about the cross. And and the the cruel sacrifice that he undertook, the torture that that goes along with that. And he did that. And it was the only way. God's wrath had to be satisfied, and it was satisfied by Christ on the cross We could not have done that for ourselves. He took our hopeless state and made a way for us to be reconciled to him, and that's out of his love, and we do not deserve it. And when you think about the glory and the majesty of God's plan to save humanity, you just sort of sit back and go, wow. That's amazing. I could have never thought that up myself. Only from the mind of God could that have taken place. And perhaps that's why. No, not perhaps. That is why, at the end of the doctrinal section of the book of Romans, Starting in verse 33 was part of our scripture reading. We'll read it again of chapter 11 in Romans. Paul says this, all the depths Of the riches, both of the wisdom and the knowledge of God. How unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past finding out. For who hath known the mind of the Lord, or who hath been his counselor? Or who hath first given to him, and it shall be recompensed unto him. For and this is the conclusion of the matter. How can this be explained is the question that could sum up those few verses. How can this be explained? Well, it's explained like this, verse 36, for of him And through him and to him, towards him, that is, are all things, to whom be the glory forever. Amen. So we see in great detail and in great majesty the glorious plan that God has. And it's based in his compassion, it's based in his mercy towards us. And this is exactly the basis for Which Paul says, I am now asking you, by these mercies of God, that we've just talked about I'm asking you to do something. In Paul's flow of thought, then there is a reaction that we are supposed to have to the mercy of God. There is a res there it the mercies of God and His plan to save us, it demands a response. Paul is not giving us this doctrinal section, nor does he do it in other portions of Scripture, just so we can have this mental assent to, yes, I know this. And I understand it. And yet it never affects our lives practically. That's never the intent of any doctrine No, the purpose for theology and doctrine is so that it impacts our everyday life. And that's exactly where the author of this book is going to go. Paul moves to a very practical side to discuss how we are supposed to live in light of God's glorious plan and his mercy So that is the basis for our response. But now we move then to the quality of our response. The basis of our response, it's God's mercy. The quality of our response, well, that is a full commitment to Him The quality of our response. It begins in our text with a presentation. More specifically, it begins with the presentation of our bodies. This word to present, it actually can be found earlier in this same book in chapter 6 There, the word is translated yield when it says to uh when it talks about yielding our members as slaves to righteousness, or we could yield our members as slaves to sin That word there is the same word here, is translated present. So it's a giving of oneself over. Now the difference is, back in chapter 6, it talks about yielding our members or yielding portions of our life over. To sin or parts of our life over to righteousness. But here there are no members involved. Here it talks about the body, the entire body And it is reminiscent of the Old Testament sacrifices. When an entire lamb or goat or something, the entire body of that animal would be received as a sacrifice and slain. But here in this passage, it's talking about human bodies, our bodies, and the concepts here then Is one of giving up our whole self, everything that we are. We're not holding anything back, in other words. So we're supposed to present then our bodies, our whole entire bodies. We have this word here, then. It's that we're presenting our bodies as a sacrifice. Now, this word is not foreign to you or me, nor would it be foreign to the readers of this letter, to the Romans. Immediately, when we think of sacrifice, or when they thought of sacrifice, two main things would come to mind, would they not? One we've already mentioned, those Old Testament sacrifices. Such a integral part of the the the devotion that God expected of his people back then. And then, of course, the sacrifice of our Savior, Jesus Christ That whole giving of himself over for the benefit of you and me. That's what obviously comes to mind. But there is a difference Between those sacrifices that we just talked about and the sacrifice that Paul is talking about right here. You see, all of those animals that were Were sacrificed on the altars day after day after day, all of them were slain. They were killed. Jesus, when he offered himself as a sacrifice He literally died on that cross and was buried. His pulse stopped. And thanks be to God, he did not stay in the grave. He rose again But it wasn't until he rose again that he was alive once again. Jesus died, was clinically dead No, Paul is not asking us to offer up our bodies as a sacrifice to be killed. What does it say there? This is a sacrifice that is living. A living sacrifice is what Paul is asking of us That's kind of a strange concept. When you have in your mind sacrifice means death, and that's what it means over and over again, and perhaps That's exactly what the readers of Romans thought. It's like, wow, this is a different concept. And it is a different concept. A sacrifice that isn't slain? One that keeps living? What does that look like? So we see then that the quality of our response. Therefore, the response Our response to God's glorious plan and his mercy is a presentation of our bodies as a sacrifice that is alive. I've been meditating and studying and thinking about this concept. for for m more than months, it seems like. This concept of being a living sacrifice And as you think about that, so many things may come to mind. But one of the things that obviously has to come to mind, especially on this day, Is the type of sacrifice that mothers give on a regular basis every day for their children. I think of my own mother, who many of you know, and she half jokingly says that after I was born her health went south. I am the reason for I am her first child. I am the reason that she has all the health problems that she has today. And she she jokingly says it, but And I mean I can't argue with it either because she was in pretty good health before I was born and and it's been a lot of struggle physically for her ever since then. And I see that in my in my own mom, that she gave up her body And think about in mothers in general. I mean, from the very beginning, I've watched my own wife give her body up to grow a child To grow another human being, that's a bodily sacrifice. And then after the children are born, And they grow a and and they they need to be fed more than once a day. Many times more than once a day. It's incredible how needy these little itty-bitty people are. And yet the mothers are there Ready. It's in the other the other thing that's incredible to me is how I can have this is really bad. I can have a perfect night's sleep when a newborn is is is is born. And my wife will tell me, Miranda will tell me the next day, oh this was a t it was a terrible night. He woke up here and here and here and here and And it was just this bottomless pit that didn't stop wanting something to eat and to be changed. And and then crying for no reason. And I got no sleep last night. Sorry. I I didn't help at all. She gives up her sleep. The mother gives up her body, gives up her sleep. And then they these little people who all they can say is wh and eh They eventually they grow up and they're able to say things. My my littlest one Ezra is now just beginning to pick up on words and And ask for things. And let me tell you, he's got no problem asking. No problem asking whatsoever And many of you mothers and parents in general can relate to this. The more kids you have, the more requests there are. They just they never stop and and I'll be I'll be w working at the computer or or doing something and I'll hear in the background it it all three of them want something at the same time And it stands to reason why did we why did we do this fourth child thing? I don't know. I don't know. That's just one more to eventually ask for things. And who do they go to? They really don't come to dad to ask things. Mommy's mommy's old constantly deflecting. Go ask your father. Go ask him. He's a perfectly legitimate human being that can provide for your needs. And yet they they just want to go to their mother And I wonder if it isn't because they know with their mother she's going to do it for them. Whatever it is. Maybe not on the timetable that they want. But if as a kid, if I have a need, I'm going to my mom before my dad. Now some some children have a leniency to their fathers, but I don't know, in in my experience, all of my siblings, my kids, it's obvious, they go to their mom. And I think it's because moms are so utterly dependable to come through. So no wonder they keep going to their mother. Because anytime she's needed, she's been there, and she's willing to go the extra mile to meet a child's need. Because she sacrificed in the past and she's going to sacrifice in the future. To this day. To this day, it it almost doesn't matter matter what I ask my mom. She's there. Boom. In a heartbeat. She's there to help. Doesn't matter what she has on her plate. I can wait As she would say, her baby needs me. My baby needs me. I'm going to I'm gonna help him. Mothers are an incredible example of what it means to be a living sacrifice. Living primarily not for the benefit of self, but for the benefit of someone else And in many cases, multiple someone else's. When it comes to this idea of what it means to be a living sacrifice, a sacrifice that is alive. Really, the implications of this phrase, they have some unpopular ramifications This term, sacrifice, it really isn't a popular idea when it comes to how we are supposed to respond to God's glorious plan. and his mercy. When your whole life, and that's that's what we're asking, that's what God is asking for. He's asking for our whole life to be a sacrifice. When When we think of that, when our whole life is devoted as a sacrifice to something or someone else, to me there is only one word that really encompasses that idea. And it is tremendously unpopular. You ready for what it is? The best word that I can see that encompasses that idea is Slave. Ooh, slave. That's bad. Slavery That that, you know, ripped America apart and and has very negative connotations with it. Slave. I mean, as a slave, you have no rights, you you have nothing. All you're doing is living for the benefit of your master. That's no fun. There's no freedom in that. No, in the Teen Sunday School class, we're we're going through the beginning of Exodus right now. And we're in that time period when the entire Hebrew race is enslaved by the Egyptians. And they're ruling over them. And they are being treated cruelly, meaning terribly. They're being beaten, they're being whipped, they're being assaulted. And if that wasn't enough, they the paranoid rulers of that day decide, well, your children really don't your your male children don't have any right to be alive, so we're just going to throw them into the You know, when we think of slavery, that's the type of thing that we think. We think of cruel treatment. We think of All these terrible way reasons why slavery is bad. There's no freedom. There's nothing good in slavery. And yet We all stand aghast at the thought that many of the writers of the New Testament, what do they call themselves? Romans chapter 1, verse 1, it says this: Paul, a slave of Jesus Christ, called to be an apostle, separated unto the gospel of God. The word there is typically translated servant, but as many of you already know, that that word is the word dulas, and it means to be a bond servant, a slave. This isn't being a butler for somebody. This isn't being the maid for somebody where you're paid. No, this is slavery. Paul says it again in Philippians chapter 1. Paul and Timotheus, the slaves of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus which are at Philippi, with the bishops and the deacons Titus 1 wall 1 1 Paul says again, Paul, a slave of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ, according to the faith of God's elect, and the acknowledging of the truth which is after godliness. But Paul, isn't it? James chapter 1, verse 1. It says, James, a slave of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad, greeting. Peter, 2 Peter 1:1, Simon Peter, a slave and an apostle of Jesus Christ to them that have obtained like precious faith with us through the righteousness of God and our Savior Jesus Christ. Jude, Jude, chapter 1, verse 1. Jude, the slave of Jesus Christ and the brother of James, to them that are sanctified by God, the Father, and preserved in Jesus Christ and called. They have no qualms about freely admitting who they are to Jesus Christ. It's how they began all of those letters to those people. Can you imagine? You walk up to somebody Say, hey, how are you? Good. All right. Hi, I'm Enrique Lopez, slave of my Master Jesus Christ. How you doing today? And yet this is how they chose to introduce themselves on multiple occasions to their readers. First and foremost, they saw themselves as slaves. And I can think of no better term than that to give us the idea of what a living sacrifice truly is. You know, we would probably never go up to somebody, or even write to somebody, and say Hi, my name's Enrique Lopez. I'm a slave of my Master Jesus Christ. But let's ask a serious question What if we primarily saw ourselves as slaves? Before our occupation, before whatever roles we have in the home Before all of that. What if before any task that we have, before whatever it is that we happen to be very good at? What if all we really valued about ourselves was being a slave? for our Master Jesus. What if to us life was just really about being a living sacrifice? Yes, we have responsibilities. Yes, we have roles. Yes, we may have titles. But that's just surface. And when you get down to the real meat of who we are, we just consider ourselves as slaves. That's how we identify ourselves. It's so easy. And I I see this in my own life. It's so easy. to identify ourselves by what we predominantly do and what comes naturally to us and what we're good at. I gotta say, uh it's been interesting after after um I guess a little over a year now of starting up my own business And side work and such. And sensing the immediate respect that I get from other people when I tell them that that's something that I have done. And you know what the temptation is for me? It's very, very easy to find my identity in the fact that I run my own side business. And it's very easy to become proud about it. Which would be ridiculous because it's God who is has given me the ability to do it. He he put it all together. He made it work out as I look back how over how it happened. And yet can I just be honest with you, the temptation is There, especially when meeting someone new, and especially when they inquire about the things that I'm involved with and that I do, and it comes up, and I see the respect in their eyes. And I just have to take a step back and say, Well Oh that's not all of me. Enrique, that's not what you're all about. You can't just be about that Does it take my time? Do I have to be devoted to it to make it work right? Yes. But I cannot fall into the trap. That's where I really find the most value about myself. What about you? What are you tempted? to identify yourself as. As I look around this room and and I think of the members in our church body, I know that there has to be a variety of temptations. Whether it's being a business owner, which I know there are several here, whether it's that role that you have in the home where you wherever it is that you really get fulfillment That is probably where you are tempted to identify yourself. That's probably where you are tempted to value the most How are we identifying ourselves? So is it possible? Is it possible to have an identity crisis as a Christian? Yes. Yes. And it takes place when we have wrongly identified ourselves. Because when one of those aspects of our lives gets stripped from us that we hold dear, what's left? What's left? So Enrique, you you are asking us To consider the fact that the most valuable thing about us is being a slave Yes, I am. How is that possible? How can that be the most valuable thing? How could anyone view themselves primarily as a slave? I mean, slaves are treated poorly. Well, let's back up a second. Because the experience of a slave, get this now, the experience of a slave. is completely dependent upon the master that they are serving What does Christ say about following him? Turn to keep your finger in Romans, turn to Matthew 11, chapter 11, verse 29. How could anyone see themselves as a slave primarily? Over all the statuses, over all the roles, over all the titles. How could they primarily see themselves just as a slave? Being a slave is bad. Well, it all depends on the type of master that you have. And can I just Say that we have the best master that there is. Jesus says in verse 29, Take my yoke upon you. And learn of me, for I am meek and lowly in heart, and ye shall find rest in your soul. Souls for my yoke is easy, and my burden is light See, the master-slave relationship between us and Jesus is far different from that of a typically earthly slave-master relationship In fact, all the things that Jesus says in those two verses, all the things that he promises when following him, are pretty much exactly the opposite of what you could expect if you are a slave to a cruel. He says that he is meek and lowly in heart. A cruel master is proud and arrogant and in your face and yelling and screaming. And maybe even physically abusing you and beating you, not with Jesus. He says here that you will find rest in your souls. When you're a slave to a cruel master, There is no rest. There is no peace in your souls. There's only turmoil and fear. What's he going to do next? What's going to happen next? How am I going to upset him this time? Not with Jesus. With Jesus there is rest. peace. There is fulfillment in your souls. He says that his yoke is easy and his burden is light. Well when you have a cruel master Your yoke is hard, and the burden is heavy, sometimes more than you can bear So I ask this question if Jesus is not our master And we don't primarily see ourselves as slaves of our Master Jesus Christ, then who is our Master? And it can really only be summed up in a few options. Me, myself, and I. Or, as we even see in Romans 6, sin can be our master. And for someone who is very far gone And most likely not even saved, the devil is his master. Which master do you want? Because those three other masters, they're cruel I mean, most of us, if we're honest, I know myself, my natural inclination is I could figure out my life pretty good by myself. That's the natural man. That's the sinful nature saying I can handle this. But boy, if I had complete reigns of my life If I just took control and did whatever it was that I felt like doing, I'd be a wreck. My leadership would ruin me. Your leadership would ruin you. We cannot be our own masters. We self-destruct when we are our own masters. If sin is our master, oh well that's a destructive path to be on. The wages of sin is death. And if it's not eternal death, then there are physical earthly consequences from our sin. That's a cruel master. We don't want that to be our master. And if the devil is our master, well he hates you. He hates you. He has nothing good planned for you He wants to see you self-destruct. He wants to see your life blown to smithereenes. Certainly you wouldn't want to choose him as your master. And yet, by our daily actions and by what we choose to do Who are we identifying as our master? And maybe it means we're making non Why would I want to serve one of these cruel masters when I have Jesus who wants to be Be my Lord and Master. And his burden is light, and his yoke is easy, and he's not cruel. He doesn't spur fear in my heart. No, he's meek and lowly in heart, and in him I can find peace and rest. Why wouldn't I choose him to be my master? Why wouldn't I identify myself as his slave? It just makes sense, doesn't it? What doesn't make sense is when we choose to serve some other master. This living sacrifice, then, that is our lives Let's be real specific about this. It is not done or motivated by a desire to become right or more right with God. Many, many would read this text and see, oh, especially considering verse 2, which we're not getting to today, because I really wanted to hone in on this particular aspect of Paul's teaching. But when taking this together, there is a lot of focus on on the doing and the being right and and You can tend to get the sense that we're doing this on a performance-based, duty-driven, I gotta be this sacrifice. For God, but let's remember very clearly, this is a response to what God has already done. This is a response to his mercy and his glorious plan that he set forth before the foundation of the world. That's what he did. And this is how we are supposed to respond according to this text. It is done in response to his mercy. So then, this is a sacrifice This living sacrifice, this slaveship, if you will, is a sacrifice of worship And praise. You know, there were sacrifices in the Old Testament that were done to atone for sin. That were done to To appease God's wrath. There were also those sacrifices that were in celebration of God and what he had done and what he had accomplished. That's the kind of living sacrifice that we're talking about. It is a life given over to God that is one of praise and worship to Him. Maybe you've heard Um the concept of well every day should be should be a uh a day that's given over to worshiping God. Well How do I do that? How do I go to work in traffic and then be at work and deal with the drama that's there and then come home from work in traffic And come be home and then deal with the drama that might be there. How do I every day live like I'm worshiping God? That doesn't sound feasible. That doesn't sound like reality. That sounds like pie in the sky. Well, it is feasible. When you identify yourself as a slave to Jesus Christ. Because no matter what it is that you're doing, and no matter what aspects of your life you are doing at that particular time, You see yourself primarily not in that role, not in that title, not in that status, but you see yourself as nothing more than his. And that's it. The rest, it's just details. Reality for you and for me is that I am a slave of the most wonderful master. Ever. And I can handle whatever drama there is, can handle whatever traffic there is, can handle it because I belong to him And he is a kind master. He's meek and lowly, and his burden is light. So your whole life then, in effect, can be one of worship. And that's probably why. Some of the translations, and we'll get more into this in just a second, but some of the translations where it says, which is your reasonable service. That word service in some legitimate translations translates service worship, which is your reasonable worship. As we continue, just want to le bring you to this thought. We ought to be finding our supreme value. Not in our titles, not in our roles, not in our responsibilities, not in what we're good at. We ought to be finding our supreme value in belonging to Jesus, in being that living sacrifice for him, in being his slave. To some, this may seem too extreme To some, it may seem way too radical. This type of commitment is going too far. But to God, this way of life is simply Logical. It's simply the reasonable thing to do. The basis for our response is God's mercy and his glorious plan The quality of our response is full commitment to Him, identifying ourselves as a slave, and the logic, thirdly, the logic behind our response. It's just reasonable. Or in other words, this response just makes sense He says there that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God. And we could have gotten into some of that there too. There's great truth there. But for time's sake, we'll go over that and say this this sacrifice is holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service, which is your logical response. It is your reasonable worship. This word that is used there for service, which is also translated worship It's actually used in the Old Testament, in the Greek translation of the Old Testament, when it says that, and especially in the commands When it talks about worshiping God rather than idols, where it says, Thou shalt not worship them, neither shall you serve them. And this idea of worshiping and serving are linked together very often. Thou shalt not worship them. That's proscu Neo in the Greek translation of the Old Testament. And then serve them. That's our word right here. Letruo, the same word. So this idea of worship and service, they are linked. And that's why we see here then that this word is translated worship. This is, then, to sum that up, this is the logical way This living as a living sacrifice, it is the logical way that you and I display our praise to God. It's by being a living living sacrifice. How do you truly identify yourself What do you see about yourself as most valuable? I leave you with this one thought. We need to find our identity and our supreme value in belonging to Jesus. In being that living sacrifice for him, in being that slave that belongs to him, to our master. Find your identity, your supreme value in being In belonging to Jesus, in being that living sacrifice for him, in being his slave, wherever the road takes you. Wherever the path leads you, never, ever forget who you belong to. He is a master worth serving. Far, far better option than any of the other masters you could be tempted to serve. Ask God today Ask him, are you correctly identifying yourself? Or, if you're not, are you running the risk of having a sort of Christian identity identity crisis. Ask yourself and ask God, are you identifying yourself correctly today? Let's pray. Father We thank you, Lord, for your rich mercies and your glorious plan. That was in your mind before the foundation of the world. You've done for us what we could never do for ourselves You've given us what we don't deserve and withheld from us what we definitely do deserve. And Lord, from your word today, we've seen that You expect us to respond. To not just have a mental assent of these truths But that it would actually affect not just our daily lives, but our whole lives Father, would you create in us the Clarity of thought to know if we are correctly identifying ourselves Lord, help us to recognize that there is no better master to serve than the Lord Jesus Christ. Help us to turn from those other masters that would seduce us. us. Help us to see the the sense the la the the reasonableness of living this way Help us to see ourselves and identify ourselves primarily as your slave. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.