This morning, um we have been in Able to go through on Sunday nights for uh several weeks now, be able to go through the Book of Malachi Now I'm on. And I trust it's been good for you as well. Today we find ourselves in chapter three of Malachi, beginning in verse six And having just celebrated the Lord's Supper, I hope that our hearts are in tune with what God will say through his word today. We have spent time remembering what Christ has done on our behalf. And we focused on the God who has sent him. The book of Malachi really is rich with truth about God. And if we're going to have A close relationship with him. We have to know him. We have to grow in our knowledge of him. And before we go any further, let's go ahead and pray and ask his help. Father, we pray this morning that you would guide and direct as we go through this passage of Scripture. Lord, um there is so much truth about you, uh about us as a people. You know us, Lord. You know us so well. You know our tendencies, our our shortcomings. You know the temptations. You know it all. And Lord, when we look at your words to the people Through the book of Malachi, through the prophet Malachi. We see ourselves often, Lord, and I pray that you would help us to be aware of of your truth and how it would impact us. I ask, Lord, that you give us grace to receive the word this morning. And Lord, I ask for your help for me. I pray that um You would help me to get out of the way that your truth would go forth clearly, and I cast my dependence on you for that. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Have you ever gotten lost? And I don't mean just you took a wrong turn, but I mean genuinely, really lost. Have you ever gotten so far off track that you don't you weren't even sure how to get back Now, I realize in this day and age it's a little less common because of GPSs and because of com our phones and their capabilities and so forth Just out of curiosity, is there anyone in here that still does not use a GPS? Anyone? Please raise your hand. I want to see it. Okay. Okay, there we go. There's one. Alright. That means that me and Rick are the only two people in this room that don't use GPS. It wasn't that long ago that my wife and I we got lost. And you would say yes Because you didn't use a GPS. That may have been so. It was at night. We were we uh had a weekend getaway and um a couple weeks ago and we uh We were in Virginia, unfamiliar territory. We took some back roads to get where we needed to be, and I can honestly say we got lost. We did not know how we got where we were And we weren't really sure how to get back. We had a mat. I used an old old fashioned map. Uh it is still my preferred method of doing it. I'll be and I might be stubborn in this for the rest of my days, but you know what? We got to see area that you wouldn't have seen otherwise. How many of you can say that? Huh? So here we go No, but truthfully, we got lost. And we uh we were making guesses of how to get back and trying to course correct and so forth. And yes, obviously we eventually got back on course, but The um you know the truth is uh it's a silly story and and it really wasn't all that bad, but the truth is spiritually we can end up in the same position. We can get lost without knowing our way back to God. And we find that these Israelites that Malachi, through the Word of God, is speaking to They are lost, and they are really unable to find their way back to God. And the truth is, from the words that we've seen from these people already on multiple occasions on Sunday nights Many of them, perhaps most of them, don't even know that they are off track. You know, when getting lost while driving, the worst situation is getting lost. and not knowing that you're off track. When you do that, you can kiss getting to your destination on time goodbye. You go miles and miles in the wrong direction before you recognize you've even made the mistake. And you know what? In many cases, in many ways, that's what the people of Malachi's day had done You know what? The neat thing is that for the audience of Malachi's message, God is going to provide for them how they can turn back to him. He is saying that there is still hope. That it's not too late. And so it is for any who stray away from God like a wandering sheep. God is ready to receive his children. for those who would turn back to him. Now perhaps you would say today that, well, I don't really think I'm lost or that I'm far away from God And therefore you don't see a need to return to him. Well, that's great. That's perfect. Maybe God would show you otherwise during our time together today. But if that's the case, then I would just encourage you to think of it this way that This message, then, this passage, you could consider it a way to maintain that relationship and that close fellowship with him. This morning there are three ways that God is going to show his people how they can turn back to him. Now this isn't exhaustive. This isn't a complete method for repentance in someone's life. But in this context, for this people of that day, God shows them this way Now we have spent a lot of time this morning already through the Lord's Supper focusing on remembering, right? Remembering Who God is, remembering what Christ has done for us on our behalf. We and from time to time we do this. You know, it's interesting that God, that Jesus would do this Would have us do this on a regular basis. And I think we could all very easily see why. It's because we're very good forgetters, aren't we? We're really good forgetters. In fact, I think we're professionals at it. And God knows that about us. God knows that about us, and so it's why we have a time where we can set aside to focus on the sacrifice that Christ has done for us. And just like we are forgetters, people of Malachi's day were professional forgetters as well. And so the first thing that he is going to do in this passage is remind them of some very important truths. And the first thing, the first item that he's going to remind them of Is he going to recogn that we are to recognize the importance of God's immutability? This is found in verse six. Now Using that word immutability, it's just the fancy word for saying that God is unchanging. He does not change. Let's read it here. In verse 6, it says, For I am the Lord, I do not change. Therefore you are not consumed, O sons of Jacob. Very clearly, very put out there, God says, I do not change. Now, remember in the context, What has God been saying so far in this chat? Let's just talk about this chapter. He's been talking to them. About setting things right. Their quarrel, the people's quarrel with God, was saying that he was unjust. Remember how they would were claiming that there is no justice with God. That where is the God of judgment? You find that question asked at the end of chapter 2, verse 17. God has then therefore answered this question very thoroughly with verses one through five. Saying that God has a plan to deal with the wicked, both with especially within Israel and outside of Israel as well. And then he reminds them of this truth here in verse 6: For I am the Lord, I change not. I do not change, therefore, you are not consumed. What he's saying here is that the fact, the fact that you are not consumed proves that I am unchangeable. What is he saying here exactly? Well, There's a point here that we should not miss in this statement. The point is this, that God, or that excuse me, that Israel deserved long ago to be dismissed, to be consumed. Long before the people of Malachi's day, they deserved to be abandoned by God because they were so unfaithful to him in multiple ways on multiple occasions. God could have been done with them. Nothing in themselves warranted God's faithfulness to them. But what God is saying here is that because of his promise to his people and on the basis of his character, people of Israel are not destroyed. This is because of God's covenant promise that he made to them long ago. It started with Abraham It went to Jacob. Excuse me, it went to Isaac, it went to Jacob, it went so forth and so on as he dealt with Moses. You know, the truth is that when someone makes a promise, that promise is only as good as the person who ke who makes the promise, right? I mean, we make promises, people make promises on a regular basis, but how guaranteed are we that that person will fulfill that promise You know, I'm sure you know of people, and we can think of individuals who said, Yeah, I'm gonna do that, and they failed and they didn't, right? I mean, it happens all the time. I know at times I've meant well and I've said that I was going to do something, but I fail and I didn't come through for the for someone else. But we have to recognize that God isn't that kind of God. He's not like us in that way. God makes promises and he keeps them. 100% guaranteed. What kind of promises are we talking about then? What is he talking about then? Well we could go to multiple places, but some of the places that definitely are in view here, one would definitely be Deuteronomy chapter 4. And if you wanted to turn there, you could. Deuteronomy chapter 4. Verses thirty and thirty-one God will keep his promise to the nation of Israel, and it will not change God's word, just like himself, is unchangeable. Listen to what God said to them back then. He says, When you are in distress, And all these things come upon you in the latter day when you turn to the Lord your God and obey his voice. For the Lord your God is a merciful God He will what? Not forsake you, and what else? Nor destroy you, what else? Nor forget the covenant of your fathers, which he swore to them. Now as we consider the Lord's table that we have been celebrating today, we can actively think On how the fact that God does not change, how that impacts us so greatly. Aren't you glad that through the sacrifice of Jesus on our behalf we are sealed with the Holy Spirit? And our salvation cannot be taken from us. Let me ask you this. If God was a God who changed, could we really be guaranteed a future with Jesus in heaven? Today, we we should and remember and recognize how much Christ has done for us. And what he accomplished for us, what we couldn't do for ourselves, know that the work of Christ is finished. And we are kept in God on the basis of his character. So returning to God for the people of Israel at first involved getting reintroduced to who God really is. As we've seen through this book of the Bible, there are so many portions where where the people of Israel had distorted had a distorted view of God, had reimagined God in their own image. Saying things like, There is no justice with God, and God delights in evil, just flat out untruths, but because of how they viewed the world around them and what they saw That is what they purported God to be and what he was like. But it's not true. God had to reintroduce to them who he really was. The Israelites, they didn't still exist because they were lucky. It isn't because as a nation they made all kinds of right decisions. Actually, far from it. It is on the basis of God's character. and his word that they still are here and God still wants to use them. But there is a second way that God wants to address with them in regards to returning to him. God is going to show them, tell them, that they can return to Him. And it starts, number one, with recognizing the importance of God's immutability. But number two It's to recognize that withholding from God is robbery. Withholding from God is robbery. Look what it says here now in verse 7. Verse 7, Yet from the days of your fathers you have gone away from my ordinances and have not kept them. And look what it says here, return to me, and I will return to you, says the Lord of hosts. But you said, in what way shall we return? You know, where it says here, Yet from the days of your fathers you have gone away. God is saying that their track rec record as a nation, as far as following God, is very poor. Consistently, they have not kept the laws and the duties that God expected of them. But he tells them, even now, it is still not too late. for them to return to him even after all this time. He tells them, return, come back to him. Some suggest that this question, where they ask this this another example of divine argumentation where it says But you said, in what way shall we return? Some suggest that this is an insincere question. Some say that, well, this is just they they they are They are uh declaring that they're innocent here. I don't believe that's the case. I do believe that there is perhaps in this argumentation there is a desire, even if it's a small one To know, for them to know want to know the way back to God. But sincere or insincere, God is about to show them in even more detail The road back to God. It says here in verse 8, Will a man rob God? Yet you have robbed me, but you say, in what way have we robbed you? God answers there in tithes and offerings. Isn't it interesting to see that God equates holding back tithes and offerings from his temple as robbery? He regards beholding back, withholding tithes and offerings from the temple as robbery. Everything they had came from God already. So it was like they were stealing from God to not give back some to Him. And this is an important distinction for us to make also. How do we view our wealth? How do we view our possessions? Do we carry the mindset of greed where it makes us cling to our things? Do we look on them with pride, looking at how hard we work to earn all that we have? Or instead do we recognize that it is God who has truly given all, and even will uh the will and ability to work and gain what we have gained It all really belongs to him. We really are just giving some of it back to him. You know, God had in that day very important purposes behind the tithes and the offerings. There was a system that God had put in place Namely, all the tenth of the remainder after their first fruits were paid, they were supposed to give a tenth to the Levites for their support. And a tenth paid by the Levites were supposed to go to the priests. Another tenth paid by the people for the Levites, their own families, and the tabernacle. There was Every third year even part of that portion of that tithe was supposed to go to the to the poor. That comes from uh Deuteronomy 14, 28 and 29 And the offerings also, this was supposed to happen, so that everything in the temple were was able to function properly When they didn't, when they didn't do their duty, when the people didn't do what they were supposed to do in this. Not only God was defrauded, of course. But also they were robbing God through the service of the i the Levites. They were not able to do what they were supposed to do. So Levites and priests would not receive the tithes and offerings because nothing was coming in. They would have to turn to other means of supporting themselves. And as a result, the temple ministry would end up suffering. Verse 9 here it says that you are cursed with a curse, for you have robbed me even this whole nation You know, there's a quote here by one of the commentators that I read. I think it's up on it'll be up on the screen here in a moment. It says, No man ever yet lost by serving God with a whole heart. Nor gained by serving him with half a one. I think that's true. We haven't lost anything when we serve God with a whole heart. And you know what? We can fall into the trap of thinking that. I believe the people of Malachi's day, they fell into that erroneous type of thinking. They thought that they'd be losing something or missing something if they devoted themselves wholly to God. But the very opposite is true. When you devote fully everything to God, you gain everything. Now, what is this curse being talked about here? You are cursed with a curse, for you have robbed me, even this whole nation. We won't take the time to look at this entire chapter, but Deuteronomy 28 really puts together very well This blessing and curse arrangement that God had. In the first 15 verses of that chapter, they were the blessings that God promised to them if they obeyed. And then from verse 16 to the rest of the the end of the chapter, it's devoted to the promise of curses upon the people and the land for their disobedience. What they were experiencing in that day should not have been a surprise. God had told them already. If you disobey, there will be a curse upon you and your land. What the people of Malachi's day were experiencing, it should have been expected. God had laid it out plainly. You know, as we consider, as we have just celebrated the Lord's table today, and we marvel, we truly marvel at how much God has done for us through his son. Could we then not flip that and turn the pointer around to ourselves? How much? How much have we been giving to God? How much perhaps have we been withholding from God? Romans 12, 1 says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies, what? A living sacrifice. holy, acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service. I'm always it always causes me pause to think of that phrase, living sacrifice Because what it what is that? A living sacrifice. A sacrifice is when something is uh an animal was slain, right? Sacrifice is when Jesus was slain for on our behalf. What does it mean to be a living sacrifice? You know the closest term I think that we could even come to that would make sense? Would be slave. Be slave, living fully for the benefit of one's master. That's what a living sacrifice is. God wanted his people. To remember that it was based, yes, on his character, that they still exist as a nation. He wanted them to know that their inaction in their tithes and offerings was actually robbery. But he also wanted them to know the true benefits of returning back to him. And that's our third point here. God wants, in order to return to God, we must recognize the true benefits of returning to him. Look at what God says in these next three verses. This is phenomenal to me. Verse 10: bring all the tithes into the storehouse. That there be may be food in my house. And try me now in this, says the Lord of hosts, if I will not open for you the windows of heaven, and pour out for you such a blessing that there will not be enough room to receive it What is he talking about about bringing the tithes into the storehouse? Well the storehouse referred to that special room or th those specific rooms in the temple that were kept, that's where they kept the the grain that was tithed. And this idea of being poor out, where it says, pour out for you such a blessing That word pour out, it means there's a vessel of a liquid. It means a complete emptying out of the contents. Till there sin till there's nothing left in it. In other words, there is no blessing that would be kept back from them So when God asks them, where it says here also, where it says, and try me now in this, or you may have a translation that says, put me to the test. When God says that to him, to them, it's really reminiscent of those first 15 verses in Deuteronomy 28. Do what I ask you to do. Obey me. Try me out and see if I don't hold true to what I said to you before. Just see. Just see. Obey. And see if I don't do exactly what I said I would do for you. These blessings, these blessings that are found in in in Deuteronomy twenty eight. Would include agricultural prosperity, would would be good crops that would be protected by pests and other things. Their vines would be undamaged. And ultimately They would have a good reputation among the nations. These blessings that God promised to them, they simply are awaiting obedience. Now, what we don't want to do is be reckless with this passage as we apply it to us today We don't want to say that if we tithe properly, then God would bless us with all the money and the possessions that we could ever imagine having. We can't apply Old Testament promises to Israel to us today. But what can we do? What can we apply to ourselves? Well, we number one, we have to remember that verse 10 falls within the greater answer to what question? How shall we return to you? God is just specifically telling them, look at what I want to do with you as my people. I want to overflow you with blessings, with provisions, with things that are good for you. So much so that the nations around you, they will see God's good hand upon them. God is essentially saying, Try my way, put me to the test, and I will prove to you that what you will have will be more than enough. You know what we can gather from this ultimately? God truly enjoys blessing his children. He wants to bless you. He wants to provide for you. He wants to make every provision for you. And we have New Testament verses and passages that talk about that. James chapter one, verse seventeen, says, Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, and cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness, neither shadow of turning. Jesus himself, during his ministry, says things of this nature when he says in John 10:10, I am come that they might have life. And that they might have it more abundantly. So we shouldn't think it wrong when God does prosper some of his people. But God's point in all of this, in blessing his people, isn't just for us ourselves to enjoy. Nor do we erroneously think that because God is blessing us, we are somehow more important to God or more special to Him. That would be the early stages of pride in our hearts But I would invite us all, as we're sitting here remembering the the uh the the the death of our Savior on our behalf. Look at where you are now. Look at what you have. Look at what you have around you. Look at who you have around you. Is God not good? Yes, God saves us, right? But amazingly, He doesn't stop there. And to me, that is amazing. Because How much? How much did God do for you and for me when he reached down and plucked our souls out of the pit and brought us into his family? How much did he accomplish for you? I mean, when you think about it, it's more than you could have ever asked or say thought. It's more than you would have ever hoped for. To think that us, our unworthy souls, our undeserving spirits, God would come down and rescue us from that And put us, adopt us into his family. What a thing to think about. What a thing to remember, right, on a regular basis. And if that's all God ever did, wouldn't we have enough to be grateful for for the rest of our lives? And yet he doesn't stop there. Does he? He doesn't. He didn't Regardless of whatever turmoil we perhaps endure, whatever tragedy might befall us at times, God continues. To bless us in our lives after we are saved. Look at what you have. Look at who you have around you. Isn't that not amazing? We can truly get up every day and think to ourselves, wow, I've been given another day from God. And I've been given all these other things that I can enjoy, and all these people that I can enjoy. What a great God that we serve. God enjoys blessing his children. God necessarily at some times does need to discipline his children. And that is what we find in the Book of Malachi, is it not? He seeks to restore his people to himself And so he is warning them, telling them the road to come back to him. Look what else it says here in our passage today. says that I will rebuke in verse eleven and I will rebuke or corrupt the devourer for your sakes, so that he will not destroy the feud of fruit of your ground, nor shall the vine fail to bear fruit for you in the field, says the Lord of hosts. What does it mean? He says, I will no longer rebuke or no longer corrupt. See, this again goes back to those uh blessing, uh promises of blessing and promises of cursing, depending on their obedience or disobedience. He's saying if they return to him He will no longer corrupt the ground. He will no longer corrupt the vine. He will no longer corrupt the work of their hands. He will stop that And what's the result? Verse 12. And all nations will call you blessed, for you will be a delightful land, says the Lord. The implication here is that God would actively chastise them by making the fruit of their labors corrupted. God is saying he would no longer do it. And outsiders, outsiders would look into the nation of Israel and see that. And they would be delighted by it. And they might even want it. So, as we again are celebrating the Lord's table today, think of your salvation. Realize that God could have stopped blessings on your life right then, but he didn't. Think of all that he has lavished upon us, upon us as individuals, upon our families, upon us as a church body. Has he not done the same? He has. But God's goodness upon us, we must remember this, as we see in verse 12: God's goodness upon us is not just for us. God's goodness upon us is not just for us. It is so that we can be that salt and that light that this world needs. So that we can be able to show what our God is truly like to others. So as we conclude this morning, We've read this passage. We've seen these things about God, about the people. What can we take away? We need to consider these three things as we celebrate Lord's Supper and His sacrifice for us. Number one, we are loved by an unchanging God. His promises to us Just as they were to them, they are sure, they are sure to us as well. We serve the same God that lived at that that uh that was with those people back then He is unchanging. Number two, God has given us so much in salvation and beyond. Why would we withhold anything back from him? That really doesn't make sense, does it? He deserves everything we have. He deserves all of us as a person. And as a group of believers together, as this local representation of the body of Christ, he deserves every All of every one of us. Number three, when we live this way, Our life can be more abundant. And when we do that, we show the world what our God is like, providing opportunities to share the truth and the gospel with them. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you. We thank you for who you are in your character, and we thank you that you are unchanging It is true that just like the on the basis of your character, you did not consume the people of Israel. On the basis of your character, you save us and you keep us in your fold. Lord, you have lavished upon us in salvation through the death and of your son, the sacrifice of your son. And you have lavished upon us beyond that as well. We have so much to be grateful for. Help us, Lord, then, to not be people who hold anything back. Whether it's our materi our possessions, the people we love most dear, or even our finances. Or even our energy and our time. Help us, Lord, to be people who give it all to you. And Lord, as we do that, we see in your word that when we live this way We show others what you are like. And I pray, Lord, that that would cause us to give people an accurate representation of who you are That we would have opportunities to share your truth with them, to share the gospel with them, and ultimately further your kingdom in this world today. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.