Take your Bibles and turn to Philippians chapter three this morning. Philippians chapter three. As I'm sure you are well aware of, we are living in a day, an information revolution. We've had the Industrial Revolution prior to this, and now we are really living in what can easily be called an information revolution. And as we are living in this world where there is constant information that is accessible, and we are exposed to all kinds of information from every side. And have the ability to access information so easily, it increases the possibility that we might receive wrong information. You know, it's sort of like the old adage, just because it's on the internet doesn't mean it's true. And the truth of the matter is that is the case when it comes to um when it comes to to right thinking and right influences in our lives as Christians When we go through social media or when we're accessing various things on the internet, it could be very easy for us To get information and to assimilate it in a way where we say, you know, that seems true and establish it as truth, and before we know it, we're actually off into some sort of false doctrine. Everybody has the ability now to sort of put up a blog or uh post things on Facebook or other social media, Instagram, Snap you you younger ones tell me that Facebook is for old people. So it's Snapchat and Instagram and things like that, right? So so you put things on on uh on on those different kinds of social media and people read them and there's all kinds of debates on all kinds of different subjects. And clearly the possibility that a Christian could be confused has increased exponentially, wouldn't you say? Well, there's always been confusion when it comes to doctrine and truth and right thinking. And that was the case of the first century as well with the church at Philippi. The Church of Philippi had not yet been wrongly influenced in their doctrine, but the possibility was increasingly great that they were going to be influenced by a certain group of people. That had a kind of a doctrine that was really close to theirs, but was just a little bit off. Those are the most dangerous kind, by the way. It's not the the the cults that are obviously wrong that deny the deity of Christ and deny the atonement and those kinds of things. It's those it's those those theological Uh systems or groups of people that would just be slightly off. Those are the ones that are the most dangerous. Let me ask you a question this morning Why do Christians fall away from the faith and fall into false doctrine? Why does this happen? If you think of somebody perhaps, and I know of a couple of uh folks here that have friends that you they never they told me they never would have expected that these people fall into false doctrine How how is it that that occurs? How does that happen? Let me ask you another question. If somebody were to come to you and say, look, I know that there is a pervasive possibility of false doctrine entering into my thinking because I have these influences. What can I do to protect protect myself? What would you say? How would you encourage them to protect themselves? You might say, well, you need if you read these systematic theologies, you read these books on apologetics, this will help you. And certainly there would be a place for that. If you would just understand the nuance details of the doctrines of Scripture in a very clear way, it will help you. Or maybe if you will study that particular false doctrine and understand the difference between false doctrine and true doctrine, that will help you. And the Apostle Paul does this with the same group of people in the Church of Galatia in the book of Galatians. And in that book, he goes over our the the the true doctrine of the faith of Christ and by grace through faith alone. So there's a place for that. But in this case the Apostle Paul is going to Deal with the problem of the same group of people, the Judaizers, and he's going to deal with them In helping them to understand with the with the Church of Philippi, and he's going to help them to prevent the wrong influence of Judaism, but he's not going to do it by Detailing out the doctrines of the grace of God, he's going to do it by a different avenue He's going to help them to understand the kind of attitude and perspective that they need to have in order to prevent themselves from having the influence of wrong doctrine in their lives. Let me ask you this question. Got a lot of questions this morning. So what's this? Let me ask you this question. Why do you think people, we've asked it already, why do we think you think that people fall from the faith? And I'll tell you this, it isn't usually an intellectual problem. It is the fact, folks. that whether we like it or not, we want to believe what we want to believe. People believe what they most want to believe. That's really the case. People believe what they most want to believe. The core issue, the base issue of our belief system has to do with what we want. Now, if that's true, that people believe what they want to believe, then what would then be the root problem? Folks, the root problem would have to do then with whether or not they are going to trust self trust. Which is pride, or whether they're going to be in a place of humility. And that actually brings us to our passage This morning. We have been looking in chapter two at the at the overarching importance of humility as we follow the example of Christ. He condescended and became a man and went in humility and obedience to the death of the cross And now, not distinct from chapter 2, now we get the chapter 3 as a continuing outflow of chapter 2, and now he's going to deal with the church of Philippi and to help them to understand how can they they can prevent against the against the wrong influences of the Judaizers that are coming. They're coming. They're going to be there. There is the possibility of wrong influence. How can they deal with this? And what is the right approach to this? And it's going to be very interesting. and how Paul helps them to deal with. In fact, there are really five points that he is going to give to help them to understand Five points of attitude that to help them to understand how they can prevent themselves from having wrong influence. Folks, all five of these are things that can help us as well. Because the reality is We might think to ourselves, you know, I'm really set in doctrine. I I you know I I got my statement of faith in my mind. I've got it I've got it really settled. I'm not going to be able to be dissuade doctrinally, but the truth of the matter is it's it's over a lot of time that this happens And it happens, it begins with the heart most of the time, not with the mind. And the heart begins to want certain things. Or think certain things, or be impressed by certain certain things. And before you know it, as Romans chapter 1 says We actually either make ourselves God, we make creation God. The problem is that God is no longer God in our lives. So there is an inseparable link between pride and false doctrine as a possibility. Now, with all of that in mind, we let's go to the Lord in prayer, ask his help on our time together, and we're going to get into the background of the text and then get into the text as well. Let's pray. Father, we come to you this morning and we pray. That you would help us, Lord, to rightly divide your word and to understand how it is that we can avoid having The problem of evil and wrong influences in our thinking help us to understand how we can prevent that actually by having the right kind of attitude. And Lord, I pray that you would just teach us the things that you want us to know and help us to apply them to our lives on a practical level. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Amen. Well, as I mentioned already, the the people that Paul is concerned about in this passage is the Church of Philippi, and he's concerned with the people that are coming to the area probably soon. the Judaizers. Now, when we went through our series in Galatians, actually we ended that series about a year ago or so, probably a little bit over a year ago We discussed the Judaizers a lot. But just to remind you a little bit about what they believed, I want to note this that the that they really they didn't believe all that differently. From those who were genuine, uh doctrinally sound Christians in the first century. The focus that they had that was different had to do with the need, in order to be saved, the need to be circumcised. And in order to gain merit with God, to gain favor with God, the need to follow various diets and days in the law. Those were the two areas. We find really the central subject of this issue is found in Acts chapter 15. And you could turn there or you could just listen, but in Acts chapter fifteen I want to read a few verses, beginning in verse four, where it says, And when they had come to Jerusalem, they were received by the church and the apostles and the elders And they reported all things that God had done with them. But some of the sect of the Pharisees, the Judaizers actually, who believed, rose up, saying, It is necessary to circumcise them and to command them to keep the law of Moses. Now the apostles and elders came together to consider this matter. And when there had been much dispute, Peter rose up and said to them, Men and brethren. You know that a good while ago, God chose among us that by my mouth a Gentile should hear the word of the gospel and believe. So God, who knows the heart, acknowledged them by giving them the Holy Spirit, just as He did to us. What Acts 15 is explaining was that the problem, and Peter finally there were there all these disputes going on, even among the apostles and the elders that were there meeting. to deal with this problem. And then Peter finally says, look, we've already seen what God has done with the Gentiles. He has given the Gentiles his spirit, and they didn't follow the law. They followed the the the the true Jesus true Christ and a belief in him and who he is and what he did, they followed that. And as a result of that, they were saved. They they trusted that it was by faith alone. and they were saved. We know how God has already worked, and that is what we need to establish as essential for salvation. And really also essential for gaining favor with God, that there is nothing else that is necessary to gain favor with God except by faith alone. Now, the Judaizers were that way, and they had a subtle false gospel. Paul in Galatians chapter 1, if you recall, from verses 6 through 7, explained this. It says, I marvel that you are turning away so soon from him who called you in the grace of Christ to a different gospel. Which is not another, but there are some who trouble you and want to pervert the gospel of Christ, it says the It's talking about the same gospel of a different kind. And we won't go into all that means, but the application of this, folks, is this there were subtle differences. Also, to note, they we need to understand that these Judaizers looked so similar to the Jews that they were actually avoiding persecution. Now, as you may recall, in the first century when the church was inaugurated in Acts chapter 2, and people began to meet as a church. At first, the Roman Empire really viewed them as a sect of Judaism. They really didn't see any major difference. And the Roman Empire were their assimilators, so they allowed any kind of religion at all. And so there was really no persecution from the Roman Empire. The Christians actually were persecuted by the Jews in the first century in the beginning. As time went on, it became apparent and obvious that the that the Christians were different than the Jews. They were first of all, they were evangelizing, they were proselytizing, they were going out in an aggressive manner, and people were coming to Christ. But also they had this message that was exclusive, that that separated them from every other kind of religion. They said that Like in Acts 4. 12, it says, Neither is there any salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. There was this exclusiveness about Christianity. Now, when that became a clear um a clear thinking in the in the Roman Empire, they began began then to persecute The Christians. But because the Judaizers believed in circumcision and keeping the law, the Judaizers got the quote-unquote advantage of not being persecuted. Now, this then became a compelling reason to join the Judaizers. Does that make sense? And so it's important for us to understand that as we go through this as well. The other thing The Judaizers were very big on is establishing their own credibility by their human accomplishments They they would talk about who they were from and what tribe they were from and how they followed the law. They were constantly looking at their their accomplishments and telling people about their accomplishments to establish their credibility. They were pharisaical in that. Now, all of that is important to understand as we now get into the text of Philippians chapter 3, and we begin to ask the question How are the church, is the church of Philippi supposed to, how are they supposed to prevent themselves from being wrongly influenced by this? And you are probably going to be surprised by how Paul begins. Notice what he says in chapter 3, verse 1. Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. Did you catch that? The very first thing that he says to the church of Philippi is that you need to rejoice. in the Lord. You say, what does that have to do with defending against these Judaizers? Why would that matter? We know it matters because he actually says for me to write the same things to you is not tedious. It's safe. There is this safety that he's talking about when it comes to rejoicing. Now he has talked a lot about rejoicing. And the very first thing that he says, the very first attitude that is necessary to make sure that they do not become susceptible to, let's call it this, stinking thinking, is to rejoice in the midst of calamity. Now he has talked about this a lot. He's already mentioned this in chapter 1. He's also mentioned in chapter 2, verse 28 and 29. In chapter uh now he's in chapter 3, verse 1. He's going to say, rejoice the Lord always in chapter 4, verse 4 He has mentioned this idea of rejoicing in the midst of suffering and calamity over and over and over and over throughout Philip the church of the throughout Philippians. This is a major theme. And yet he is now at this point saying, I know I keep saying this a lot. He said, but it's not laborsome. It's not tedious for me to say this to you. He says, he says, I need to keep saying this to you because this is the place of safety for you. Let me ask you a question. Have you ever considered the idea that learning to rejoice in the Lord, not in my circumstances? Not in the good things that are happening to me or the bad things that are happening. Not in anything but the Lord. He's very clear. Rejoice in the Lord. In the Lord. That God is more than enough for you. That God is all sufficient. That a relationship with Him will bring you the joy that you need. Rejoice in the Lord. Have you ever considered the fact that that is actually keeps you in a place of safety? That's what the passage is saying. It is actually an attitude that keeps us in a place of safety. Now there's an obvious reason for this for the Church of Philippi. They were being persecuted. If they believed in the Judaizer's work, they're not going to be persecuted anymore. They were going to have to learn to rejoice in the Lord if they were not going to be susceptible to the temptation. And folks, when it comes to our lives as Christians, when it comes to our our the possibility of being deceived, Or to having bad thinking, or to have thinking that the grass is greener on the other side, and all those kinds of things. The antidote to that is Learning to rejoice in the Lord always. And again, I say, rejoice. We must learn this. How does a Christian stay stalwart and stable in his faith? How does a Christian keep growing and maturing and thriving in the midst of a perverse and wicked generation How does this happen? It happens, folks, when we learn to continue to always rejoice in the Lord. And so I would ask you this question, are you learning this? Is this something that you've ever realized is an attitude that keeps you safe? And if you haven't, let me just encourage you this way. Realize that if you are not rejoicing in the Lord, in the midst of your suffering, In the midst of your calamity, in the midst of your struggles, then you are opening yourself up to wrong thinking. To thinking that is not of the Lord. He's going to say later on in Philippians chapter 4, he's going to see, think on things that are true and good and holy, and of good report. He wants the Philippians to think right about things. Well, the key, folks, to thinking right is to learn to rejoice in the Lord, and here it is a command to do so. Well let's go on to the second one. He not only says, rejoice in the Lord, because it is a place of safety for you, but he also wants them to be aware. He wants them to be alert. He wants them to be on guard in chapter two. He wants them to be to understand that he you you gotta be aware of your environment. I remember my grandfather told me that growing up You know, little boys are not always aware of their environment. Little girls are not always aware of their environment either. But little boys are not always aware of their environment Right, they sort of just sort of get stuck in one thing and doing one thing all the time. My grandfather always used to say look When you command troops someday, you're gonna have to be aware of your environment. I don't know I've never commanded troops, but uh you've got to be aware of your environment. You've got to look around, you've got to know what's going on, you've got to pay attention And uh and that's a good advice. Well, as Christians, we've got to be aware of our environment. We have got to be aware of the things that are happening in our society and happening in our culture that could possibly influence us wrongly. And he says you need to be aware. Now what he says in verse 2 is that we need to be aware in a couple of different And he says he uses three different terms here to describe the Judaisers. Now I want to mention before we get into this that what he's going to use is extreme irony. You remember what irony is? Paul likes to use irony. He almost he does it in just about every every one of his epistles at some time or another. He teaches in a way that is really opposite of what the people, his opponents Are wanting to accomplish. There's this irony involved in what he is saying, and you'll see that as we look at verse 2. He begins, first of all, by saying, beware of dogs. See, beware of dogs. Where does that come from? Well, understand, first of all, that that that some of you are dog people and some of you are not. Which one of you are more biblical? The dog people or not? Honestly, and I'm actually a dog person, I like dogs. The people that are not dog people, you are more biblical. And the reason that you are more biblical is that back then they never saw dogs as pets. Now, I'm just kidding about that. But they didn't see dogs as pets back then. They saw them as almost vermin. They were dirty, they were nasty, they licked you when they they still do all this. But anyway, when you And they were just really not very pleasant, and they didn't see them that way. They would eat from the scraps of the table. They would they would be the you know they were c you know this was the way they they kind of s they're kind of like coyotes of our day. They're just not really pleasant pleasant to think about or to or and that's the way that that that they would have seen this kind idea of dogs. It was an insult to the church to to the Jude There's no question about it. But more importantly than that, it it was actually how Jewish people referred to Gentiles. In fact, in Mark chapter 7, 20 verse 27, it says, Jesus says to this a woman there, let the children be filled first. For it is not good to take the children's bread and throw it to the little dogs. He's actually talking about genitiles. So so gen So what did the Judaizers not want to be? They didn't want to be Gentiles. And yet, yet, yet Paul is saying that that's exactly what you are. You are spiritual Gentiles by what you believe. That would have immediately gotten the Church of Philippi's attention. They would have gone, huh? Wait a minute. I thought they were trying not to be Gentiles That's why they're following the diet and days. That's why they're following the circumcision. I thought they're not trying to be Gentiles. No. They actually, by what they are doing, are becoming spiritual Gentiles. And we're going to understand what that means in a few moments. Number two, look at what it says: beware of evil workers. That's also a point of irony. These were the people that were working the law. And even Paul says in Romans chapter seven the law is good. And they're trying to do the works of the law Evil workers was actually a phrase that was used of Gentile people who didn't do the law. And the Apostle Paul is turning on his head and saying that you, the Judaizers, they are the ones that are the evil workers. And then he says the mutilation. Mutilation is a reference to paganism. Back in that day, and really even today to some degree, you have those who would mutilate their bodies as a as a pagan practice. Do you remember in um Elijah's time when he went up on Mount Carmel and he he sacrificed and Do you remember what happened there? In 2 Kings chapter 18, verse 28 it says, so they cried, the false prophets talk about, they cried. and cut themselves as as was their custom, with knives and lances unto the blood, and the blood gushed out of them. They were worshiping And that was a common practice in paganism, and he is actually saying, by what you are doing in circumcision, You are doing it's like pagan mutilation what you're doing. Paul is not mincing words here. He's not sugarcoating anything. He's not even being tactful here, actually. He is being rather untactful. Is that a word? Rude? Now he's not being rude to the point of of sin. We know that. This is straight scripture. But he is obviously being very blunt in what he is saying. He's being very clear in what he is saying. He does not want this church of Philippi to have anything to do with these Judaizers, and he's being very clear about that. And he says, look, you've got to be aware. You've got to understand that these people are dangerous. It's not as though that you can sort of um you know pick some things and not others. You know, if we were uh they're talking in uh Jeff was talking in in his Sunday school class about reading books. Every book you've gotta chew the meat and spit out the bones. You've got to take what's good and and if there are things that aren't, you've got to you gotta realize that He's not saying do that with the Judaizers. He's not saying, well, you know, some of their teaching is good. You've just got to be careful. He's not saying that he's like, it's dangerous. Be aware of how dangerous this is So the second point of application he makes to them is: look, be aware. And you and I need to do the same thing. We've got to be aware, folks. of the things in our lives that could influence us the wrong way and influence, frankly, by way of application, our kids the wrong way. Be aware. Number two, or number three rather, num in the in the third verse here We've got to clearly in contrast understand the nature of our faith. Look at what it says in verse 3. Now I urge you also, true companion. Now that's verse that's chapter four. Look at verse three of chapter three. For we are the circumcision who worship God in the Spirit, rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh. He says, for we are the circumcision. Now again, he's using irony. He's using a lot in irony. But the Judaizers would have wanted to be called the circumcision. He says, No, actually, we are the circumcision. What is Paul saying when he says to the Church of Philippi, we are the circumcision? Paul was actually often accused of rejecting the Old Testament at hand. In Acts chapter twenty-one, verse twenty-one, it says that they have been informed about you, that you teach all the Jews who were among the Gentiles to forsake Moses, saying that they ought not to circumcise their children, nor to walk according to the customs. So he was accused of this often because he was saying you do not have to follow the follow circumcision and the diets and days and all that. Now he's saying you are the circumcision He actually says in the book of Galatians, with when referring to the church of uh not to the church and to the Judaizers, he actually says in that context that you are Israel, you are new Israel or spiritual Israel. Folks, what is the issue here? Folks, the issue has to do with external versus internal. What he is saying here is that you are the internal, you are internally, you are spiritually Israel. Now I want to be clear about this. There are there is in theology there is a large spectrum of people of And the issue of of continuity with Israel, the church's continuity, discontinuity with Israel is probably the most debated uh theological topic in the church that's a gospel preaching church. And there's different there's different views on this. Clearly, folks, we find in Revelation chapter 20 that Israel does, the church rather does not replace Israel completely. Christ is going to come again, he's going to set establish his kingdom. He's going to work with the nation of Israel in doing so. And so to say that He He replaces Israel uh with the church is not is not biblical. You have to avoid certain passages of scripture to come to that conclusion. However, on the other hand You also have to avoid certain passages of Scripture to say that there is no continuity between Israel and the Church But understand this: the continuity between Israel and the church is clearly internal. That we, as the church, are the people of God. And that happens from an internal transformation. And the Bible actually, in the book of Jeremiah, prophesies that this is going to happen. Jeremiah chapter 9, verse 25 says Behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, that I will punish all who are circumcised with the uncircumcised. He actually points that out. And there are many other passages we could go to, but for the sake of time, perhaps the most uh clear passage that we could refer to is Romans chapter two, verses twenty eight to through twenty-nine where it says, for he is not a Jew who is one outwardly, but is nor is circumcision that which is outward in the flesh. But he is a Jew who is one inwardly. And circumcision is that of the heart in the spirit. Not in the letter, whose praise is not from men, but from God. When he says you are the circumcision, he is saying you are the spiritually pure people. You are the ones on the inside that have been spirit purified spiritually by the Spirit of God. And that really leads us then to the next phrase in chapter 3. It says, who worship God in what? In the Spirit. How do you worship God? You worship God in the Spirit. Christ said this. Remember when he was talking to the woman at the well in John chapter 4 and he John she said, Where should you worship here or there? And Jesus says, no, those, he says, it's coming a day where it doesn't matter where you'll worship, those who worship must worship in spirit and in truth. And Paul is saying the same thing here. It's not a matter of worshiping with some sort of self-effort of following the diets and following the days and even getting circumcised. That's not how you worship God. You worship God in spirit. It is an internal matter. So he's he points out their identity, he points out their worship, their manner of worship, and then he points out the need to have their sense of fulfillment in Christ. He says it again. Look at what it says, verse 3. For we are the circumcision who worship God in the Spirit. And notice what it says then. Rejoice what? Rejoice in Christ Jesus. It's like he can't stop saying the importance of rejoicing in Christ Jesus. And he says it again here. He is intimating that we should have a sense of fulfillment in Christ Jesus. John chapter 16, verse 14 says, He will glorify me, for I will take of what take of what is mine and declare it to you. We are in Christ Jesus. It is used over and over in the New Testament. Charles Wesley said these words, Thou, O Christ, art all I want. More than all in thee I find. Can I ask you a question this morning? We've kind of already talked about it, but can I ask you again? Are you truly, genuinely being fulfilled in Christ? Is do you find your fulfillment in Christ alone? That is a question that we must constantly ask ourselves. God's people are to find their fulfillment in Christ alone, to rejoice in Christ. And also to have no confidence in the flesh. There is absolutely no reason that we as Christians should have any confidence in our own human merit If you look at verse 3 of chapter 3, this is essentially the Christian faith. This is what it looks like. We are the spiritual circumcision. We've been purified by the Spirit of God. We are to worship in the Spirit of God. We are the people that rejoice not in ourselves at all, but in Christ alone. And we are the people that have no confidence in the flesh. Folks, there is this real need to understand the importance of this. Do you find yourself finding your fulfillment, your sense of worth, your sense of fulfillment in other things? We can even do this in serving to God. Even in service of the church. We find our sense of fulfillment in serving. Did you know, folks, that that is short-lived? Do you know that if you find your fulfillment in serving God, in serving in the service of God, without finding your fulfillment in the God of the service, it is going to be a short-lived burnout kind of a situation It is so important for us folks sometimes to get back to grass tacks and to simply say, I need to entirely find my fulfillment in Christ alone. And that, from that, then comes the fruit of the Spirit, which is service to God. We get worn out and we get discontent and all of those kinds of things when we are looking to the wrong thing for fulfillment in Christ. And instead, we need to look to Christ alone for fulfillment and our relationship with Him. Now what he then is going to now elaborate on this final point, he says there's not to be any confidence in human merit in the flesh. In using the term flesh again, he is again alluding to the practice of circumcision, but he has got much more in mind here. And he lists his human credentials here. Look at verse 4. It says, though I also might have confidence in the flesh. If anyone else thinks he may he may have confidence in the flesh, I more so. He literally says, I have more human credentials. When it comes to living uh for living according to the law than anybody else, anybody. He is he is lifting up his own human credentials. And he here's what he says. He says, I was circumcised the eighth day. And I'm going to go through these and just sort of explain what they mean. Circumcised the eighth day, he's pointing out that he's not a proselyte. Those who were circumcised the eighth day were considered to be more authentically Jewish than those who were proselytes. Who came to faith later? He says, I'm of the stock of Israel. I am not just spiritually Israel, I am physically Israel. I'm not just part of the religious religion of Israel, I am of the stock of Israel. He says, I uh uh of the tribe of Benjamin. The tribe of Benjamin was considered to be an elite tribe. It was considered to be uh that along with uh with Joseph, Benjamin and Joseph, remember, they were the favored sons. The tribe of Benjamin. A Hebrew of the Hebrews. Now, all of those four characteristics that I just mentioned in these verses are things that he didn't do himself. These were inherited privileges that he had from birth. So when it comes to the inherited privileges of the Apostle Paul, he says they're unmatched. You can't find, he says. It's above everyone. Then he says this, he says next, he goes into things that he did merit. He wasn't just inherit, he didn't just inherit privileges. He also, of his own volition, did all of this to the nth degree. He says Uh concerning the law of Pharisee. He says, I was one who kept every jot and every tittle of the law. I was constantly focused on the law. I was I I I was and uh He was clearly focused on that. He says concerning zeal, he was not just Not just focused on keeping the law. He was proactive in keeping the law and protecting the law and fighting for the law, he says, concerning zeal, persecuting the church. You'll recall from Acts chapter 9 that there was he was persecuting the church greatly. There were breathings and threats and murders from the Apostle Paul in that passage. And then he says, he says, concerning righteousness which is in the law, he says he was blameless. Now, we're going to learn the righteousness that he's talking about is external righteousness. In other words, he uses the word blameless because he says, no one, no one could actually cite a time where I was not following the law. He was blameless externally. And he says he he's he is in a sense bragging on himself with all of this. But notice what it says in verse 7. He says, but what things were gained to me, this I counted loss for Christ. Paul went through this entire list of human credentials that he had received and that he had earned himself, and he says to all of them: this this long list that no that was incomparable to no one, that was comparable to no one. And he says he says, I uh this is all lost to me Later on the passage, he's actually going to say, this is rubble. This is dung to me. He's very graphic in what he's saying here. Now, folks, the the reality is if we're going to protect ourselves from wrong influences in our spiritual growth, we're going to have to constantly recognize That human credentials are something that we must devalue Anytime you start chalking up your human credentials and you begin to believe that based upon what you have done, that you have earned something That you are somehow have greater favor with God, and those people who don't do something, they have less favor with God. When you begin to think that way, you have fallen into false doctrine in your thinking actually. You find yourself doing that? Maybe you look at a statement of faith and you follow a clear orthodox statement of faith and you don't have a problem. But when you actually start thinking about how you think, You actually have, in a sense, internal false doctrine in your thinking that by what you do, you are thinking that you will gain merit with God, gain favor with God. Folks, stay away from that. It is pride. And Paul's pointing out here that it is. Do you remember in the book of Acts chapter 9? We won't take the time to turn there for sake of time, but do you remember in Acts chapter 9, when Paul is on the road to Damascus and he sees Christ? Do you remember what Christ says to him? He says, It is hard for you to kick against the goes. He is pointing out to the Apostle Paul that there is an internal wrestling going on. Now I want you to think about this. From what Paul said in his list of external credentials, could you tell from Philippians that he was struggling as an unbeliever? Could you tell that? From Philippians, the answer is no. He was doing everything blamelessly, he was zealous, he was keeping the law completely, he had a great pedigree of every kind that's possibly imaginable. He was he was The where where it was at, and it was and from an external perspective, it looked as though he was not struggling whatsoever. But Christ says you were internally struggling. It is hard for you to kick against the goats. And with that in mind, I'd like you to turn to Romans chapter 7 for just a moment. We won't take much time there, but I'd like you to look at Romans chapter 7 for just a just a moment here. In Romans chapter 7, we actually get an inside look on what was going on with the Apostle Paul internally, prior, I believe this is talking about prior to salvation. And we'll pick up here in verse 6. It says, But now we have been delivered from the law, having died to what we were held by. So that we should serve in the newness of the Spirit and not in the oldness of the letter. What shall we say then? Is the law sin? Certainly not. On the contrary, I would not have known sin except through the law. For I would not have known covetousness unless the law had said, you shall not covet. But sin taking opportunity by the commandment produced in me all manner of evil desire, for apart from the law sin was dead. What is he saying here, folks? He says in Philippians, on externally I was I was where it was at with the law. I was blameless. But Paul is saying here, by the occasion of looking at the law, I realized I was a covetous man. I wanted what I shouldn't have. I realized internally that I was sinful. I knew this because of the law. And by doing that, by looking at these two passages, we begin to see what Paul is saying. Paul is saying, throw out the externals. They're not important. Throw them out. You've got to focus on what's internally right. And the problem with the Judaizers was they were so focused on excu uh external uh uh uh uh uh uh uh following the law that they were they were totally ignorant of the importance of the internal work of the Spirit of God in the lives of people. And the Church of Philippi, they're saying, you've got to work on the inside. That's what matters. Have these right kinds of attitudes internally, and it will protect you from the false doctrine of the Judaizers. And then we look, if you look back at Philippians 8, then I'm sorry, Philippians chapter 3, verse 8, then you're going to see then the extent of this. He says this. Pick up in verse 7 again. But what things were gained to me, these I have counted lost for Christ. Yet indeed I also count all things lost for the excellence. Of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and count them as rubbish, that I may gain Christ. He says they are lost. He took what was an asset to him and he made it a liability in his mind. He didn't just look at his accomplishments prior to salvation. He didn't just look at them and say, ah, they weren't as great as I thought they were. I'll get saved. He looked at them and he said they were actually lost to him. They're in the lost column. They're in the liability column. And when he says this, his point is, Judaizers, you are practicing things that are not an asset to you, you're practicing things that are a liability to you And that's why he then could say, beware of dogs. Beware of the spiritual Gentile. Beware of the worker of evil, the spiritual work of evil internally. Beware of those who are practicing the paganism of mutilation. Beware of those things. Why? Because the focus is entirely wrong. And you will find in every false religion. That ultimately the problem is a focus on externals rather than dealing with the heart of sin on the inside. And that understanding will help us greatly. Well, how do we summarize all of this? Let's really think in terms of protecting ourselves here. How, I mean, just think, folks. In your own lives as Christians and parents, in your own lives when it comes to your kids, just think through this list. There are five things here. Number one, you've got to rejoice continually in Christ. Rejoice continually in Christ. When we stop rejoicing in Christ, we are opening ourselves up to false evil thinking. Rejoice continually in Christ. And folks, help your kids to do it too. Help them to understand that the true joy in life is not the circumstances that they find themselves in. It's not pursuing all of these human pursuits that we constantly pursue. That those things maybe we could see them as gifts of God to use for his glory. But folks, we've got to understand that those come and those go, but we've got to rejoice in Christ always And we need to teach our kids that. We need to believe ourselves. Number two, we need to be constantly aware of evil influence. Constantly aware. He says, beware or be aware. Understand. That any of us, folks, that you you think to yourself, well, you know, I've been doctrinally sound for so many years, I don't really have to worry about this. This not this message really is probably good for a few other people, but not really good for me. The Bible says, wherein ye think ye stand, take heed lest ye fall. We are all susceptible to false doctrine because we believe what we most want to believe. So be constantly aware. Know who you are in Christ. Find your value in Christ. Find your fulfillment in Christ, and not in other things. Know who you are in Christ. And number four, remember that our personal accomplishments do not mave may merit favor with God. You are not in greater favor with God because you accomplish a lot. And you say, well, forget, I'm not serving anymore then. Understand that the reason that we serve is to please God, not to find favor with God, and there is a difference. And the reason I please God is because I love God. And the reason I love God is because I know God. And the reason I know God is because I'm in fellowship with God. Know him, love him, serve him, then you'll please him. But when you get that backwards, and folks, isn't it easy in our own hearts to get that upside down? They get those backwards. We start thinking that if we don't do something, we're not going to be in favor with God anymore, or those kinds of things. Remember that our personal accomplishments do not merit favor with God. Number five. Remember our spiritual bankruptcy apart from Christ. Folks, understand that you and I, apart from Christ, are beggars. We are spiritually bankrupt. We are in debt, essentially. Paul says, all of the gain was lost for me. When you came to Christ, there was nothing in of yourself of any value whatsoever that allowed you to come to Christ. It was all of the grace, the unmerited favor of God that you came to Christ through Christ Himself. And when we realize, when we remember that, and you know, I think, I think on this point, it is harder for those of us on an experiential level who have been saved in an early age, it's harder for us to remember this. I think for those of you who are saved in an older age, you look back on your life prior to salvation and you understand how spiritually bankrupt you were. You understand that you were you were sinful and you were lost and you get that you understand it and you came to Christ and Christ changed you and you can look back and you can see the difference. Those of us who came to Christ at an early age, we have to understand that if my flesh left to my flesh, I would destroy myself And we have to constantly remember that we are spiritually bankrupt and cr apart from Christ And if we will if we will have the kind of these five things, if we will have this kind of attitude Then we it will really set us up for avoiding evil influences and bad thinking. If we let these things go, Then we open ourselves up to the influence, the influences around us that constantly want to beset us and to cause us to go astray from the Lord. Let's pray together Father, as we come to you this morning, we looked at these five different attitudes and perspectives. That we see here in this passage. I pray, dear Father, that you would cause us to understand how important it is that we have right thinking. and a right attitude when it comes to our relationship with you and what understanding what's what what the faith is all about and rejoicing in Christ. Finding our fulfillment in Christ, that most of the deception of Satan, it's not just a mental problem, it is a heart problem. I pray, Lord, that if there is anybody here today that is struggling in their faith That you would you would or that just allowed um one or some or all of these five things to go to just leave their lives or to neglect they've neglected them in some way. They allowed in, as it says in Hebrews 2, to let them slip. I can think even of myself, Lord, this and going through these so it's so important for me to to keep these in mind and to have the right kind of attitude and perspective in life. Keep us from the s from Satan and from the world and from these influences. Cause us to stand strong in Christ. And we pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen