Let's go to the Lord together in prayer. Father, we come to you this morning. And we thank you, Lord, for the working that you are doing in our lives. This past week, this past month, we see Your hand upon us. Your presence is ever with us. The promises that you make in your word are true, and we see them played out. And we are so undeserving. We We are undeserving of the salvation that you have provided and gifted to us. We are undeserving of Of the companionship and the fellowship and the relationship that we have with you. Through your great love, you have Committed yourself through your faithfulness, you stay with us. And much of this is just unfathomable to us. And Lord, as we consider these things, I pray that it would work in us a desire and a commitment to follow. You all the more. You have charged us and brought us into your family, into your kingdom, to do your work, to do the work of the gospel, to minister, to see your truth go forth in this world. And Lord, we admit that we are often focused on so many other things than that. And I pray, Lord, that you would use our time this morning to read Refocus to reconnect, to get on the path, to stay on the path that you have for us. And Lord, we acknowledge that there are many hardships, and even this morning There are those who are dealing with difficulties and struggles. But these are also by your hand. We do think of the Phillips family and them grieving the loss of Tim. We ask that you would remind them of your presence and show them your good hand upon it. Their lives. May your truth work in their lives even deeper and more impactful during these times than they ever have. May your grace and strength be upon them. As we see from your word shortly, Lord, may you open our eyes and our hearts to it. May we be receptive, so that we are not only hearers, but doers as well. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Today we'll be in Romans chapter two. Text will be verses seventeen through nine twenty nine. Encourage you to read along with me, Romans two, seventeen through twenty-nine Starting in verse 17, it says, Indeed, you are called a Jew, and rest on the law, and make your boast in God, and know his will, and approve the things that are excellent, being instructed out of the law. And are confident that you yourself are a guide to the blind, a light to those who are in darkness, an instructor of the foolish, a teacher of babes, having the form of knowledge and truth in the law You, therefore, who teach another, do you not teach yourself? You who preach that a man should not steal Do you steal? You who say do not commit adultery, do you commit adultery? You who are poor idols, do you rob temples? You who make your boasts in the law, do you dishonor God through breaking the law? For the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you, as it is written. For circumcision is indeed profitable if you keep the law, but if you are a breaker of the law, your sixth circumcision has become uncircumcision. Therefore, if an uncircumcised man keeps the righteous requirements of the law, will not his uncircumcision be counted as circumcision? And will not the physically uncircumcised, if he fulfills the law, judge you who, even with your written code and circumcision, are a transgressor of the law? For he is not a Jew who is one outwardly, nor is circumcision that which is outward in the flesh, but he is a Jew who is one inwardly. And circumcision is that of the heart, in the spirit, not in the letter, whose praise is not from men, but from God. Most of us would certainly agree that we live in a country that causes most of us to be quite privileged. Rarely do we have to really worry about food, clothing, and shelter. And um and we ought to be probably a higher level of gratefulness we ought to have sometimes times for the privileged position we find ourselves in that God has placed us in this country and um and we ought to be thankful. We're living in a day actually where the idea of privilege has become something that is negatively looked upon, some rather than fe uh suggesting that we should feel grateful, are suggesting that we should feel guilty. And it is of some concern that that's the case. There's real danger. There is danger in having privilege. The danger is that we lose our gratefulness. And we become overconfident and we find our security in the things that we have. There is a Privilege can the danger of privilege is overcompetence. That is the possibility that we have because of because of the privilege we find ourselves in. It's kind of like experience. The more experience you have, the wiser you are, the the more you go through life and it's helpful to have experience. But sometimes During certain things you have you you begin to rely on your experience so much that you trip up. Even simple things like driving and walking and running and you know, normal things like that. I've been jogging f for about five, six years now, and occasionally the other day that this happened a few weeks back. Um I was running along and there was a it was a a sidewalk. There was nothing in front of me. There was no apparent it was a sunny day. There was no apparent reason for me to for this to happen, and I literally trip over my own feet and land headfirst in the grass, thankfully. There was grass right next to me and I was able to sort of aim my head for the grass and uh and so I was not hurt particularly bad but I I got up from there I'm like what in the world like how did that happen You know, you you use your feet every day. What is going on there? But you ever been through that where you're doing something that you do all the time and that you're experienced and then suddenly you're not really concentrating enough because you are so experienced at what you're doing that you trip up at it. And you're really overconfident in that particular thing. The same thing can happen for those who are spiritually privileged. They can become overconfident. This can happen. I will tell you this personally, personally, as a teacher and a preacher, one who spent many hours in Scripture. Has mu a lot of training in scripture. This can really be somet this passage was first I had to really apply to myself first before I really give gave consideration how to apply it to the rest of us. Because it is very easy when you are in the Word and teaching the Word and gone to seminary, all those kinds of things, for you to fall into this trap of overconfidence. Actually. Actually, if you've been saved for ten years and you are regularly go to a church and you are and you are you know you're used to hearing certain truths from scripture and You can become very overconfident. Some of us have been saved for many, many years beyond that. Some of us have had parents and grandparents and great-grandparents that have that were Christians. And if we're not careful, we can run a danger of not really giving, not being careful with the spiritual benefits that we have. And this is first and foremost those who are teachers, those who are leaders, those who are even parents. This passage is really going to apply to all of us in that way. The specific context, if you recall, is that the Apostle Paul is dealing with Gentiles and with Jews. Gentile Christians and with Jewish Christians. Christians and he has talked about Gentile non-Christians in chapter one, and he's turned his attention to the problem with Jewish Christians. Christians in Chapter 2. And the major problem that we've seen, uh I'm sorry, Jewish non-Christians in Chapter 2. And the may and the major problem that we've seen with these Jewish non-Christians is that their confidence is in in their circumcision, in their heritage, and in their access and knowledge of the law And now Paul is really dealing with a narrow group here, a group that is particularly privileged. These are of the most devout Jewish people. They're the most privileged of those who are Jewish people. And I want to ask a question at this point that will help us really narrow in on what what Paul is going to point out in this passage. And the question is this: Can a person be biblically wise and morally disobedient at the same time? Did you questi catch that question? Let me let me say it again. Can a person be biblically wise? But morally disobedient at the same time. Paul's answer to that question is yes. The question is, how? It might surprise you. When you read the text, you're going to see how surprising this is. You'll see this in the text that there is there is danger in spiritual privilege and we're going to see this in three ways. First of all, we're going to see that the spiritually privileged stands confidently in knowledge. the spiritually privileged, who is, they are in danger, they stand confidently in knowledge. Then that same spiritually privileged group avoids personal application. They avoid personal application. Now think about it. They're confident. In fact, they're so confident in their knowledge that they don't they don't personally apply it anymore. In fact, there is a suggestion among some of the commentaries that I read that the that the the thought among religious leaders of the day is that you can't completely follow, can't completely obey the the law in the Old Testament, so it's sufficient to know it. And their confident confidence was in their knowledge, and they stopped per applying it. They avoided personally applying it to themselves. And then we're going to see that the spiritually privileged, what's the problem? What's the root problem? They're placing false security in ritual. The spiritually privileged place false security in a particular ritual and We're going to see that as we go. You can see kind of this progression. You can see how someone who's confident in knowledge, not applying any And placing their security in a ritual, you could see where it puts them in a place where Paul has got to deal with them to help them to realize that they are actually this group of people is. They're completely lost, even though they think that they are they are saved. In fact, they think they're very close to God. It's a serious condition to be in. And that's why many people have said in the past, and it's rightly said, that before you lead somebody to Christ, you've got to get them lost before you can get them saved. Essentially, Paul is doing this in perhaps the most difficult circumstances. Because he's dealing with Jewish people who have been true to their faith and yet they have neglected to see the truth of Jesus. So let's first get into this verse C that the spiritual privilege stands confidently in knowledge in verses seven And we're gonna we're gonna see five different dependencies here that I want us to see here. In this passage, things that they saw that they were confident in. First of all, they're confident, they're dependent upon their heritage. Indeed, it says you are called a Jew. Paul recognized this. Remember, the Apostle Paul, this is not foreign to him. He is a Jew. And before he came to Christ, he was very much like these people Hardened and yet thinking that he was doing right, even by persecution Christians. Paul is really speaking to somebody whom he was like before he was saved. And he understands that there is a great confidence, a great dependency on who they are as Jewish people. Surprise us. Now therefore, if you will indeed obey my voice and keep my commands, then you shall be a special treasure to And you shall be a be to me a kingdom of priests and holy nation. These are the words which you shall speak to the children of Israel. You'll be a special treasure, Israel, above all people. This is what they understood from Exodus. Well, Exodus also tells them about the law. And so they have this strong dependency. They rest, Scripture says they rest in the law. Now they're not resting obedience to the law, they're resting in the fact that they have the law, that they possess the law, that they have it in their synagogues, that they read it to the people regularly, that they listen to it regularly. Perhaps they even memorize it regularly. They know the law, and so because of their knowledge of the law, they're dependent upon it But not only that, they are outwardly, they outwardly glory in God. They outwardly, it says they boast in God here. The word boast there is not a negative word. The word boast is a positive thing. actually it's it's to glory in something in Romans 5 11 it says and not only that but we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ. That word rejoice is the same word. It's word in 1 Corinthians Corinthians one thirty-one. He who glories, let him glory in the Lord. We're actually told the glory in the Lord there. So this isn't a bad thing. In fact, there's a sense in which it's not bad to have some um confidence in heritage or thank be thankful for our heritage. It's not bad to be dependent upon the law on some level. It certainly isn't bad to be outwardly glorying in God But all of this causes them to actually, according to the text, be quite wise Be biblically wise even. Notice what it says. And this is you know there's some commentators that would suggest that this is actually sarcastic? It's not. There's no grammatical or l linguistic indication at all that this is that this is in some way sarcastic. That's the wrong interpretation of this. He is saying that this is true of them, knowing the will of God. Well, of course they know the will of God because they have the Word of God. This sounds pretty good, doesn't it? They're glorying in God, they're depending on the law, they know the will of God because they have the word of God And not only that, they're prioritizing the law correctly. They approve the things that are excellent being instructed out of the law. They're being instructed out of the law, and then they're taking the law, and they're approving, they're prioritizing correctly. Philippians 1:10 says to the church of Philippi that this is a good thing, that you may approve things that are excellent, that you may be sincere and without offense in the day of Christ. Now they see themselves as having a privileged status. And is it true, folks, that the Jews did have a privileged status? They certainly did in the Old Testament. This caused their status. We see four things here. And in fact, it says they're confident in this. This is where they're placing their confidence. That word confident, in fact. In Romans chapter 8, verse 38 is the word persuaded, same word. Their status is that they're confident, they're persuaded, they're confident in four things. Number one, they're a guide to the blind. We're of God because of our heritage, because of our under our our possession of the Word of God the law because of our knowledge of it, the poca because we're memorizing it, we understand it, and we're able to discern his will because of all of this We are a guide to the blind. And this is actually what Scripture says in Isaiah 42, verse 6. It says that God's intention is for Jews to be a light to the Gentiles, verse 6 Isaiah 42, to open blind eyes, to bring out prisoners from prison, and who sit in darkness from the prison house. But also to be a light to darkness, which we've already seen there, but we'll see again in many places. In fact, all over the Old Testament, you have Israel is intended to be a light in darkness. Gentiles are in darkness. Israel they are in the light, and they are to be a light to those who are in darkness. Isaiah 46, 6, I will also give you as a light to Gentiles and a corrector of foolishness. The word foolish there means senseless Those who are not spiritually sensitized, those who are not aware of spiritual things, they're caught in material, physical things alone. And so they are foolish because they have no understanding of spiritual things, and they see themselves as a corrector of those things. In Micah chapter 4, verse 1, sorry, verse 2 actually, it says, To the house of God, of the God of Jacob, he will teach us his ways, and we shall walk in his paths. For out of Zion the law shall go forth, and the word of God from Jerusalem. They saw themselves as correctors and instructors of the immature people. They're the instructors. So they're a guide of the blind. They're light and darkness. They're correctors of foolishness, and they're instructors of immature. Now this all sounds quite admirable, doesn't it? It all sounds really pretty good. There's got to be somebody who's going to guide the blind and be a light to darkness and be a corrector of foolishness, instruct the immature. I mean, somebody's got to do that, and these people are taking up the mantle and they're doing it. These are likely specifically the leaders and the teachers of Israel. And and there they this is this is good. Except what we see next Because it says there, having the form of knowledge, the truth in the law. He begins to cite the problem. They possess the form of truth. They are confident in the form. That the fact that they have this codified law, the Jews didn't have it. God gave it to I mean the the Gentiles didn't have it. God gave it to the Jews. They've got the law, they have possession of it. But that's their confidence. Their confidence isn't obedience. Their confidence isn't personal application. Their confidence is possession of it. And knowledge of it, so that it results in people of hypocrisy. Hypocrisy. That's going to be the problem we're going to see in the passage. 2 Timothy 3:5 says it this way: having a form of godliness. But denying the power, its power, having a form of godliness, but denying its power. It says, and from such people turn away. If someone has a form of godliness, their externals are all right, they're doing the right thing, they're even having biblical wisdom, they're discerning things right, they have a form of godliness But they deny the power of it. Turn away from them, the passage says. David Martin Lloyd Jones gave uh gives us four characteristics in his conversation. commentary on this. Actually it was his sermon that was written down. Excuse me. These are the characteristics that Lord Lord Jones points out. He says this person that's in this passage tends to take only a general and theoretical interest in truth. They're only concerned about general and theoretical interests in the truth. He says, there are people to whom nothing is more delightful than an argument about religion or theology so long as it's purely intellectual. That is always the first characteristic of a hypocrite. And you know I can tell you, I could get caught up in that. Sometimes the things that we would talk about in uh college and seminary, sometimes they they got caught up in just sort of debates where who could win. Rather than really, really with a sincere heart desiring to know the scriptures and to how and how to apply them. Number two, complacency with self and judgmental toward others He says this, Lord Jones does, he is always self-satisfied, always pleased with himself and never conscience conscious of his of any Jesus said this to the Pharisees in Luke chapter 10 verse 11. The Pharisees stood and prayed thyself, God, I thank you, I'm not like any other men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers. Even the even this tax collector next to me, they were self-satisfied. And then finally, and then also self-confident. An interesting verse is in 1 Corinthians 2, verse 3, where the Apostle Paul says, I was with you in weakness, in fear, and in much trembling. Here is the Apostle Paul highly educated. Okay, he was taught under the school of Gamaliel, highly educated. Highly intelligent, extremely gifted, a gifted writer, he's an intellectual of intellectuals, and yet when he comes to the Church of Corinth, he comes in fear. in weakness and in trembling. This is not the person, not the not the not this person, not who we're talking about. Talking about. And finally fails to examine himself. He's not interested in self-examination. Lloyd Jones says the hypocrite is a man of all these reasons never uh for all these reasons never examines himself because he never he's never seen the need for self-examination. This is a dangerous place to be in. Because if you don't self-examine and you're co you're completely confident and self-satisfied How are you ever going to conform to the image of Christ? How are we ever going to grow in Christ-likeness? This is the problem that Paul is dealing with here. And what happens when this becomes the problem? Well, we see in the next verse that he avoids personal application. Notice what it says, verse 21. You therefore who teach another, do you not teach yourself? You who preach that a man should not steal, do you steal? You who say do not commit adultery, do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols, do you rob temples? You who make your boast in the law, do you dishonor God through breaking the law? For the name of God is blasphemied among the Gentiles because of you, as is written. And so we see in the text that this is the case. case. We've got here this is that they're teaching others, but they're bypassing personal application as they teach others. And we have these questions that he is asking. It's called a diatribe, where there's there are these rhetorical questions that really have uh the answer is just This is true, this is true. That's the only good answer to have for these questions. He notes three different sins theft, adultery, and idolatry. This shouldn't surprise us. These are in Exodus chapter 20 in order, and they're also in Deuteronomy. So this is He cites things from the law that are very clear, and he says, you're teaching against them, and yet you do them. The last one, idolatry. That's a little bit uh confusing because by this point in time they really tried hard not to be idols, not not to worship idols. In a sense, Israel had learned their lesson. They had adopted tons of idols, and then Assyria came in and conquered them, if you recall. The Babylonian Babylonian Empire assimilated them. And as a result of all of that, uh the Roman Empire was after that and they they realized idolatry was a real problem, and so they tried to avoid idolatry at every turn So much so that they would actually go in and destroy temples when when given the opportunity, false temples of false gods. But in doing so, they actually profited from their own destruction. Apparently, that's what we're gat what we gather from from from first century history. They might go in and destroy it the temple of Diana, but they would actually profit from it. So they were both involved in the idolatry and they were thieves at the same time. But more likely, what it even more so, what Paul is getting at is the heart condition of these folks. Folks. Maybe they were doing everything right, but the heart condition was not right. And Romans chapter two verse sixteen just The previous verse says, in a day when God will judge the secrets of men by Jesus Christ according to my gospel. God is concerned, folks, about your secrets. That is what God will ultimately judge. He will judge our secrets. He will judge the motives of the heart, the sins of the heart, the things that nobody else knows. About. That is what God will judge. And he is saying to these this group of people, you have confidence in all of these things, but in your heart You have motives and secret sins that God will one day judge. Thievery and adultery and idolatry and those kinds of things, so that the result in the text is God is dishonored. You know why God is dishonored? God is dishonored because at the end of the day, those things will come out. You may think you're covering it all up and got it all figured out and look good on the outside, but at the end of the day, what is in the abundance of the heart, out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth will speak. It will come out. And no doubt, for these people, who the Jewish people, who were intended to be good testimonies to the Gentile people in the city of Rome, no doubt it came out. And I can imagine that the Jewish people, on one hand, Rome being a very, very sinful city, all kinds of debauchery and sin going on in that Roman city. A million people in that city and lots and lots of sin and the Jewish people are d are saying how horrible that is and horrible that is and that's terrible and that's terrible and that's terrible and yet On some level, there's hypocrisy because they are practicing the very things that they are denouncing to other people. Are we guilty of that? Do we look at the news and say, well that's horrible, that's horrible, that's horrible. It's hard not to, right? I mean there are certain things that are going on in our country that we could never fathom ever happened, would ever happen. I I've told my kids some of the things that I've had to thoroughly explain to them that I never, you know, as they're getting older, I mean, as you know, teenagers, uh that I didn't even wasn't really completely aware of until I got much older. Because it's there and it's obvious. And if we're not careful, if we're not careful, we can see all those sinful things that are so much worse than we are, and we can think in our own heart, you know, comparatively we're good. We can be just like these people. It says the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you. You are dishonorable. God. The very wise, noble, confidence in the law. They have the very word of God for themselves. All those things. And yet And yet they are actually blaspheming God. They are slandering God. This is a quote in verse 24 here of Isaiah 52, which says in verses four and five, and thus says the Lord God, My people went down at first into Egypt. Egypt to dwell there. Then the Assyrians oppressed with them without cause. Now therefore, what have I here, says the Lord, that my people are taken away for nothing Those who rule over them make them wail, says the Lord, and my name is blasphemed continually every day. Because of the idolatry of the people of the nation of Israel. in the Old Testament, God had to punish them using the Gentile Assyrians, and in so doing, he actually, the entire time, his name is being slandered as a result. And yet that was the only way to caught uh apparently that was the only way to bring them back to himself. We find also in other passages of scripture this c same kind of thing. Profaned my holy name when they said to them, These are the people of the Lord, and yet they have gone out of his hand. But I concerning my holy name, which the house of Israel has And what what Paul is doing here is here is he is he is citing the very old testament that these people no doubt knew and no doubt understood by just the same. this one phrase and saying, look, what you were what Israel was guilty of and why the Assyrians had to come in and and and uh and punish them by the hand of God, what happened there you're guilty of today. I think the application should be should be pretty obvious. It's interesting that in the New Testament, James chapter 3, verse 1 says, My brethren, let not many of you. Become teachers, knowing that we shall receive a stricter judgment It's so easy for us to be ready to teach others and to apply things to others and to bypass ourselves. Lloyd Jones says this, allow scripture to search you. Otherwise, it can be very dangerous. There is a sense in which the more you know about it, the more dangerous it is for you. if you do not apply it to yourselves. And I can tell you just from personal experience, there's, you know, I I remember in seminary I had one professor Who admitted? He said he said this. And at the time I was sort of like, that's interesting. I didn't really understand it completely. But he said, I am not as concerned about knowing more. As I am applying what I've learned. He he understood, in fact, he said, in fact, I'm I'm fearful of the amount that I know and do not And there is a godly fear that we ought to have as teachers and pastors and preachers and elders. But I think it we can move this on to parents as well. Parents, do you teach your kids things that you don't want to apply yourself? Do you try to guide your kids in a way that in the end you're not really wanting to go down that path yourself? We we want to teach our kids, but we don't want it to we don't want to have to deal with these things ourselves. I've seen this in being a Christian for many years, that what we do in moderation, our kids will often do in excess. And what we take, what the the good things that we do casually are the things that our kids will discard completely. I remember growing up, there were families in our church that their parents and their family were very, very faithful in attending all the services. My family tr we did that as well. My parents uh they were very faithful. I had nothing I d had uh had to do with it. But uh I just had to go whether I wanted to or not. But they were very faithful in all those. And there were other families, good families, but they really had a casual relationship when it when they came to services. And doing those kinds of things. And those families, it's amazing that the kids have an even more casual relationship to those kinds of things. It tends to go that way. That doesn't mean it always goes that way, but it does tend to. Our kids will pick up far more from our examples than they will from what we teach. And that puts us in a place where we ought to be, as Paul was to the Church of Corinth, in fear and trembling. Because if we're not careful, we can come to a place where we're we're looking at the scriptures and And the truths of God's Word, and we're not filtering it through our own life before we give it to others. This can happen with preachers. And it has happened with me and Tom. Where I'm trying to get to the next message, studying for the next message, wanting to make application to the church. And if I'm not careful, I'm not personally examining myself as I am doing it. That is a very dangerous place to be. May all of us understand that if we're in any kind of teaching, leading um position, parenting position God desires us to lead by example, to emulate what we teach. So, what is the foundation of all this? Why, why At the end of the day, as wise as these people were, as as knowledgeable of the truth of the Word of God as they were, There was a superficiality to their relationship with God. It wasn't real. It wasn't authentic. It wasn't really true. Why? I think of the psalm that we read earlier this morning, Psalm 51. God desires truth in the inward parts. David realized that. That God wants truth in the inward parts. That's why he said to God, create in me a clean heart, O God. That is not what these folks had. And the reason is because they ultimately place their false security in a particular ritual. And that ritual is circumcision. We find this in verse 25. It says, For circumcision is indeed profitable if you keep the law, but if you are a breaker of the law, your circumcision has become uncircumcision. Therefore, if an uncircumcised man keeps the righteous requirements of the law, will not his uncircumcision be counted as circumcision? So what he's talking about here? This is actually a pretty hard passage to understand. I'm going to try to flesh it out for you that you'll be able to understand it at the end. He's dealing with this concept of circumcision. Now understand that this ritual of circumcision was absolutely, utterly important for the Jewish people beyond anything else imaginable. How did you, what was their their entire identity was based upon whether they were s the men were circumcised on the eighth day In Genesis chapter 17, 9 through 13, we see this. Verse 9, it says, And God said to Abraham, As for you, you shall keep my covenant, you and your descendants after your you through This is my covenant which you shall keep before me and you and your descendants after you. Every male child among you shall be circumcised, and you shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskins, and it shall be Shall be a sign of the covenant between me and you. He who is eight days old among you shall be circumcised, every male child in your generations He who is born in the house or brought with money from any foreigner who is not your descendant, he who is born in your house or he And the uncircumcised male child who is not circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin Shall that person shall be cut off from his people. He has broken my covenant. It's pretty clear language, right? Like they didn't miss the eighth day when their sons were born. Except Moses, actually. Remember Moses? He missed his son's, uh he was commanded to circumcise his son. You remember that story? And he neglected to do so. And so his wife was so concerned that they were the entire their entire family was going to be Moses' entire family was going to be This concept, this circumcision was so important that during the Maccabean Revolt Uh it was it uh there was people that they that that their entire identity was around this issue. And actually, in 1 Maccabees, which is not scripture but does give us some history, it says they removed the marks of circumcision and abandoned the Holy Covenant. They joined with the Gentiles and sold themselves to do evil. They equated doing evil with abandoning circumcision. the fourth when he wanted to when he wanted to pretty much decimate the Jewish nation, he made circumcision of a child a capital offense because he understood the implications of that. This is, it was extremely important to them. Now Paul is tasked with the with the job Of trying to get these folks to understand that it's more important to them than it should be. Difficult task, isn't it? Considering their history. Um in fact, the the d uh as the Roman Empire came in and the diaspora developed, which basically m they relocated Jews and mixed them with Gentiles to try to assimilate them into the Roman culture, the thing that kept the Jews together was this practice of circumcision. And now and now Paul is saying, hey, In certain situations, it's not valuable. Now, he goes through a very detailed argument of this. It's kind of looks like a formal proof if you read through it. How many of you all understand? formal proofs. Me neither. Anyway, gen uh you're if you're in geometry, it's kinda it kind of works like that. It kinda functions that way, sort of. But I I'm gonna clear this up by using an illustration for you. You'll you'll you'll I think you'll be able to follow this at uh when we when When I first illustrate it this way. So in our country, it's still generally customary that if you're married, you wear a wedding ring on your left hand, right? This finger on your left hand But did you know that in many areas of the world that's not the case? So in certain areas of Europe, you're actually supposed to wear your ring finger where your ring if you're married on your right hand. Uh in Asia that is also practiced in certain areas of Asia and it's also a certain practice in areas of uh down in South America and and those kinds of reasons Regions. So if you if you this of course we understand that this we were using it as an illustration of baptism a couple of weeks ago, but it works for sil for circumcision as well. You take this if I take this off, I'm still married. Okay? Unless I lose it. No, I'm kidding. I would still I would still be married, but I would be unhappily married. So I'll put this back on. And um and so um and so It means something here, right? I mean most people they can look at my left hand, they can see that I have a ring on it, and they can realize I'm married. But if if I were to do this and go to some country in Europe or Asia that wears it on the right hand and I kept it on the left hand, what purpose would that serve? No purpose at all, right? It would not mean anything. The meaning of the ritual of putting a ring on your left hand is the marriage that it represents. That's what he's going to be saying to these people. But the meaning of circumcision, he's not going to say, hey, circumcision is dumb. He's not going to do that. Good idea, Paul. Don't offend all these people. people. Okay. So he's not going to say it's stupid. He's not going to say it isn't necessary anymore. And he's going to show that through an argument. But he's going to do this in such a way that he he is trying to help them to see The value, the only value in circumcision is when you're obedient to the very thing you're representing. That circumcision represents. And so let's look at these four things. Verse 25. Number one, it says: for circumcision is indeed profitable if you keep the law. What is he saying? The ritual is only valuable if it represents obedience. Okay. The ritual of circumcision is only valuable if you represent obedience. And then he says. But if you are a breaker of the law, your circumcision has become uncircumcision. Well, what does he mean there? If the ritual represents disobedience, it becomes disobedience. Like if you go to another country and you put it on your left hand, it becomes it's you're not you're you're not you're unmarried, not married, at least you're representing yourself as unmarried rather than married. And so if a ritual represents disobedience, in other words, you've got this ritual, but you are disobedient to the law, it becomes disobedience. Number three. Number three, therefore, if an uncircumcised man keeps the righteous requirements of the law, will not his uncircumcision be counted as circumcision? If a person obeys without the ritual, will it not be counted as obedient, is what he's saying. In other words, just like if you have a a wedding ring and you don't have it on, are can you not still be considered married if you don't have a wedding ring on? Will it not be counted as obedient? And he's talking about Gentiles. He's talking about Gentiles exact actually who don't possess the law, but they follow the law because they have a moral law in their hearts, and they're not circumcised He is saying, aren't those people actually better than the person that is going through the ritual? And then number four, And will not the physical uncircumcised twenty-seven uncircumcised, if he fulfills the law, judge you who even with your written code and circumcision are a transgressor of the law? What is he saying there? He's saying, doesn't the non-ritual obedient person put to shame the ritual dependent disobedient person? Did you catch that? Doesn't the non-ritual obedient person put to shame the ritual dependent disobedient person? Now the the word the idea of judging there is a is a bit figurative. He's just simply saying that it is, bottom line, what's he saying? It is better to be obedient without the ritual. than to have the ritual and be disobedient. It's that simple, actually. And we understand that from the illustration of the ring. But then he says this in verse 28, which is which is well, let me mention this actually. Let's just pause here. How do we how do we Is there any way that we fail in this? Is there any way that we can depend on a ritual rather than depending upon a true religion? See, the real issue here was that it was a transactional kind of thing rather than a relational kind of thing. kind of thing. A covenant is relational, but by this point it could become a transaction. I do this, I take this sign of the covenant covenant and therefore I am now I am now a Jew and I am now right with God. It was transactional rather than relational. God never intended that to be, but that's the way it was. And I wrote down three ways that we do that. Sometimes we do it through baptism. Sometimes we think baptism is a transaction, so that you've heard of baptismal regeneration, that kind of a thing, a transaction that makes me right with Christ. God. Sometimes we do it even with like church attendance or growing up in church. I've had pe I've had people I've talked to and I've said, and say, Well, I've always been a Christian. I grew up in a Christian home. You can't come to Christ by growing up in a Christian home. But the third area might be the most difficult area, might be the most common, and that is praying a prayer. I tran I have a transactional decision that I pray a prayer to trust Jesus as my Savior and I ask to be my Savior and I go on and live like the devil. I go on and just live my do my own thing and do my own thing my own way. That's a transaction with no relationship. And if you're putting if you're putting your your confidence In a transaction that has no, it carries no relationship, you're putting your confidence in a tradition. You're putting your confidence in a ritual. That's why Jesus said, listen to what Jesus said to Nicodemus, who was a teacher. And a leader. What did he say to Dicodemus? Jesus answered, Most assuredly I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom. Verse 5, Jesus answered, Most assuredly I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom. Do you know what that means, born of water and the Spirit? The water is a reference to the Word of God, the Spirit of God, the Spirit there is a reference to the Spirit of God. That what actually must take place is that you understand from the Word of God, through the working of the Spirit of God, that Jesus died to pay the punishment for your sin. And when you accept him as your Savior, he changes you from the inside out. You have a different desire. You may have desire to sin, but you have a desire to please God. And if you have a transactional decision without a new desire, you're not a Christian. In fact, the Bible actually tells us this in Matthew chapter 7. Do you remember that passage that Jesus says he says to many He says that people prophesied in his name and done mighty things in his name, cast out demons in my name, and all those different things, and he's going to say, Depart from me, I never knew you. So what does matter? Look at verse 28. For he is not a Jew, which is what? One outwardly. The outward does not matter. Neither is the circumcision which is outward in the flesh. Verse 29 is the key to the whole thing. But he is a Jew. The value of being a person who is of God, he is a Jew, which is one inwardly. Notice what he says here, and circumcision, not of this this ritual rite, but circumcision is that of what? the heart, in the Spirit, or by means of the Spirit, and not in the letter, whose praise is not of men, but of God. He is, this is the the key, the whole thing is verse 29, helping us to understand that what must happen for us to be Right with God, what must happen for the favor of God to be upon us is that the Spirit of God must change us inwardly so that we desire to please Him. And when that occurs, we now have a relationship with God. That's dependent not on what I do, but on the work of Christ. This was actually mentioned in the Old Testament. Isaiah 44, 3, for I will pour out pour water on him who is thirsty and floods in the dry ground. I will pour my spirit on your descendants and my blessing on your offspring. Ezekiel 11,19. Then I will give them one heart, and I will put a new spirit within them, and take the stony heart of their flesh, and give them a heart of flesh. Ezekiel thirty six, twenty-six. I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit within you. I will take the heart of stone out of your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. I will put my spirit within you and And cause you to walk in my statutes, and you will keep my judgments and do them. And the source of this kind of praise is a praise that is not of men, but of women God, the focus then becomes not do what do men think. What how am I pleasing men? Am I looking good in front of men? Which is what the concern was of these folks. But no, instead, am I pleasing God? Do I please God? Folks, at the end of the day, that's the only question that matters. Does my life please God? That's why it's truly been said there's only two there's only two choices on the shelf, pleasing God and pleasing self. So with all this in mind, I have three questions. Number one, is your salvation based on a ritual or based on a relationship? Is your salvation based on a ritual or is it based on a relationship? Now I'm not saying that there is not a time where you where you go from death to life. In fact, that's exactly what I am saying. There is a time where you pass from death to life. There is a time where you are born again. There is a time where God places his spirit within you. venue and it's applied by faith in what Jesus Christ did for us on the cross But if it's just some sterile transaction, it really is not true salvation Number two, are you ready to teach others but reluctant to examine yourself? Boy, this one. I'm writing this question and I'm going. Oh I gotta stop here. I gotta pray and think through this. Are we are you are we ready to teach others, but we're reluctant to examine ourselves? You say, well man, I'm not a Bible teacher in our church. Well, are you a parent? Then it applies. Number three, do we substitute biblical application for biblical knowledge? Do we want to keep everything in the theoretical or in the intellect intellectual? Do we wanna do we wanna keep everything on high levels so that I can't I can't discuss on any that would actually affect my life or anything that would actually cause me to change or convict me of sin. Is that is that the kind of is that the kind of Christianity that I'm living? This is what we are often guilty of And I feel led to do something a little bit different than I usually do. I want to give you just a few minutes. studying this message and pray and really do some my own soul searching. So what I'd like to do is give you just a minute before the Lord in prayer, just quietly before the Lord. I'm not going to ask for hands and all that coming down and all that. But I do I do uh I do want to give you a time to respond just to God. God's the only one that one is going to know if you respond. I want to give you a chance to just respond to this, to respond to God, just in prayer. And we all will then afterwards, just in silence before the Lord, and then we will pray together. Father, we come to you and confess before you that In our flesh dwells no good thing, and we are s we are often guilty of this. So easy to see the faults of others and want to correct the faults of others. Others want to see the word of God and use the word of God to correct the faults of others, and if we're not careful, we bypass ourselves entirely. Father, I pray, Lord, that your spirit would really convict us early when we We go down that road. I would pray with David, create in us a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within us. Pray that you would do that in our hearts. Convict us of sin. May we desire and have a pure, clean, clear relationship with you. And we pray that Let's stand together and we'll sing a song that I think is going to be very help very appropriate in responding to Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.