Chapter three, please. Galatians three. Let's read again this passage of scripture which we will consider this morning from God's Word. Galatians 3. And we'll just pick up from these three verses, verses 6 through 9. It says, even as Abraham believed God. And it was accounted to him for righteousness. Know ye therefore that they which are of faith, the same are the children of Abraham And the Scripture foreseeth that God would justify the heathen through faith, preached before the gospel unto Abraham, saying, In thee shall all nations be blessed. So then they which are which be of faith are blessed with faithful Abraham. When I pastored up in Pennsylvania, I um there was the most popular pastime up there is hunting. And being not from that area I had never been hunting before. But I wanted to get and get to know the men and adjust to the c culture up there and so I decided that I would go out with a guy with some guys and I asked them to take me hunting. Um It's uh I mean it's really a big thing up there. They literally take off school for the first day of hunting season up in that area. Um and the first thing that somebody said to do is they said, Well you ever have you ever shot a rifle before? And I had not shot a rifle before. I had shot a I think I had shot a shotgun and other things, but not a not a not a far ranging rifle. And so they took me and showed me the different parts of a gun and just kinda started with the basics and all of that and went out and shot and I was actually apparent apparently a pretty good shot. Um I never got a chance to actually see it in action because I never saw a deer one time when I went hunt hunt hunting. It was that's why I don't hunt anymore. I haven't been hunting in a long time. If I actually saw saw something and shot something, I have a feeling I'd be kind of into it But uh never actually saw anything. I sat on the cold, ridiculously cold weather for ridiculously amount I mean I I just I would sit there for hours. We I didn't get I really couldn't understand it. I we would we would be up there in the mountains of Pennsylvania. It would be like two degrees. And I'm really not exaggerating. It and uh so it was warm, right, exactly. And so and I'd be sitting there all day long in the cold and see nothing and you can't read anything because there's no because it's it's dark out a lot, uh and it's you can't uh you can't I mean you have to listen. I I ended up sneaking earbuds in up through my I didn't ch tell them in and I listened to sermons while we're watching for deer. Uh but anyway but anyway because I just it was it was It was interesting. One of the things I mean, s one of the guys in our ch in the church that I was pastoring was was so into g guns, what he did was he actually made guns for a living. He made high powered um target rifles for a living and he had tons of guns. He He he was all about guns and he was a had his uh it was actually quite good at what he did. And so I learned a lot about guns more than I ever did before. One of the things You know, y the different parts of the gun, the the the barrel and the stock and the action and the trigger and all those different parts of guns. And you know, the truth of the matter is if you ha you can have a really great rifle with a great a great barrel and have a well-oiled uh a well-oiled action and a beautiful stock and you can have the perfect kinds of rounds, high high powered rounds But if you don't have this little little thing called a trigger right, you're gonna have a problem. You could take a whole rifle and have all the different parts assembled correctly and everything correct and they will take they spend hours cleaning their guns. If they're not shooting their guns, they're cleaning them. But anyway. Um And uh and uh if you don't assemble everything right, if if you have a trigger that's missing, that gun is going to do you no good whatsoever All the other parts can be right, but you've got to get that trigger right. Imagine trying to go get up and use a gun and shoot a deer, and you can't there's no trigger to pull the trigger. Nothing's gonna happen without the trigger. Now the trigger is not the most important part of the gun. Probably the action is the most important part of the gun. That's where the the action is, where where it takes place. But it's still you're not going to get anywhere without a trigger. If you think of the gospel in terms of different components of the gospel, the heart of the gospel Paul has already gone over, and that is justification. But now what he's going to get into is not the most important part of the gospel, but it is the essential part of the gospel, and that is how is the gospel applied And the answer is that it is applied by faith alone. He's going to be very clear about this. This was a serious problem in that day. That was the the faith alone idea was being very uh threatened by these Judaizers. They're m more than likely their main person that they were looking to Was this man Abraham who was the patriarch for the nation of Israel? He was the man to look to. You had others like Moses and David, but it all started with Abraham. And so it's very, very likely that they would turn to passages like Genesis chapter 17 that explain, as we have mentioned before, That circumcision is absolutely necessary in order to be part of God's people. It says this in verse 10 of that chapter, this is my covenant which you shall keep between me and you and your descendants after you. Every male child among you shall be circumcised, and you shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskin, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between me and you He who is eight days old among you shall be circumcised. Every male child in your generations who is born in your house or bought with money with any foreigner who is not of your descendant, not your descendant. He was born your in your house, and he was bought with your money. I mean it's really, really clear how many people need to be need to be circumcised must be circumcised, and my covenant shall be in your flesh of any everlasting covenant. And the uncircumcised male child Who is not circumcised in the flesh of your foreskin, that person shall be cut off from his people. He hath broken my covenant. And so the Judaizers really honed in on this and said, You are not a child of Abraham. You are not a child of the faith. If you are not circumcised. The Apostle Paul is going to take the very man that they look up to, and he is going to explain that Abraham is actually the prototype. For faith alone. And he is going to use scriptural passages and we're going to look at them today that explain that Abraham's faith alone was Enough to justify him. And we see this clearly in Galatians chapter 3. We find without question that the primary subject of this passage is belief or faith. It's mentioned at least five times in these three verses. Faith or belief is the trigger by which justification occurs. But the question is, what kind of faith? Is it enough for a person to say they trust in the death of Christ, but nothing else? And they say they do that and they go on and they there's no change in their life, there's no difference, there's no change of thinking. It just they just kinda go on. Is that enough? Is it enough to, or must there be something added like obedience or works of some kind? I mean What there is, this may seem simple, but it actually, as time goes on and as you look at church history, this is an issue that is a very complex and difficult issue with various people thinking different things. And you know what my desire for us today to do is to really settle this To literally settle this in our minds. What is truly necessary to have a relationship with God, to have the death of Christ And his righteousness applied to us what is necessary and what is not necessary. And my prayer is that today we will settle this. In our minds, and then we'll be able to help others with it as well. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. We have a tall order before us. Let's ask the Lord's help here. Father, we pray that you would help us as we look at your word this morning. Paul has finally, after in great ways talked about justification, he is finally now going to hit the the crux of the issue with the Judaizers to explain that it is faith alone that justifies. People. Lord, I pray that you'd give us real discernment here. You'd give us real wisdom as we work through this. Help us to have a clarity of thinking when it comes to what is necessary to apply to our lives justification. That we would understand how we are to be declared righteous by you. And I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. So Paul agrees with the Judaizers on this one point that Abraham is the prototype. He is the one that we ought to look at to understand what is necessary in order for us to be able to be declared righteous by God and to have a relationship with Him. And we're going to look here then at four attributes. We need to understand that faith alone results in righteousness being credited to our account. But we need to understand what faith is, and the best weak way we can understand this is to look at Abraham as the prototype. He is going to help us to understand what true biblical saving faith really is I'm going to need you to do something this morning. We're going to flip between three very three different areas of Scripture this morning, and we're going to kind of go back and forth a little bit. I'm going to strongly encourage you to find Genesis chapter 15 and to place a marker there And another place we're going to be looking at is Romans chapter four. So sort of to prepare for this message or to prepare for this study this morning, we're going to be looking at these different passages, and we might be flipping back and forth a little bit this morning. And so those are the areas that we're going to be looking at. We'll look at Genesis 12, but if you're in 15, you'll see 12 and 22, and you'll be in the in the ballpark at least And so we won't have to take quite as much time in in waiting to to flip between these these different passages. So I encourage you, find a bulletin, find something, find you know, and and put markers in those various places. Some of you have these this in your Bible and we're going to go back and forth. If you are using your phone, find a Bible. There's bi should be Bibles under your because I don't think you can flip with your phone fast enough. Okay, very candidly. Some of you say you can um we'll see. Okay. All right. Um First of all, we need to understand this about Abraham's faith. And this is in Galatians. So make we're going to start in Galatians. See you're already tripped up. No, Galatians chapter 3, verse 6 He says, even as Abraham believed God. It doesn't say here that Abraham believed in God. It says that Abraham believed God. There actually is a difference. The difference is that there are many people that believe in God but don't believe God. The Bible actually says in James that the devils believe in God but tremble and tremble. But they don't have saving faith. What it says here is that Abraham believed God. They he bel they Abraham believed, and we're going to see this illustrated as we go on, that Abraham believed in the promise. Of God, the word of God. He believed what God said. It wasn't just that he believed that God existed. He knew that. God was talking to him. Okay. But he believed what God said. And the first thing that we need to understand is that Abraham believed in the promised word of God. That's number one. There are four things and I actually encourage you to write these things down among flipping. So get your f get get them the pass pad of paper out and do that. You're not gonna be able to do all this on your phone. Okay. All right. Uh I'm I'm sorry I'm picking on phones. I I I I was at a conference where this was mentioned that that we need to encourage people to to use their actual Bibles. But anyway, so sorry if I'm meddling here. Abraham, uh Abraham, the quality of Abraham's face incl included not only comp confidence in God, but also the promised word. Number two, and you're going to need to turn to Romans chapter 4 for this. Abraham's quality of faith excludes boasting. This is very important. It excludes any kind of boasting. Romans chapter 4 is like a parallel passage to Galatians chapter 3. And to understand one is to un is to help understand the other. And it says in verse 1. What then shall we say that Abraham our father has found according to the flesh? For if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not before God. For what does the scripture say? Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him for righteousness. That's found in Genesis 15, which we'll turn to in a moment. Now to him who works the wages are not counted as grace but as debt. But to him who does not work but believes on him who justifies the ungodly. His faith is accounted for righteousness. Just as David also decided describes the blessedness of the man to whom God imputes righteousness apart from works. Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven and whose sins are covered. Blessed is the man to whom the Lord shall not impute sin. Does this blessedness then come upon the circumcised only, or upon the uncircumcised also? For we say that faith was accounted to Abraham for righteousness. Folks, the reason that faith, that saving faith, is the only thing that we can look to In order to apply the righteousness of Christ to our account, is because God does not desire for us to do any kind of boasting. The glory should not go to us. The glory should go entirely to him. And the way that he has set up his plan of salvation. is so that all of the glory goes to God. We can take no credit whatsoever. As soon as you begin to think that you have enough goodness in you or you have enough Faith in yourself. As soon as you think that you have done something in order to receive the righteousness of Christ, you have breached the true faith that God is talking about here. And the reason that God has set it up this way is so that He gets all of the glory. Faith excludes boasting in Romans chapter four. This could not be clear in this passage We need to keep there's lots of in this passage, but we need to keep moving. And so what I want to do then is turn to Genesis chapter 15. Number three Abraham's quality of faith, and this is really when we get into the heart of the matter, Abraham's quality of faith transcends reason and human ability. Notice what it says in verse 1. After these things, the word of the Lord came to Abraham, Abram in a vision, saying, Do not be afraid, Abram. I am your shield, your exceedingly great. Reward. But Abraham said, Lord God, what will you give me, seeing I go childless, and the heir of my house is Eliezer of Damascus. Then Abraham said, Abram said, Look, you have me no offspring. Indeed, one born in my house is my heir. Now, pause what's happening here. Abraham is old. He is really, really old. Like nobody's in this in this room is even close to as old as he is. He is his wife is old. Really, really old. He has had no children. He has already been promised in the past that he would have children to carry on the line that God would make a great nation for him. But he has no children at all. This does not is not computing at this point for Abraham. He's sort of going, I don't get it. It's not making sense. I can't put this together. It's not logical. And also not only is it unreasonable to think that I'm acting this is actually going to happen and that the whole world is going to be blessed through my heritage, which I don't have. It's impossible. It's unreasonable. And it's impossible. You see that Abraham here is in a real bind. You see, sometimes what happens, the reason that people don't come to faith is they keep thinking, well, it's unreasonable and it's impossible. Well, if you think it's reasonable and you think it's possible, it's not faith. Notice what happens here. He says, picking up here, Behold, the word of the Lord, verse 4, came to him, saying. This one shall not be your heir, but one who will come from your own body shall be your heir. And he brought himself outside and said, Look now toward heaven and count the stars if you are able to number them. And he said to them, So shall your descendants be. And you know what happened? Abraham, then, with all of this in mind, he says, rather than trusting my own circumstances. Trusting what seems to be impossible, trusting what my own reasoning, I'm going to believe God. He says, and he believed in the Lord, and it was accounted to him for righteousness. That's faith. Faith is believing what God says in His Word rather than what seems reasonable to me. Because I'm going to say that God knows better than I do. That's faith. And what's interesting is that the Apostle Paul, in helping us to understand faith. goes to Genesis chapter 15 before he goes to Genesis chapter 12. And what he essentially says is You need to look at Genesis chapter 12 through the lens of Genesis chapter 15. And we're going to see why this matters in a moment. So we need to understand this about faith. Then I want you to flip over to Genesis chapter 22, number four. And this is important as well. Genesis chapter two is the story you'll remember of when Abraham takes his son up. And sacrifices his son. He's told to sacrifice his son on the altar. God provides, as you know, a lamb and or or a a a uh a sacrifice for him, a substitute for him. And it says this in verse seventeen, blessing God because of Abraham's faith, his expression of faith there says this, blessing I will bless you in multiplying, I will bless you I will multiply your descendants as the stars of the heaven. Same promise as before, right? And as the sandwich is on the seashore, and your descendants shall possess the gate of your enemy uh of their enemies In your seed all the nations of the earth shall be blessed. Why? Because you have obeyed my voice. Oh wait a minute. Obeyed? I thought it was faith alone. Well, now he's saying obeyed. Number four, Abraham's faith results in obedience. Now we need to understand this. Faith and obedience are not the same thing. But obedience, but true faith will result in obedience. And we're going to really flesh this out in a few moments, but we need to understand this that true faith, though obedience is not faith. Faith results in obedience. And obey why did Abraham obey here to sacrifice the only descendant that he had? Well, he had one other descendant, but it was not what God intended. The only descendants he had between he and Sarah, this is it, and now he's gonna stop Why? Because of faith. See, it's the quality of faith here that really does matter. By the way, it's not as though we have to have great faith, but we do need to have we need to trust God. And we'll we'll understand this a little bit more as we go on. The Bible then tells us back in Galatians chapter three that That all of this was accounted to him for righteousness. This is, by definition, what justification is. It means to be declared righteous. The Greek word behind this credit accounted is logizemai. It means to be credited with. It does not, it is not saying here that Abraham suddenly becomes righteous. as though he in of itself is righteous. No, it's credited righteousness. It's Christ's righteousness placed on his account. And we need to understand that when we come to Christ, it is not as though we become righteous. It is though that Christ credits us with his righteousness. It was accounted to him for righteousness. So then where the next question then obviously is: what about us? How does this apply to us? Well, Paul's going to answer that in chapter Galatians chapter three verse seven. It says, Know ye therefore that they which are of faith And the way that the Greek construction is there, I'll just simply say that it it's only those who are of faith. The same are the children of Abraham. Now, here's what he's saying here. He is not saying that they are physical children of Abraham or that God has set the nation of Israel aside forever, although he has set Israel aside for now. God will one day come again and He will set up the thousand-year millennial kingdom where He will He will work through the nation of Israel again There's no reason to believe, although some would say this, there's no reason to believe that this verse is negating that that that in the future. But there is there is a connection that we have with Abraham. Because he was justified by faith, and that is how we are also justified. We're justified the same way. And by the way, there are some people you know that don't believe that There are some people that would actually suggest that the Old Testament is is uh those those that came to Christ in the or came to God in the Old Testament It was by works instead of faith. Folks, that could that's heresy, actually. Faith has always been the way you come to Christ. The way you come to God through the provision that Christ that God makes through Christ. The Old Testament believers looked ahead to the coming provision and trusted in Christ. They may not have known what we know today, certainly they didn't, but they trusted in the revelation that God had given them. It was by faith. That couldn't be clearer from Romans chapter 4 that we're looking at and from Galatians chapter 3. And I have had people that have professed to know Christ as their Lord and Savior and have tried to argue with me on this point. And I take them to these passages and they still seem to just choke over the idea that Old Testament people were actually ex actually came to to uh to the Lord by faith. It was only by faith in the Old Testament. And we see this clearly with Abraham as the perfect example of this. And of David as well in Romans chapter 4. Now, we need then to understand how all this applies to us, and so now we're going to need to go to Genesis chapter twelve. So would you take your Bibles and see that? Actually, before you do that, look at Galatians chapter three for just a second and notice this about what it says in verse 8. And the scripture foreseeth. Notice it says this. The scripture foreseeth that God would justify the heathen through what? through faith preached before the gospel unto Abraham, saying, In thee shall all nations be blessed. Now this is incredible. So now turn to Genesis chapter 12 and you'll see this. Genesis chapter 12, he quotes, remember now, Paul has quoted Genesis chapter 15 before he now goes to Genesis chapter 12 for a very important reason. Paul is saying you must look at Genesis chapter 12 through the lens of Genesis chapter 15, not through the lens of Genesis chapter 17, which is circumcision. So he says this in Genesis chapter 12. Now the Lord had said to Abram, Get out of your country From your family and from your father's house to a land that I will show you. I will make you a great nation. And I will bless you, and make your name great, and you shall be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and I will curse him who curses you. And then notice the provision that's made in this Abrahamic covenant. And in you, all what? All the families of the earth, everyone, Jew and Gentile alike, all the families of the earth will be blessed. Who, how did that happen? The answer is Christ. Christ came from Abraham through Mary and through that line. So Paul explains this and he says, look, you've got to look at Genesis chapter 15, which clearly says that righteousness was declared to Abraham by faith alone. And this is what applies to everyone that will accept God by faith. Will accept Christ by faith And we have this great promise that was through the foresight of God mentioned all the way back in Genesis chapter 12. And really even earlier than that, in order for us to understand the plan of God to redeem us, to make us This is reiterated in Genesis chapter 18. So if you'll turn there, it says this. since Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation, and all and the and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed, for I have known him, in order that he may command his children and his thr household after him, that they Keep the way of the Lord to do righteousness and justice, the Lord may bring to Abraham what he has spoken to him. Clearly, faith, it is faith alone that brings us to a place where we are declared righteous by God through Christ. There isn't any question about this. Folks, if you believe if you hear of anyone adding to faith It is heretical teaching. It is faith alone. And Paul could not be clearer about this. But folks, let me just say this as well. We need to make sure we understand biblical saving faith. And in order to do this, I'd actually like you to take a take you, I'd like you to go to John chapter 2 for a few moments. John chapter 2, which we have we went through the whole Gospel of John prior to coming to Galatians, actually before Ruth as well. I want you to see what it says in John chapter 2 about the concern that Christ Himself had about people that were believing on him. If you remember from John chapter two, Christ had just uh turned over the money changers in the temple. Uh he was dealing with the religious leaders about the fact that if they destroy the temple He's talking about his own body that and uh that he will raise it up in three days. And then after that he does some miracles And notice what happened to the people. Verse 22 of chapter John 2, it says, Therefore when he had risen from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this to them and they believed the scripture and the word which Jesus had said. But in contrast, verse 23, now when he was in Jerusalem At the Passover during the feast, many believed in his name when they saw the signs which he did. But Jesus did not commit himself to them. In other words the word commit there actually is the word it's the same Greek word. It means b it's belief. He didn't believe their belief is what it says there Because he knew them. He knew their hearts. He knew everything about them. And he knows everything about you. And he knows everything about me. And they these people said they had faith, but he did not commit himself to their faith because he knew what their faith was all about. It was not acceptable saving faith. This becomes very clear when we get to John chapter 6. Turn there. John chapter 6 and look at verse 25. This becomes extremely clear what the problem is because what Jesus what happens to Jesus is he he goes off the the the the people are are are uh They're pursuing him now. In our vernacular, they're stalking him. They're like after him. They're a throng going off over him. So he's going around to the other side of the lake to get away from all these people. And they're following him. And this is what he says to them, verse 25 of John chapter 6. And when they found him on the other side of the sea, they said to him, Rabbi, when did you come here? Jesus my reply would have been like leave me alone but that's not what Jesus said verse 26 Jesus answered them and said most assuredly look at what he says Most assuredly I say to you, you seek me not because you saw the signs, like the signs and believed on me, but because you ate of the loaves and were filled. Do not labor for the food which perishes, but for the food that endures to what? To everlasting life. Which the Son of Man will give you because God the Father has set his seal on you on him. Now, let's pause for a minute and ask this question. Do you see the contrast here? What's the issue? The issue is why they're believing. They're believing because they want temporal here and now blessing. Jesus says, don't set your sights on that. Set your sights on the eternal blessing that is to come, the everlasting blessing of being with me. He says, set your sights on that. There are many people, folks, that say they trust Christ as their Lord and Savior, but they don't, there it is a temporal concern that they have. They want to have a better life. They want to be blessed. They want to do better things. They want to get more from God. And that kind of faith is not, is clearly not saving faith. This became a real issue in the in the in the Protestant Reformation with Martin Luther. Martin Luther was obviously he was opposing the Catholic Church who said faith plus works equals salvation And he began to look at the book of Romans and study it and Galatians, and in fact he was teaching this in Wittenberg and there were actually he was actually opening up to the to the public, people besides just uh those training for the clergy could come and could learn and he was studying this and learning from these two books, Galatians and Romans, and he was realizing that there is It's so obvious as he as he read these two books. And he began to explain this and he began to write his nine write his nine five thesis, as you know, and all of that. And it was clear, he really got a hold of faith alone through Christ alone, Scripture alone, all that. So much so that as he began to study God's Word, he came upon a particular book of the book of James. The book of James He came across where James says, you show me your faith without your works, I'll show you my faith by my works This bothered Luther so much that he actually really questioned whether the book of James should be in the Bible at all. Because he it seemed to in his mind to contradict Romans and Galatians. Well, let me encourage you that there is absolutely no contradiction. And I want to show you that this. I'm sort of taking an extended. I could really stop here and move on in the passage. Expository preaching does not always include going into this kind of depth, but I think it's Probably helpful for us, and so that's why I'm doing it. We need to, by the way, a trust expository preaching and just let God do what he's going to do. Sometimes it's not necessary to cover everything because God will do what he wants to do with his people, and if we're preaching his word, that should be enough. But obviously if there is a a way to cover it, certainly it we can do that from time to time as well. So let's do that. I want to put up for uh put up on the screen four different things that I think we need to understand. And there are there these are four different ways that people believe that there is a relationship between between faith and works. Number one, some people just simply believe and some religions just simply believe works produces salvation. I I actually this this uh I I actually think a better word is results. I actually changed it and somehow the old one got on there, but works, results, and salvation Or f and faith results uh anyway, but anyway. Um worth works results in salvation. Some people believe that. Or produces salvation. Most of your false religions, if not all of them, say works produces salvation. That's really e every false religion believes in that. Number two, some people believe, and some religions believe, faith plus works produces salvation. That's number two. That would be, for example, the Roman Catholic Church believes that. Some people believe that faith equals salvation. And some people believe that faith produces salvation plus, or results in salvation, plus works. Let me ask you a question. Which one of those is right? Which one of those is correct? How many of you all say, you know what, I'm not gonna do that to you? The answer is number four. Which one of these was Paul battling in Galatians and Romans? He was battling number two. Which one of these was James battling? He was battling number three. Number three is not quite correct. It is faith alone. But the question is: what does faith result in? So, number three is not right. Faith, if faith equals salvation and there is no change in a person's life, if there is no desire to please God. Jesus said in Matthew chapter 7, by their fruits you'll know them. If there's no change at all in their life, Then that's not saving faith. Now, it doesn't mean they become perfect, by the way, right? Thank the Lord for that. Now, with so we understand this now. So, number two. Paul is dealing with that in Galatians and Romans. That's what he's battling. James is battling number three. The answer, when you put it all together, is number four. Is that still faith alone? It most certainly is. It's faith alone. But true quality of faith, true saving faith, results in what? Salvation plus works. It's going to result in a life change. Now that doesn't mean that we don't fall, it doesn't mean that we don't sin. It doesn't mean that we don't have carnality, it doesn't doesn't mean any of things, but there is on a there is essentially, in order for there to truly be saving faith. That's why that's why James says it this way, Show me your faith. Without your works, bottom line, you can't. I'll show you my faith by my works. Now that makes a lot more sense. So, folks, it is entirely right to stay on the side of faith alone. As long as we understand that real faith, real saving, biblical faith, will produce works, salvation plus works. Does that make sense? Now let's just let's let me I'm gonna go a little digress a little further if you'll allow me to. It's a deliberate rabbit trail is what this is. What about the issue of repentance? How many of y'all, I'm just curious, how many of y'all have have talked with someone at some point about this issue of repentance? And there's some people that believe that repentance is not necessary for salvation and you've noticed them. And there's other people that have said that repentance is necessary for salvation. How many of you are aware of that controversy? I'm just curious. Okay. Less of you than I thought. Well, there is a controversy about that. Let me settle it right here. We have to understand what repentance is. We have to define it correctly. Repentance, it's the Greek word metanoia. It means a change of mind that results in a change of actions or change of behavior. A change of mind that results in a change of behavior. It's also translated to turn. Luke chapter 13 says, if you don't repent, you'll all likewise perish. So according to that passage, repentance is absolutely necessary. Folks, listen to this. Listen, this is important. We have no problem here. If someone has a change of mind that doesn't result in a change of actions, what will we say? They didn't really have a change of mind. A change of mind will result in a change of actions. It's still faith alone. Don't get that wrong. It's still faith alone. But true faith or true repentance will result in a change of mind. Does this make sense? This is the key. If you put a change of action on the other side, or you put works on the other side of the equation, if you're thinking of a mathematical equation, if you put works, you've got it wrong. Repentance is only necessary. Now, if you define repentance as a change of action, if you simply say repentance is a change of action, then repentance would not be necessary for salvation. But if you define it the biblical way, which is repentance is a change of mind that results in a change of action, then you have no problem. Yes, repentance is necessary because really it's the same side of this, it's it's the other side, the same coin of faith. Of true saving faith. Both of them result in a change of behavior, a change of action, a change of lifestyle. Now I hope I hope that this is this is really and really helpful in understanding all of this Let me just sum it all up with Ephesians chapter 2, which says this: For by grace are ye saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works. Why? Lest any man should boast. It's a gift, it's not of works. For we are his workmanship. Created in Christ Jesus for good works. Did you get that? We're his workmanship. Created in Christ Jesus for good works Which God had prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. Paul agreed with this too. This isn't just something that James came up with that Paul didn't agree with. Paul in Ephesians agrees with this, that the reason that we're saved is for good works, that we can walk in them. Folks, let me ask you this question then. And I think it's just, it begs the question. Do you have saving faith? It is quite entirely possible that there is someone in this room or several in this room. They'd have thought that they have trusted in Christ, but there really wasn't a kind of faith that resulted in a change of behavior. It wasn't the kind of faith that really within them they desired now to please God. They desired to turn from their sin. And if you're listening here and you're saying to yourself, you know, I when I trusted in Christ, it was sort of this I prayed a prayer, kind of did a did a little thing with somebody and went down or Nile and then I just sort of Went on and lived my life the way I wanted to. That's not biblical faith from Abraham's example or from what James says or from what the Apostle Paul says. That's not faith alone. It's not faith enough. And so you might be listening here and saying, you know, hmm, I you know I've always thought it was faith equals salvation, and that's it, and I pretty much go on and do what I want. Folks, that is James is very clear about that. You do not have saving faith if that is the issue. That is why we then find in Galatians chapter 3 verse 9. So then they which be of the faith are blessed with faithful Abraham. If you're of the faith, that's it. That's it. That's all you need, faith. If you are of the faith, he says, not circumstantio, not trying to get to works or things in order to be saved. No, faith alone, if you're of the faith and you are blessed. You get that Abrahamic covenant blessing in Genesis chapter 12. You're a receiver of that blessing of salvation. If you have truly placed your trust in Christ alone for salvation. Folks, I look, I can't help but ask you, have you Have you personally placed your trust in Christ to save you from your sin? That is the question. There may be teens out there who are saying, you know, I made some sort of decision in the past, but that didn't affect my desire to please the Lord. I didn't really It didn't affect my desire. I still just want to please myself. I don't want to please the Lord. You may not be saved. In fact, if you truly only want to please yourself and you don't want to see please God, you're not saved. That's not saving faith. There may be others. You might be in a have been in church for 30 years. And you think you had saving faith, but really when you really look at your own heart, you realize, hmm, I have not had saving faith. Because my faith didn't result in any kind of change of lifestyle at all. Question number one is if we add are just in concluding these things, number one, if we add anything to faith as a requirement for that for our for salvation, we're in error. Folks, be very careful about doing that. It is faith alone. It just has to be biblical faith. Number two Do you have biblical faith? Do you have biblical saving faith? Is this something that you have? Have you ever chosen as Abraham did to believe God. I'm not going to look at my circumstances anymore and look at God through the lens of my circumstances I'm going to look at God through the s through the lens of the gospel, that Jesus died on the cross to pay the punishment for my sin. I don't need to look any further than that to know that God loves me. And to know that he's made a provision for me. I don't need to look any further than that. And that he rose again, proving that he had the ability to pay the punishment for my sin. And that the only thing that I need to do is to place my faith and trust in Him alone to save me from my sin. Have you done that? Have you placed your faith alone in the finished work of Christ to pay the punishment for your sin? And I'm just going to say this if you haven't, do it today. Don't wait. Don't say, oh, I'll give this another five years and think about it. Make a decision. It is a decision that you have to make to trust what God says rather than your circumstances or what you think. The Bible tells us these things are written that ye may know that ye have eternal life, that believe in the name of the Son of God. God wants you to have eternal life. He's not willing that any should perish, but that all that should come to repentance. And you can make a decision for Christ today. Look, that's I got a deacons meeting afterwards, but if you come up to me, I'll The deacons will just be happy to wait. Not happy, but they'll be okay. I'll be glad to talk with you and take a Bible and show you. How you can know for sure that you have this kind of saving faith in your life. So that you can have Christ's righteousness applied to you, that you can have a relationship with God. I'll stop whatever I'm doing. I'll be glad to take a Bible and help you with this. Or if you want to see somebody else you're comfortable with, that is perfectly fine as well that you you see in their life they want to please the Lord and you want to talk to them about that. Please don't don't put it off any longer Trust Christ today. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you this morning and I am keenly aware that there may be, there are very likely some in this room that don't really know you. I pray, Lord, that you would cause them to realize their own sin. separates them from God, from you. Jesus, because of his great love for them, made this great provision So that they could have his righteousness applied to their account and have their sin taken from them Thank you for the great gift of your Son, which we will now collectively celebrate together. I pray, dear Father, that if there are Folks in this room that you that don't know you, that you would work on their hearts and convict and cause them to realize that they need to come to Christ. And Lord, as we enter into the time, there's certainly a wonderful passage of Scripture that we've looked at to prepare us for your s for the Lord's Supper as we remember. the great sacrifice that Christ made as he died on the cross and broke his body for us and bled the blood that would cleanse us from our sin, for without the shedding of blood there's no forgiveness of sin, no remission. Lord, I pray that we would just in unity one with another affirm our faith together. Of the finished work of Christ on the cross today, as we partake together. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.