Wouldn't turn to Ephesians chapter five. And we're going to be looking today at verses one through seven. Ephesians chapter five. Today's subject matter is of both It's it's of serious nature. Um the beauty of going through of of tying yourself to expository preaching and expositionally working through a book of the Bible is that um you really I'm at least for me as a preacher But it also forces you to preach on things that you would otherwise never never preach on. What's going on Is everything okay? Okay, I'm sorry. I got distracted. Um if this is gonna be a problem guys, let's just shut it off. I this is this is such a serious nature, I don't want there to be a distraction. Here. And let's pray. Let's do that. Father, we come to you today and we thank you, Lord, just For your word. We thank you for the balance of it that on one hand it will give us great assurances of Christ's forgiveness and kindness to us and grace in our lives and love that He has given to us and asks us or really commands of us to walk in love. And today as we now sort of go down in into the valley of a subject that is of extreme importance, but is not as desirable to preach on, frankly, or to discuss, yet it is extremely important. And um very relevant. And we are living in a day, Lord, where there is this kind of sin at every turn. And every person must battle and struggle with it on a daily basis. And Lord, as we go into this subject this morning, I pray that you would guide my speech And what I say that you would guide our thinking about these things and our heart about these things. And I pray, Lord, that you would give us help us to see the importance of uh what your thinking is on this subject and we pray these things in Christ Christ's name. Amen. The problem of world decline in this country is absolutely undeniable. If you look around our world and Really, we become sort of a global society already, but you certainly look at our country, if you look fifty years back, we had all the same kinds of sins. But the difference between Between fifty years ago and sins that are here now are that they are much more pervasive and public and accessible. And many have tried on every level, whether it's sociologically or religious or psychologically have tried to stem the tide of the decline in morality in this country and have offered all kinds of of um ways and methods and approaches and whole organizations have been formed to try to to reduce the rate at which we are declining morally in this country The reality though is that much of it is not helping. And I wonder if it is because we are too focused on the on the Harm that our morality is doing to our country, and not focus enough on what the believer's morality or immorality is doing to our church. The Apostle Paul never, to my knowledge, talks about the problems of immorality. to the im of the believer and says how horrible the results are to a particular country. The closest we ever come to this is the robe in Romans chapter 9, where he laments over the the um the lostness of the nation of Israel. But in that case what he's really talking about is really has to do with the salvation of that nation. not so much the moral decline of the nation. And if you look all over scripture, I I was really actually quite um Amazed at the amount of times the Apostle Paul and others writers in the New Testament talk about this issue of immorality in the New Testament, particularly sexual immorality. It is not something that goes unnoticed or un und or not discussed. It's something that is very frequent. And in the first century you Did have a serious amount of this going on uh in the Roman Empire. And the flagrance in and the public nature of some of the cities, you think of the city of Corinth and the city even of Ephesus, you see those kinds of of serious public displays of sexual sin all everywhere. I want to say at the outset of this that some would probably wonder why I'm wonder say to themselves, well, maybe my kids shouldn't be here today Eight years and up is our age age cutoff. And I w just want to say to you that I'm going to be as tactful as I can with this, but I think your kids have got to be here. And I'm really actually a little bit on uh unsettle about the fact that my daughter is my oldest daughter is not. Um maybe the Lord has by his providence allowed that and that's fine, although we may review this in our in the video in the future. But this this pervasive kind of sin it has such Is so public and so accessible in this society that if if we as people of God do not declare what God says about this We are doomed to fall into it when it comes to uh this this these kinds of sin and problems. I wonder, I'll just be honest with you, I wonder There seemed to be a clear decline in the family unit. If organizations like Focus on the Family Would have been more focused on what immorality is doing to the church instead of being focused on what it did to our country, if that would have mattered, or if it would have mattered Made a difference. Paul's concern is not about the country that he's living in in this passage. It's not even about a nation. or an ethnic people group. His concern in this passage is what immorality, particularly sexual immorality, will do And so he says here, in a very abrupt fashion, you'll remember from last Sunday. We were we we moved we were talking about the forgiveness of God and the love of God and the kindness of God and that we ought to emulate those things And just by way of uh bringing our bearings into this, look at verse thirty-two of chapter four. It says, And be kind one another, ten or higher, forgiving one another, and it says, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you Be therefore followers, imitators of God as dear children, and walk in love as Christ also hath loved us, and hath given himself for us an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet-smelling savor. It's as though we're on the mountaintop learning about the love of God. And the forgiveness of God. And that when Christ came to forgave, to forgive us, it is as a sweet smelling savor to God. And when we emulate Christ's own actions It really pleases God. And with an abruptness and a severe kind of a kind of a contrast, we have in verse 3. But Fornication, and all uncleanness, or covetousness, let it not be once named among you as becometh saints And the reason that the Apostle Paul turns the contrast so sharply is, for one, probably because this really is an extreme contrast between love for others versus self-love. And really a counterfeit kind of love. A love that the world calls true love, but that the church and God's Word and God call a counterfeit love. And so we now are presented with a subject here that I would, I'll just tell you personally, would probably never want to preach on. Would not I would never say, oh, let me just um let me just preach on fornication today. That would not be something that I would choose. But I will tell you this. It is something that we cannot avoid preaching on. If we're going to preach through God's Word, I will say that. You can see that all the way through Scripture. And it is of my purpose today to demonstrate what God says about this. Christ desires that his body remain completely clean from all kinds of sexual immorality. Why the question, the really we're gonna the question we're gonna answer today is why is this so important to God? Because what you see here, folks, is that there is a distinction between in categories. He does categorize this kind of sin in a bit of a different light here. He is not suggesting that the other kinds of sin are not grievous. to him, but in this case he names sins and lists sins that he says, let them not be named among you once. Not one time. He doesn't say that about anger or bitterness or these other kinds of sins, but he does say that about this sin. He is not saying that you should not identify sin of this nature or that you should not call it out when it's seen. He is saying that you should never have to. We are living in a country in a society where every single day Both men and women, but probably more men than women, deal with this kind of sin and have to have to deal with it every day in Many cases every day of their lives. When he is talking about this term fornication, it is, first of all, a very general term in the New Testament and the Greek Translation in the Old Testament is also a very general term. For example, it is often in Acts 15. 20 and Acts 21. 25, it's often associated with idolatry And in the book of Acts, you'll find several places where there were priestesses of different temples of false religions that were also, they were harlots. I'm going to stick with that term because it's a biblical term. And so there was a religious Sanctioning of this kind of sin, and that word is used. In 1 Corinthians chapter 5, verse 1, the word is used for something as severe as incest. Where Paul tells the church at Corinth, It is reported commonly that there is fornication among you, and such fornication as is not so much as named among the Gentiles, that one should have his father's wife. In that passage, that the temptation for this man was actually a believer who was involved in an incestuous relationship. He said this goes beyond what even the Gentiles do. Even the unsaved do not usually go into this kind of area of sin. It's also used in 1 Corinthians 7, verse 2. to refer to premarital physical intimacy. It says, nevertheless, avoid fornication. And in fact, you see times in other places in the New Testament where it refers to really not only just a physical act, but would also include the idea of pornography. And back then you you would not they didn't have photographs. But what they did have have was explicit words that would draw pictures in men's and women's minds. And that in fact was the first use of the word pornography. In fact, this word, this idea of photographs and videos attached to pornography, there probably should be a separate word for that. like porno photographic or something. Because um it really wasn't uh this word was not used that way and I'll tell you this As we have had the proliferation of photographs and videos and now the internet with all kinds of things Um this word is never even thought of to just be m be talking about words on a page. In fact, we have gone so far into thinking that words on a page are not even harmful, and it's really only photographs that were harmful. But folks, in the first century, that wasn't even an issue It was only the words on a page that were formed in such a way as to release images in people's minds. And Paul and this concept of fornication would be included in this. Second Corinthians 12, 21 says, and lest when I come again, my God will humble me among you. That I shall bewail many which sinned already and have not repented of the uncleanness and fornication and lasciviousness which they have committed. Galatians five nineteen work says Now the works of the flesh are man which are these adultery, fornication, uncleanness, and lascivious Colossians chapter three verse five says, Mortify therefore your members which are on the earth, fornication unless you're Uncleanness, inordinate affection, evil concupiscence, and covetousness which is idolatry. Communication. Now, folks, the reason that I name all I talk about this in the kind of detail that I am is because it is so f so easy for For us and our flesh to deceive us into thinking that what we are involved in is not as bad or not as problematic as what someone else might be involved in. But folks, what we see in the New Testament and nearly in ev not nearly in every single case when Paul mentions this and others in the New Testament. And mention this is that God is requiring of us total abstinence in the body when it comes to these kinds of things. We then move to the word uncleanness. And these are synonyms that Paul apparently is using with different distinctions in this context. And primarily the difference is when we Move from fornication to uncleanness. Uncleanness has to do more with an internal kind of a problem. Fornication is all kinds of very general word that has all kinds of implications. for external kinds of problems, of which I will not get explicit about because we do have younger people in the room, but most of you, many of you would be aware of what would be included in that category. Uncleanness is something that is internal. And even if someone has not committed fornication, there is a sense in which they can still have an unclean heart, a defiled heart when it comes to these things. Matthew thirty twenty-three, thirty-seven said this about the Pharisees. Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. For ye are like as whited sepulchres, which indeed appear beautiful outward, but are within full of dead men's bones, and of all uncleanness. Romans chapter 1, verse 24 says, Wherefore God gave them up to uncleanness through the lusts of their own heart to dishonor their own bodies between themselves. There are many other I I won't read all the uses of this in the New Testament, but there are many times where this word is used. And it was just used in chapter 4, verse 19. Where it said who being past feeling had given themselves over unto lasciviousness to work all uncleanness with greediness. This seems to be a condition That is uh really boils down to a callousness towards sexual kinds of things outside of marriage. Folks, it is very easy for us because of the in your face. uh uh kinds of images that are constantly bombarding us. I mean even if you're watching a a clean television show The commercials have problems oftentimes. That we can become callous to these things. We can become Where they are familiar to us. And that is a very dangerous thing for us. Now, what is interesting, folks, is that the very next term here That is used is one that you would not immediately associate with sexual sin, but I want to identify that this ought to be. And it is the word covetousness. In simple terms, the term covetousness just means to want more. Essentially, it means to want what you do not have, what God has not needed. Of course, Paul is probably thinking of the Ten Commandments where we are commanded, not uh where the nation of Israel was commanded not to be a But folks, it's very interesting that over and over and over again, as I looked up this word and looked at all the occurrences in the New Testament Testament on this word, how many how often this word covetousness is associated with sexual sin. Often the term fornication. It's incr it was incredible how many times. For instance, in well I'd already read Colossians 3. 5 where it talks about that. In 1 Thessalonians 4 it talks about that. 2 Corinthians 12, it combines those two terms. You find all over the place where you have this idea of sexual sin being linked to this concept, to this idea of covetousness And covetousness is simply wanting more of what God has not given than what God has given you. The opposite of covetousness in Scripture is contentment. And Paul said in Philippians chapter 4 that I have learned in whatsoever state I am in, whatever that state may be, to be content. Um this is quite applicable. For someone that is struggling with sexual sin, that is, any sin, any kind of sexual fulfillment of desire outside of marriage. You will always find a problem with covetousness. I think I can say always. If there is someone that is completely contaminated In what God has given them. I can't imagine that there would be sexual sin. There might be temptation. There might be an initial lust that is res But beyond that, because there's such so much contentment, these things are absolutely connected to each other, and they are in Scripture. And so if you want to deal with sexual sin in your life, get down to the root, and the root problem is covetousness. But there is, folks, even a deeper root problem than covetousness. Covetousness comes from an unbelief. Covetousness comes from not believing two things. It comes from not believing that what God has provided is enough for you Which boils down to two things. That God has provided that God knows what you really need. And that God is capable of providing what you really need. Covetousness says, no, I know what I need more than what God knows what I need. And covetousness says that I can fulfly what I need better than what God can do in supplying what I really need. If you want to deal with sexual temptation, you've got to believe that God's supply And God's wisdom in what He supplies is better than what you think for yourself needs to be supplied. And better than the ability that you would have to supply that need. It is simply saying that, Lord, whatever you give me is enough for me. And I will be content with what you give me. And folks, I would just point out this: that covetousness is a problem equally. with both genders. Maybe when it comes to sexual sin with the issue of the eye gate and all those things which we'll look at in a few moments. moments, maybe men probably, more than likely, if you look at scripture, more than likely men have a greater problem with this than women do. But I don't think folks, when it comes to covetousness, men have a greater problem than women do. I think covetousness is a human problem. Paul, when he was confronted to the law, identified covetousness as the problem in Romans seven. That he identified as a problem in his own life when he was confronted with the law. It could be essentially that sin that is most prevalent when you look at any kind of law or righteousness At all. The fact is that you and I are born wanting more than what God has given us. It is the essential problem. And Colossians chapter 3 identifies it, as we have mentioned many times before, as idolatry. In Romans chapter 1, it says that God causes people to love the creation more than the creator. And that is the connection between covetousness and idolatry. Covetousness says, I love the creation more than the creator, and idolatry says, I love the creation more than the creator. And just because we don't have idols everywhere in our society, well we have American idols, apparently there's a whole show about that. But just because we don't have these cute graven images all over the place in our society doesn't mean that we don't have a problem with idolatry. If you look at the book of Acts, you see all kinds of temples to false gods and all kinds of things. We don't really have that too much in our Western society. You have that over in the East. Eastern society. And by the way, if you think we've just outs we're just too smart for that, very frankly, the Eastern societies are very intelligent. comes to these kinds of things. But folks, what have our Western societies essentially chosen to worship instead of all these graven images? I'll just tell you right now, it's science Science has become the great idol. And so instead, and it has allowed us to absolve ourselves of any um of any And so we have covetousness and idolatry rampant in our society. You would think that this these three terms would be enough to dissuade anyone from having this kind of sin in their lives when it comes to the belief when for for a belief believer because of the harm that it would do to the body of Christ. But Paul doesn't stop. He is going to continue in verse 4 with a few more terms here. He says net next, he says, he uses the term filthiness. He says, neither filthiness. Now these terms that we're going to look at now are terms that are not Mention uh uh I don't think um e any of these three, maybe one is, but at least two out of these three are not mentioned anywhere else in the New Testament. He's going to mention these terms that are far more, they really sort of go below the surface to deal with issues of prevention. The first word is filthiness, and they all have to do with our speech. The first word is the word filthiness. It is a very interesting word, and it has to do with the communion. that we would have that would otherwise be prevented if we had the right amount of shame. We are living now in a completely shameless society. We're living in a society that is free to talk about just about anything. And not have any shame as a result of talking about it. And this is a word that we've got to pay very close close attention to It says that this kind of talking, this filthiness that would otherwise be covered by shame, should not be named among believers. The next word is foolish talking. It's interesting that o some some of the modern translations actually even use the word silly. talking. It's talking that essentially has no specific purpose and declines toward sexual innuendo. No nor foolish talking. And then finally the word coarse jesting. Coarse jesting, uh let me just say what it doesn't mean. It doesn't mean that we should not be joking around Around. That would actually be taking us out of context. And the only reason I mention that is because I've actually heard it preached that way. That Christians should that you can't joke, you can't folks, that should be that that is not what it's talking about. We ought to have the freedom to be able to be jocular and to be um just jovial with each other. That's not a problem. This is talking really about um it's talking about dirty jovial It is there is a jest there is a joking quality to this word, but it's talking about dirty jokes. And all of us who have rubbed shoulders at work or any of these things, uh or just in It's interesting that the etymology of the word, which we don't want to put a lot of stock into, but we can at least mention There are some people that are very quick witted, and so they have the ability to be able to take a line or a conversation or something and turn it as a joke very quickly. It's a quick wit. And but that really isn't a problem. There isn't any problem with that. Some of you out there, I can think of people that are quick-witted. That's not a problem. But if you are if you use that and you turn it to a sexual innuendo, that's a problem. And God says that these kinds of things, he says, let it not be once named among you. Now the question that I would have at this point, you probably have that as well is that why is why is Paul particularly dealing with these issues of speech? And the answer to that is that Paul is concerned about God's people being too familiar with these things. He is concerned that what we really he doesn't want to get into an area where we are so familiar, particularly particularly in the body of Christ, as we rub shoulders with other believers, where we're so familiar talking about sexual, about sin. Sexual deviance that is outside of the marriage relationship. He wants us to be careful about these things in the body of believers. Because there is a familiarity that is going to lend itself to temptation. But if there were photographs And if there were problems with modesty, and if there was the issues of internet and television, I will just tell you I think they would be here. That's my I'm not saying that I would add to scripture. I'm just simply saying that the way that he uses these things, really actually only identifying here in this tac context, the way he uses these things, I think The point that he is trying to make is that God's people have got to be different in what they are going to expose themselves to when it comes to these areas of sin in their lives. They ought not be like the world. I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and turn to Matthew chapter five. Verse twenty seven we're gonna pick up here. In this passage, we begin to see just exactly how Christ's own view He says in verse 27, Ye have heard that it was said by them of old, thou shalt not commit adultery. But I say unto you, That whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her has committed adultery with her already in his heart. And if thy right I offend thee. Now look at what it says here, folks. First of all, what does it say in verse 28? If a man looks on a woman with lust, he commits adultery unto her. Now let me just pause for a moment and say this. The issue of a woman's, a woman, a man looking at a woman is not only a male issue. You have, for instance, in the book of Genesis. Joseph, it says there that his body was goodly to look upon, and that Potiphar's wife was tempted by that. And so it isn't only a male problem, but I will say that it is far more of a male problem than a than a woman's problem. And you find that from the frequency in scripture on this issue. Issue. You find oftentimes throughout Scripture that the issue of what you're looking at, of a man's eyes, where we have men of old that are making covenants with their eyes not to look upon a woman. I don't mean look at a woman, just look upon her. There's a difference. That it obviously is a primarily a man's problem. And in fact, what you find here in this text is When he's talking here, he says, he doesn't say men or women, he says men. He says, If a uh if whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her, and obviously the implication is And he sees the severity of the internal problem of looking on a woman with lust in her heart as the same thing Sin a with regard to sin as adultery itself. Although I would just identify this that there are more consequences of physical uh when it comes to physical adultery than than mental adultery. Verse 29 says, And if thy right eye offend thee, pluck it out, and cast it from thee. For it is profitable for thee that that one of thy members should perish, and not thy whole body should be cast into hell. Now, folks, let me just ask you a question. I have heard, and I'll mention this I I've mentioned this passage before in a mu a group of preachers I remember one time. And they all said, Well that's hyperbole, that's not that's figurative. Let me ask you a question. Would it be better to pluck out your eye or cut off your hand than to enter into hell? Well, of course, this is not hyperbole. This is to be taken literally. It would be better for us to pluck out our eye. If it's going to prevent us from being in hell. Now, what Jesus isn't doing here is advising this. We never see advice on this is how you deal with this. He's simply talking here about the severity of the sin of internal lust. He says in verse 30, if thy right hand offend thee. Why does he use the hand? Very candidly. A hand is used in all kinds of sexual sin. Cut it off and cast it from thee, for it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not thy whole body should be cast into hell. Now folks, what I want to do here, and I'll just say this to teenage boys particularly, if you're if you are eight or above, you need to learn this. Or maybe Be even younger. I am I will just tell you from personal experience that one of the greatest gifts that my dad, and he's here with me, that's fine, that my dad ever gave to me is He started at a very young age. I didn't have a clue why he was telling me to look away when he told me how. how young to look away. And fathers, I would really strongly encourage you to instill that in your boys at a young age that they need to look away from any Anything that is of immodesty when it comes to women. I I would encourage fathers, frankly, to do it physically with your when your when your sons are around. I mean you can close your eyes and do it discreetly, you know, um otherwise, but when your sons are around Set the example and actually do it. Actually look away. This is just practical advice, but I think it's worth worthy of saying. um experienced in my own childhood and I am absolutely grateful for it. But I want to go a little further when it comes to this issue of application Um if you would go ahead and put up that next slide there, Pat. I want I would like really for both men and women, mothers of science And men to see essentially the method of temptation that happens. It goes like this exposure to familiarity, to curiosity, to temptation, to indulgence, to entrapment That is the process. If you will stay look, for that when it comes to this area, the less exposure The better. Until you're married, and then you have full exposure with your marriage partner. Familiarity, folks, is something that we can barely battle today, isn't it? It's something that everybody seems to be familiar at the youngest of levels. And so the next one becomes very, very important for us, and that is the issue of curiosity Young men, there are all kinds of things that you can be curious about. You can be curious about sports, you can be curious about other kinds of hobbies, you can be Certainly curious about God's Word and God and who He is. But when it comes to this area of curiosity, you need to withhold yourselves from fulfilling any of that curiosity until you are married. If you will keep the issue uh if you will keep it at that level where you're not you're going to choose not to fulfill your curiosity about these things. It will save you. It will rescue you. It will keep you from falling into all kinds of sexual sin. Oftentimes when there is a when there is a temptation, it doesn't even seem sinful at first to a young man. It seems natural. And there is a curiosity about it that doesn't your your your conscience doesn't even necessarily kick in right away. It will a little bit, but it doesn't always But folks, if you don't even go there, if you choose, men, if you don't go there, and frankly, even if you ever have gone there, and the exposure and the familiarity are there, if you will back yourself off. to the point where the s the the battle is in the curiosity stage, it will keep you from ever succumbing to the temp temptation and certainly to the entrapment. The next slide uh the next uh thing I have up there is basically what happens when you remove uh the familiarity and the curiosity. There are sometimes what happens is the familiarity and curiosity are all they're they're they're fulfilled. And so then you're moving directly from exposure to temptation. You have no barriers of familiarity and curiosity there. And so the path to sin is much quicker. Then if you have those other two barriers that are in the way that you kind of have to get through before you get to the other the other ones. Now you say, why in the world am I going through this kind of explicit on a Sunday morning, folks? Because this is when you're here And this is when it's necessary. And this is when um we've got to battle this. And the kind of dis and the kind of discussion that we have here is Paul, Paul, go ahead and take your Bibles and turn back to Ephesians here. What you find here, remember folks, what is Paul's standard? What is God's standard for this when it comes to the church? He says, let it not once be named among you. That's his standard. Now, I want you to notice there is one glimmer of positivity in this passage. And I'm thankful for that. Because very candidly, what we ought not be focused all the time on is resisting the sin. In other words, folks, we ought not constantly be thinking about it. What we must instead be thinking about is something that we would never think as really something that will help us battle this kind of sexual temptation And that is we've got to be thankful. Look at what it says there. But rather, giving of thanks. Do you know what the conversation of God's people ought to be filled with? It ought to be filled with expressions of thankfulness. Why? Because if you remember just a few verses before in chapter 5, verses 1 and 2, and the previous verse in 32 there, 432, we have all kinds of reason to be thankful because Christ has forgiven us That we are redeemed by Christ. And we have been washed by the blood of Christ. And we ought to be the most thankful people in all the world because God says He's going to take care of us, He's going to supply our needs. We ought to be thankful. That ought to be what characterizes a believer is thankfulness. And if you want to resist temptation Constantly remind yourself of all that God has done for you and given you and has been for you. A thankful heart will keep you from resisting, or will help you resist this kind of sin. How are your are you thankful? Are you grateful for all the things that God has given you? Are you grateful for your salvation? Are you grateful for your justification? And your sanctification? Are you grateful for all the ways, all the provisions that God has made for you? Are you thankful? And if you and I are thankful and we live in a sense of being grateful and thankful for all that God has given us and done for us, then it will resist, frankly, it will help us resist all kinds of sin. And when we come in and dis and dis and talk with each other in the body of Christ and we are expressing our own thankfulness for all that God has done for us, when that is our spirit and that is our communication and that is our expressions It will cause us to become, I mean, it's going to be like this, you know, as close to heaven as we get on this side. Too often Christians are characterized by complaining and griping. It's not, folks, it's not wrong to express need and understand, you know, there's hurt and those kinds of things. That's understanding But when it comes to this area of thank of of uh of being thankful We need to have a very thankful heart, and it will keep us from expressing these kinds of sins. Now the question at this point is really, why is there such an why is there such a absolute standard on these things? And the answer is found in the following verse in verse 5. For this ye know that no whoremonger, nor unclean person, nor covetous man Who is an idolater hath any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God? He says that if someone is characterized by sexual sin. And characterized by unclean by being an unclean person. That's that second word there and characterized by covetousness, then he does not know God. Now remember I'm using the word characterized. It does not say that you cannot commit any of these sins. It's not saying that if you commit fornication that you're not saved, or if you commit covetousness Neither none of us will be saved. Or if you could commit the it's not saying that here. But what it is saying is that if your life is characterized by these kinds of sins, you really need To think long and hard if as to whether or not you are going to receive an inheritance of the kingdom. You say, well, how many what is the frequency to determine whether you're characterized? The Bible doesn't say that. It doesn't tell us what would I what would be what would cause there to be a characterization of these things. It doesn't say that. It basically gives us two standards. It says, number one, abstinence is absolute. And that's the standard that God has for his church. And on the other hand, if you're characterized by these things, you're not part of his church. That's the standard. And do you know what, folks, do you know what happens to most of If he can just get us in between those two standards, he will render us useless for the purposes of the kingdom. If he can just get us to move off of abstinence in any way, if he can just get us to I mean we don't have to be actually characterized by the thing to render us useless for the And that's why Paul is mentioning this here. Look at verse six. Let no man deceive you with vain words, for because of these things cometh the wrath of God upon the children of disobedience. Obedience. Be not therefore partakers with them. He says, don't partner with someone who is characterized by these kinds of sins. He's saying that you are, if you know Christ as your Savior, you are part of a different kingdom. Don't live for the other kingdom And don't render yourself useless for this kingdom. And that is why he has an absolute standard of these things. That clock is never on my side. I'm going to ask you to quickly go to 1 Corinthians chapter Six. And answering the question of why is so why Paul is so um direct and absolute in his statements about these things. We see here that Paul deal is dealing with the Church of Corinth about this. And the reason and I think it's so important for us to just really settle this in our hearts is because the flesh so easily deceives us into thinking that some of these things are okay. And in fact, in the ch in the first century, the church at Corinth made the assumption that it would it was okay for them to do what they were doing. What they wanted to with their own bodies, because their connection to Christ is spiritual, not physical. This is the mentality that they had. They said, well, the way that we get saved is spiritual. And the connection we have to Christ is spiritual. And so it really doesn't matter what we do with our physical bodies because our connection, our unity with Christ is not going to be compromised by the physical issues of sexual immorality. The Apostle Paul is going to deal with this. He is going to say with directness in verse 9: Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God. Be not deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers of themselves with mankind. Nor thieves, nor covetousness, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners shall inherit the kingdom of God. And such were some of you. And by the way, isn't that nice that he puts that in there? These are men and women that are continuing to deal with sexual sin. But they're no longer characterized by them, even though they are participating in them. And the reason I simply make that point is to realize to cause us to realize that there is both A reality of sexual sin in the believer's life that they must deal with. And there is a tendency for the believer to go toward these things. In other words, we've got to be really careful. Because it is as though a believer is exempt from doing any of these kinds of things. In other words, it's not as though you could say, well, unbelievers do these kinds of things. Believers don't, so I don't know, I don't have to be careful. He says, such as they were, some of you were this way, but ye are washed, he assures them. But ye are sanctified, but ye are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of our God. These are people they're still being tempted and all even probably participating in sexual things is causing all kinds of problems in their church and all kinds of levels. And he says to them, you're washed, you're sanctified, you're cleansed. He says then verse 12, All things are lawful unto me, but all things are not expedient. All things are lawful for me, but I will not be brought under the power of any folks. What is he talking about there? If you want to know what he's talking about there, you've got to go to the next verse. Verse 13, meats for the belly and the belly for meats. But God shall destroy both of them and both of uh both of them. Both it and them. What he's saying there when it comes to all things are lawful, he's talking about now all things body. He's saying he's he's dealing with this issue of physical things. And he says when it comes to ingesting things, when it comes to eating things and drinking things, those kinds of things, he says all things are lawful. He's going to make a strong distinction. Between issues of eating and drinking and sexual sin. He makes a strong distinction here. He said those kinds of things are lawful. He says there's one thing you've got to be careful with, those things. He says you don't want to be brought under the power of anything. So if there's something you're going to ingest that's going to bring you under the power of it. Like drugs and alcohol and bacon, okay. That was interesting. Not bacon. Um those are the kinds of things that you've got to be careful of. Coffee can be in that category. Oh, I just Hit a bunch of people now. But he says, be careful. But then he says this. Now the body is not for fornication. But for the Lord. And the Lord for the body. Folks, what does he say here? He says, Your body is not your own, your body is God's. It's God's body. When you get saved, he gets all of you. That's why it says in Romans chapter 12, to present your what? Your body's a living sacrifice unto God, which is only reasonable for you. But for the Lord, And the Lord for the body. Verse 14, he says, this. God hath raised up the Lord. And will also raise us up by his own power. His argument is this: He said, God cares about the body because he raised Christ bodily. And God cares about the body because one day you and I will be raised bodily. He says, Know ye not that the body that your bodies are members of Christ? Shall I then take the members of Christ and make them the members of an harlot? Do you see what he's saying here? folks. He's saying that your body, when you get saved, is connected to Christ. It is a member of Christ's body. And he says in this passage that if you link it up with someone else physically, you become one with them, and it adulterates God Christ's body. That's why he's so ki s serious about this matter. Verse 16: What know ye not that he which is joined to an harlot is one body? For two saith he, that he is one flesh. But he that is joined unto the Lord is one spirit. Flee fornication. Every sin that a man doeth is not is without the body. But he that committeth fornication sinneth against his own body. What? Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit, which is in you, which ye have of God, and ye are not your own. For ye are bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. Now, folks, at this point I just want to say this, and we are really over time. You may be saying to yourself, I I I I'll just say I'll tell you this. I until I did all the study this week, I knew That God looked on these issues with great great concern and great uh disdain. And I knew that sexual sin was was of Great brings God great displeasure. But I'll be honest with you, I did not know until I read all of this and put all of it together just how harmful it is to the body. To his universal body, and to Christ Himself. And if I didn't realize all that, I would just imagine that there would be two or three out there among you that wouldn't have realized the severity either. And some of you are probably saying to yourself, I am guilty. In fact, if any man would be honest with himself, he has violated Matthew chapter five. But with the weight of importance that God makes in this matter and the death and the the problems that it causes for his body and for the I mean, I really would wonder what the church would be like if this was not an issue. I really wonder I'm not talking about our church. I'm talking about the church at large. I wonder if what Christ's body would be like if sexual sin was not an issue at all And I would just encourage you this way. If you know Christ as your savior, you can't do that. The Bible tells us, if you confess your sin, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins. And to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And you need to accept what God, in your own life, you need to accept God's forgiveness of your sins. sin in this area, if you are, if God has convicted you about these things. But folks, when you see what God, how God, seriously, God takes this Would you would you just resolve? I'm not saying you need to make a promise or a commitment. You make a law into yourselves, you're you're sure to break it with your own flesh But there ought to be an overwhelming resolve and desire that because of the damage it does to Christ and his body. And the furtherance of his kingdom, that I am by God's grace, that he would help me to abstain from this kind of sin. There ought to be a new New resolve in these kinds of areas in your life, in my life. And very candidly, there ought to be a great resolve parents For your teens and even younger to make sure that they understand the danger of this kind of sin and what it will do to them. And their families, and as God says, most importantly, Christ's body. Now, what we are about to celebrate is also in 1 Corinthians. And it is in chapter eleven. It's interesting that in a church so was dealing with so many problems and sexual sin. Paul lays out for them a very important matter when it comes to Lord's Supper. It's in the same book. He wants to make sure that they do not partake of the Lord's Supper unworthily. And that is, folks, very different than the word unworthy. The problem, the probably the reason that they were partaking of it unworthily, is because they were they were um they were Had all kinds of sin in their lives, and so the manner in which they were partaking of the Lord's Supper was wrong. It wasn't so much about I need to have a confessional here. That was not Paul's point. But his point was, let's just understand Understand this. His point was that the manner in which we take the Lord's Supper Supper ought to be reverent, and they were taking it flipper flippantly. There ought to be a reverence on how uh to how we partake of the Lord's Supper together. So let me give you a few moments just in the quietness of your own heart before the Lord. There might be I I mean I would just imagine that there may be some here that need to really, because of the nature of what we have preached on You might need to confess some sin, of covetousness or sexual sin, those kinds of things. But then take some time also to turn your heart to appreciating and being thankful for the gift of Christ and for the work that He did on the cross. We are thankful for the cleansing work of the blood of Christ. And that your grace has saved wretches like us. We thank you, Lord, that when we realize just how depraved we are and how sinful we are, it puts us in a right position to appreciate your grace even more. And where sin abounds, grace doth much more abound. And we thank you, Lord, that you have made an An absolute way for us to have our sins forgiven, not by any merit of our own, but by the finished work of Christ and the broken body and the shed blood of Christ on the cross for us. Father, we thank you for that. And we thank you that we can genuinely together express our thankfulness and our appreciation and remember These things that Christ did for us in the breaking of his own body and the shedding of his own blood for the remission of our sin. And so we pray for this time that it would be a time Where we really you would be pleased with our worship of you through communion. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.