There we go. That you've given us your word, and we don't have to depend on word of mouth. We have it written down for us. things that uh we can depend on, promises, uh things that you have told us about yourself. And we thank you, Father, that we can Read these things in our own language and understand and know that this is the Word of God and it's truth. Father, we pray that you would pray you would put your hand on me and may the things that I am teaching here, I've tried my my best to make sure that everything that I'm teaching is nothing but the truth right out of your word. And I just pray that it will be that and uh that it would be a blessing to everyone here. I know it's already been a blessing to me. We give you thanks and ask for your blessing in Jesus' precious name. Amen. In the book of Hebrews, chapter two, verse three, it says, How shall we escape if we neglect so great salvation? And that's basically my subject tonight. So great salvation. Well, how great is it? My intent is to help you appreciate all that God has done for us in the salvation That he gives us in Jesus. Salvation itself is amazingly simple, but it had to be, or else nobody could be saved. There's much to it. But God does the hard part and he offers it to you as a gift. God said it. Jesus did it. I believe it. And that settles it for me. If you had to climb a mountain, then only the strong could be saved. If you had to pay a lot of money, then only the rich could be saved. If you had to understand theology, then only the intelligent could be saved. If you had to win a race, then only the fleet of foot could be saved. But it is, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, then thou shalt be saved. So even a child can be saved, or a moron, or an invalid, or the mentally repaired, uh mentally impaired can be saved. The evidence is adequate, but not overwhelming, so it all boils down to a matter of the will. Will you or won't you? Whosoever will may come Jesus was lifted up on a cross so he could be plainly seen, as any fool can plainly see. So even a fool can be seen. It's as simple as turning on a switch and the light comes on. Even a child can understand that much. But behind the switch There are wires, lamps, circuit breakers, transformers, power stations, power lines, generators, turbines, Niagara Falls, you get the impression. I might be an electronics engineer, yeah, you know Well, who can understand all that? But even if you don't exactly know how it works, it helps to know that all that stuff is there supporting the light switch. At least you need to know that if the light does not come on, it may be something as simple as you need to replace the lamp. And if all the lights are off, you might need to call the power company. Although it's simple to us, God is thorough. He does not miss a trick. 2 Kings 21:13 describes how thorough God will deal with Israel. Quote, as a man wipeth a dish, turning it over and wiping it, meaning that nothing will escape his attention. He just wiped the back without looking Might be still something there, but if you turn it over and look at it, if there is something there, it won't get away from you. To God, a thousand years is as a day, and a day is as a thousand years That means he can handle the complexity and he can handle the details and he does not miss a trick In the hymn, Rock of Ages, there's a line that says, Be of sin the double cure, save from wrath, and make me pure. We tend to skip right over it and not really think about it. We tend to emphasize the saved from wrath part, the forgiveness of sins. But we forget that there's another aspect of salvation, the make me pure part, the part where the sin nature is destroyed, and we are cleansed, we are made a new creation, we become godly, we become in the image of Christ. and free from the presence of sin, ultimately, because God cannot allow sin into his heaven. He must judge it. But it was God's plan from the Garden of Eden to make man in our image after our likeness. That's uh Genesis 126 and Ephesians 4. 13. When we all come in the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. To be like Christ is to be like God, because Jesus is the express image of God. Hebrews 1, verse 3. He is God. Even then, there is much that goes into our salvation. One man counted 33 things that God does for us. At the point of salvation, at the moment of salvation. I've been able to count 24. So I'm sorry, but I can't give you a complete reckoning. But I'll share with you as much as I remember, and then there's much more that comes after salvation. And there are many things that overlap too. First first item. God gives you eternal life. Gives. That's important. Romans 6. 23. For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life. Through Jesus Christ our Lord. John 10. 28 says, and I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish Ephesians 2, 8 and 9 says, For by grace are ye saved through faith, and that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. When someone offers you a gift, there are three things you can do. First, you can receive it, in which case you have it. Second, you can refuse it, in which case you do not have it. The third option is to put it off, in which case you do not have it. And that's the same effect as if you rejected it. You don't have it. With the added danger that the original offer may be withdrawn. 1 John 5. 13 says, These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God. That you may know that you have eternal life. Now that verse tells us that we have a no-so salvation. Because the verbs know and have are in the present tense. That is, you may know now that you have now eternal life. You do not need to wait until after you die, and then God decides. No, you have it now, and you can know it. And how do you know it? That verse tells you, because these things are written. That's how you know. This I know, for the Bible tells me so. Also, if you have it now, but you could be lost tomorrow, as some people say, then how eternal was your eternal life? Not very eternal. Eternal life and eternal security must go together. Okay, second point. You are redeemed. You are bought with a price out of the slave market of sin, with the precious blood of Christ. 1 Corinthians 6 verses 19 and 20 says, And ye are not your own, for ye are bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. Ephesians 1. 14 refers to us as a purchased possession. Ephesians 1 7 says, in whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins according to the riches of his grace. Redemption and forgiveness go together. God cannot arbitrarily forgive sins. Christ had to die just to make it possible. Item 3, you are forgiven. Colossians 1. 14, which sounds a lot like Ephesians 1. 7. In whom we have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness of sins. Item four. Because you have been redeemed and forgiven, your sins are no more remembered. Jeremiah 31, 34 predicted this. They shall all know me, from the least of them unto the greatest of them, saith the Lord. For I will forgive their iniquity, and I will remember their sin no more. That is also quoted in Hebrews 8 verse 12, so if you remember it from Hebrews, it's really the same thing, but one's quoting the other. Colossians 2. 14 says blotting out the handwriting of ordinances that was against us, which was contrary to us, and took it out of the way, nailing it to his cross. There were two things nailed to Jesus' cross, Jesus and the official accusation that was nailed above his head. Now this verse says that in God's sight, all the accusations against you and me were also nailed to the cross. We have a hymn that says, in the sea of God's forgetfulness, that's good enough for me. Praise God, my sins are gone. But God cannot forget our sins. Because if he did, he would no longer be omniscient, right? But it doesn't say that. It says he remembers them no more. The cross is like God's file cabinet for paid sin debts. Once a debt is paid The paperwork for it is filed away and never brought out again, never remembered again, unless there's some question about it. And I suggest to you that when Jesus pays a debt, there is never any question God cannot justly remember a debt that has been paid. That's how that works. Item five. Your sins are taken away, washed away, gone. Not like the Old Testament days when it says, blessed is the man whose sins are covered. When something is covered, it cannot be seen, but it's still there. Psalm 103, verse 12 says, As far as the east is from the west, so far hath he removed our transgressions from us. Now, here's an example of that supports plenary verbal inspiration because it doesn't say north to south, it says east to west. If it said north to south, you can only go a finite distance, about six thousand miles from the equator to either pole. If you keep going, you're coming back south again or back north again So you can only go a finite distance if it was north-south. But if you go east-west, you can keep going. There's no end. You can keep going ad infinitum. You might go past the same point where you started over and over again, but you never come to an end, and that's the point. There is no end to the distance east-west. Item six, we are declared righteous or justified. Now this is what we were studying last autumn when we were talking about the great extent exchange. Our sin exchange for Christ's righteousness. 2 Corinthians 5. 21 says, For he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Isaiah 53. 11 says, By his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities. Let's see the swap there. In Revelation 7. 14, these are they which came out of great tribulation, and have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb, meaning the blood of Jesus. Someone pointed out that you cannot expect to wash your robes in blood and have them come out white unless it's the blood of Jesus. Only his blood can do that. And I think of that every time we have communion, that goes through my mind. Item seven, we are reconciled to God by the blood of Christ. We are no longer enemies, so we have peace with God. Those things all go together. They're all part of the same thing. Not to be confused with the peace of God, which we get later as we live with Christ. The word reconcile means to take two people who had become enemies and make them to become friends again. Colossians 1, 20-22 says, and having made peace through the blood of his cross, by him to reconcile all things unto himself. By him I say, whether they be things in earth or things in heaven. And you that were sometimes alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works, yet now hath he reconciled in the body of his flesh through death to present you holy and unblameable and unreprovable in his sight. Ephesians 2. 16 says, and that he might reconcile both unto God in one body by the cross, having slain the enmity thereby. I need to explain that word, enmity. It almost sounds like enemy, doesn't it? Well, it's because the word enmity means the attitude of being an enemy. So that The two words really are uh like different different parts of speech, but essentially they mean that they're meaning the same thing John fifteen, fifteen says, Henceforth I call you not servants, for the servant knoweth not what his Lord doeth, but I have called you friends. For all things that I have heard of my Father I have made known unto you. Friends. the active word there. What was once enemies are now actually friends. You were once an enemy, now a friend. Item 8. We are made nigh to God by the blood of Christ, Ephesians 2. 13. But now in Christ Jesus, ye who sometimes were far off, are made nigh by the blood of Christ. It's interesting to to notice how many times the blood of Christ is important to all of this happening. Um I I went I had a few months back, and Wednesday night I I did a thing with a God nigh, God near. So if you were if you happen to be there that night, I won't go I won't go into any more detail here because I already beat it to death a few months, but Item 9. At the same time, you are placed or immersed or baptized, because baptized means to immerse. You are placed into Christ, and the Holy Spirit is placed or immersed or baptized into you. You might call it mutual indwelling. Acts 1. 5. You shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit. That is, the Holy Spirit is immersed in you. Romans 6. 3. Know ye not that so many of us as were baptized into Christ Jesus, immersed were baptized into his death. First Corinthians 6. 19. Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost, which is in you, which you have of God, and you are not your own. That is, the Holy Ghost resides in our bodies as if our bodies were a temple. 1 Corinthians 12, 27, now ye are the body of Christ, and members in particular. Now Pastor covered that very well when he preached through the epistle of the Ephesians, so I don't feel like I need to spend a whole lot of time on that either. I think Pastor beat that one to death And then my favorite of all of these verses is Colossians 127. It refers to Christ in you, the hope of glory. In Ephesians chapter 1, there are many places where we are described as being in Christ. And I particularly picked up verses 3, 4, 6, 7, 10, 11. The same thing in Colossians 2, verses 5, 6, 7, 10, 11, 25. For example, Colossians 2. 12, we are buried with him in baptism, wherein also ye are risen with him. Through the faith of the operation of God who hath raised him from the dead. Colossians 2. 20. Wherefore, if ye be dead with Christ from the rudiments of the world, why are you subjected to ordinances? Colossians 3. 1. If then ye be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God. Now, the point here is that God sees you as being in Christ when he died on the cross. Therefore you're dead too. Therefore, you are also buried with him. Therefore, you are also risen with him to a new life, an eternal life. And this is how God sees you now. Not just someday. Not just something that you hope for. You've got it now. Items ten and eleven. These are kind of hard to to separate because they're they're both like right next to one another in the same verse And I couldn't figure out any way to separate them, but they are kind of distinct. So you are sealed by the Holy Spirit, and he is the down payment or the earnest money. of the inheritance that you have because you are in Christ. Ephesians 1, 12-14 says that we should be to the praise of his glory who first trusted in Christ In whom ye also trusted, after that ye heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation. In whom also, after that ye believed, ye were sealed with that Holy Spirit of promise which is the earnest of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession, unto the praise of his glory. Now, earnest money, we don't usually use the term very much anymore, but earnest money is like a down payment which guarantees that the business transaction will be completed. Otherwise the buyer forfeits the down payment. So it's sort of like guarantees that you so as not to lose that the down payment, you're going to go ahead with it and complete the transaction. That's why it's called earnest money. There is a seriously major inheritance that we get As part of our salvation, because we share everything that Christ inherits from the Father. Therefore, the Holy Spirit within us is the first payment, so to speak, on that inheritance. And that brings me to my next point. Item 12. Salvation brings you into a personal family relationship with God. Before, your relationship with God was that of an enemy. You've already discovered that. Already described that unfavorable relationship. And that relationship had been destroyed by Christ on the cross It is not like Matthew 7. 23, where Christ says, and then will I profess unto them, I never knew you. I never had a relationship with you. Depart from me ye that work iniquity. In its place, you have many relationships. Oh, I'm not so sure I got them all. But I want you to appreciate the different relationships that you that you have with God and Christ through the salvation that we have. You started as a bond slave. Purchased out of the slave market of sin from which you were redeemed or bought back by the blood of Christ. But a bond slave gets no rewards, has no rights, and gets no inheritance We do not stay in that relationship, although in one place Paul does describe himself as the bond slave of Jesus Christ. But we don't stay in just that bond slave kind of relationship. I've heard some pastors emphasize that, and it's it's just not really a balance. Ephesians 5, 22 to 33 describes the relationship between a husband and wife By comparing it to Christ and the church, ending with, quote, For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, and shall be joined unto his wife, and they too shall be one flesh. This is a great mystery, but I speak concerning Christ and the church. So you have the relationship of being the bride of Christ. Now that's easier for women to grasp than the men, I think. And if you are the bride of Christ, then you must be daughter-in-law to the Father. Galatians 4, verses 5 and 6, to redeem them that were under the law, that we might receive the adoption of Son. And because ye are sons, God has sent forth the Spirit of His Son into your hearts, crying, Abba, Father. Now, adoption implies more than just being taken into the family, because even natural-born sons were adopted. or bar mitzvid, you probably heard the term, bar mitzved, into the family. But what that meant was that the son had come of age and could now inherit from the father The Bible actually says we are joint heirs with Christ. Romans 8. 17. So as full sons, we co-inherit with him. But You can only inherit when there is a family relationship. Similar to sons, we are also called children of God. And as such, that relationship means that that means there is a family relationship, plus as a child, we come to resemble the Father. And this ties in with the idea of godliness where we become more and more like God, like Christ. We've already seen how that Christ calls us friends, so I need not go very much into that. But Jesus is described characteristically as the friend of sinners. But we have that relationship too, the relationship of a friend. We are related to him as sheep to the shepherd, which means that he takes responsibility for overseeing us. guiding us, leading us, feeding us, healing our injuries, watching over us. I will guide thee with mine eye. It is not. Good luck. I hope you make it. He's watching the whole time. Ephesians 2. 19 says, Now therefore ye are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints. And of the whole household of God. That is, you are both citizens of the kingdom of God, and you are members of the household of God. It might seem odd to put the two of them together, but it turns out the kingdom of God works more like a family than any kingdom on the face of the earth You are family members. You're not servants, not subjects. And as citizens, you have both privileges and protection like Paul had under the Roman because he was a Roman. He had certain privileges and rights that others did not have. Revelation 1. 6 says, we become kings and priests unto God, both of which are service positions. As kings, we will reign with Christ. As priests, we have direct access to God. I'll mention that again in a few minutes. This relates to the priesthood of every believer. Also as a service possession, we are called stewards. That is, God entrusts to us some of his wealth, and we are expected to work with it to profit. Although sometimes slaves or servants were made stewards, often sons were made stewards. And that's our relationship. We are sons who serve as stewards. We are also called co-laborers with God. 1 Corinthians 3. 9 says, For we are laborers together with God. You really get to know someone when you work with them elbow to elbow, like we do when we have a work day at the church. But consider that you are actually working side by side with God or Christ. You get to know his ways. You get to know how he does things, how he thinks. And he teaches you some of the shortcuts and tricks of the trade, so to speak. You are now ambassadors for Christ. You have that relationship as well. 2 Corinthians 5. 20. Now then we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God did beseech you by us. We pray you in Christ's stead, be ye reconciled to God. Now, an ambassador is one who is commissioned and sent to represent the one who sent him. And we are put in that position, again, not as an employee, but as a son. And all of those relationships apply beginning at the moment of salvation. Item 13. You are given a new nature, in addition to the old sin nature, which will eventually be destroyed. We sometimes call this being born again or born from above. 2 Corinthians 5. 17 says, Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. Galatians 6. 15 says, For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision availeth anything, nor uncircumcision, but a new creature. In the first creation, God made the world first and at the end created people. In the new creation, God is calling out the people first making them new, and at the end creating a new world wherein dwelleth righteousness. 2 Peter 3. 13. With the new Jerusalem that we will populate Item 14. You are given direct access to God. Jesus told us to pray directly to the Father. Even He does not get in the way. Although the Holy Spirit prays with us with groanings that cannot be uttered. Hebrews 4. 16. Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace. That we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. Ephesians 2. 18 says, for through him we both have access by one Spirit unto the Father. Now this associates with the idea that every believer is a priest, because we can intercede for others before God. That's why Baptists believe in them. The priesthood of the of the believer. Also, as ambassadors, we can intercede in behalf of people, for example, refugees who come to Christ seeking asylum, so to speak. And you have a direct line. There's no chain of command through which the original communication can get garbled. And there's much more. But I think that that's enough to wear me out. Probably wear you out too. I've got a sort of a summary here. There's just like one verse for each each one of these things. Some of what I've covered is is included in here, but there's a bunch of other things. That's why I'm I'm sort of tacking this on the end Here. There's uh a lot earlier than I thought I would be. But you started a lot earlier than I expected to. This is called I Know Who I Am. Who are you? I am God's child, John 1. 12. I am Christ's friend, John 15. 15. I am united with the Lord, 1 Corinthians 6. 17. I am bought with a price. 1 Corinthians 6, 19-20. I am a saint set apart for God. Ephesians 1-1. I am a personal witness of Christ, Acts 1. 8. I am the salt and light of the earth, Matthew 5, 13-14. I am a member of the body of Christ, 1 Corinthians 12, 27. I am free forever from condemnation. Romans 8, 1 to 2. I am a citizen of heaven. I am significant. Philippians 3. 20. I am free from any charge against me. Romans 8, 31-34. I am a minister of reconciliation for God. 2 Corinthians 5, 17-21. I have access to God through the Holy Spirit, Ephesians 2. 18. I am seated with Christ in the heavenly realms, Ephesians 2. 6. I cannot be separated from the love of God. Romans 8, 35-39. I am established, anointed, and sealed by God. 2 Corinthians 1, 21. one to twenty two. I'm assured all things work together for good. Romans eight twenty-eight. I have been chosen and appointed to bear fruit, John fifteen sixteen I may approach God with freedom and confidence, Ephesians 3. 12. I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. Philippians 4. 13. I am the branch of the true vine, a channel of his life, John 15, 1-5. I am God's temple, 1 Corinthians 3. 16. I am complete in Christ, Colothians 2. 10. I am hidden with Christ in God, Colossians 3. 3. I have been justified, Romans 5. 1. I am God's co-worker, 1 Corinthians 3. 9 and 2 Corinthians 6. 1. I am God's workmanship, Ephesians 2. 10. I am confident that the good works God has begun in me will be perfected. Philippians 1. 5 I have been redeemed and forgiven, Colossians 1. 14. I have been adopted as God's child, Ephesians 1. 5. I belong to God. And I'm quite sure that there's a a whole bunch more that neither my list nor this list. covers as well. But I think I've covered enough. Uh we tend I think it's in I think it's Peter who said that I think it not wrong to stir up your pure minds by way of remembrance. I'm sure most of you have heard these things various times. I'm trying to sort of pull it all together for you and give you a Really good appreciation for the extent and the nature of the salvation that God has provided for us. Did I close in prayer? Okay. Heavenly Father, we'd like to thank you for your word. We thank you for providing the kind of salvation that we have here where you really did a good job. You did a perfect job. We could we could never have saved ourselves. We could never have made ourselves good enough. And you came up with a salvation before the foundation of the world, you set it set out the plan of salvation, knowing full well what was going to happen. Knowing that there were some who were going to reject. some who we receive. We thank you, Father, for drawing us to yourself and giving us the self kind of salvation that that we have in Christ. We pray, Father, that you would be with us as we go into our prayer time. And we pray that you would make us a people that would be effective in prayer and that we would be able to. To really bring before you and pray the all of the the things that that we know of and um In a sense, call down fire from heaven where it's necessary. And we give you thanks and ask your blessing in Jesus' precious name. Amen.