How many of you all have ever put one of the How you've ever done that before? I'm just curious. I think it's becoming an art that is going a not not becoming as as uh as popular as it was was once. I remember growing up, uh we didn't really do it. I don't remember us doing it too much as a family. But Yeah, I don't remember doing it too much as a family, but I do remember going to other people's houses and watching them. They'd they'd lay it all out over the table Since then my kids uh have uh they they do like those puzzles, uh different kinds of puzzles. You know the first jigsaw puzzle was invented in 1760 by a man by the name of John Spilsbury. And he was a British engraver and cartographer. He took a map of Europe and he put it over a a piece of wood and he cut he cut pieces out of it in order to educate uh people about uh geography. And this became so popular in Great Britain that it was used as a teaching tool for these re for that reason and all the way until 1820. It's interesting I was doing a little research on jig jigsaw puzzles. And uh which means I Googled it. And um the largest puzzle is forty thousand three hundred and twenty pieces. 40,000 pieces. I I really can't hardly put my mind around how large that must be when you actually lay it all out. The smallest jigsaw puzzle, now this is hard to believe, I didn't really verify all this. This is what Wikipedia says. It's five square millimeters. Which is supposed to be the size of the dust of grain. So I that's hard to imagine. I guess you have to put it together with with tweezers and a microscope or something. Well, jigsaw puzzles are, you know how jigsaw puzzles work. I mean when you're putting a jigsaw puzzle together, you're taking a piece of the piece of a jigsaw puzzle and you're trying to place it in the right spot. And you might have to try several different places before you're able to really know where that spot really is where it's supposed to be placed. And it's as though Paul has taken the law that we've been talking about for a long time. And he's he's taken the Mosaic Law and he's placed it in and shown how it doesn't fit in certain places. It doesn't fit, for example, uh in our lives to practice as as a demand. It doesn't fit in our lives. Um It doesn't fit to to actually uh bring salvation to us. It doesn't fit that way. We are not under the curse of the law anymore, and we're not under the bondage of the law anymore. And we're it doesn't fit well with the Spirit of God working in us. It doesn't fit well there. It doesn't fit well with with our new marching orders as a son as a child of God necessarily, although we'll we'll get into uh that a little bit more today, more in more detail. But where does the law fit? I mean, if you take the thirty-nine books of the Old Testament, What should you do with this law and the prophets of the Old Testament? Where does it fit? In fact, I was at one particular home group, and that was a very good question that was asked at the home group What okay, so what are we supposed to do with the law? Paul is going to take the puzzle piece of the law, and he's now going to After clearly saying where it doesn't fit again, he's going to remind us of where it doesn't fit again in the first part of this passage, he is then going to clearly place it where it fits. And for some of you going to go, okay, finally I get this. Okay, I uh now it makes it now the puzzle puzzle comes together. It makes sense. Because the truth is, even though the law Is inferior to the promise of the Abrahamic covenant and many other things. The law is created by God. It is Holy. In fact, Romans 7. 12 says, therefore the law is holy and the commandment holy and just and good. But if you'll notice in Galatians chapter 3 this morning, verse 19. He is now going to ask the question, when we get to verse 19, he's going to ask the question, what purpose then does the law serve? That's a good question, isn't it? We've been learning a lot about what the law doesn't do, what it can't do, what it's insufficient to do. Now we need to ask the question, what does the law do? What does it do? How does it fit? Is there any benefit to the law for the Christian? We know we're not under the bondage of the law anymore, under the demands of the law, but but does it where does it fit in my life as a Christian? And we're going to learn partially today and partially in the couple of weeks to come. We're going to learn where the law fits for us. This is a fairly complex passage of Scripture. And so what I want us to do is read through this passage again I want us to really, really concentrate on the flow of thought in the passage. This is something I really encourage you to don't just listen. Like take your Bibles out and really follow along with your Bible in your lap as we read through this again. Harry did a good job of reading it, but I I really I really we've got to get the flow of thought here, and so it's very important for us to to read through this. So we're going to do that now. Galatians chapter 3, verse 15. Make sure you are really focused on this as we as we f as we follow along because you're going to need to see the flow of thought here. He says, Brethren, I speak in the manner of men. Though it is only a man's covenant, yet if it be con if it is confirmed, no one annuls or adds to it Now to Abraham and his seed were the promises made. He does not say, and to seeds, as of many, but as of one, and to your seed, who is Christ. And this I say that the law, which was 430 years later, cannot annul the covenant that it was confirmed before by God in Christ. That it should make the promise of no effect. For if the inheritance is of the law, it is no longer of promise, but God gave it to Abraham by promise. What purpose then does the law serve? It was added because of transgressions. To the seed should come to whom the promise was made And it was appointed through angels by the hand of a mediator. Now, a mediator does not mediate for one only, but God is one. Is the law then against the promises of God? Certainly not. For if there had been a law given which could have given life Truly righteousness shall have been by the law, but the Scripture has confined all under sin. The promise of faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe. For before faith came, we were kept under the guard by the law, kept for the faith which would which would afterward be revealed. Therefore, the law was our tutor to bring us to Christ, that we might be justified by faith. But after faith has come, we are no longer under a tutor. Let's pray and we'll get into this passage. Father, help us to have clarity of thought Help me to speak and to preach clearly this morning. Help us to grasp what you are saying in this passage. Help this to be something that is very helpful in our understanding of your word this morning. And also that we may really be rightly related to the law now in our lives as Christians. I pray, Lord, just for clarity this morning, both upon as I speak as well as for hearers that are listening. And I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. We're going to be looking at this passage, and we're going to be we're going to see How the law fits. In verses 15 through 18, we're going to see that the law does not take priority over God's promise in the Abrahamic covenant. Secondly, then we're going to see that the law prods people to faith in Christ. And that's in verses 19 through 21. And finally, we're going to see in verses 22 through 25 that the law is useful as a guardian and as a guard and a tuner. That's in verses 22 through 25. So there is a flow of thought here that I want us to really grasp in order to really get how that puzzle piece of the law fits now into our lives and our understanding. We pick up here then with understanding that the law does not take priority over God's promise in verse 15 through 18. And we're going to see in this portion of this passage that there are three reasons why that is the case. He is saying, look, just because you have the Mosaic Law. Does not mean that the Abrahamic covenant is not in effect. In fact, it doesn't even influence in any way at all. And he's going to explain why that is the case. Reason number one, he's going to give is that the promise is unconditional. He's going to say that the Abrahamic covenant is a promise, and the Mosaic covenant is a law. And they are two different things. A law is not a promise. A promise is not a law. A promise is a promise. A law is a law. And so a promise, the Abrahamic covenant, is a unconditional promise. And what he's going to do is he's going to illustrate this by helping us to understand what a human contract is or what a human covenant looks like. We pick up in verse 15, it says, Brethren, I speak in the manner of men. He's going to say, look Understand what it's like from a man just from one one man's contract to another, one person's contract to another. Though there's only a man's covenant, yet if it is confirmed, no one annuls or adds to it. What is he saying here? He is talking here about a human contract. And he's explaining that in a human contract, in a contract or or a covenant, Once it's established and once it's signed, it's ratified, then it becomes binding, and nothing can change it. For example, if you have a will and you you have two daughters, and you one daughter is extremely I don't know why I picked daughters instead of sons, probably because I have daughters, but one daughter is extremely wealthy. And the other daughter really doesn't have much at all. So you say to yourself, you know, because That daughter is so extremely wealthy, I am going to leave all of my inheritance to the other daughter. And so you put that in your will. And you die. This is a great positive thing for to think about. And you die. And the day that you die, the stock market crashes. And your rich daughter loses everything. Can that rich daughter then go to the attorney that is handling your estate and say, hey, listen, I lost everything. Can you now change the contract? What's the answer to that? The answer is no. Once the contract is ratified, once it's established, you can't change it. We have we're dealing we're in the middle of negotiating contract terms right now with our church and and there are certain things it's there are certain things contingencies and things that we have. We have a contract on the building that we have We have contingencies based upon those contra those things and we have conditions. But there are some contracts where there's no contingencies and no conditions. Probably the best illustration of this is a marriage covenant Can you imagine on my wedding day? I was thinner. When you can you imagine on my wedding day My saying to Elizabeth, I take you to be my wife, to have and to hold, for better and for worse, for sick and for poor or for poor. Um sicker for poor. That doesn't make sense. Richer for poor, sickness and in health. As long as you make me three square meals a day And clean the house well and bring in fifty percent of the income till death do us. I mean, does that sound like a good marriage covenant? No, why? Because you have you have put conditions into it. A marriage covenant is unconditional. There's no conditions to a marriage covenant And it's for that reason. It's supposed to be that way. See, folks, we need to understand that Paul's point is here is that the Abrahamic covenant is unconditional. Just because the Mosaic covenant came later does not put conditions on the Abrahamic covenant Does that make sense? And that's what he's saying here. The promise that was given to Abraham is number one, is unconditional. It is an unconditional covenant. That's important for us to know. And he says this very clearly. Reason number two. Reason number two that the law does not have any influence over the promise of the Abrahamic covenant. Reason number two. The promise is universal. The promise is universal. Now, when you read verse 16, you're going to look at verse 16 and you're going to say, well, how does that mean universal? It looks like it's the exact opposite, but stick stick with me and you'll see this. Verse 16, it says this. Now to Abraham and his seed were the promise made, promises made. He does not say and to seeds. Maybe your Bible says offsprings, plural. As of many, but as of one, and to your seed singular, not plural, singular, who is Christ. So what is he saying here, verse 16? He points this out. See, Paul's very detailed. And when he studies the Word of God, he's detailed about it. And he says, remember that the promise to Abraham is not to seeds, it's to seed singular. It's not to offspring's plural. It's to one particular offspring. Now, there is a thread throughout the Old Testament. that that deals with a particular promise of an offspring or a particular promise of a seed. You can go all the way back to Genesis chapter 3, verse 15. And in Genesis chapter 3, verse 15 It says, and I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your seed and her seed. He shall bruise your head and you shall bruise his heel. Folks, what seed is that talking about? The answer is Jesus Christ. But we see the same thing in Genesis chapter 12 with the Abrahamic covenant. Do you remember we've said before that the Abrahamic covenant, it says, In thee, Abraham, all of the nations of the world, or all the families of the world, will be blessed. But the promise of the Abrahamic covenant in verse 7 says this: Genesis 12:7. And the Lord appeared unto Abraham and said, unto thy seed, not seeds. Unto thy seed will I give this land, and there buildeth he an altar unto the Lord who appeared unto him. It's going to say the same thing in Genesis chapter 22, verse 17. Again, in your seed singular, all the nations of the earth will be blessed. See, the rabbis were not getting this right. The rabbis took the word seed, and they said they just generally understood it to be seeds, and so they said they misinterpreted it. And they said, this is talking about anybody that's in the nation of Israel, that we are all going to receive the fulfillment of the of the Abrahamic covenant. That we're all it's all going to be fulfilled in all of us. Paul is saying, no, no, that's not right. The Abrahamic covenant is only going to be fulfilled in one person. And you know who that person is? Same person in Genesis 3. 15. It's Christ. Christ is the singular fulfillment of the Abrahamic covenant. Now that's important for this reason. Because who then gets to be a beneficiary of this covenant? Anyone who accepts Christ. And so it's not just exclusive to the nation of Israel. This is a covenant that then all of the families of the earth can be blessed. You say, this is getting deep. I'm just preaching God's word. We've got to go deep if the if God's word goes deep So just stay with me. Does that make sense? Okay. So number two, the promise is universal. Anyone can come to Christ. It's not just the Jewish people. Why? Because it's fulfilled in Jesus Christ, the singular place that it's fulfilled. Promise number two. Reason number two. Then we see reason number three Now before we look at reason number three, I'll mention this. The rabbis also did something else in that day that was inaccurate and not not good. The rabbis did not systematically go through God's Word. They would just pick and choose various truths out of the text. and and expound upon those. In fact, if you read rabbinical writings, you don't see any any systematic thought to them as far as looking at the overall of Scripture or even taking a book of the Bible. There are just thoughts here and thoughts there and thoughts here that are all sort of put together. The rabbis were not thinking in terms of understanding Scripture verse by verse, line by line, systematically, as we do every Sunday, most Sunday mornings. And I just want to mention this by way of this. Folks, there is nothing wrong with occasionally taking a thought or a truth from God's Word and expounding on that thought. But if that is all you get, if that is all a preacher does, or if that is all you are receiving, it is an unhealthy diet. It's like eating fast food all the time. You're not getting the staple of the Word of God. You're not getting the systematic, line by line truth. And the truth of the matter is most error comes when we are not systematically going through the Word of God as we ought to. It comes by pulling something out of its context. By taking one truth and not comparing it to the other truths of Scripture. And this is what they did. So they basically said that the Mosaic law, instead of realizing that it's so different, the Mosaic covenant is so different than the Abrahamic covenant, which they could have done just by examining it closely. Instead of doing that, they said that the Mosaic Covenant is really just sort of a a reiteration of the Abrahamic covenant. It's it's f fullerly it's more explaining the Abrahamic covenant, which is absolutely false. These two covenants couldn't be any dit more different. One's Promise. The other is law. A promise and a law are not the same thing. And furthermore Reason number three, as we see here in this passage, is that the promise has priority over the law. The promise has priority, unconditional. It's universal, but it also has priority over the law. Now, that's important, and then he's going to give three arguments under that. Now, let me explain. Let me just pause for a minute. Paul, if you grasp this logic, if you grasp what he is doing here, here's what you're going to learn about the Apostle Paul. If you're in a courtroom, you want this man on your side. I mean this man is brilliant and he is extremely logical. And he he just it I mean it's this man he just to lay this out And he is going to obliterate, in my mind anyway, any any kind of err any kind of errant teaching that anybody it's like nobody's going to be able to come back on him on this. Of course, it's also inspired by God's word by God, which is more important, obviously. Notice what he does here, then he gives three arguments then for why the promise has priority. Would you notice what it says in verse 17? Reason number argument number one. And this I say that the law which was 430 years later cannot annul the covenant that was confirmed before by God in Christ. That it should make the promise of no effect. Well, what's he saying? Number one, argument number one, the The promise of Abraham came before the Mosaic covenant. The Mosaic covenant didn't come until 430 years. The law didn't come until 430 years after the promise. So you've got an unconditional promise and the law comes after. Why does it take priority? Because it what? It came first. Number two, then, argument number two, he says, it was confirmed or ratified in Christ. Now, let's put it in terms we understand. What does it mean to ratify a covenant? It just means in our day we ratify a covenant by signing it, or we ratify a contract by signing it. You have two parties. We're dealing with this right now in the we're in the middle of all this. Okay. You have two parties. They both have their terms and you're trying to satisfy both sides of the terms and you have you sign and both people when when both parties sign their names There's they put their signatures down. That ratifies the contract. They didn't do it back then though that way. They had a much more colorful way of ratifying contracts back then. A much more colorful way of putting their signature. What they usually did, if you had two people that had a contract, they would actually take an animal and they would cut the thing in two. That's how they would they would uh they would actually uh ratify a covenant back then. And in fact, uh you see that that is the case. Um in in Genesis chapter five, verse seven it says, and he uh I'm sorry, Genesis chapter fifteen. It says, and he said to him, I am the Lord who brought you out of the c or of the Chaldeans to give you uh uh to give you this land to inherit it. And he said, Lord God, how shall I know that I will inherit it? So he said to him, Bring me a three-year-old heifer, a three-year-old female goat, a three-year-old ram, a turtle dove, and a young pigeon. And he brought these to him, this is God that said this to Abraham, he brought these to him and cut them in two, down the middle, and placed each piece opposite the other. But he didn't do that with the birds. So it wasn't enough just to take one animal and cut it in two. He took multiple animals and cut them all in two. What was it doing? It was establishing, it was ratifying, it was putting God's signature on this Abrahamic covenant. The signatures were in place. Everything is established 430 years before the Mosaic Law ever comes. Paul's point, the promise of the Abrahamic covenant takes priority over the law. He's very, very clear about this. And finally, then, he says the other reason it takes priority over the law is how it came. What was the trans uh how how it uh uh it came. So we'll see that in the passage here in verse um eighteen. For if the inherit for he says this, um Verse 18. For if the inheritance is of the law, it is no longer a promise, but God gave it to Abraham by a promise. He says this. He says, look, if if if somebody comes to Christ, if an inheritance is ri if the promise of the law came by the law, you wouldn't need Christ It's these the promise doesn't an inheritance doesn't come by a law, an inheritance comes by a promise. Well that just makes sense, right? Okay, so so an inheritance, if you're getting an inheritance, from somebody. It's not as though your parents say to you, look, if you take care of me for the rest of my life, then I will give you this. That's not an inheritance. That's a payment An inheritance is simply you're because of just because of my goodwill, I'm doing this, and there's no conditions to an inheritance, usually, hopefully. So we see here in this passage the same kind of thing. Look, he's saying the law is inadequate. It can't do what the promise of Abraham can do. So with all of that then we need to ask this question. See by this point, aren't you sitting here and going Okay then, but you've got a lot of laws. Three six six hundred and thirteen laws are in the Old Testament You've got a lot of Bible that is full of laws. Of law. Should we just take, you know, this much of the Bible and just throw it out? Well, there's a man who tried to do that in the first, in the second century. His name was Marcion. And he saw the Old Testament as so he he saw the God of the Old Testament as a tyrant. And He took the Old Testament law and he and he on all of it he just totally dismissed. He said, This is not really truth. He came up with his own canon of scripture. And it was comprised primarily of the Pauline epistles, ten sections of the book of Luke, and that was really it. He said, this is actually God's word, all the rest of this is not, because it portrays God as a tyrant. Thankfully, there was a group of people led by a man by the name of Tetrollian who said, you are a heretic. And certainly this man Marcion was s was certainly a heretic. He gathered a following a following, and people believed him. I mean it is a real life like a nice idea to just think of God as a God of love and not as a God of any demands. I mean that's that's a great thing, right? So I guess he would gain a following, wouldn't he By the way, people do that today, don't they? They may not literally say, let's take an X-Acto knife and cut out the Old Testament. But by the way they portray God and by what they preach from the Word of God They will only emphasize the love of God to the exclusion of the justice of God. And they are essentially doing the same thing that Marcion did all the way back in the second century. That's not what we ought to be doing. There is, folks, a purpose for the law. And that's the question that he then is going to be answering in verse 19. What purpose then does the law serve? What purpose does it serve? We know the promise is superior. We know that the Abrahamic covenant now, we know it stands. We know that people come to Christ and are are recipients of eternal life by faith alone, because all of it is by the Abrahamic covenant. But where does the how does the law, the the sixteen hundred and thirteen commandments, fit in? How does the demands of the Old Testament come in? How does it all come in? And so he's going to answer that question. He says, for what purpose, verse 19, for what purpose then does the law serve? It was added, he says, because of transgressions to the seed. Who is the seed? The seed is Jesus Christ, till the seed should come to whom the promise was made, and it was appointed through angels by the hand of a mediator. Now, a mediator does not mediate for one only, but God is one. He says it was added because of transgressions. So let me illustrate it this way The promise of the Abrahamic covenant is like a compass that directs you to go the right way on your way to eternal life. But the what the Abrahamic covenant doesn't do, it doesn't really push you in that direction. Some people are a little directionally challenged. You ever notice that? Some people really ha d don't have a lot of sense of direction and they don't know north from south or west from east and and uh they have their own ways of getting different places and they just don't have a lot of sense of direction. Some people have a sense of direction, they just don't want to go the way they're supposed to go. Well, the Mosaic covenant, though it gives a I mean I'm sorry, the Abrahamic covenant, though it gives a clear path, like a compass. It doesn't push you that way. That's what the law does. The law is like a prod, it's like a cattle prod, and it even hurts. It's like it pro it prods you the right direction. Well that kinda makes sense because Christ Christ depicted us as what? Dumb sheep. I mean that's what he said we are. So we need not just a compass, we're not that intelligent. It's not just enough to have a compass. We need a prod to prod us the right direction. We need something that's going to push us and prod us and make us go the right direction because we won't do it on our own. That's what the law does The law prods us. It pushes us the way the Abrahamic covenant doesn't do. And it does this, it says, by transgressions. Now, it's interesting, it uses the word transgression instead of sin. You might think you would see the word sin here. But it's not. It's a different word. It's the word transgression. And there's a reason for that. He wants to point out that what the law does is it causes us to know that we crossed a line. In other words, folks, we are sinful. Are we not sinful? We are very sinful, we're born sinful, but we need to know that we're sinful, and you don't know if you're sinful until there's a line that you need to cross. For example, We know that trespassing on private property in this country is illegal. If you go on my property and I verbally tell you to get off my property and you don't, you're breaking the law. But you it's very clear you're breaking law if you put a sign up that says what No trespassing. If you go, even without me telling you, if you go on my property and I say no trespassing, then I can prosecute you for that Let me give you an illustration another illustration that will help you. It's not just that it shows us that we're trespassing. You know what the law does? It actually pushes us to want to trespass. I'll illustrate it this way. I I uh when I was in college, I interned at the Baltimore Rescue Mission as a chaplain. And we were having uh some problems with some of the things that the that the uh guys were doing that would come into the rescue mission. Some of the some of the their they weren't treating certain things correctly, uh some of the facilities. And I had this great idea as a uh twenty-year-old kid. I said, hey, why don't we put signs up and you know if we put a sign up then then they'll know not to do this. And you know what the assistant director of the Baltimore Rescue Mission did? He laughed. He thought it was hilarious. He said two things. He said, number one, he said, let's not give them ideas. And number two, he said, when you put a sign up, they'll want to do it. Now you think about this. When you when you put a law I I heard one preacher you do it say it this way if I give you a piece of paper and I put a piece of paper in front of you and I say nothing, that piece of paper means nothing to you. Really doesn't mean anything to you. But if I say, I bet you can't make a piece of paper into a paper airplane and fly it and hit Eric's head back there. Suddenly everyone wants to pull a paper out and do it. Sorry, Eric, I had to pick on one of you. And you're a deacon, so I figured I pick on you. Um Right? Suddenly you're like, oh man, I bet I could do that. I think I could do that. All right. Don't no nobody do that, okay? All right. What's the point? The law not only causes to know when we're trespassing But man, I mean don't you want, you know, like like when you see okay, maybe this is just me, but when you see a no trespassing sign, don't you want to just go run on that property real quick and come back and say it's nanny nanny. You know, don't we w don't we want to do that I mean honestly. Okay, that's that we're w that's what we're talking about here. The law pushes us to trespass. It actually creates since. And we have a personal example of this in the life of the Apostle Paul. In fact, would you take your Bibles and I want you to see this? Romans chapter 7 and verse 4. Would you uh take your Bibles and turn there? Romans 7, 4. He says this. Therefore My brethren, Romans 7 4, therefore, my brethren, you also have become dead to the law through the body of Christ. That you may be married to one another, or married to another, to him who was raised from the dead, that we should bear fruit to God For when we were in the flesh, the sinful passions which were aroused by the law were at work in our members to bear fruit to death. Did you get that? The sinful passions that were in us were aroused by the law. Verse 6. But now we have been delivered from the law, having died to what we were held by. Now that we should serve in the newness of the Spirit, not in the oldness of the letter. What shall we say then? Is the law sin? Certainly not. On the contrary, I would not have known sin except through the law. For I would not have known covetousness unless the law said had said, you should not covet But sin, taking opportunity by the commandment, produces in me all manner of evil desire. For apart from the law, sin was dead. Do you see that? Paul says, if I didn't know the commandment, thou shalt not covet, I wouldn't even know how covetous I am. And But seeing the commandment, it just welled up within me the desire to to to to be more covetous So the law does do something here. It prods us. It causes us To sin more. It literally does that. And it also causes us to realize that we have stepped over the line. We have trespassed against God. Then we see here as well that the purpose of the law was was a temporary it was temporary until Christ came. The demands of it were. Now we're going to talk more about the law, but the demands of it Until Christ came, and once we trust Christ as our Savior, then we are no longer bound by the law. But we see that in verse 19, it says, until uh the law c until Christ came. Then it says this, it says it was ordained through angels. Or literally, I mean it was a it was the it came by God But it was transmitted by or through angels. Did you know that? Did you know that the Ten Commandments and the law was transmitted by angels? Now the finger of God wrote it on the on the uh on the commandments. But it says in Deuteronomy 33, 22, and it says the Lord came from Sinai and donned them from Seir He shone forth from Mount Peran, and he came with ten thousand saints, and saints should be i is basic it's angels there. From his right hand came a fiery law for for them. In Acts chapter 7, verse 453 it says, who have received the law by the direction of angels and have not kept it. Hebrews 2. 2 says For if the word spoken through angels proved steadfast, and every transgression and disobedience received a just reward. So angels were involved in the mediating of the law. Now, let me ask you a question about the Abrahamic covenant. Were any angels involved? Were there any angels involved when God gave Abraham the law? I'm sorry, gave Abraham the promise. The answer is no. There were no angels involved. It came directly from God. And his point is the Abrahamic promise is better. He's still on this a bit. The Abrahamic promise is better because it comes directly from God instead of through angels. It is superior. It takes priority. And we see that in verse 20. Okay, now we still have not answered the question. What purpose is the law particularly we have answered it some for the unbeliever, but we also have we we need to we need to under understand this in terms of for the unbeliever and for the believer. Look at verse twenty-two. Verse twenty-two it says this But the scripture has confined all under sin. The word confined there it means to be imprisoned. He's using here an illustration of the law being a prison guard. Every time if you're in prison for day after day after day after day, You wake up to the beautiful face of a prison guard. What a terrible way to wake up. Every day a prison guard is there to remind you that you are confined. Imagine that you have a prison sentence for a couple of years. Can you imagine as as you go through those two years of being confined and being imprisoned, seeing that guard every day that is a reminder to you that you are not free. Do you know what it does inside of you? It wants, it it wells up inside of you a desire for freedom. It's like being hungry before you can eat food. Everybody nobody wants to eat food when you're not hungry The law confines us. The law imprisons us. The law causes us to realize we are not free. And it prods us by showing us how much we need freedom. And for somebody who doesn't know Christ as their Savior. To this day, the law can do that. It can make someone hungry for true spiritual freedom. Nothing like thinking about a nice juicy steak perfectly cooked over a fire after it's noon. It's like like You know, everybody okay, why? You want that steak. Why? Because you are hungry. That's what the law does. And so we see this illustration. He really hones in on this in verse 22. He explains how we are confined by it. By the law. Verse twenty verse twenty-two, for the law, for the scripture has confined all under sin, but that the promise of faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe. We see the promise And we say, finally there's freedom from this confining, imprisoning law Then he says this verse 23, but before faith came, we were kept under the guard by the law. kept for faith that we would afterward be revealed. Therefore the law was our, verse 24, the law was our tutor Our schoolmaster to bring us to Christ that we might be justified by faith. For after faith has come, we are no longer under tutor. Okay You've been waiting the whole time to figure out how in the world the law fits in to your life as a Christian. And the answer we're going to find to get this answer, we're going to have to look at Galatians chapter 4 for a moment. Would you turn over to Galatians chapter 4? Just it may be on the same page. It is in my Bible. And I want you to see something. We see the same concept of a tutor or a guide. We see the same thing in this passage, chapter 4, verse 1. Now I say that an error, as long as he is a child, does not differ at all from a slave, though he is a master of all, but is under guardians and stewards, or tutors and governors, until the time appointed by the Father. Even so, we, when we were children, were in bondage under the elements of the world. When the fullness of time had come, God went forth Sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law, to redeem those who are under the law, that we might receive the adoption of sons. Okay. I'm explaining this really simply. When you those of you who have children know this. Those of you who don't have children know this. A two-year-old does not usually obey you because they love you. I hate to break it to you. But a three-year-old, even a four-year-old, does not usually obey you because they love you. Why? They don't know how to love you yet. They don't know how to even please you. A three-year-old obeys you because they are under the law. They're obligated to obey you. They've got to do it, or they're going to be punished. That's the way it's supposed to be. In our society, you have parents that are under the children. I have a real problem with that. But anyway. So so a three-year-old, four-year-old, they're only going to obey most of the time, not because they want to please you, but because they have to. But as they grow, but let's take it, let's go ahead and go all the way to adult. Once they're an adult, or even as they grow, what should happen? Even as a teenager, what should happen What should happen, folks, is that yes, they may be under obligation, but what should happen in their lives is they start wanting to f to to please you. They want to obey you because they want to please you. The Bible says that we are under tutors and governors until the time appointed by the Father. We are under the law until we come to Christ. Doesn't adult but here's the thing, when an adult is an adult When the father says, okay, you are now an adult, is the adult then under the obligation of the parent? He's not. The adult is no longer under the obligation of the parent. But now here's the question. Does Is does the parents guidance does the parents instruction of all those years does it become useless? The answer is no. Now think about it for a minute this way. When we come before we come to Christ, we are under the obligation of the law. Once we come to Christ, and we genuinely come to Christ, what changes is now we don't do it because we have to, we do it because why? We want to. The law then does have a role to play. We're not under obligation. We don't have to do it, but the law does do this. The law, in principle, teaches us. How to please God. It teaches us what God expects. Now we're not bound by it, we're not obligated to fulfill all 613 commandments. But the Bible says in the New Testament, for example, be holy as I am holy, right? Well, where do we get that from? It's actually originally from the law. And when we see all of the meticulous ways in which the nation of Israel had to be separate from sin and separate from the world, we see that there's this general desire that God desires the Christian to be holy. Why do we do it? Not because we're obligated, because we're not obligated anymore. Why do we do it? Because we want to please him. It's a totally different motivation after we come to Christ. Folks, look, sometimes what we've done with the law is we have essentially said, you know, it has no use whatsoever. We don't need ah that's all that's just Old Testament. We don't need to pay attention to that at all. No, don't do that, folks. The Bible says in the New Testament, whatsoever is written aforetime is written for our learning. That we, through patience and comfort of the scriptures, might have hope. You're not under the demand of the law, if you know Christ as your Savior. You are not under the curse of the law if you know Christ is your Savior. But the law teaches us about who God is. It teaches us about the character of God. And it teaches us about the general expectations of God. And it teaches us how we can please God. Can I ask you a question? Have you been so adverse to legalism that you have forgotten that the Old Testament is a teacher? That you can learn God who God is, and you can learn how He wants you to please Him. Understand the Old Testament has a role. You're not under the obligation of it. It can't save you. You're not under its curse. But if you want to know how to please God, we gotta read the whole Bible. If you want to know how to please God If you want to know God, if you really want to know God, folks, you can't really know God just by reading the Old Testament, reading the New Testament. You've got to read the Old Testament to understand the rich character of God, the sovereignty of God, the justice of God, and even the love of God. The love of God is in the Old Testament too. God is not a tyrant of the Old Testament God is a loving God in the Old Testament as well as a just God in the Old Testament. That is where the puzzle piece fits. It brings us to Christ, it prods us to Christ. And then once we come to Christ, it teaches us how to please God. And folks, that's why God says that the whole law can be fulfilled in one thing. Love your neighbor as yourself. Love God and love your neighbor as yourself. The fulfillment of the law is found in loving the Lord your God and loving your neighbor as yourself. And if you will do that. Then you will be pleasing God and you will fulfill what God wants you to fulfill in your life. Three important things to remember here, three questions to ask. Number one. And I just want to point this out. Are you, are we carefully studying God's word as he intended? The beginning of the message, if you could advance this, Sam. Um in the beginning of the message, number one, do we carefully study God's Word as He intended? In the beginning of the message, we found that the rabbis misinterpreted the Old Testament because they did not study the details of the Word of God. They were not diligent about it. They didn't see the need for the grammar Folks, grammar is important. It's how we communicate. And how God laid things out in God's word is important. It's how we understand what God is really saying. God unfolded his revelation in the way that he wanted to, and we must learn it the way he wants us to. Number two, do we use the law to show people that they're imprisoned to sin? We ought to use the law in the Old Testament to show people, hey, you are under the bondage of sin. You are imprisoned to sin. And number three, have we rejected the usefulness of the law so much that we're no longer considering it as a guide to help us to know how to please the Lord? Now, folks, I am not at all saying that you go back and start sacrificing animals. What I'm simply saying is that the law is there not for obligation, but we can know who God is. From the law, so that we can truly please God with our lives. The law is a tutor, it does teach us. Let's pray together. Father, this was of course a detailed message. It was lots of argument and lots of reasoning, and the Apostle Paul is laying out things here. Father, I pray, Lord, that you would help us to take these truths and to grasp them, to understand them. Lord, you desire that we know your word. That we don't know we don't just know pithy little truths. That we don't have just light thoughts, but that we know your mind that's been revealed to us by your word. Lord, I pray that you would help us to know you through your word. And Lord, we want to express gratefulness to you. Thank you that we are no longer under the demands of the law. Thank you that we're not under the curse of the law. Thank you that you set it up in such a way that the Abrahamic covenant, the promise that was to be fulfilled in Christ and is available for all of us. Thank you, dear Father, that it was set up in such a way that it could not be it could not be threatened by any other condition. Lord, I pray that you would help us to take your word, even the Old Testament, certainly the Old Testament. And that we would use it to know you and to know how to please you. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.