John Chapter thirteen. John chapter thirteen It was on March 12, 2009, a former stockbroker and investment advisor and financier, and also the non-executive chairman of NASDAQ Stock Market. pled guilty of eleven federal felonies and admitted to turning his wealth management business into a massive Ponzi scheme A few months prior to that time, in December 10, 2008, his sons told authorities that their father had confessed to them that the asset management unit was a massive Ponzi scheme. And you all know who this man is. More than likely his man is Bernie Madoff. It is estimated that He his Ponzi scheme went all the way back to the nineteen seventies and he went he went all that time without being caught in his plotting and his plans. And over six he was dealing with over six hundred uh I'm sorry, sixty-five billion dollars. Eighteen billion of which were was lost because of his um because of his uh failure to appropriate funds correctly. And only five billion could be recovered after going to great lengths in order to try to do so. That means that $13 billion was lost by investors. Now can you imagine being betrayed like that? Imagine putting your hard-earned money into some sort of investment security. Security. Wow. That's interesting. That's an ironic word. But anyway, investment security and your retirement fund is entirely gone or much depleted because of the uh unethical and immoral practices of a man. Who betrayed you. One Yale professor suggested that this is the biggest swindle in human history. And he was sentenced to 150 years in prison, which was the maximum life sentence that somebody uh could uh could have as a result of his crimes. Now that was arguably the largest betrayal uh that we can think of in human history on the part of many thousands of people that invested in order in various securities. But all of us and thankfully I uh I would imagine not too many of us have did that. I thankfully I didn't do any of that. I didn't ha wasn't in invest in that. Um all of us can can has the understanding of what it is to be betrayed. What it feels like to be betrayed. On one level or another, if you've lived any length of a time, at some point or another you have been betrayed. Perhaps someone has not kept a secret that they said they would keep. Or perhaps someone has said something about you that is untrue Or, even worse, maybe somebody has purposefully done harm to you or lied about you. There are all kinds of people in the world and and we all have experienced betrayal on one level or another. I whether it's the smallest thing like having your identity having some sort of identity theft or your credit card uh um compromised or something larger where a good friend whom you trust betrays you. There is this emotional response to that kind of a thing that is extremely troubling. We find a passage here where Christ is going to express to the disciples that someone among the group is going to betray him. I want us to understand some of the intensity that's going on during this upper room discourse. The men were probably greatly excited. They were they felt honored to be among the twelve that would come to a table with the man who was going to overthrow, they thought, the Roman Empire. And so the question on the table for all of them was, who would be the greatest in this new kingdom? They felt excited about this, and they felt honored to be just at the table eating with this man. who would inaugurate this new revolution for the nation of Israel. And with great anticipation, they eat this meal with him But before they eat the meal, he bends down and does something that is so shocking that all of us saw last week he he washed their feet. And after that shocking news, they probably ate the meal, and then during the meal, he brings he discloses something else that's going to be shocking. That among the twelve that were there in that group, someone was going to betray him. It wasn't surprising to them that someone somewhere would betray him. The leadership of the nation of Israel had chosen, the s the Sanhedrin had chosen to put out essentially a warrant for his arrest and a command that anybody who knew his whereabouts would go to to the leaders so that they could seize him. But to come from one of the twelve? That was shocking. This dinner was not at all what they expected. This time of supping with their master was nothing that they expected. They were shocked by his behavior. They were shocked by his Now, disclosure of a man among their midst that would betray him. And we need to understand that Christ is going to teach us a lot from how God deals with someone of in this kind of a way. And also we need to understand that Judas was not Not an unexpected uh element in God's overall divine plan, but this was expected and that God was going to use the demise of Judas ultimately for his glory. And that is going to all of this is going to teach us something about who Christ is. We need to learn from him today, but before we do that, let's go to him in prayer. Father, we do come to you and we thank you for the time that we can spend this morning in your word. We thank you that we can sit at the feet of Christ as Mary did and we can learn from him. And as he discloses with exact timing and precise language, exactly the way that he wanted to disclose, whom would betray him. I pray that we would see not only our, not only some of the applications, but most of all I pray that we would see your divine working And how you sometimes choose to work in our lives, and that we would take comfort and we would accept your working, your way in our lives as a result of this message. And I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well we begin here in verse uh twenty-one of this passage where Christ says where we picking up here and Christ says Uh it says when Jesus had thus said he was troubled in sp uh actually let's actually pick up a few verses before that because um we we need to do that. Verse 18, pick it up there. In verse 18, I speak not of you all. I know whom I have chosen. If you recall from the previous section of this passage, he had said that they were all clean. But he wanted to make sure that they understood that there was one among their myths that was not declared clean by Christ And there were several other times throughout the book of John that he would identify that he had chosen them, but there was one among their midst that was going to have a different role from the rest of them. For example, in John chapter 6 we see it the first time in verse beginning in verse 68 it says, Then Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? Thou hast the words of eternal life And we believe and are sure that thou art the Christ, the Son of the Living God. And Jesus answered, Have not I chosen you twelve? And one of you is a devil. He spake of Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon, for he it was that should betray him, being one of the twelve. So we understand at the very beginning of the book of John that this designation of Judas for this role was not by accident. This was a Christ's choosing. He chose the twelve, and he knew that one would betray him from the very beginning. And he warns the disciples about this. Though all twelve were chosen, we see clearly from John 17 that there was only eleven that were preserved. In John chapter 17, verse 12, it says, While I was with them, I was keeping them in thy name, which thou hast given me, and I guarded them, and not one of them perished, but the son of perdition. that the scripture might be fulfilled. So we see here that Christ chose not to preserve one of them, even though he had selected all of them. And of course we're talking here about Judas Iscariot. So he explains, I know whom I have chosen. This is no by no surprise to Christ that one is going to betray him. He is full has full knowledge of what is going on. And he says here, but that the scripture may be fulfilled, he that eateth bread with me hath lifted up his heel against me. This, of course, is coming from Psalm 41. 9. And Christ is going to identify with specificity the fulfillment of that prophecy in Psalm 41. 9. Where it says, Yea, mine own familiar friend, in whom I trusted, which did eat of my bread, hath lifted up his heel against me. And certainly that is the case here. Judas, who was one of the twelve and one who was closest to Christ, lifted up his heel against him. That most likely is an idiom that would be interpreted this way has taken cruel advantage of me. Has given me a great fall, or just simply has betrayed me. Christ is identifying the fact that in a very literal sense This prophecy of the Old Testament is going to be fulfilled by Judas. And Judas is going to betray Christ in a few short moments. The Bible also tells us, though, why this fulfillment of Scripture took place and Christ explains all of this to the disciples. You see, Christ had A very important intention for them. He is very purposeful in why he was telling them this. And we find the answer to that in verse 19. He says here, Jesus uh he says here in verse 19 Now I tell you before it come that where that when it is come to pass, ye may do what? Ye may believe that I am He. Christ is very much intent on them believing in him and preserving their belief. It says in John 14, 29, and now I have told you before it come to pass. that when I when it comes to pass ye may believe. And we see the same thing in chapter sixteen of this passage as well. He says that ye may remember that I told you of them. And so we see that he is constantly telling them things now currently so that they can have preserved faith in the future. He wants them to continue in their faith after he has left them. He also anticipates the fact in verse 20 that whomever receives him receives them, vice versa. We find that in verse twenty. unto you he that receiveth whomsoever he sent receiveth me and he that receiveth me receiveth him that sent me Christ understands not only that he wants to preserve the disciples' faith, but he understands just how pivotal it is for the disciples' faith to be preserved Because he is not only going to preserve their faith, but it is through the apostles that many will come to faith, and that the doctrines of Christ will be firmly established through them. And so it's very important that all of this seed of faith start here in preserving the faith of the disciples so that they can carry forth the message of Christ after he ascends. And he tells them of this now. He has a very clear plan for them. And I just would like for us to remember this: that Christ has a very clear plan for us as well. And the Bible tells us that Christ will also choose to preserve our faith. The Bible says that he that will have done a good work in you will complete it unto the day of Jesus Christ. Can I ask you a question this morning? Have you ever thought to yourself, boy, I really am shaky in my faith. I'm really doubtful, and I'm concerned I'm going to lose faith. I'm just not understanding what's happening. I'm just confused about what is going on. And I am weak in my faith Do you know we compound problems when we start worrying about future faith? When we start worrying about whether or not we'll be able to maintain or to preserve our own faith. We actually get ourselves caught up in a real problem when we do that. Because you know who is the author and the finisher of our faith? Jesus Christ. He will preserve our faith. The Bible says this very clearly in Jude chapter 1, verses 24 through 25. It says, Now unto him that is able to keep you from falling and to present you faultless, before the presence of his glory with exceeding joy. To the only wise God, our Savior, be glory And majesty, dominion, and power, both now and forever. Amen. The preservation of your faith, folks, is not up to you. It's up to Christ. And aren't you glad about that? And what you and I need to do is simply to respond in faith and understand that God will ultimately preserve those whom He loves. He will preserve the faith. He will s begin, finish the work that he has started in us. And do you know when we just accept that we're expressing faith. And that is a way that we can we can live in faith, believing what God says. But are you, I'm sure you are also aware that there are certain things in life like betrayal That would cause great sorrow in your life, in my life. Trials and difficulties and struggles in life That are very hard to understand. And Christ understood this because I want you to notice what it says next in verse 21. He says, when Jesus had thus said, he was what? He was troubled in spirit. The very core of his being he was troubled, and testified, and said, Verily, verily, I say unto you, that one of you shall betray me. Jesus in declaring who was going to betray him and thinking about going to the cross and actually having been being betrayed by one of his own by one who was closest to him. The Bible tells us that he was troubled. Isn't it good to know, folks, that Christ was troubled too? We've seen this several times in the book of John. We saw this, for example, in chapter 11 when he looked at the looked at his friends' faith and he saw their faith falter, and it says that he was weeping and he groaned in his spirit. And we see it in chapter 12, verse 27, if you recall a couple of weeks back where he says in anticipation of the time that he would go to his father, but the hour of exaltation would come, and the suffering of the cross and the separation from his father would come. And it says that his soul, he says, now he expresses to his disciples, now my soul is troubled John twelve twenty seven. He also does not want this for his disciples And so why so that he is going to encourage them in John 14. He's going to say, let not your heart be troubled. Same word, you believe in God, believe also in me. And in verse 27, he says, Peace I leave with you. My peace I give unto you. Not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be Afraid. Do you know what qualifies Christ to be able to say, let not your heart be troubled? Let me illustrate it this way. I remember when I uh my mom had died, passed away, and somebody came to me and said, I know what you're going through. My my mom passed away at age ninety. And I thought to myself, you have no clue what I've I'm going through. My mother is half that age. Almost. And I remember to think thinking to myself, you don't know what I am going through. And trying to people who say that sort of try to express a sense of of condolence and I know and they mean well and I will really didn't I didn't get upset about it. I just sort of kinda chuckled a little little bit and said, I don't think you don't know what I'm going through. Um But there is a difference between losing a mom at ninety and losing a mom at forty eight. Right? This makes sense. And And people saying, oh, the Lord will show you what's going to happen, the Lord will the Lord will give you grace, the Lord, you know, those kinds of things that really sometimes can kind of come across as insensitive. Or you'll get over this soon. And if they didn't know what I was going through, very qu very honestly, how could they be qualified to tell me I'm going to get over it? But do you know there is one that's qualified? The Bible tells us in Hebrews 4, verse 15: For we have not a high priest that cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities. But was in all points tempted, like as we are, yet without sin. There Jesus knows. Nobody else may know, but Christ knows And you and I need to come to the place in our hearts where sometimes we just need to be content with with just knowing that Christ knows. We don't have a high priest that can't be touched with the feeling of our infirmities. No. He knows the trouble you're going through. He knows the sorrow that you have faced. He knows the problems that you are facing now. He understands with empathy because at all points he's gone through it. He knows what it is like to go through to be betrayal betrayed by a close friend He understands the pain of anticipating being anticipating being cut off from the person, his own father, who met whom he meant to him the most to him. He understands the physical suffering that was to the extent of anyone ever. I mean, the extent to his suffering, when you read the passages, he understood physical suffering. He understood sustained trouble. He understood the the anguish of having people. He he knows When you pray to God, you and I need to understand we are not praying to a God who does not know. We are praying to a God who chose to become one of us so that he could know. And there, frankly, isn't anything this side of heaven that we can't get through, not because we know or someone else knows, but because Christ knows. That's why it says in 1 John, if my heart condemns me, God is greater than my heart, and he knows all things. Not only was Christ troubled, but the people, the disciples, were confused You see this in the passage, verse 22. When this is declared, verse 22 it says, Then the disciples looked one on another, doubting of whom he spake. They were perplexed They were doubting. They were confused. They were struggling with what was going on. They couldn't get it. They couldn't understand. How could somebody that's sitting right in front of me in this room betray Christ? There are actually three components to what is going on here that you find a fuller understanding when you look at some of the parallel passages. This passage, the word there means to be worried or perplexed, this word that the King James says doubting. It means to be confused And certainly there are things in life that occur in our lives that that just bring confusion and bring doubt and bring we're perplexed by them. But we have a little bit more insight into this perplexing confusion when we look at a parallel passage in Matthew 28, verse 22, which says that they were actually exceeding sorrowful. I don't think it's a leap to say that their confusion brought to them an exceeding sense of sorrowfulness. The disciples couldn't get it. They didn't understand. How could God allow this? Literally Christ said, I've chosen this to occur. I have made this to happen. How in the w this is so confusing. But more than that, we find in the same passage, both in the Matthew account and in the Mark account, chapter 14, verse 19, they say in the Matthew account, is it I? Insecurity gets in there. So we have confusion and great sorrow, and then from there we have this insecurity. How much how culpable am I for this betrayal? What involvement do I have? Have I caused this? What what what have I could have I have done differently? And what can I do to prevent this? And insecurity gets in there. The disciples are insecure. They're saying, is it I? The Mark pastor says, surely not I. And the Matthew passage says, is it I? There seems to be confusion about that. Some people are saying, no, it's not me. Other people are saying, Is it me? And this this group of twelve the twelve are just in great confusion and great sorrow and great senses of until finally Peter decides he's got to find out. Now in the past, Peter has not been bashful, has he? In the past, when Peter thinks of something, it usually is like not allowed to filter in between here and here, and it just kind of comes out. And uh we see a little bit more wisdom here on Peter's mind, I think, uh in Peter's uh thinking here. Because what Peter does is he sort of realizes maybe Christ would not want to blurt out exactly who it is. Maybe instead Christ would want to just covertly tell a few people that want to know. And so Peter expresses his concern to John. And he wants John to find out. Now, in order to understand this, we need to understand the setting that's going on here. It will really help us if we do this. This is immediately unfortunately when we think of the upper room discourse and we think of this last supper. Unfortunately, what is in most of our heads is a picture of Leonardo da Vinci's Last Supper. And I just want to say you need to get that out of your head. Because there's really no not I mean there may have been a table there in people, but other than that and food, but other than that there's not a lot of connection between what occurred there and what occurred uh what occurred in scripturally and what occurred in that painting. In fact, the way that things are rendered in this pa passage uh it wouldn't have worked had they all been sitting the way they were sitting. A much more plausible uh reac uh um uh configuration was something that was actually of Roman It was called a triclinium, where it was a U shaped uh table more than a shape. And they sat at this table And um and they sat reclining. This is probably a formal kind of a dinner, so they would recline. It w wasn't every they didn't eat all their meals that way, by the way. They They sat at tables normally for casual meals, but when it was a very fancy meal, they would recline with their feet pointing out and they would sit rather close to each other. Also in this Triclinium Roman configuration, the host of the table, which Christ took that place the host of the table or the master here would have the most honorable guests both to his left and to his right. And we find from looking at all the different pieces in the Matthew account as well as this account and the Luke account, we can pretty much um say that that to to our best of our knowledge Judas is sitting right to our le right to Christ's left, and John is sitting right to Christ to Christ's right. And I think the Da Vinci thing gets that right, at least the placement of where they're those two are sitting. Uh however, um then uh so understanding that's important. Now what happens here is this we see John Uh naming himself for the first he doesn't actually name himself, he alludes to himself for the first time here in this passage. He says, uh verse 22. Then the disciple disciples uh looked one to another, doubting uh of whom he spake. Now there was leaning on Jesus' bosom one of his disciples whom Jesus loved. It says here that he was leaning on Jesus' bosom or leaning on his chest. Now, some some people uh some Westerners might kind of recoil at this idea of having that close a proximity between two uh two people in this very platonic way. But you have to remember that we're actually the exception to this. If you, for example, uh if you're in Eastern culture, for example, I witnessed this when I was over over in Hong Kong, occasionally you would see men holding hands. And it was not there was nothing weird about it. And it was a jet a den a demonstration of friendship. The same thing occurs over in uh over in Africa. In fact, um I hope he doesn't tell my mind me telling the story, but when Micah came back from from Ghana, West Africa Uh he was talk we were standing together talking one day and he started to reach out and and do this a little bit with his hand and then he pulled his hand. I'm like, what are you doing? And then he said, Oh I'm sorry, I'm not I'm like, that was really weird. Um But that was a very normal, common practice to demonstrate that you're you're you're wanting to say something that's uh um like a friendship kind of a thing uh in that culture. And um I thought, boy, I'm glad he was able to get used to that. I'm not sure that I would be able to, but I'm sure if I were over there a long time maybe I maybe I would. I'm in fact I would say that I would. So my point in all in saying all of this is that there was a proximity issue in our western appro thing that that wasn't here. Um and and yeah, we like our 18-inch box and that's not in most of the world. Now, um what I what also is to note is that if they're if people are sitting or laying close to each other like this like they were um In order for him to lean over to for John to lean over in the way that he did, he would uh to to be able to speak to Christ, he was up against him. And so there's really no problem here. And the reason I only mention this, I even hate to mention this, but the reason I mention this is there is there are weird ideas that are out there, a lot out there, on this whole scenario when it says that that John was leading up Christ's uh bosom and I I want to just debunk all the weirdness uh immediately so we can understand what's actually going on here. Some would actually suggest that what this is is an idiom, uh only an idiom that demonstrates the the uh that this he was at Christ uh John was saying he was in an honorable position. But it seems to be that there was a little bit more more than that here, that that literally it was just that he was up in very close physical proximity, even touching him when he said this. Now, this is also interesting when you really think about it. John was the only disciple that went to the cross. In other words, he was the only disciple that witnessed the crucifixion. Arguably you have the the closest, most faithful disciple on one on on Christ's right hand. And in contrast You have the most unfaithful disciple on the other hand. And they're both being honored at this dinner. It's just very significant when you really consider all of what's taking place here. And so John asks the question in verse 25, Lord, who is it? Jesus answers this way. Jesus, much to uh uh uh Peter's probably Peter's surprise, Jesus is gonna declare who this is. He's gonna make known who this is But Jesus isn't going to do this in an accusatory manner. He's not going to point the finger and say, you're thou art the man or you're doing. He's not going to do that here. This is incredible what he does here. He says, picking up in verse 26, Jesus answered, He it is to whom I shall give a sop. When I have dipped it. And when he had dipped the Sop, he gave it to Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon. Now what is he talking about here? The soap was a piece of morse it literally could be translated a morsel, a morsel of bread that most likely was dipped in a in a sauce of um like a f apparently it was a few a fruit puree and a sauce of dates and raisins and sour wine all kind of mixed together It doesn't sound very appetizing to me, I gotta be honest with you. But apparently uh they really liked it and it was uh it was something that was uh very enjoyable for them And it was a cultural, it was a sort of a cultural thing that you would do that from from to people that you really were honoring or you were really friends with, you would dip something in, say, here, take this. Um we don't understand this in our culture very well, but I this this happened when I was over in Hong Kong. I was sort of given a lot of honor that I didn't deserve and when I was in a table with with other other guys And um and uh they would put stuff on my plate. They would just hey, this is real like this is really good. Tri try this And I didn't really always want more and I didn't know how to speak in in uh uh in uh uh Mandarin to tell them I didn't want more and so I just Ate a lot. But anyway, uh this is the only thing I need to do. I w after a a little while I did learn a a trick though. It's that they have a bowl of rice. And if you keep it full, they won't put more on your plate. So I just sort of kept it full and ate slowly. But I w I learnt and and what what I w what Matt told me, the missionary that over there, he said, do not tell them you don't want it. It's really offensive And uh and because they're they're they're trying to be hospitable and putting stuff on your plate and uh or on your bowl. It was a bowl. And so I just got used to figuring out how to do that where I wasn't you know, so full out of my core. But uh but we we were it worked out. That that's basically the kind of cultural thing you have going on here. Where this is something, this is really a demonstration of honor and friendship that he does when he puts it puts this, he gives this stop to Judas One commentator says it this way, the gentleness and courtesy implicit in giving such a morsel must not be lost to view. It m it is more consistent with the picture of Jesus in the gospel and with the course of events in the life of Jesus Iscariot to think of this stop as a as a final gesture of supreme love. Now, just folks, just let that sink in for a moment. Here's a man who is going to betray Jesus. In fact, here is a man who has plotted for a while now to betray Jesus. And Jesus has known all along that he's going to betray him. And Jesus is aware of his theft, he's aware of his problems, he's aware of his desire for gain, and he is aware that he is about to be betrayed, and he extends nothing but loving kindness to this man. He is gentle and kind, and in this final identification, he's not even accusatory. He just extends this loving, kind, honoring gesture to this man, and he says, This is the man. Now folks, would you not think, first of all, this is incredible the kindness that we see here with Christ, isn't it? The Bible tells us that the heathen render good for evil, that or evil for good, that um I'm getting that mixed up. That the even the heathen do that. But when someone does evil to you to render good to them, that folks, that's something that's divine. It's something that it naturally is extremely hard to do. But it is something that in extending it takes really I folks I would recommend I would suggest supernatural power in order to be able to render good for evil. And that's exactly what Christ did with Judas. And we see this tangible display. But folks, what does this not picture? It pictures him going to the cross and extending kindness to all of us. We betrayed him with our sin. Our sin put him on that cross. It wasn't just Judas to put him on that cross. We all put him on that cross. And yet he extended his kindness and grace and love to us. And we see this greatly pictured here. But beyond that, would you not think that this man at this time would say, whoa, okay, I I'm gonna repent right here. I'm gonna be done with this. I'm gonna back off. I'm gonna I'm gonna recant look this is what's happened. I'm sorry, I was wrong. This loving kindness that's extended to him, but that folks, that's not what happened, is it Because what you have in this rebellion against God are three factors. You've got God's choosing and his sovereignty working in here, but you've also got Judas' own choice, and you also have Satan at work here. And you see that in this passage as you pick up in verse 27. It says here, and after the stop, Satan entered into him. Then said Jesus unto him, That thou doest, what that thou doest, do quickly. And so Satan, it says, entered into him. This demonstrates, from what we could tell of everything that's been said about Jesus, demonstrates this sort of finality about what's going to happen at this point. He in John chapter 12, verse 6, we knew that he was getting involved in theft. He was using the money that he was collecting for his own purposes. In Matthew 26, the account there in verses 11 through 16, that's where it tells us that he went and he plotted against them, and he said, he said to the religious leaders, How much money will you give me if I betray Jesus? So he's been plotting. And we find here in verse just a few verses back in John chapter 13, verse 2, that Satan had put in his heart We have all of this happening. And so this has been going on in his heart and his mind. And instead of this time, turning from this, he succumbs to the i the final will of Satan in this, and he is going to now deceive Satan. But let's deceive deceive and and and betray Christ. But just think about this. Satan's being used as Christ's pawn. I mean it's incredible when you look at all this and see the sovereignty of God in all this. This is not at all surprising to Christ. And so when Christ sees that everything is final, he just very quietly says to them, Whatever you do, do it quickly. Now, we know at this point that the kind of judgment that will come on Judas is severe. We know that from a parallel passage in Matthew 26, verse 24, and it says, The Son of God goeth as it is written of him, but woe unto the man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed. He had been good for that man, it had been good for that man had he not been born. That's the kind of judgment that this man, Judas, was going to receive because of what he did. There is a limit to God's loving kindness and to his patience. There is a limit to those kinds of things. And Judas was about to experience that limit. Where the Bible tells us in the book of Acts that he went to his own place. The disciples didn't really understand what was going on here. They thought that what Jesus was doing was sending him. It's sort of amazing to me that they didn't understand what was going on. at this point and I'll tell you why. He said, whoever I give the stop to, I that he's gonna be the one that betrays me. So you would think that their mind would be on that, but maybe there's something missing here that isn't in the narrative. But basically they don't understand what he does here when he says, whatsoever you do, you do it quickly. They think he's going to send them to g go get more money for more food for the for the supper or give some money to the poor since he ha he handled the money. But that's not the case, obviously. And it says here picking up in verse 29, for some of them thought because of Judas had the bag, that Jesus had said unto him, Buy those things that he had need of against the feast. or that he should give something to the poor, he then having received the sop, went immediately out and was night. Then verse 21, I want to pick up, 31, I want to include this. It says, Therefore, when he was gone out, Jesus said, Now is the Son of Man glorified, and God is glorified. Now let me just say this to you. You know what, all of this we need to come to the conclusion? As it has been said before, this is not new with me, but we need to say in our minds, when the master is glorified, the servant is satisfied. You know, whatever is happening in our lives, whatever God is doing providentially in our lives, whatever trouble we are facing, whatever struggles and problems and difficulties, because we all are. Of various levels, of various kinds. We need to be able to come to the point where we just simply say, when the master is glorified, the servant is satisfied. Now how do we do that? I want to just by way of final application, I want us to look at a couple of things. Number one We need to accept that God's long-term preservation of our faith may require difficulty and sorrow. We need to accept that. Let me just reiterate that. Peter says, think it not strange when fiery trials come upon you. Don't consider that to be surprising. James says, count joy when it happens. God says, just We need to accept this, that the preservation of our faith, that the that the Christ-likeness that God intends for us That his plan, because of sin and because of the fall, and because of all this, is going to have to include hardship and pain and struggle and confusion. We've got to accept it. What we need to not do is just try to fight it or fly, flee from it. Which is what our reaction is. I want to fight it or I want to flee from it. What we need to do instead is say, I'm gonna really accept this. God will sustain me, He'll get me through this. There will be trouble, there will be confusion, there will be things that are frustrating. But if I will stay fixed on who God is and I'll accept his plan for my life, then frankly, folks, we'll be able to come forth as joy with joy. Secondly, when you go through the waters of deep sorrow, just remember this: Jesus knows even when anybody else doesn't. Jesus knows when no one else does. And there are times that we go through things in life That many people understand. And you can receive comfort from people because they've gone through it. But there are other times in life where it seems as though no one really can really get it. They can't really seem to understand. And folks, we need to understand this: that Christ knows and it needs to be enough for us. Jesus is more than enough. Number three, Jesus showed amazing kindness to the one who was planning to betray him. How much more should we show kindness to those who hurt us? It's very easy for it to return uh to return evil for someone uh uh someone who's done evil to us. We need to return good for evil. We need to choose which is hard. Let me tell you, it's hard. I think it's one of the hardest things we gotta it is one it's gotta be one of the most difficult things you do in life. Is that when someone has harmed you, that you return good for them. But you know, when you do that, you are allowing God's strength and grace to work for you. And you'll look on the other end of that and you'll know it's God. You'll know it. Because ain't no way any human does that by themselves. And number four. Christ's wisdom, sovereign sovereignty, and control can be trusted. You know why? Because it doesn't matter what it is. He's going to use it all for his glory. Christ's wisdom, sovereignty, and control can be trusted. Father, we do come to you and Admit that life brings lots of perplexing confusion And from the f a human standpoint under the sun, it's all vanity But when we see your perspective and when we understand what your word teaches us, that you in your divine wisdom And your sovereignty and your control of all things will bring to pass your will to glorify yourself, then our role is to trust you. It's not to control ourselves. It's not to try to bring about the outcome that we want It's simply to say that you are always enough for us and that we can trust you. We thank you for your word this morning. That is a passage that we can glean so much from. We see the how how you how you so masterfully and wisely work through things that It's just really does, it's hard, it's beyond our comprehension. And this side of heaven, I don't know if we can really grasp everything, even in this passage and how how it all works. But the conclusion that we need to come to is just simply to trust you And I pray that we would. And I pray that we would emulate Christ's response of kindness and grace. And I pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen.