They are the illustrations of a a soldier and an athlete. Now, aren't though aren't they just those two those two illustrations, those two pictures pictures, the picture of a soldier and the picture of an athlete. Are they not inspiring? Why does everybody watch the Olympics when it comes up Ever not everybody, but most people are kind of glued to the Olympics. 'Cause it's so inspiring to see somebody's life, how they've started from maybe nothing or very little and worked hard at a particular sport. What is the commonality between an athlete and a soldier? Well, preparation, yes. And how about this? Can we say focus? They're focused. The athlete is focused. And the soldier is focused. When a soldier gets into combat, he is focused on his goals and focused on his mission. There is this focus of these two kinds of illustrations. And the Apostle Paul says in 2 Timothy 2, I therefore, my son, thou therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. And the things that thou have heardest me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men who shall be able to teach others also. Endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. No man that wars entangles himself in the affairs of this life, but that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier. God desires for you and I to have a spiritual focus in our lives. And that occurs as we stay true to our purpose. And we're going to learn today from the life of Ruth and the life of Boaz, and we're also going to go to the Old Testament to another, to the to the nation of Israel a particular time. And we're going to learn some very important lessons on how we can choose to stay focused with true biblical purpose and please God with our lives. Let's first go to the Lord in prayer. And ask his help with this. Father, we come to you and we pray, Lord, that you would help us and challenge us from the examples of Ruth and Boaz in this Extremely important subject of spiritual focus. Lord, may we understand how important it is to be focused in our lives Knowing that those of us who know our Lord and Savior will one day stand before Christ. We will account of the things that we have done. And we will hear, we have the possibility of hearing, well done, thou good and faithful servant. Lord, may we look to that day and may the decisions that we make on a day-to-day level Be in line with one day coming before Christ and hearing those words, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Teach us and challenge us today. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, we're in the middle of this chapter three in the book of Ruth, chapter three. Ruth has As we have studied already, this very um looked at this very uh interesting way of proposing to Boaz Which we won't get into again today. Boaz has basically said in in verse 10, that's a good idea. There is this this rite of a of a um Of a closer kinsman that could take the place, and we'll get into that in future messages. But I want to really focus in on Boaz's response, picking up in verse 15. Where he says, even if he can't be Ruth's rightful husband, he continues to desire to provide for Ruth and to provide for her mother-in-law, Naomi. Verse 15 Also he said, Bring the veil that thou hast upon thee, and hold it. And when she held it, the measure and measured six measures of bar of barley and laid it on her, and she went into the city. Now it is debatable how much that was. Obviously it was a lot of barley It was not likely an epha uh uh six ephas of barley that would not she would not have been able to lift that much, more than likely yet. Uh and so we don't know the measure exactly what that was, but we know it was as much probably as she could carry. And Boaz desired to provide for Ruth, regardless of what happened in the future. Verse 16 then. Ruth comes and she's now going to report to Naomi, her mother-in-law. Naomi is is the mother-in-law because Ruth was previously married and her husband had died. Verse 16 says, and when she came to her mother-in-law, she said Who out thou my daughter? Naomi says, Who are you? Naomi's expecting that maybe there's going to be a marriage propo marriage acceptance here. Of course, that's not what happened. Boaz has got to make sure some other things are in place first before he can actually marry Ruth But she he says she says this, and she told her all that that man had done to her. There was all kinds of things that they had talked about, Boaz and Ruth, and she goes over everything Verse 17, and she said, These six measures of barley he gave me, for he said to me, and I don't want you to notice what he says next, go not empty unto thy mother-in-law. Now, I want you to think about this. All the things that have happened. The exchange between Boaz and Ruth. The discussion of marriage, the possibility that Boaz wasn't the rightful person to marry Ruth. the the threshing floor and all the things that went on during that time. All of that went uh occurred and the one thing that the the author puts of course the Lord being the the the the divine author identifies as the one thing that Ruth sort of says among all the things is that Boaz did not want Naomi to be empty. Now this goes really back to the first chapter. In the first chapter, Naomi says, I am empty. You remember Naomi had lost her husband. And Naomi had gone through famine. Naomi was in a strange land in Moab. Naomi had lost her two sons as well. She was destitute and poor, and she said, don't call me Naomi, call me Mara, because it seems as though God has cursed me. It appears that way. Naomi says essentially in verse chapter 1, I am empty. And Ruth points out, look, Naomi, you Boaz does not want you to be empty. You are not empty. This tells us something about Ruth. Ruth was so focused on her purpose. She was so focused on her goal. In the midst of all of the possibilities of marriage with Boaz and the possibilities with in the midst of all these possibilities Ruth did not lose do you do you imagine all things being equal it would have been easy to be distracted? Would that have been easier to do? I mean marriage is kind of a big deal, isn't it? And it would have been easy for her to maybe get caught up in the romance or get caught up in the details, get caught up in various things. Ruth doesn't do that. She's so focused. But the one changed thing she highlights is, look, Naomi, as I promised you in chapter one, I wanted to be I wanted to be kind provisioned to you. God's way of being kind and provisionary to you. And you know what? Naomi, look, look how God is providing. I'm fulfilling my purpose. Naomi is extremely focused on fulfilling her purpose. And with that in mind, I just can't help but talk about this a little bit. You know, it's so important for us as Christians to really stay focused on our biblical purpose of pleasing God with our lives. Everything in this world has the potential of distracting us one way or the other. There are different pursuits and different things that we want and different things that we believe will please us. But what God wants us to do is to constantly stay focused on pleasing Him through trials and difficulties and losses. God desires for us to stay focused on pleasing Him. I uh think it's quite interesting that even in the midst of a marriage possibility Ruth stays focused. It's very different than our romance novels read today, isn't it? It's very different than the things that we see on television when it comes to romantic encounters and all those kinds of things. I you know m my favorite television illustration is um is Bambi. And uh do you remember t television is movie, old movie. Uh now it's really old. Some of you say that's not that old. Well that says something And and uh and um and you remember Thumper? You remember the conversation that Bambi and Thumper had? No, well let me remind you. Thumper said that was talking about being Twitter pated. That has nothing to do with social media. This is before social media. This is Twitter pated. And some people are saying, ah, they're being Twitter pated and they're being tw It's basically the idea of being infatuated with with someone. Okay, to in order to and and and this is sort of natural and everybody ha you know most people are twitter pated by the opposite gender and and um that is sort of a normal thing. You know, it's sort of interesting, but we've made this whole twitter pated thing more than it needs to be, and that we don't call it that anymore. We call it um soulmate. I gotta find my soulmate. Well how do you find your soulmate? Well I you know I it's just a feeling that I have that I know they're my soulmate because I just know it. Like i in in Thumper's terms, you're more tortured that with them than you were before with the other person. I mean, when you really think about this whole idea of of this soulmate drama of being able to have all of the feelings you need in order to be able to know that it's the right one for you. I mean Uh what a bunch of emotional sappy sentimentalism. You say, boy, you are s What's wrong with you? Look, I know that there is a place for romance. I mean we actually have a whole book of the Bible on that. It's called Song of Solomon. Happens after marriage. Okay? I mean happens when you're married. Okay But I'll tell you the truth. I'll just tell you right out. Some of this is it it really it really becomes a distraction. Look, if you are a you if you're a single young person out there Don't gauge everything by your emotions. Gauge everything by the decisions you make by what is the right biblical purpose Gauge, can I, if you're looking at a possible young man or young woman, ask yourself, can I, can I please God better together with him than apart? That's a good purpose. That's a good build. Can I serve God better with them than I can apart from them? That's a good solid purpose. You know what happens when we get married if we don't have that kind of basis as Christians? We get we get through the marriage and then and then kids come along and kids get older and And suddenly you don't feel quite as twitter-pated as you did when you were first married. And you start beginning, well, are they really my soulmate? Are they really the person I really was supposed to marry in real life? I mean, really, that happens. And then you watch some sort of romance read some sort of romance novel or watch some sort is it really the way it's supposed to be? Because I don't know if I was really as Twitter pated as the person that was reading the we're reading the book about. I like the word I just do, sorry. And you know the truth of the matter is it's a bunch of hogwash. The reality is emotions go up and down. Now, we can love our spouse, we ought to love our spouses, and we ought to feel twitter-bated with them. But there are some times you're just tired, right? There are some times where you're busy and you've got kids and you've got stress and you don't quite feel that way. You know what keeps a solid marriage a solid marriage? It's times like that where you say, you know what, I know That I can serve God better together than apart. That's why I married them and that's why I'm continuing to marry them. Or stay married to them Now listen, if you're married, it's not can I serve God better together than apart, it's how can I? You gotta understand that it's how. You gotta find a way how. It there is a way. I guarantee you. Does not matter the situation. If you're married, then I can guarantee you It doesn't matter the situation. You can find a way to be married and you can serve God better together married than apart. It's a matter of how. And if you're not married, it's a matter of whether or not it is. Now, I want you, this is not just my idea. This is something that we see here clearly. One of the most one of the there are a lot of things that are sort of like, oh that's interesting. But in the book of Ruth, I want you to see how clearly Focused, Ruth and Boaz stay on this biblical purpose. I want you to see this. Are you ready? Would you notice? So so let me let me just Broaden this a little bit because you're saying, okay, well, all right, marriage, uh I'm a little far away from that, or I am in that, but uh okay. All right. Let me ask, let me just point this out to you Every decision we make, it's not just marriage. Every decision we make, we ought to be asking ourselves the question, will that decision be consistent with the ability to be able to serve God better or not? Will that decision please God or not? Is it for the furtherance of the kingdom or not? Every decision that we make ought to have biblical purpose in mind. By the way, that doesn't mean that you're reading your Bible every single minute. Did you know that you could go to an Orioles game with biblical purpose? You say, what? God wants us to enjoy good things. And Orioles are good. Well, they're not always good. They're done. Yeah, I've not been that good lately. Anyway, I've been a little disappointed. But my point is simply that God wants us to enjoy good moral things in life. And that's part of pleasing him, actually, is when we enjoy what he gives us, we're pleasing him. And when we're serving him, we're also pleasing him. But folks, we've got to understand that the decisions that we make in life need to have this biblically focused purpose. And I want to show you some passages on how this was the case in Ruth's life Sh there was clear, sustained purpose. And I want to begin in Ruth chapter one. So would you take your Bibles and turn there? And we're going to pick up here in verse 16. And we're going to flip a little bit through your through this book of Ruth. I want you to see the forest and see this theme of Ruth and Boaz as we go through here. Ruth chapter 1, and we'll pick up here in verse 16. And Ruth said, Entreat me not to leave thee, or to return from following after thee, for whither thou goest I will go, and whether thou lodgest, I will lodge. She says this to Naomi. Thy people shall be my people. And what does it say, folks? That God will be my God. I am going to accept the one and only true God, and I'm going to follow him. And then he says, she says, this, where you die, I'll die, and there I will be buried. The Lord do so to me, and more also, if aught but death part thee and me. When she saw that she was steadfastly minded to go with her, then she left speaking under her. Folks, what we see here is Ruth at the very outset saying, I'm going to follow after God And what that means for me, Naomi, is I'm going to be used of God to take care of you. And where you go, I'm going She had a divine calling to do something for God, and she did it, and she stayed focused, and her mind was steadfast on that. Now, let's continue this way Would you then look at Ruth chapter 2 and pick up in verse 10? Boaz sees this. He is impressed with this kind of steadfast purpose. Ruth 2. 10 says, then she fell on her face and bowed herself, this is Ruth, to the ground and said unto him, Boaz had just shown great kindness to Ruth. Why have I found grace in thine eyes, and thou shouldst take knowledge of me, seeing I am a stranger? And Boaz answered and said to her, It hath fully been showed me. All that thou hast done unto thy mother is in law since the death of thine husband. And how thou hast left thy father and thy mother and the land of thy nativity, and art come unto a people which thou knowest not there to hereto. Boaz says, I am so impressed with your sense of purpose. And you've left Moab, and you've come to a land you don't know. You've done away with your fear. And you you didn't allow fear to stop you from going through the biblical purpose that God wanted you to go through. And you're continuing to go that route. And you're going and gleaning from the fields and you're providing for Naomi. And Boaz is impressed with this focus, sustained biblical purpose. We move to chapter 3. And in chapter 3, we see the same kind of thing as Ruth, as we've already gone over, that Ruth expresses in verse 17 to To Naomi in seeing how God is providing. She's still focused on this. She could have been distracted. She's not. She's very, very focused on this But it doesn't end there. Would you then know this in Ruth chapter 4? Would you look then at chapter 4? And I want to set this up this way. In chapter 4, which is the final chapter in the book of Ruth, we find that this purpose is continued. Now Boaz is the is the main person in Ruth chapter 4. Boaz is gone now and he's setting up a range. We're going to get into this next week, but we're there's all kinds of arrangements that he's setting up in order to marry Ruth And there's a lot of logistical things to figure out and actually some negotiations and actually she has to make sure that somebody else that's has a more rightful place won't marry her fur all these things going on. Well, by the time we get to verse 10, Boaz is very much he he he now has the ability to marry Ruth And you know what Boaz says? Boaz says this. You know what he says? He says, somebody says, are you married? What will you do? And he says, I'm going to marry Ruth because I'm just in love. Boaz says, you know, I'm gonna marry Ruth because I'm absolutely twitter pated. I mean I'm just twitter pated with her. Look at what it says in verse ten. Moreover, Ruth and Moabitis, the wife of Malon, have I purchased to be my wife. What? Why? By the way, she didn't he didn't he didn't buy his wife. I'll just mention that. He bought land that was associated with their family. I just want to clarify that. To raise up and uh up the name of the dead unto his inheritance, to the name of the dead be not cut off from among his brethren and from gate f from the gate of his place Ye are witnesses this day. You know what Boaz says? I want to continue the family line of Elimelech. I want to do honor to to Naomi and to her family, and I want to take on this responsibility Can I say it this way? I want to be used of God to provide for the family of Elimelech in his death. I want to be used of God that way. There is this sense of purpose again here. Boaz is not overwhelmed with emotion. Boaz is well overwhelmed with a sense of purpose as he enters into marriage with Naomi. Then we see that there's this fulfillment that occurs. Of course, they do get married, and after they get married, it's not long before they're with child, verse 13. So Boaz took Ruth. And she was his wife, and uh when he went in unto her, the Lord gave her conception, and she bare a son. And they said And she brings in the Naomi brings the son to Naomi, and they and notice what notice how focused they are. And the woman said unto Naomi, Blessed be the Lord, which thou hast not left thee this day without a kinsman. That his name may be famous in Israel. What is all that about? Is that normally what you see when you bring a baby to something? Well, blessed be the name of the Lord, his name will be established in the kingdom. That's not usually what you say when you have a new baby Right? I mean nobody said that to you guys, right? Nobody said that He's so focused they're focused on what God is doing. And the biblical purpose with which this baby is going to come out, come about to fulfill Naomi's concerns of carrying on their family lying. But folks, there is even a much bigger purpose that you never see in the book of Ruth. Did you know that? The bigger purpose is that in the book of Matthew, when cr in Christ's, when Christ, before Christ is born There is this discussion of genealogies, and we find that Boaz begets Obed of Ruth. Did you know that Boaz and Ruth have a baby and after time and many, many, many, many more generations, Christ comes? Ruth is in the line of Christ, and she is one of the five women identified as in the line of Christ to bring about the Messiah. You want to talk about great kingdom purposes. Now the food folks, the reality of it is you and I are going through this world. We are pilgrims in this world. We are We are constantly being distracted, and our focus is being turned, and we are concerned about our pursuits. But folks, there is going to be a day where we do stand before the Lord. And that day, he will, if we know Christ our Savior, there is the possibility, but it's not a guarantee. Where the Lord would say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant, and you know the truth of the matter is we don't even know All of what God wants to do with us in the next life. We know some things, but we don't know how it all works exactly. We just know that if we're faithful in this life, God will take that faithfulness and he will reward us in the next life and we'll have be able to do more for him. There'll be great fulfillment of his purposes In eternity. And we don't know how that all works. Just like Ruth had no clue, probably at this point, that she her that her kids and grandkids and great-great kids and all on would actually bring forth the Messiah. That's why, folks, it's so important to stay focused on biblical purpose. Can I ask you a question, Christian? When you wake up in the morning, do you ask yourself the question, Lord, how can I please you today? In the decisions that you and I make, do we really ask ourselves, Lord, how can I please you? How can I honor you? How can I lift you up? How can I make you known to other people? Is that the way that we think? If we're going to live with the kind of purpose that God wants us to live, that is how we must think. Now, the question then becomes, why do Christians, why do God's people lose focus. Can we all admit that sometimes we lose focus? How many of you would say, you know what, sometimes I lose focus? Okay, we have nearly unanimous. That's sometimes we do, don't we? Why does God's people lose focus? Why does this happen? Would you take your Bible to to a a lesser-known book in the Bible? And I want you to show you, we have that there's this very special book, actually, that actually deals with a time where the nation of Israel has lost focus They are discouraged. They are struggling. They have stopped doing what God clearly told them to do as a nation, as a people, and that is in the book, the Old Testament book of Haggai. Would you take your Bibles and turn to the book of Haggai? Haggai, you not don't probably don't turn there every day. Haggai is the last the last to the third to the last book in the Old Testament. Okay, so it's toward the end of the Old Testament. And Haggai So you have Hosea, Joliah, Sobedai, Jeremiah, Naeam, Babakak, Zephaniah, Haggai, Zachariah, Malachi. Okay, so that that tells you a little bit uh where we are. So would you take your Bibles and turn to Haggai And I wanna I want you to understand what's ha happening in this Old Testament book. So in 586, you know Nebuchadnezzar, you know that name, right? Nebuchadnezzar, who is the king of Babylon, has come in and he has wiped out the nation of Israel. He's taken over the nation of Israel. Nebuchadnezzar has he conquers the whole nation, he just destroys the temple. Nebuchadnezzar is a conqueror of conquerors. But in 539 BC, a man by the name of Cyrus of Persia conquers Babylon Cyrus is not quite like Nebuchadnezzar. He's a little bit more s more sympathetic to people that don't agree with him about things. And this man Cyrus allows a remnant from the nation of Israel to go back into their land to establish, to set up their nation again. and to set up their temple again. So they are going to sojourn back. They're going to travel back to their land and they're going to set up the temple. And at first, this remnant, which is much smaller than the times of the kingdom of the times of David and Solomon, This they did not have nearly the economic uh prosperity that they did back then as well. But this remnant was excited about what God was doing with them, and they were gonna head they had it decided to head back to the land. uh that they that God had promised them and they were the first thing they were going to do was start setting up their temple and they were obviously gonna need to set up dwelling places to live and get to work doing that. That temple was known as the Rubbables Temple. And in the midst of building that temple, they stop. They just get discouraged. They stop building the temple. In fact, they go fifteen years and they just dis they just don't ever finish. They start the foundation, they set up the foundation, they set up certain things in the temple, and in the middle of of this, they just stop. Why did God's people stop? Why did they get discouraged and distracted? What happened to cause this to occur? Well, that brings us to Haggai chapter 1. And in Haggai chapter 1, God sends this prophet Haggai after 15 years of not fulfilling the purposes that God had wanted them to fulfill. Haggai comes and he's now going to explain why these he to them, he's going to exhort them to Pick up the per with purpose again, to stay, get back into focus, to stay purposeful again, to get back to rebuilding this temple. And we pick up here with in chapter 1. And we see here that the man, there are two men, two leaders of the nation of Israel, Zerubabel and Joshua. Zerubabel is a priest, and Joshua is one of the leaders. This is not Joshua of the Old Testament, the other Joshua that's famous. Verse 3, I want you to notice this. Then came the word of the Lord by Haggai the prophet, saying, Is it time for you, O ye, to dwell in your sealed houses? And this house lie in waste. The sealed houses or the paneled houses that he's talking about are the fact that the nation of Israel, of course, had to, people had to go and find places to live. And they did they were finding places to live and at the same time they were building the temple, but at some point in the process, they turned their attention from building the temple on to just really focusing on the places that they were going to live. And to some degree, this was understandable. They didn't have the economic resources that they did back in Solomon's day with the great wealth that had occurred in that day. Things were economically tight And so the people were, they were concerned and they were uh they were worried about this probably. So they began to build their houses. These sealed houses or these paneled houses, there's actually only three other places in all the Bible that talk about these panels. And in every single place that these panels are talked about, it's always associated with panels that are placed in the temple. It indicates here then that these panels that really had its rightful place, these this really nice material that had its rightful place in the temple, was being used for purposes in their houses. Now there is a sense in which we could all kind of understand this. We I understand as a person that is responsible to provide for my family the importance of having a nice place for them to live and having all the things that they need and focusing on that and being really sometimes overwhelmed with that responsibility. Certainly we can understand the nation of Israel's pr difficulty here as well. But they never returned to the temple again until God had to get a hold of them. And he says in verse 5. Now therefore, thus saith the Lord of hosts, consider your ways. He says, take to heart what you're doing. Examine your heart, he's saying here. Ye have sown much and bring in little. Ye eat, but ye have not enough. Ye drink, but ye have not filled with drink. Ye clothe you, but there is none none warm. Ye have the earned that earn wages, but earneth wages to put into a bag with holes Thus says the what is he saying there? He's saying, look, you are working so hard to provide for yourself, but you're not getting God's blessing in the thing. And you continue to stay focused on trying to provide for yourself, but you're not seeing God give the increase because your priorities are not right. He says then here in verse 7, Thus set the Lord of hosts, consider your ways, he says it again Go up to the mountain, bring wood, and build the house. It's talking about the temple. And I will what? What does he say about this? What they will return to the purpose of That God had given them to return to, and to build the temple of God, so that the presence of God would have a dwelling place to be in the land, and to be among amongst his people, and to be a focal point as God had intended. What does he say I will what? I will take pleasure in it. I will be glorified, saith the Lord. There's biblical purpose. If you want to find any verse in the entire Bible that notes biblical purpose, it's there. I will take pleasure in you as a people of God, and I will be glorified in what you are doing. That's biblical purpose. Can I ask you a question today? Is that how you're living your life? Is that how we're living our lives to think in terms of pleasing God and glorifying God? Now the question is, how did these people come to the place where they actually ended up being so discouraged? that they diverted their attention from biblical purpose really to their own their own purposes. And there are really four things in this passage if you look at the background and all that. Number one, what caused them to be discouraged and what caused them to be distracted from biblical purpose, number one, was comparing. They compared. Well what did they compare to? They compared themselves to the the kingdom as they remember of stories of old Maybe there were some older folks that were still there that remember the times of David and of Solomon, of the prosperity, of the largeness of the kingdom of that time. And they compared and they saw the small remnant with which they were trying to build some small kingdom that was really still under the authority of Cyrus. And they They were very much discouraged as they were making this comparison. Do you think we ever do that as God's people? You know the truth of the matter is sometimes Sometimes I think back to easier times to preach the gospel. I think back to to times fifty years ago or a hundred years ago where they didn't have all the screens that were flashing all kinds of things everywhere where preaching an hour was a sermon at. Those are times where I where where people actually went went and learned and wanted to listen. I think back to those times, and I think, boy, wouldn't it have been so much better to do that? And there's so much easier, so much more fruit would have happened back then. You think of the great awakening in this country. And if we're not careful, we can look at church history and we can look at this nation and see how horrible things are, and we can get discouraged. God does not want us to be discouraged. The reason that these people were discouraged was because they were comparing to their past. They were looking at the glory days of the past. And they were being discouraged by what they were seeing now. Number one was comparing. Number two is misplaced expectations When they started on this temple, they were excited. They had gotten to the work that they had longed to do many years in Babylonian captivity. They wanted a temple and couldn't have one, and now they had their opportunity. But this temple wasn't like the Temple of Solomon. It had this lack of luster. It had this It didn't have all the materials, and it wasn't as beautiful, and it didn't look like it was going to turn out quite as well as that glorious Temple of Solomon. And in the middle of all of this, they became discouraged. Number three, one that we would all understand, survival instincts kind of kicked in. They were not experiencing economic prosperity. And so as a result, they they sort of turned to sort of just surviving. But it wasn't enough just to survive. It became something where they were There's more than survival. They began to add panels that probably shouldn't have been on their houses Survival instincts began to distract them and discourage them. And finally, folks, misplaced priorities. Their priorities just began to become misplaced. They just were not focused in terms of what God had wanted. Now, this goes far beyond whether you're building your house or building a temple. This goes far beyond buildings at all. This is not the point. The point is, is have we been diverted in our in our biblical purpose? We have to constantly ask that question. These are four reasons from the passage here of why the nation of Israel, God's people, got distracted and discouraged from focusing on pleasing God and glorifying God And it would do us well to really frequently ask ourselves, are these things causing me to be distracted? Are these things causing me to be discouraged Am I not focused because of these things as well? Sometimes we have misplaced priorities It's very easy to get caught up in the here and now and what we are doing and not to have an eternal perspective. I think some of the hardest things is this actually the same thing I think that they were dealing with in the nation of Israel at this point. Do you know uh can I put it this way? Can I say it this way? I sometimes have it have a hard time as A husband and a father and a pastor. Sometimes I have a hard time knowing the line between my family being my first ministry. Which it is. Sorry guys, you're second. My family's first. And my family being the center of my life. Did you get that? There is a difference. I want to make sure I'm ministering to my family and serving them and doing fulfilling my responsibility But folks, on the other hand, sometimes our families can become our singular focus. Who is the only one that should be our singular focus? Christ. That's it. And what happened, probably what happened here behind the scenes Is they went from family first to family only Now the only way that I know to deal with this, and this is just by way of application, and the only way I know to reconcile is that my family becomes a team to serve God. That God is first. You see, when you have when you seek first the kingdom of God, which is what the point was, they weren't seeking first the kingdom of God anymore. Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and then what? All these things will be added unto you. They're looking to try to do all of these things and provide all these things for themselves, and they had forgot to seek first the kingdom of God. Now, the truth of the matter is you and I can only know this for ourselves. We can't judge this in others. It's really wrong for us to judge this in others because it really verges on judging motives. But it would do us well to really consider whether or not we sometimes get diverted for very understandable reasons. From the focus with which God would have us to be focused on, which is pleasing God. and glorifying him. See, that's the way things work out. When we have that, when Christ is central, when he is, Christ is more important than my family. You heard it. Christ's purposes are more important than anything else Christ is. And when we have Christ, when we seek first the kingdom of God, when Christ is in our sights, when he's our focus, when the coming of Christ is in our goal. When we look to the day and we say, Lord, I want to please you. I want to stand acceptable for you when before you. When we look at the cross, And we look at Christ, and we're in between starting from the cross and going toward Christ and the coming of Christ when we have that in our focus. Then and we be make decisions based upon that, then we will be able to stay focused in the way that God wants us to. I would summarize it this way. Number one, just by way of conclusion here Number one, we must stay focused on biblical purpose through every life decision. We go through decisions every day, some big decisions, some small decisions, and every life decision we need to ask ourselves, am I pleasing God and am I glorifying God? Number two, we may stay focused on biblical purpose despite constant hindrances of fear and discomfort. You see that all the way through Ruth. Ruth was you think Ruth was uncomfortable from time to time? Oh man, there's some stuff she did that was really uncomfortable. But she didn't it didn't dissuade her from staying focused on biblical purpose. Do you think she ever feared anything? It did not dissuade her from staying biblically focused. We see the same thing with Boaz. On the other hand, you see a contrast with God's people and Haggai being distracted by things that are understandable. Number three, we must stay focused on biblical purpose despite discouragement that comes through comparing misplaced expectations, survival instincts. Or misplaced priorities. God desires for us to stay for focused. on purposeful living, focused on Christ. You know he could come back at any moment. The eminency of the coming of Christ was well taught and frequently taught in the old in the New Testament. As a motivation to stay right in living for God, stay true to purpose. Now, I would just ask you here as well today You know, one of the things that happened to me many years ago was that I went from having no clear purpose. To having a purpose. There might be some of you today here that you say, well, you've been talking a lot about purpose and biblical purpose and f and pleasing God and glorifying God, and I don't know that I've ever really established that that is what That is what I ought to be doing. The Bible tells us that to know God is to glorify God. And John chapter 17, 18, it tells us that This is life eternal that they may know me. And in the same book, same chapter, it tells us that we the reason we know him is to glorify him. You see, we can't fulfill our our human biblical purpose in life if we don't know God. We can try all we want and do all kinds of good things and hope our good outweighs our bad, and that ain't gonna work. Biblical purpose means I am going to know God so that I can know how to please God. You can't know how to please God until you know Him. And the Bible says that the only way to know him is through Jesus Christ. The Bible tells us in John chapter 14, I am the way, the truth, and the life, and no man comes to the the Father except by me. It's only through Christ. That's because Christ is is God. And Christ lived a perfect life when he came to earth. None of us have. We've all sinned miserably. We are all destined to a place of separation from God for all of eternity. That's our destiny when we're destiny. But the Bible tells us that Jesus Christ came and he died to take our sin away. The Bible says the wages of sin is death. That's spiritual death, separation from God, but Jesus Christ died in our place so that we can look and have faith on what Jesus did in dying for us, taking upon our sin on himself and dying for us, and we can have trust in that completely And the Bible says, if we will to as many as received him, to them gave you the power to become the children of God, to be his child, and to know him. That is the only, the only way That you can live truly with God's purpose in your life. Folks, the truth of the matter is when we live that, when we be when we make the decision to come to Christ as our s as our Lord and Savior. So that we can know him, so that we can live for him. We now have a life worth living. We have a life that has purpose. Every child of God has a purpose. It is to know him, to please him, and to glorify him. And we can live a whole life and look back and say, I lived that life with purpose, as Paul, the Apostle Paul did in the time. Testament. And if you are unsure of whether or not you know God, you're saying, you know, I'm really not sure. Maybe you say to yourself, you know, I don't think you really can know. I think it's kind of a guesswork kind of a thing. I don't really think you can know. Well, let me encourage you, 1 John 5, verse 13 says, These things are written that ye may know that ye have eternal life, that believe on the name of the Son of God. In fact, so the Bible is actually written that you might know. Not hope so, not wonder, but know. And if you don't know, can I just encourage you? I'd be thrilled if you want to come and talk with me. I'll take a Bible and show you how you can know. Or if you're not or if you're comfortable if you know someone else here that you're comfortable with them, ask them how you can know. And the Bible tells us here clearly that if we know him, we can glorify him with purpose in life. Let's put together. Father, we do admit that we often are distracted or discouraged. Our attention is diverted away from purpose. The purpose of pleasing you and glorifying you. We are so grateful for the example of Ruth and Boaz. Throughout this entire story, we see an extreme amount of focus. What a challenge for us. But Lord, it is just in we're just so aware that it is in order for the for us to have true lasting Focus. Your spirit must must do that work in our lives. I can say that I'm going to be purposeful and living and walk out, go my way, and totally forget the decision I made. I pray that your spirit would work in our hearts to have lasting change in our lives But causes us to stay focused on biblical purpose. And that we will one day be able. To say, to hear you say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.