Please take your Bibles and turn to the book of Acts, chapter four. Acts chapter four. If you recall from last week, the Apostle Peter has preached his second sermon in response to the The healing of the lame man in the temple and the Sanhedrin have now put him and John under trial for what has taken place. And with all of that in mind, let's pick up in verse 13 of this passage, and we'll read some of this passage in preparation for the message. Acts chapter 4, verse 13. Now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John and perceived that they were uneducated and untrained men. They marveled, and they revealed, they realized that they had been with Jesus. And seeing the man who had been healed standing with them, they could say nothing against it. But when they had commanded them to go aside out of the council, they conferred among themselves, saying, What shall we do to these men? For indeed that a notable miracle had been done through them is evident to all who dwell in Jerusalem, and we cannot deny it. But so that it spreads no further among the people, let us severely threaten them that from now on they speak to no man this name So they called them and commanded them not to speak at all nor teach in the name of Jesus. But Peter and John answered and said to them, Whether it is right in the sight of God to listen to you more than to God, you judge. For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard. So when they had further threatened them, they let them go, finding no way of punishing them Because of the people, since they all glorified God for what had been done. For the man was over forty years old on whom this miracle of healing had been performed And being let go, they went to their own companions and reported all that the chief priests and elders had said to them. So when they had heard that, they raised their voice to God with one accord and said, Lord, you are God who made heaven and earth and sea and all that is in them. Who by the mouth of your servant David had set have said, Why do the nations rage and the people plot vain things? The kings of the earth took their sa stand, and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord and against his Christ For truly against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, were the Gentiles and the The people of Israel were gathered together to do whatever your hand and your purpose determined before to be done. Now, Lord, look on their threats and grant to your servants That with all boldness they may speak your word by stretching out your hand to heal, and that signs and wonders may be done through the name of your holy servant Jesus And when they had prayed, the place where they were assembled together was shaken, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and they spoke the word of God with boldness. Now the multitude of those who believed were of one heart and one soul. Neither did any one say that they that any of these things he possessed was his own, but they had all things in common. And with great power, the apostles gave witness to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus. And great grace was upon them. Nor was there any one among them who lacked, for all who were possessors of lands and houses sold them. And brought the proceeds of things that were sold, and laid them at the apostles' feet, and they were distributed to each as any one had need And Joseph, who was named Barnabas by the Apostles, which is translated the son of encouragement, a Levite of the country of Cyprus, having land, sold it and brought the money and laid it at the Apostles' feet. Let's pray together. Father, as we come to you, we thank you just for the privilege of being able to look at this passage of Scripture and to see The response of spirit-filled men as they were facing opposition from governmental authorities. Lord, as we look at this passage, I pray that you would help us to understand the kind of response that we ought to have to opposition when we are sharing our faith with others. Help us to understand how we are to be bold and to be transparent and to have a freedom to be able to share with others the good news of Jesus Christ. Lord, we admit before you that we don't face the kind of persecution yet that these two are facing in this passage. And yet there is there are always Times in our lives where we have the possibility of cowardice rather than boldness, of fear rather than faith. And I pray this morning that you would help us to understand from your word how it is that we can have the kind of bold, transparent faith that allows us to be filled with your Spirit. and and be used of you for the sake of the gospel. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. How many of you all uh is there anybody here, I guess I should say it that way, is there anybody here that is uh that is a former Marine? I'm curious about do we have any former I don't know that we do. I was thinking through and I didn't think of it. Is there anybody this a former Marine. All right, no, there's not. Okay. Well, in 1883, uh the United States Marine Corps adopted the motto Semper Fidelis. And it is abbreviated Semper Phi by Charles Macaulay. He's the one who initiated it. He was the eighth commandant of the Marine Corps. It means Means always loyal, always loyal. So should the Christian always be loyal And the answer is yes, the Christian should always be loyal to Christ. How, though, is a Christian loyal to Christ? And the answer to that is that he is always loyal to Christ by being always loyal to the message of Christ. And what we're going to see in this passage as we go through it is that Peter and John are going to be relentlessly loyal. to the to what Christ uh is doing by by law being loyal to the message of Christ So let's we are, if you remember from last week, we are really in the middle of a discussion between the Sanhedrin and the disciples, Peter and John, and also with him was that lame man who was healed. And you'll recall from verse 13 of this chapter that, of chapter 4, that they saw this boldness in Peter and John. And then we pick up in verse 14, and verses 14 through 16, we have this deliberation. They let Peter and John and as well as the this man. Go. And they're now going to discuss what do they do in this situation. And it's very interesting that if as you look at this passage, verse 16, you'll notice It says, but when they had commanded them to go aside out the council, they conferred among themselves, saying, What shall we do with these men? For indeed that is a notable miracle that they have done through them uh is is evident to all who dwell in Jerusalem and we cannot deny it. Do you notice what they do here? They are very concerned, mostly, if not all, about their power and their authority and losing it. And they feel as though when the name of Christ is preached, and when power is attributed to Him for this miracle, that they are going to lose authority, they're going to lose influence. They're going to lose power. It shows us their motive. It has nothing to do with what's true. Did you notice what it says there in the passage? That they can't deny the miracle that's been done. They're not at all concerned about the truth. The truth is staring them in the face. The truth is this man who's been healed and it's been verified and the there's no question about the fact that he has been truly healed. They're not deliberating whether it's true or not. They're deliberating with what they do with what is true. It demonstrates that their entire focus, that these Sanhedrin, their entire focus is really on themselves. Rather than what is true. They are being deluded to the point that they don't care about the truth. And that is the case with many people. Many people, whether saved or unsaved, sometimes we we don't care about the truth. The truth is in front of us. But we choose not to accept the truth or obey the truth or follow the truth because of self. Self is in the way. Have you ever noticed that about yourself or someone else? The truth will be staring you in the face, and yet you aren't doing anything with the truth that is in front of you or you notice somebody else, maybe your kids or your family or somebody. And the barrier between truth and obedience is self, self-aggrandizement, self-desire for power and authority and influence. And folks, we ought to all be very careful about this. That our motive is not to have influence or to have a power or authority. Our desire should be that Christ has all the power, all the authority, and all the influence. You're going to see an exact opposite contrast in the response of John and Peter from the Sanhedrin because they don't care about themselves You have the Sanhedrin that are going to come to this conclusion that they come to a cowardice conclusion. They can do nothing but give an idle threat Can't do anything about this. Why? Because, well, you'll see in the passage, which notice what it says in verse 17. Verse 17 But so that it spreads no further among the people, let us severely threaten them, and from now on they speak to no man in this name. You have this group of people, the Sanhedrin, who they they just don't want this to gain get any more traction. They they don't want this truth to go anywhere else, and so they're going to severely threaten them They're really taking the cowardice way out the cowardly way out of this. They're threatening them. They're not actually doing anything because they know if they'll do anything, if they do anything, they'll lose the very influence that they want to retain. And that's often what happens when we put ourselves at a place where we are self-seeking, where we want something for ourselves, when we are looking to have power or influence or authority or something, but we are seeking something for ourselves. We end up in a place where we can't do anything. We're paralyzed by the fear of man. And clearly we have this to be the case in the Sanhedrin. You'll notice in this passage, then, that the apostles are now going to react to this threat. Notice the boldness with which they react. Well you'll see the orders in verse 18. It says, so they called them and commanded them not to speak at all, nor teach in the name of Jesus. But Peter and John answered and said to them, Whether it is right in the sight of God to listen to you more than God, you judge It's a great rhetorical kind of kind of way to start. You judge whether or not we should listen to God or you. Well that is a fair question to ask, is it not? This is something that should be on our minds as well It's interesting that in Sunday school, Harry was covering 1 Corinthians chapter 6, and what we're going to look at for a few moments here is the issue of the relationship between the Christian and government. How is it that we should relate to the government as Christians? What these people were being asked to do, the Sanhedrin were asking them to withhold from sharing their faith from naming the name of Christ, which God had clearly commanded them to do And throughout church history, there have been different ways that Christians or profession Christians have dealt with this. For example, option number one, the monastic option. That is the option where God alone is the authority, and government has no authority at all. Monks would say something like: the world and its governments are so corrupt that we can do nothing with them. They are of the devil, and the only thing we can do as Christians is to retreat from the world. That's the monastic option of what do you do when you are in conflict between God and government? How do you relate to government? Another option is the secular option. The secular option is the option that government alone has authority and God, the authority of God, is denied. Now the secular option doesn't say that you can't worship in any way, but you should worship in private, that you should worship in your closet, that It shouldn't be something that is public at all. And there should be a clearly defined line between between what between what you do in the world as far as government is concerned and what we do in our closets. sort of closet Christianity. And there is this clear disunity between those two things. The next option is what we'll call the cowardly option. The cowardly option is that the authority of both God and government Governments are valid, but we're going to put the government in a dominant position. God has authority, government has authority, but government trumps God. Now, folks, most of you are aware that all three of these options are on biblical options. The right option is number four, the biblical option Which is simply this, that God and government both have authority, but God is in a dominant position And in fact, God's government's authority is delegated from God's authority. And we find that to be the case by the very words of Jesus. Jesus Christ in John chapter nineteen verse eleven, when he was placed on trial by the government of the day. He said this to them You could have no power at all against me unless it was had been given you from above. Therefore, the one who delivered me to you As the greater sin. So he says there, you wouldn't have any power at all, he says says to the the uh to to Pilate and those who are who are he was on trial with, you wouldn't have any power at all Unless it was given to you, delegated to you by God. We ought to remember as Christians that we ought to, when we can When it doesn't violate Scripture, we ought to follow government authority. There is no question about this. Romans chapter 13, verse 1. Let every soul, every soul, be subject. to the governing authorities. For there is no authority except from God, and the authorities that exist are appointed by God. Now let me pause for a minute, lest you think that this was Back in those days, but our government is so corrupt today compared to those days. Let me assure you that the government was more corrupt in the first century than it is now. that the first century government which was da during the time of Nero, if you recall, was extremely corrupt. The the I mean the the debauchery and the corruption and the self-serving of of Nero as an emperor and all what he did. I mean if you recall at one point he actually burned Christians not at this point yet, but he actually burned Christians as lanterns in his garden. That's how, and yet God says That government is ordained by him, that that authority is ordained by God, that they are placed in Verse two of Romans thirteen says, Therefore whoever resists the authority, resists the orders of God, and those who resist will bring judgment on themselves. For rulers are not a terror to good works, but to evil. Do you want to be unafraid of authority? Do what is good, and you will have praise from the same. The bottom line is we ought to follow the authority of government according to Romans chapter 13. That couldn't be farther from the truth. But there is one authority that trumps government authority. And that is biblical authority. That is what God has to say, because all authority we believe without question That all authority, folks, is delegated from the supreme authority, God Himself. And so how do, with that in mind, let's look and see how These disciples respond to all of this? What you pick up then in verse 19. But Peter and John answered and said to them, whether it is right in the sight of God to listen to you more than God you judge. For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard. Did you catch how they say that? How does Peter answer the Sanhedrin. He says, we cannot help but speak the things that we have seen and heard. There was such a compelling desire. They had seen the risen Christ. They had seen come people, thousands now of people come to Christ. They had seen the power and the effect of the gospel, and they absolutely could not help. but give it out to others. There was this compulsion to do so. And it wasn't from this guilt-ridden complex that I've got to do my duty and And I've got to witness to somebody once a day or twice a day. That wasn't it at all. It was they were going about their business and they could not help but speak of Christ. And who he was and what he has done. They could not, they had to remain loyal to the message of Christ. And they were bold bold in telling this the Sanhedrin that It's the case. Seventy men, seventy-one men, including the high priest. Seventy-one men, they're all there, and these two men are going to say, We cannot help but do this. You might have thought that they would have said they would have said nothing at all, and then they could have just gone off and done what they wanted to do Well that's not what they did here. They absolutely chose to say, we cannot help but name the name of Christ. What boldness We there are times where we don't share Christ because we are afraid somebody doesn't won't like us. Or we're afraid that we don't we won't fit in with whatever else is going on. And I need to say that it is true that we need to think about whether uh you know how we say what we say is effective or not in the sense of of we want to say things in a loving way, in a kind way. But folks, we ought not shirk away from naming the name of Christ. From Explaining who Christ is to others. If you're working in a secular environment, I hope that there are times where you are sharing Christ with people around you in whatever way you're able to. Uh I am not suggesting that you become a bull in the China shop. But what I am saying is that we do have this, there ought to be this overall compelling desire. To reach people with the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And clearly, what we see in this passage is that these men, the reason that they are this is the case, is because they are filled with the Spirit of God in their lives. We see that in verse 8. We see it later on in verse, I believe it's verse 30. We see that they are just filled with the Spirit of God. And that causes them to have a boldness and a desire to share Christ with others. Now, then we see here that the Spirit's loyalty to Christ's message causes them to go in earnest move in earnest prayer. So they're dismissed. John and Peter is dismissed. And we'll pick up here in verse 23, and you'll notice then that they go to their own. Now it's interesting that some different translations translate it different ways. Uh the New King James here translates it own companions, other others translate it different ways. But in the Greek it just says they go to their own. That's it. different ways. In the Greek it's just simply they went to their own. And there's a significant thing there to to just note it notice. They went to their own. They went to their own people. There was this kind of understanding that those who name the name of Christ, those who are part of his church There's an ownership there. There's a I am with you. We're together. We're part of the same family together. And I just want to say that that is such an important thing for Christians. We're going to see in this passage, we've seen it in other passages as well in the book of Acts, that there is this family atmosphere. The outside are the Sanhedrin, and they're the ones who are being controlled by Satan to distract and to thwart the plan of the gospel. But now they're going to come to their own. And we want, as Christians, the church to be a place where we can come together and we can encourage each one another and challenge each one another and pray for one another. And that's exactly what you see here happening. In fact, what you see here is this unity in corporate prayer that occurs in this passage. This is a passage that we ought to emulate in a very uh we could emulate everything about this passage just about Would you notice what it says here in verse 24? So when they heard that, they raised their voice to God with one accord and said, Lord, you are God. They began to pray together. Now, in this passage, it actually says that they are raising their voice in one accord to God. There is a possibility that what they're actually doing here is they're singing. I mean, how is it that you are supposed to say the same words together? You have two choices. You either chant or you sing. Right? Otherwise, you're not going to be able to. So it's possible that what you have here is a prayer in song, and they're all either chanting or singing it together. The other possibility in the passage is that is that they are that one is leading, perhaps Peter or John are leading this, doesn't say at all who. And the reason Luke doesn't say at all who is because that they do that that's not the focus. The focus is not who's leading. The focus is that they're all praying this together collectively as a body of believers. It's possible the other the other possibility is that they are all uh using some sort of maybe amen or something after the phrasing of a prayer. When I was in Hong Kong, I was teaching over there a group of pastors, and uh I had to get used to this, but when I prayed, when I led the group at prayer, I would pray, and then the interpreter would interpret, and then I would hear in unison from everyone, Amen. Like every phrase they would say this. Amen. And uh at first I sort of got a little startled and I thought, Oh, that's interesting and I s I I I pray another phrase, it get tran it would get translated, and then they go, Amen And after a while I got used to it. I came back here and I prayed and I waited and nobody else did that. I was totally so but uh but really it was it was actually what they were doing was it was very biblical. They were demonstrating their unity in what was being prayed. And perhaps that was happening here as well. Now I'm not suggesting that every phrase I pray when I pray that you start doing that. If you do it, we need to figure out how to do it collectively so it's not distracting, so it's not just one of you doing that. But anyway, um But certainly there ought to be and by the way, if you say amen after after we pray, that is a good thing. There is nothing wrong with doing that at all, especially if you agree with the prayer. If you don't But anyway, but usually I hope you would. So there there ought to be a unity in the body of believers. And and certainly even after uh uh special selection, a prepared selection, those kinds of things. Amen. In unity together that we're all together is something that is that is something that that certainly we should do. to demonstrate unity one with another. And we find here this passage that that's what's going on. That these people are unified together in this prayer. Now, they have already exhibited great boldness, but the way that they turn to God in prayer demonstrates several different things. One of the things that you're going to see in this prayer that we're going to look at is the fact that this prayer begins by recognizing God's sovereignty. Then you're going to see next that it recognizes scriptural truth. It's going to actually quote a passage of scripture. And this is something that we ought to emulate both in our prayers as individuals, and it really should probably be something that we emulate together in a corporate sense. Where did the disciples get this idea of using Scripture in this way? Well, if you'll recall, do you remember the disciples on the road to Emmaus? And you remember that Christ was veiled in his identity at first, but then he revealed himself. But during that time, he opened the scriptures. He opened them up and he opened the scriptures to them. And the passage says that he opened their eyes. And then later in Luke 24, 45. He opened their understanding. He opened their minds to the scriptures. And we see that the disciples now from that point on constantly are going to the scriptures. They're wanting to see what the scriptures say about things. They're they're they're they're they want to be they to think biblically and pray biblically and act biblically and to constantly be biblical in their approach to everything that they are doing. And that includes prayer. Now it's possible as well. They're going to be quoting from Psalm 2 in this passage. It's possible that they already knew a tune because Psalm was the Old Testament Israelite hymnal. That's what Psalms was. But we see in this passage that they are going to be referring to Psalm 2, and they are saying this, praying this, possibly singing this together. And there are four parts to this prayer that we need to make note of. Number one, they reflected on the situation and light of God's sovereign power. Would you notice what it says? Lord, you are God who made heaven and earth and the sea and all that is in them. They first recognized the sovereign power of God, and they recognize the Creator, He as creator of heaven and earth and everything in them. This was a prayer that was patterned after Psalm 146. 6, which says, Who made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them, who keeps truth forever. They recognize that God is in control, God is sovereign, that even though you have these Sanhedrin who are the governmental authorities, they're the religious and the governmental authorities that have been the governmental authorities have been delegated from the Romans. that that they, even though they are imposing these threats on them, that God is the one that's sovereign, that he is the one in control, and that we must trust him. And certainly that is also the case today. Notice then what they do. They're going to quote Psalm 2 in verses 25 through 26. I want us to go ahead and take our Bibles and turn there. Would you turn your Bible to Psalm 2? And I want to highlight this psalm as a psalm that the Christians should really reference very often. In fact, I would suggest that every time you watch the news, That after you watch the news for about a half hour, you turn to this psalm and read through it. It will do you wonders if you do that. Or at least think through it. read this and memorize it and meditate on it. This is a psalm that helps us to see God's perspective in what the world does and what even governmental authorities do and how we and what God is doing in the midst of all of that And the answer to that simply is that Christ is going to be the one that rules and reigns and conquers all. That's God's goal, his ultimate goal. But in this passage we begin and it says, why do the nations rage and why do the people plot a vain thing? Why does this happen? Well, verse 2 tells us the kings of the earth set themselves and the rulers counseled together. What are they counseling together against? Against the Lord and against his anointed, saying, Let us break their bonds in pieces and cast away their cords from us. Who are they? I was talking about casting cords. This is the idea of the authority of God being, they feel as though it being a straitjacket on them. It's something, is cords that are constricting their authority. It's interesting that this passage is teaching us that governmental authority most of the time sees God as a threat. Now it's interesting. Don't misquote what I said. Don't misinterpret. Take everything together. Romans 13 says we follow government authority unless God says something different. But understand this that in the overall scheme of the sovereignty of nations and what Satan is doing and being the prince and power of the earth, there is this sense in which Which they don't want the bonds of the authority of God in their lives. And that is something that we need to be, and they will try to cast them off. And you know what God thinks of that? Verse 4: He laughs. God laughs at this. He who sits in the heavens shall lash. The Lord shall have the derision. The idea that you can thwart the cords of the restraining authority of God. The idea that you can do that is absolutely It crazy. It is laughable in God's eyes. Why? Because He is the supreme authority. He is Lord of all. He is sovereign, and He is control. We won't look at the le rest of this passage, but I will note the verse verse twelve as the conclusion. You better get right with the Son, he says. The Son of God, Jesus Christ. Kiss the Son lest you be angry. W the kissing idea there is the idea of worship. In fact, the word worship in the Old Testament literally means to kiss the hand. That's what it means. And so worship the sun lest he be angry And you perish in the way, when his wrath is kindled but a little. Blessed are all those who put their trust in him. Now, with that in mind, let's then move back to our passage in Acts chapter 4. So this is a passage that they have taken in Psalm 2, and they have now applied to their situation. Folks, do we have the wisdom to apply in our life situations passages of Scripture to say, okay, well this passage is something that that really speaks to this particular situation in our lives. It's something that we ought to do. And before we ever go to the Lord in prayer, we're supposed to pray according to his will. Before that ever happens, we ought to think about what is Biblical. What is according to God's will? Well, how do we know it's according to God's will? Well, number one, we recognize his sovereignty, and number two, we recognize his word in the situation and what he has to say about it And these people did this. They realized that the Sanhedrin, what they were doing, was not against Peter and John And they weren't, it wasn't even against uh themselves, it wasn't against what had happened. It really was an offense against what God was doing. They were throwing off the cords, if you will, of God himself The authority of God. They didn't want that in their lives. That's why you see them constantly throughout this passage saying, you can't name his name. The name of Christ is identifying his authority. Now, number three, quickly we see then in verses 27 through 28. That they reflected on their situation in light of God's providence. Notice what verse 27 says. They're now interpreting this passage, and in verse 27, they're going to Bring it into what is happening here in this in their own context. Verse 27. For truly against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate with Gentiles and people of Israel were gathered together to do whatever your notice what it says there, whatever your hand and your purpose determined before it was it be done. They recognized that when Jesus stood before Pontius Pilate and before Herod and before the Gentiles, the Roman Gentiles, and before the Jewish leaders He stood before all of them at various times or collectively, and stood in the very place that John and Peter stood among the San uh within the Sanhedrin, around the uh in the center of the Sanhedrin They recognized that the same way in which that was actually be predetermined by God and according to his will, they they were pawns in God's hands. They recognized that that was the case and brought about the death of Christ. So in this situation, God will providentially work through all of this to bring about his purposes as well They looked at what happened in the past, saw God's providential hand, looked at this alarming situation and threatening situation. in their lives, and they said, Lord, you did some great things through this situation, and Lord, you will direct through your providence in the future through us. Folks, that is something that we need to learn in our lives. We have got to learn to walk in the providence of God. To live in the providence of God. First, God is sovereign. Secondly, we follow his word. But then after that, how do we make decisions? How do we determine what God wants for us? We ought to look at what God is providing for us. What God is doing in our lives, we ought to work in congruency with the with the providence of God. How many of you ever watched uh Finding Nemo? It's now an old cartoon. Do you believe that? It's like 15 years old or something. Finding Nemo, okay? I don't know exactly the date, but it's around that time. Well, most of you have do you remember the the the uh the East Australian current that they got in with the turtles? You remember that's my favorite part. How many of that's that's your favorite part? Okay, alright. It's almost ev everybody's favorite part. No, I don't know. Some of you guys like uh definitely my favorite part. Okay, so anyway, so they're jumping on on the on this uh on the stream, right? This East Australia by the way, that is a real thing. The East Australian current. Now I don't think you have turtles saying, you know, things like, Well dude, uh that's not happening on the East Australian curl uh uh current. And also Uh it's much wider, but it is it does surround Australia. It does go from the barrier reef. I had to look all this up. It goes does go from the barrier reef down to Sydney And so so what what did what did what did uh Marlin and Dory do? They were going through all kinds of obstacles and difficulties Until they they got on this East Australian current and they were able to just go move into Sydney and find Nemo. Folks, y you know, not that it's gonna be easy, not that it's gonna make everything easy, but you and I need to Need to find that stream of the providence of God and ride it. We need to really live and think in terms of what is God doing. And how can I ride that? How can I live consistently with the providence of God? Very oftentimes, what we do as Christians is we think about maybe we we rarely consider the sovereignty of God in the situation. We may consider whatever biblical information we can find. But then we go and we attempt to make decisions entirely on either what we want or what makes sense to us. Or oftentimes we can't make decisions at all. Why? Because we are not really taking into account the providence of God, what he is doing, how he is providing, and going that direction. And it's always been our intent at our church to really consider the direction that we're going, to consider what God is providing, how He's providing, and then to go that direction. And it's something that we ought to do in our lives as well. That's what these Christians were doing. They really factored in. Okay, providentially, we've seen God do this in the past. We know he's going to do this now. in the future. And with all of that in mind, sovereignty of God, the scriptures, the providence of God, then we now are ready to petition God. Notice what it says in the passage in petitioning the Lord in verse 29. The petition Was in light of the sovereignty of Scripture and Providence. Now, number one, the petition was look at the threats that the Jewish leaders have uttered. First, we see that God, they say, Lord, would you Would you notice what's going on here? Would you turn your attention to the threats of these leaders? It probably was a threat to take their life, even though they didn't have the authority to do that But they worked it out before, didn't they, with Christ? They figured out a way to get him uh crucified. And so very likely there was a threat on their lives. Uh I I think probably Um and they were they were m making similar threats. You see how Christ what what what ended with Christ, that's the same thing that's going to end with you And of course, that's why they would think in terms of, well, the death of Christ was according to the providence of God. But they asked God, they said, Lord, would you look at these threats? Would you pay attention to what's happening here? Number two Would you grant and allow your servants the boldness and courage to continue to preach and teach the gospel? Would you grant and allow your servants the boldness to continue to preach the gospel? Let me ask you this. Do you notice something missing from this prayer? Protection. They don't have any protect. They're not asking to be protected here. You would think that the first thing that they would be praying for when there is a threat on their life is protection. That's not what they're praying for. They pray, first of all, Lord, can you identify what's going on here? Number two, would you grant boldness and courage to continue to preach the gospel? Now, by the way, it's not wrong to pray for protection. The Apostle Paul actually suggests that we pray for protection in 2 Thessalonians chapter 3, but he does it. He says, pray that we that they don't kill us so that we can continue to preach the gospel. His whole goal was not to protect us for selfish But no, that we we can continue to preach the gospel. Don't let people get in the way of that. Then thirdly, we need boldness, Lord, but then thirdly We want to see your power displayed in all of this. We want Christ's power to be displayed. And we see that in verse 30 here. It says, by stretching out your hand to heal. The stretching out of God's hand is a is the idea is a demonstration of God's power. And the signs and wonders may be done through the name of your holy servant Jesus. We're your servant. We need boldness from you to continue what we're doing, that the power of Christ would be evident in the lives of people around us that you This is a folks, this is a obviously a very biblical prayer. truth, a prayer that was in line with providence. And they pray this prayer, and God in verse 31 answers their prayer. In fact, God is so pleased with their prayer, he shakes the building. The building shakes is sort of as an immediate response that, hey, this is this, I am pleased with this He shakes the building first, and then he enables them with the Spirit of God. He fills them with His Spirit. He empowers them and influences them with His Spirit. And then he, it says they they continued to speak the word of God. Now, this is obviously an answer to God's answer to their prayer. And it this is so absolutely necessary and important for us to understand that what God wants for a church is for us to be first in prayer. That prayer ought to be the most important thing, one of the most important things that we do corporately. Maybe preaching would be the other. But it's up there, preaching and corporate prayer are right neck and neck, folks And what God has here in this passage is helping us to see that even though that God gave them the boldness, it wasn't like they said, okay, we got this lit. There was this dependency on God for more boldness and for more influence of the Spirit of God. They were collectively praying together And then would you notice that spirit-filled loyalty to Christ's message resulted in unity in the body? Look at verse 32. Pick up in verse 32, and it says, Now the multitude of those who believed were of one heart. and one soul. Neither did any any one say that they uh that any of the the things he possessed was his own, but they had all things in common We're not going to go through the rest of that passage because if you call recall a few months a few weeks ago, maybe a couple months ago, we we went through that passage in conjunction with the other passage that talks about the cooperation of of um of these people in providing for them in a in a sort of communal setting. You'll have to listen to that message to see that. But one thing I do want to identify is this It says that those who were there, they were one in heart and mind or soul. Now in the Old Testament, the word heart in the Hebrew means mind or heart. It's the same thing. But in the New Testament, when you see this word heart or soul, or you should you could say mind here. Heart and mind It it has the idea of two different things, that they were together in mind, that they were together going the same direction, they were together going the same, the going, uh, having the same kind of thinking But folks, it wasn't just that they all thought the same way. There was, can I put it this way, there was this emotional connection between them. There was this tie between them. There was this bond that was developing one among the other between them. It was a family. that that was developing. And they cared for one another, and they were kind to one another, and they loved one another, and they were not self-seeking. We learned in Sunday school that that that that they were Paul was appalled by people that were odds with each other and taking each other to court and all kinds of things when there were disputes That's foreign to the idea of a church. In God's mind, and in the example of the first century, as they came together, there was this unity and love for one another. And Price says this. He says, if you've got two cloaks, give one away. Now, of course, it doesn't mean that you can't have you it doesn't mean that you you become a socialist Church becomes socialist and things like that. But there is this general idea that we ought to there ought to be a closeness and In fact, you have Barnabas leading the way, the son of encouragement, as it says in the passage. And he is going to have land and sell it, and he is going to give money, and he's going to lay it at the apostles' feet. He is going to give and love on behalf of the people so that they would be encouraged and built up in the faith. And we're going to see in chapter 5 that this is going to be thwarted by false motives and lying. In this passage for now, we need to understand Understand, folks, that God wants us to have this kind of unity in the body. And when we have the kind of loyalty to Christ's message together, it brings us together. So that we can have the unity of the body that God wants us to have. Philippians chapter 2, verse 4 says, Let each of you look not on your own interests, but also on the interests of others. And so God wants us to have this in mind in our lives. Finally, we see, folks, we need to just understand these three truths. Number one. We need to understand that spirit-filled loyalty to Christ's message is going to result in transparent boldness. Do you have, as a Christian? Do you have transparent wise but transparent boldness when it comes to your relationships with others? Number two, do you have, are you earnest in prayer? When we are spirit-filled and loyal to Christ's message, there is this cause. That occurs in our lives that drives us to earnestness in prayer. It is a mission beyond ourselves That we cannot fulfill on our own, that we need to depend upon Christ for what we cannot do on our own. He has given us this mission. And we need him desperately to fulfill the mission. And number three, how do you feel about the body of Christ? How do you feel about your church family? Is there a unity with one another? Is there a same mindset, a love for one another? These are all folks, when these things are right, there is this indication that we are spirit-influenced and loyal to the message of the gospel. Let's pray together.