I just want to say at the beginning of this that I've elected and I I hope I don't get tarred and feathered for this. I'm maybe I'll never do it again, but I I'm elected not to preach a Mother's Day message today. There are a couple of reasons for that. One is is because we just had a family conference, uh, which was an all-day event I just th went through Ephesians chapter five and preached multiple messages on the family. And so we're coming, and then the other reason is we're going to be having a time here where I'm not even going to be preaching. for a couple of Sundays. Next uh the last Sunday in May I won't be preaching. Um I'll be out of uh town on vacation. And um the Sunday before that we're having a missionary come and speak. I sort of looked the looked at the schedule and I said, Well, I really need to I this this is just really important truth when it comes to putting on our our spiritual armor, our war the battling warfare, the spiritual warfare. It's just such an incredibly urgent and important subject. It wasn't something that I felt as though I could put off. And we're I'm kind of right in the middle of it right now. I I I started studying for this message at the beginning of the week and I woke up on Thursday morning determined to change my mind and preach a morning, uh prepare for a a Mother's Day message. I got to my office and I just felt very strongly that I needed to preach the message I'm preaching. Uh and so I stuck to it. So I hope that you will, mothers, I not that I don't honor you and value you, I very much do. I will say this, my own mother, um the the she uh there is no one that has a has had a greater impact and influence on my mo on my life than my mother. There is no question about that in my and there's few that come close, but um she her influence continues to um even in some cases motivate me and I look forward to seeing her again one day. Um and uh there is a sense in which Mother's Day is a little on the um it's kind of difficult a little bit for me, uh to be honest So for all of those reasons, I'm going to go ahead and preach a message from Ephesians chapter 6 in our series. I do hope and pray that, mothers, you have a very wonderful day and one that you are you feel very valued. and honored and you really can't underestimate the influence of a godly mother. If you look at the history of the church and you look at different men that have really impacted the church in many ways. You can all missionaries and others, you can really talk to them, you interview them, you find that there is a godly mother in the background. And uh so I really can't emphasize enough to you the uh uh the importance of that and and pray that you feel very valued today. Let me just ask you a question as we're getting into this. I have just this found in my own personal experience as well as as I rub shoulders with Christians. That there often seems to be a sense of fear and defeat and insecurity that so easily invades our thinking. Um if I were to characterize the church and Christianity It would seem to me that, and I could be wrong about this, but it's it would seem to me that people today seem to be more feel more defeated. And have more fear of the future, and have less confidence and more insecurity and greater doubt. than perhaps in previous generations. And if you look at church history, that seemed that seems to sort of bear that that out. at sort of the missionary age, which is prior to our generation of believers, you saw a confidence in in the Lord, you saw a sort of a uh pioneer spirit you you had I remember as a young boy even learning memorizing lots of passages and being having Bible memory be a very confident or be a very um important aspect of my spiritual growth and and I look at some of that and and I um feel personally that there are a lot of Christians that are just feeling defeated And fearful, and they have doubts. Sometimes in our lives, sin is what causes us to just Feel very defeated. But sometimes it's the feeling of defeat that causes the sin, or at least contributes to it. And there are, and Satan tends to use our fears and our insecurities and our struggles and our doubts. To really cause us great to not experience the victory that God has really for every believer. Let me ask you a question this morning. Is this God's intention? When you think of defeat and fear and doubt and struggle, well, not struggle, we are all going to struggle, but fear and doubt and defeat Do you think God intends for a Christian to live that way? And anyone who's known the Lord for any length of time is going to say no. There is absolutely no way that God's intention is for his people to live in fear and doubt and defeat. I believe what Paul is doing here in going through the different parts of the armor is he is equipping us to live with confidence And to live according to the victory that was really bought by Christ. In fact, we find in the passage, as we mentioned last week, multiple times, that it says that this that these that we need to put on the armor of God that we can stand. Against the strategies and the wiles of the devil. And my question would be for you today: are you standing Are you what I mean we're all going to have attacks from Satan and his demons, and and there is a warfare out there. We're going to be influenced by the by the principalities and powers. That's going to happen. But are we standing or are we faltering? Are we failing or are we victorious? And God desires for us not to be prideful, but He does want us to have confidence in Him. I think sometimes we have these feelings of doubt and fear, and we almost think that that's acceptable because Um, you know, really that's just humility, and we want to be humble people. I don't want to be prideful, so you know, this doubt and fear that I have, you know, that's probably okay. That's a lot worse that's a lot better than being being prideful and having confidence in my own flesh. But I am really convinced as I read this chapter and look at this passage that God does not desire for us to be fearful and doubtful. God desires for us to be confident in Him. And that is the purpose of the passage. If you'll remember from last week, chapter 6, verse 10, finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. What we're going to look at today is verses 12 through 13 in more detail, where it says for us, for we wrestle not against flesh and blood. But against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand. In our lives it's so easy for us to think that our circumstances and the problems around us and even thinking of the of the the the violence in in Baltimore and all those different things That we're going through are things where we wrestle against physical things. But God says that our primary point of warfare is not on the physical but in the spiritual realm. And what God wants us to do is to learn to stand in confidence regardless of what our circumstances bring our way. He wants us to stand. And Lord willing, as we go through this passage today, we're going to learn how to do that. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, as we come to you today, I pray that you would give us clarity of thinking. When it comes to this issue of spiritual warfare, I pray, Lord, that we would understand our foe a little better today. We would understand his tactics and his means. And then we would begin to understand how we are to defend against them. What exactly does it mean to put on the armor of your armor, Lord? I pray that you would help us today to understand this. Help us not to just understand it with our minds, but may we begin to put these things into application. And I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. The Bible tells us here in verse 12, for we wrestle not against flesh and blood. The word wrestle actually has to do with close contact. It isn't the word that you would assume for it to be there like to fight in a battle. We're talking about warfare here, and there's another word that Paul could have used. And you would have expected him to use in this kind of circumstances that just talks about going into battle. Instead, he uses this term wrestle, which is the term that we would think of as wrestle. If you think of close contact kind of battle or or fighting. This is what it's talking about here in this passage. And he's pointing out, what he's really pointing out here is that We don't wrestle against physical things, and we're so easily prone to think that the thing that you and I are wrestling against is our, for example, circumstances. Or the thing that you and I are really wrestling against is are is the is people. Or the problems that we really have in life have to do with these things that are material or physical. And God says that your struggle and my struggle as a Christian are not those things. Our struggle is those things that are spiritual. But would you notice also in this passage by this word that is used, he is saying that we are going to be wrestling. That is, there is no easy way out except heaven, which we all look forward to. But this side of heaven. It isn't as though we can decide one day that we're going to have a magic formula, that we're going to follow the magic formula, and that there will be no more struggle. In fact, if you're living the Christian life and you think and you have no struggle, I would really question some things. Maybe you know the Lord, but maybe you are really just fallen carnally. Maybe you are so full of yourself that you Satan's got you exactly where he wants you. I mean why would he why would he go against someone Who is really just living for themselves? He wouldn't do that. Because Satan's desire for you and for me is to render us useless for the purposes of the kingdom of God. And so in the Christian life, if we are in the battle, there is going to be wrestling involved. There is going to be spiritual warfare. And we need to understand what it says here in this passage about our foe. What is it that we're fighting against? Well, it says we're fighting against principalities. And that's the idea. of of um uh an organization that is that is uh has authority structure to it. Apparently Satan and his third of the angels that fell from heaven, there's a third structure to them, and they're well organized. Against principalities and against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world. And against spiritual wickedness in high places, when it says rulers of the darkness of this world, it is talking here about the fact that there is a desire For these, the kingdom of darkness to rule. That's going to be important for us in a few moments as we look at this. It then says this. Would you notice what it says? It says, spiritual wickedness where In high places, this is the exact same term that is used in other places in the book of Ephesians and is translated heavenlies. We're talking here, folks, about heaven. Have you ever thought of spirit of the evil darkness of this world, the realm, have you ever thought of Satan being in heaven Is that what this is really saying here? Well, to answer that question, I'd like to look at a few other passages on this. The first time this principalities and powers is used in Ephesians is in chapter 1. Would you turn there with me to chapter 1? And we'll pick up here in verse 18. It says, the eyes of your understanding being enlightened. that ye may know what is the hope of your call of his calling, and what the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints. And what is the exceeding greatness of his power to usward who believe, according to the working of his mighty power. You see the same kind of phrasing, folks that we just saw here when it talking about the putting on the army we armor. The whole idea is that we are to put on the strength and the power of God Why? Verse 20. Which we wrought in Christ when he raised him up from the dead and set him at his own right hand in the what? In the heavenly places. It's the exact same translation here, or same word. It says here in this passage that Christ sits in the heavenly places. In another passage in Ephesians chapter 1, which we won't look, we won't take the time to read, it says that we have spiritual blessings in heavenly places. And then it says here in verse 21: far above all principality, the whole idea here is that we're going to have the power to be able to defeat through the resurrection power of Christ, all far above all principality and power. And might and dominion. You see that word dominion? It means rule. And every name that is named, not only in the name in this world, but also in that which is to come. And hath put all things under his feet, this is the goal, and gave him to be head over all things the church, which is his body, the fullness of him that filleth all in all. Verse 21 indicates to us that there is a realm of darkness that desires to rule. We know from the very beginning in Genesis chapter 1 that the purpose that God made man is to have dominion. In other words, what God desires for us as human beings, and particularly as Christians, is to be to aid Him in ruling. God's desire from the very beginning is to set up a kingdom. And if you recall over in the end of Revelations, we're going to see that ultimately he is going to be victorious in doing that, in setting up his kingdom in the world. But during this in-between time, this church age, if you will, there is a time right now, folks, where Satan is alive and at work. And his goal, even though he knows the Bible better than we do, and he knows his his ultimate end is defeat, his desire is to thwart the plan of God to set up the kingdom. to thwart God's plan for you and I to be under God's rule and to be a part of God's plan to be set to be uh to help him in the furtherance of his kingdom. We find later in Ephesians chapter 2, as you'll turn over there if you would for me, please. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 1, it says, And you hath he quickened? Who were dead in trespasses and sins, wherein in time past ye walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air. The spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience. This passage tells us and explains to us that Satan is working. The Prince of the Power of the Air is working his work in the children of disobedience. It defines for us, folks, that there are really only two realms. There is the realm of the darkness of this world, and there is the realm of Christ that we are translated into when we know Christ is our Savior. And what we see in this passage is that we do have a foe that is going against us, that wants to trip us up, that wants to defeat us. And we find throughout Scripture, throughout Ephesians, this term heavenlies mentioned several times throughout Ephesians. For instance, it's mentioned in chapter 2, verse 6. There, you're in chapter 2, it says. And then if you look at Ephesians chapter 3, verse 10, a page over. It says, to the intent that now under the principalities and powers, where are they? They're in heavenly places, might be known by the church to the manifold wisdom of God. Now, folks, I would just really ask this question: where are they? Where is Satan and his demons? Where are they? Well, we know their their destiny. We know that where they're going to go. But where are they now? And how is this to work? If they are in heaven, I mean how is this all working? Well, we really have a passage in the Old Testament that's going to explain all this to us. Some of you will probably immediately know what passage this is. Would you take your Bibles and turn to the book of Job? This is probably not unfamiliar to you, but I want with new eyes here a little bit, this is sort of a first-time mentality, if you will, to look at the book of Job. In light of all of what Ephesians has said about these principalities being in heaven and thwarting the plan of the kingdom and desiring to defeat us. Beginning in chapter 6. I'm sorry, chapter 1, verse 6. Chapter 1, verse 6. Now there was a day which the sons of God, those are angels, came to present themselves before the Lord. And there was somebody else, apparently, that had to present himself before the Lord, and that was who? Satan. Came also among them. This would indicate to us that there were angels, of course, and that there were fallen angels, and it would imply then that the both both all had the report to God. Verse 7. The Lord said unto Satan, Whence comest thou? He says, Where are you coming from? That's important, an important question. And what does Satan say? Then Satan answered the Lord and said, From going to and fro in the what? In the earth. And from walking up and down. So let's just establish this, folks. Where is Satan? Well, he's going to and fro throughout the earth. But he is apparently, there is no reason for us to believe that this part has changed at all. He is apparently reporting to God. He is apparently reporting from time to time to the Lord for what he is doing. In other words, folks, what he is doing on this earth has eternal Results or consequences. Would you look here at the passage here in verse uh Verse 6, and the Lord said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job? Now just pause for a minute. Do you really want God Doing that with you? I mean, how I don't really love the idea. I'll just be person this is this is like I'm gonna step away from the preaching part and just think to myself Man, Lord, please don't do that to me. You know, you sort of look at it, you go, uh, consider my servant Jim. Um I boy, that's that's a tough one. But apparently what we would learn from this Is that God is going to work his purposes through Satan's work Now, does God ever tempt anyone? The Bible says in James 1 that he does not tempt anyone. It's Satan who does the tempting. But God, because of his great sovereignty and his rule and his great power, God uses all to bring to an end for his own glory. And what we see in this passage, just practically speaking, is that Satan is is there there is yet it's it's like, well, where is Satan, heaven or earth? Well it's both. Now it doesn't mean that he's omnipresent. Only God is omnipresent. Do you realize that? Aren't you thankful for that? Only God is omnipresent. Only God is all-powerful. Only God is omniscient. Satan and his demons are not those things. They are not omnipresent. Well sometimes we we treat them like they are Or or we think of them as omniscient. Do you know that Satan and his demons can't know what you think? We have no indication that they can know. Now, they have been studying human behavior for a very long time. So they could probably guess pretty well. But they can't know these things because they're not omniscient. But we do know what's happening here is that they are working for their own purposes and against God, and yet God ultimately they do have to report to God. And God, we see in this passage Has put a hedge of protection around Job. Would you see that in verse 10? Hast thou made an hedge about him? This is sort of rhetorical question from Satan. And about his house, and about all that he has on every side, thou hast blessed the work of his hands, and his substance is increased in the land. But put forth thy hand now and touch all that he hath, and he will curse thee to thy face. And the Lord said unto Satan, Behold, all that he hath is thy power. Only upon himself put not forth thine hand. So Satan went forth from the presence of the Lord. And what we see here, of course, is that he is going to begin to bring um bring Job through great circumstantial trials. and temp tempt him with great um great kinds of defeat. Now Perhaps at this point you're saying to yourself, this is just not a very encouraging message. Well, it gets worse Because what we are going to do is talk for a few moments about what Satan's objectives are. Satan's objectives, from all that we have learned, both in the book of Ephesians as well as looking at Job, his goal Is to establish his own rule and to thwart God's rule. His objective Is to render us disobedient. Now let's just understand this. His objective is to render us disobedient to God's rule. Now follow this for me, folks. You have God's kingdom that He's setting up. God's goal in the very beginning was to set up a kingdom. And God's goal, God's, and what What compromised this? Sin did. And sin is continuing to compromise things. But you have this goal of God to to set up his rule. And the way that God is choosing to work now is not to mediate his rule over the world in a physical sense, but what God is doing is he is desiring for a certain group of people to be ruled by him. And who is that? Well, it is Christians. It is those who name the name of Christ. God is ruling through that means right now, through us. We are to be ruled by God. We call that in a very practical sense obedience, don't we? I mean, it is really our job in life to obey God through faith. But what Satan wants to do, this is very basic, but what Satan wants to do is to cause disobedience in our lives. He wants to thwart God's rule in our lives so that you and I can can be diminished in on what we're doing, what what he wants us to do. In this whole job of the kingdom. In other words, folks, God will do what he will do for the purposes of his kingdom. He will establish his kingdom. You and I have a privilege of being a part of that as God's, as being ruled by God. And the level to which we have the privilege of being a part of is directly connected to how much we are ruled by God, how obedient we are to Him and to His purposes. Satan doesn't want this. He wants us to be disobedient. How does Satan accomplish this in the life of a Christian? I mean, for a Christian, he is, his sins are removed. For a Christian, he does stand righteous before God. For a Christian, he is bought by the blood of Christ. For a Christian, his home and eternity is secure. So, how does Satan do this in the life of a Christian? He does this by causing instability. That's why we, if you recall from last week, Ephesians chapter 4, verse 14, that we henceforth be no more children tossed to and fro and carried about with every wind of doctrine. Why? By the slight of men and cunning craftiness, whereby they lie and wait to deceive. God's desire to render us, or Satan's desire to render us useless for the purposes of the kingdom of God is to create instability in our lives. Well, how does he do that? Well, there's all kinds of methods. He has possibilities of fear and doubt and unrest. And unbelief and accusations. You can put them up there. False doctrine as well. Okay, there's some some up there that uh false doctrine. All these things, folks, are things that we do, that that tactics of Satan Now, I want you to remember this list. False doctrine, sin, conflict, and unrest. Doubt, unbelief, and fear, insecurity, and accusations. Remember those. How many are there? This isn't hard guys. How m how many are up there? Oh, how many points? Uh yeah, five. They're five, right? Okay. Five. There's five. There are five up there. Now keep that in mind. How many, let's just ask this question. I'm going to give you a little hint here. How many defensive parts of the armor are there? There are five. Okay, the sixth one is uh is a sword of the spear, it's an offensive weapon. The rest of them are all defensive. Now, just look at that list for a minute. It's going to become important for us in a few moments. But folks, how does he get this, how does this happen? He does this, the means by which he does this is through deceit. He wants to deceive us. None of these things should be have any part in the life of a Christian. There's not one thing up there that should have any part of it. But what Satan does is he wants to deceive us. So that these things become a reality in their in his in uh in our lives. Now, with all of that in mind, what I want us to do then is to look at the nature of the armor. God says that what we need to do is to take the whole armor of God that we may be able to withstand in the evil day and having all done all to stand. Well, what does this armor have to do with? Let's just think about this for a minute. We're thinking about this different components of the armor, and most of you would know some of them, or if not all of them You have the belt of truth and right the uh breast prey of righteousness, you have the feet child with the preparation of the gospel of peace. I mean there's all kinds of different parts of the armor there. Let me just ask you, just in thinking through these different parts of the armor, Can you think of any common common thread, something that is common among all these different parts of the armor? I'm not talking about the breastplate, I'm talking about what the breastplate is, which is Which is which one? Righteousness. Okay? You got all with me there? Okay. Righteousness, okay? Or the shield of faith. Okay, good. Thank you. Amen. All right, good. So when we're talking about these different parts of the armor, what is the connection between them? Are they just random character qualities? Is that what these are? We need to have these five character qualities in our lives. Okay? How many character qualities are there in Scripture? I mean at least dozens, right? Maybe hundreds, but at least dozens of character qualities. Is that what this is? No, this isn't character qualities. I remember when I was a kid That I was probably about ten or eleven years old, and I read a book called The Wonderful Spirit-Filled Life. By Charles Stanley. And it said in the book, at the last chapter, it talked about putting on the armor. It says, What you need to do is you need to pray on the armor every day. You just need to pray it on. That's what you need to do. You just need to pray it on. So uh you know, wanting to be a good Christian and wanting to do what the Lord wanted me to do, I I got up in the morning and I started praying this stuff on. I mean I just put I I said, Lord, put that helmet on me and put that breastplate of righteousness on me and Lord would you put the shield of faith on? I'm thinking through all put the belt on, put uh you know I'm thinking, Lord, would you put all that on? I mean, I did this for uh probably several weeks. And I'm thinking to myself, uh you know, about two, three weeks got to go by praying all this armor on, and I'm thinking, I don't understand the point of this at all. I mean is that what God is wanting us to do here is to pray this armor on? Is that what God wants to do us to do here? I mean what is the purpose of this armor? We've got all these components. Could just put the components up there, Tony, if you would. You've got all these components What is the purpose of all these components of the armor? Well, let's just think through this a little bit here. What are the possibilities? Um keep going, Tony. Keep keep going. I'm moving faster than than you can, which is okay. What is the nature of the armor here? Well, would you look at the passage and I want you to see the first thing here? The Bible tells us in chapter 6, verse 10, it says, it uses the word. What's the first word? The word finally. That word indicates to us that everything, he is concluding this entire epistle. The content after the word finally would not indicate that it's just talking about the previous passage, which was on being a bond slave. Now, all of what is after the word finally has to do with, at least in summary form, all of what has to do with the whole book, the entire epistle. Because he is concluding this entire epistle of Ephesians. So that's important to remember as we factor in these things. Number two. The matter of putting on a new man. Ephesians 4, verse 24 says, And that ye put on the new man, which after that God is created in righteousness and true holiness. And then we have another thing that's important for us here to understand, and that is As we look at this whole book of Ephesians, would you turn back to chapter 1? Ephesians chapter 1. I haven't you turn a lot today, but there is a point here that I want to make sure that we understand. Ephesians chapter 1. There is a particular summary of something in this passage that's going to help us. Picking up here in verse 12, chapter 1, verse 12, it says that ye should be to the praise of his glory, who first trusted where who? In Christ. Now they put it up there. Good. Do you just take a look up there? And what you have there is Ephesians chapter 1, verses 12 through 14. Do you notice all of these words that are bolded and this summary of the gospel? Do you see that? The word trusted, what would be an equivalent in our armor? Faith, right? Good. How about the word of truth? Oh, we have truth in that passage too, don't we? And the gospel, the feet shot with the preparation of the gospel of peace and salvation, the helmet is there. Folks, you have the spirit, the sword of the spirit is there. Do you see all of those different components there? The only one that you may suggest that may be kind of missing is the word is peace What you're going to find in chapter 2, where there's an extended discussion on what the gospel brings. It brings peace. My point, folks, is that when we're talking about all these different parts of the armor, I think I think what we're talking about here is the gospel. How is it that we are to put on the gospel Well, we are to put on these different parts of the armor. They are different components of the gospel. Now, just to verify this, I'll just point out a couple of things. Do you remember, for example, do you remember over in um In Romans chapter chapter twelve it says, put ye on who? The Lord Jesus Christ. It tells us in Romans chapter 12, and what we want to do is draw this into it as well. You remember from last week In 1 Corinthians chapter 10, we have this idea of the weapons of our warfare not being carnal but spiritual and mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds. Do you remember that passage? All of that had to do with what? It had to do with the mind that said, taking every thought into captivity unto what? the obedience of Christ and every high thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge of God. What does Satan want to do? Satan wants to create instability in your life and my life by giving us deceitful thoughts. And what God wants to do is for us to take every thought into captivity and compare it to what we know to be true about Him. And how do we do that? What we know to be true about the gospel. That's what we're talking about here. Now, let me make this very practical for us. When we think about the gospel. There, we ought to think in terms of two different areas. We ought to think about the gospel in our position. Who we are in Christ. And we ought to think about the gospel in our practice. Okay? The positional truth of the gospel and the practical truth of the gospel. Okay, what do I mean by that? I mean that if you know Christ is your Savior, you are secure in Christ. If you know Christ is your Savior, you have the truth, and the Bible says the truth set you free. If you know Christ as your Savior, you have been rescued from the punishment of your sin. We call that salvation. If you know Christ as your Savior, you are at peace with God. Romans chapter 5. If you know Christ as your Savior, you are positionally secure, the Bible says. But you have this practical matter over here. The practical matter, on the other hand, are you always you're declared righteous, but are you always righteous? I mean folks, Christians, are you always righteous? You are declared at peace with God, but do you always have peace? You have the truth, but do you always believe the truth What is God saying here when he is saying you've got to fight against the devil? He is saying that you have got to bridge the gap in your mind between what is positionally true and what is practically true. See, what Satan does is he trips you up practically, which makes you doubt your position. You follow that? How many of you have ever. experience this in your life. You have been so you've fallen, you've been defeated, you've done the wrong thing, and it causes you to question your position in Christ. What God says that you've got to do is you've got to put on what? The armor of God. And I believe, folks, what God has done here is He has given us every component that we need so that if we look at these things and we have, we have, we have put on truth. And we have put on righteousness, and we put on all these different things, then we can look at the whole picture and we can say, I can stand strong. in the power of God's might. Because the real issue for you as a Christian and for me as a Christian has a lot to do with our confidence. If Satan can get you at your confidence, if he can erode your confidence, then he will get you in your practical matters. And what we've got to do, folks, is we've got to work through, not today, don't worry, but we're we've got to work through these different parts of the armor. We're going to work what we're going to do, we're going to try to take two per week. And we are going to work through these and we're going to see what God has to say about how we are, how does God want us to put on truth? I mean, we have the truth. What does God want us to do in order to make sure that we are rightly aligned with the truth and that we are living by the truth? Or that we are declared righteous by God. What does God want us to do to make sure that we are living righteously? We are, God says that we are at peace. But do you have peace in your soul? Or do you have fear and struggle and torment and problems and doubts? Is that what's in your soul? God says that you need to have peace. And the gospel brings peace. And what God wants us to do is He wants us not only to have these things and to possess them, but He wants us to experience them. And that is what the armor does. The armor, putting on the armor, causes us to experience what we know to be true positionally. And we d I am not going to rush through this. I mean there are some people that would take an entire message and just preach on that one thing and then okay we're done. We're gonna take a few weeks and we're gonna work through these. Because my I am really absolutely convinced that this holds for us the key to experiencing the strength And the power in the Christian life that God wants us to have. We are always going to wrestle. This is not a magic formula. We are always going to wrestle, but God wants us to wrestle with confidence, not in an unstable manner. That's how Satan wants us to be We're going to go through this. Now let me just say this. Maybe you're listening today and you had not even taken the first steps toward Having this gospel. We talked about being declared righteous by God. We talked about having the truth. We talked about being at peace with God. The Bible tells us that we are born at enmity against God. That we're born enemies of him. But Jesus Christ died to have your sins and my sins be able to be removed from us And put on Christ so that we can have our sins forgiven, and so that we can ha be at peace with God, that we can truly be declared righteous. Your works won't do it, your abilities won't do it, your good deeds won't do it, your being a good person won't do it, only Christ can do that for you By the resurrection power of Christ, because he rose from the grave bodily victorious over sin and death. And if you today have never accepted the death, And the resurrection of Christ as the payment for your sin, and you are not rightly related to God, that is the first step to victory, and it's the first step really to being at peace with God. This is really all what this is all about. I would encourage you, come and talk to me afterwards. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you are at you are genuinely, truly at peace with God. And if you're having any doubts about that, please come and talk to me or somebody else that you're comfortable with. May we learn, may we learn, folks, how to take on the protection that God gives. He is our protector. But we've got to we've got to embrace and accept the protection that God gives through the gospel armor that God provides. Let's pray. Father, we thank you, Lord, for your word. We thank you that you have provided all that we need in your word for life and godliness. We thank you for the fact that we know the end from the beginning. We know that Satan's final Final end is destruction. His final end is to be cast into the lake of fire with his with all the other fallen angels. But Lord, we don't want to be useless to you. We don't want Satan to render us To a place of disobedience and not being able to able to be used to the potential that you want it want to use us Not by the goodness of our own flesh, but by the grace that you have given to us in our lives. Father, I pray that as we go, that we would learn To put on the gospel that we would learn to take what we know to be true in our minds and experience it in our lives. And that when we have this armor on, that we can have the strength that you give us and the protection that you give us, that we can live in confidence, not in pride. certainly in humility, in total dependency, but in confidence in Christ, who paid every payment for us, who we can thank. Because he giveth us the victory. I pray that you would help us to learn these things in the coming weeks. Lord, we do thank you for our mothers. We thank you for the influence that they have had in our lives. We pray, Lord, that today would be a special day for them. That they would truly be honored and valued. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen.