Take your Bibles and turn to the book of Galatians this morning, chapter three. Galatians, chapter three. How many have you ever heard of a man by the name of Roy Riggles? Roy Riggles. He was sometimes he's more infamously known as Roy Wrongway Wriggles. Uh on January first, nineteen twenty nine, during one of the Rolls Bowls. This was a man who uh during a game between Golden Bears and Georgia Tech uh was uh uh they had fumbled the ball. Georgia Tech had fumbled the ball. He was on the Gordon Golden Bears team Uh Jordan Techett fumbled the ball and he picked the ball up and was so confused by what had transpired that he ran the wrong way all the way down the end zone, like 63 yards When he when it was it was reported actually uh when the Associated Press uh interviewed him, he said, I was running toward the sidelines when I picked up the ball I started to turn to my left toward Tech's goal, somebody shoved me and I bounded right off into the into a tackler. It in pivoting to get away from him, I completely lost my bearings. Yeah, no kidding. And in fact, uh there was one particular teammate, his name was Benny Lom, who started yelling, Stop, stop, but this man was not paying attention And so he, known for his speed, ran after him and caught up to him And began to tackle him and slowed him down enough that the whole team actually tackled their own player three yards from the end zone, from the other team's end zone. Paul is basically doing that here. He is tackling his own team because they're going the wrong way. He says, verse 1, O foolish Galatians, who have bewitched you? He's tackling them and saying, you are going the wrong direction. You're going the wrong way here. Because as we know, they're being deceived by false teachers and by Judaizers. They're going the wrong way. Folks, isn't it true though that we go the wrong way sometimes, don't we? The song says, prone to wander, Lord, I feel it. Prone to leave the God I love. Why do people, why do Christians go the wrong way? What happens to a Christian that causes him to move from a place of trust in Christ to a place where faith is not being activated in his life? That is actually the problem. The problem is always a matter of faith. The person gets derailed or goes the wrong direction. The problem is that they are no longer depending on the right person. This is illustrated well by When Peter saw Christ coming and walking on the water, he went out to, you recall from Matthew chapter 14, he went out to meet Christ. And walked on the water for a few minutes until he didn't anymore. Fell into the water, and Christ said to him, uh Oh ye of little faith, why did you doubt? The problem was that Peter lost his faith. He lost his faith in Christ at that point to be able to help him to walk on the water. And you may say to yourself, you know, I don't really lose faith. You may find by the end of this message that you do more than you realize. Maybe you don't lose faith in the fact that Jesus Christ died to pay the punishment for your sin. But maybe in the way that we live we are losing faith or we are not activating our faith. Faith essentially is a dependency on Christ. And so we're going to learn today how we sometimes get turned the wrong way. And this passage is going to help us with this. Let's go to the Lord in prayer, and then we will get into the passage. Father, as we come to you, I pray that you would help us to learn from this passage. How we have the tendency to go the wrong direction. And I pray, dear Father, in the passage, that we would also see the great truth that we can turn around And that we can begin depending again on the gospel. Help us here, Father. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Twice in this passage, Paul says, O foolish Galatians. And if you look at this word as is used in the New Testament, the word foolish, it's used different ways, but none of them are flattering. They're all rather insulting, in fact. I mean, and sometimes some of the modern translations will say things like, oh stupid Galatians here. It can be used that way, uh, this word, to mean intellectually dull I don't think that's what he has in mind though in this passage. I don't think he's saying, oh, low-IQ Galatians. I don't think that's really what he's talking about here. I think he has something else in mind. I think what he's talking about here is a spiritual dullness. a spiritual ignorance. He is really saying here, you Galatians are spiritually ignorant, and I've got to warn you. And I've got to be very blunt about this because it has to do with the gospel. The gospel is just so serious and just so uh so significant and we must understand this. We also get derailed. And before we think that we don't We need to understand what this word foolish means. Luke chapter 24, verse 25 is the first time it's used. And in that passage it says, O foolish ones, and slow of heart to believe. There's a slowness of heart to the Galatians here to continue in the faith that they started with. We do the same thing. Those of us who have placed our trust in Christ as Savior, sometimes one day we're living in faith, the next day we're living in fear and frustration. One day we're living trusting God, the next day we're succumbing to temptation. One day we're depending upon God, the next day we are despairing. One day we are characterized by stability, and other days we are wavering. We think that no, we don't lose our faith in the gospel, but the truth of the matter is we live lives that often demonstrate We're losing faith in the gospel. The gospel is not just there to give us entrance into heaven. The gospel is there to help us to know how to please God. And we can learn to trust in the gospel and apply the gospel every day of our lives so that we can live the life God intended us to live. The gospel is not just for when we die. The gospel is for every day of our lives. And the foolish Galatians were moving away from living Living life in the gospel. He says here, who has bewitched you? That's a word that's not used anywhere else in the New Testament. It means who has cast a spell on you? Who has blinded you? Who has hypnotized you? But it is true that we live in a world where many people, it's as though they are under a spell They are under false teaching that goes against the gospel, the truth of the gospel, and they are under a spell. In 1517, when Martin Luther nailed his 95 Theses to the door of At Wittenberg, of course, two days from now we will celebrate the the 500th year of the anniversary of the Reformation, of the beginning of the Reformation. What led up to that was Luther's observation about the gross Misuse of indulgences. Well, there is no good use of indulgences, but it was really bad here. A man by the name of Johann Tetzel was actually recruited by the Pope to raise money to build rebuild uh St. Peter's Basilica. Tetzel said this. He said, there was a something that he would say. He said, as soon as the coin in the coffer rings, the soul from purgatory springs. Luther was incited by this. This was something that greatly concerned him, and rightly so I can imagine that if the the Apostle Paul was there in that day, he would have said, O foolish people, who has bewitched you Who has put you under a spell? It was like the whole civilized world was under the spell of the Roman Empire, not paying any attention to their Bibles anymore, not paying any attention to what Christ actually said. Not paying any attention to dep the difference between dependency on manufactured ideas from the church and clear truth from the Word of God and the dependency on Christ that comes with that They were under a spell. And the Galatians were under a spell as well. Have you ever met anybody like that? You say, what in the what are they thinking? It seems as though they're almost under a spell. That's what he's saying here in Galatians. It's not a, he's not saying here, by the way, that he believes in magic. Or something of that nature, although there are principalities and powers that are doing all kinds of things like that are not good But they were a very they were very superstitious in the first century and and he was employing a word to help them to understand how deceived they really were. And what's interesting about this passage It's a rhetorical question. Who hath bewitched you? The word who is actually a singular word. It's not plural. And the reason that is significant actually is because he's probably not actually talking about the Judaizers here. He's probably talking about the person behind the Judaizers, Satan himself. That would be consistent with what he says in 1 Peter 5. 8. Be sober, be vigilant, because the adversary, the devil, walks about like a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. Satan will want to devour you. He would have that you would be sifted as wheat, Christ said. And when and and the person behind all false teachers is really the enemy. And Paul is either talking about Satan himself or maybe a a demon or or uh just the enemy in general, but there is this there is one person behind all of this, and he is saying to them, who has done this to you? Who has cast you under this spell? Then Paul, what he decides to do after this, he says, we need to get back to the the beginning. Look, Galatians, you're off, you're adrift, you're going the wrong direction, you're down to the enemy's end zone there. You're about to cross over. You're going the wrong way, and you've got to come back, and you've got to remember the beginning of your conversion. You've got to remember how you started. And if you can remember how you started, you can then see where you're going off the wrong direction. And so he says here, he says Uh this only would I learn of you. Or I actually if you pick uh end of verse uh verse one. That ye should obey the truth before whose eyes Jesus Christ has been evidently set forth, crucified among you. Now here's what he's saying. He's not saying that these Galatians actually witnessed the Christ the crucifixion of Christ. He's using He's using artistic language here. He's saying essentially that we, when we came to you, we painted a vivid picture for you of the death of Christ. You saw by our preaching the kind of death that Christ died It was vivid for you. It was as though you saw it for yourself. That was the kind of preaching that you received from us. In 1 Thessalonians 1, verse 5, it says, For our gospel did not come to you in word only, but also in power And the Holy Spirit, and in much assurance, as you know what kind of men we were among you for your sake. First Corinthians chapter two, verse four says, And my speech And my preaching were not with persuasive words of wis of human wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power that your faith would should not be in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God. Paul's preaching was not just academic. It wasn't just information. He showed them by his preaching the crucifixion of Christ, and he says, you, it has been before your eyes before, not literally, but but figuratively here. It's been before your eyes. He's saying, how can you get off on this when you've seen, when you've experienced the crucifixion of Christ for yourself? And then he points them to the method of their entrance into the kingdom of God. He says to them Verse 2, this only would I learn of you. Received ye the Spirit by the works of the law or by the hearing of faith? He says, How did you receive the Holy Spirit? He's pointing out now that at the time when they came to Christ, they received the Holy Spirit of God. Did you know that the Holy Spirit Does a great work in our lives when we come to Christ. He does a regenerative work. He is the regeneration of the Holy Spirit as described in Titus chapter 3, verse 5. Not by works of righteousness which we have done. We didn't do anything, but according, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy, he saved us by the washing of regeneration. And the renewing of the Holy Spirit. The Spirit of God regenerates us. He makes us new. He makes us alive. He changes us. And not only that, the Spirit of God indwells us. The Bible says in 1 Corinthians 2 verse 12. Now we have received not the spirit of the world, but the spit the Spirit who is from God, that we might know the things that have been freely given to us by God. We know the things that we know because of the Spirit of God. Romans chapter 8, verse 9. But you are not the Spirit Uh not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if indeed the spirit of God dwells in you. Now if anyone does not have the spirit of God, there's none of none of his. If you let me make it very simple, you don't need to pray that you get more of the Holy Spirit of God You have all the Holy Spirit of God, if you know Christ is your Lord and Savior, that you will ever need. It's really a matter of yielding to the Spirit of God in your life. Being filled with the Spirit of God, which we'll learn about later in chapter 5. Walking in the Spirit. But you have Him. He is in you if you know Him as your Lord and Savior. And he is a guarantee for us, in fact. Ephesians chapter 1, verses 13 through 14, in whom you also trusted after ye heard the word, the gospel of your salvation, in whom you have believed You are sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise. It's interesting that if you recall back to Acts chapter 15, when they're having that great council that we talked about before, and they're discussing the issue of whether or not the Do you remember what Peter said? Peter said this. He said So God, who knows the heart, acknowledged them by giving them the Holy Spirit, just as He did us. The giving of the Holy Spirit in the book of Acts was a sign that somebody truly did come to Christ. No one should question it when the Spirit of God comes and indwells a believer. The question is, how does the work of the Spirit get activated? What causes the Spirit of God to come? And the answer is not by doing enough. It's not as though, it's not as though we say uh uh we can say you know if i if i do all these good works if i do this list if i get this list done if i get the list done the spirit of god will come It's not that way when we came to Christ, and it's not that way now. When it comes to being influenced by the Spirit of God and the power of the Spirit of God working in our lives, and we'll see that more in a few moments. And we need to understand that when we do not trust in the Lord, when we do not have faith, when we lose our faith in Christ, and we'll see how that happens. We are forfeiting the the power of the Spirit of God in our lives. So the question is, how does faith come? It's interesting the phrase he uses here. He says, or does it come by the works of the law? Answer, no. Or by the hearing of faith. What does he mean by the hearing of faith? Well, he's telling, he's causing them to recall back to the time that they first preached to them, the apostles first preached to them, and particularly Paul preached to them. And he's saying, Do you remember the hearing of faith? Do you remember when you heard the preaching of the Word of God and you said you depended upon that? You said, yes, that's true. Romans eight Romans ten verse sixteen says it this way, but they have now uh obeyed the gospel. Um it says verse seventeen, so then faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. The work of the Spirit of God is applied by faith and not by works. Do you remember back in Acts chapter 10 when Cornelius was doing all that he could do, but didn't really know what he needed to know to become a child of God. But he God heard the prayer that he had, and he sent Peter over to Cornelius and to a group of them And it says in verse 44 of that passage, while Peter was still speaking these words, the Holy Spirit fell upon those who heard the word. As the Word of God was being preached, and people were hearing the Word of God and responding in faith, it says the Holy Spirit came and indwelt them and came and fell upon them during that time. And do you know that that can happen anytime for an unbeliever to hear the preaching of the Word of God and to respond before he ever says he responds. It's not about getting up and coming forward in an aisle. It's not even about praying a prayer. There is a response to the preaching of God's word that occurs where the person's where someone says, yes I depend upon that. I believe that And when that happens, when there's truly a conversion, and I will just say this when it comes to the concept of faith, we're going to get into that significantly next week. What does faith include? We're going to see that Abraham was justified by faith alone. What does that mean? And we're going to get into that next week. But suffice it to say for now it comes through the Word of God. It is not, and there is no self-effort, there are not works apart involved in it Now, with that in mind, then we need to ask ourselves the question, how is it that we get derailed? And I think this is going to be very helpful for us. Would you pick up here then in verse 3? It says, Oh, are ye so foolish? He's again going to call them foolish. Are you so spiritually undiscerning, he says. Having begun in the Spirit, are ye now made perfect by the flesh? Now that's interesting. He asks another rhetorical question. He says, have you begun in the Spirit? And you might have thought he was going to say, do you continue in the law? That's been the contrast to before, faith versus law. Spirit versus law. Now he gets down to something very personal. He gets actually down to the root issue here. He says, is it by the spirit or is it by the flesh that you continue with it? Why would you follow after yourself? You didn't depend upon God for salvation, or on yourself for salvation. Why would you depend upon self for spiritual growth in the Christian life? And this really becomes the personal issue. When he talks about here about flesh, he's talking about the inner self within us that we are born with. Where we are depending on ourselves, our flesh. The Bible calls it in Romans chapter 6 the body of sin that the Bible says Christ has actually rendered powerless, even though it's still there. It's interesting that Romans says that. It says that the flesh within us, that that body of sin within us, is rendered powerless. But we still it's still there. And we could choose to go back and do and to depend on that flesh. after we could know Christ as Savior, even though it has no power. And the question I think really becomes, how does this happen? How is it, and I want to take a a a reasonable amount of amount of time to explore this How is it that a Christian moves that way, where he moves from dependency on Christ to dependency on self? One particular commentator quoted someone saying this. Christians think that we are saved by the gospel, but then we grow up applying biblical principles to every area of life. But we are not just saved by the gospel. We grow by applying the gospel to every area of life. Did you get that? Folks, I'm going to tell you that it's almost epidemic, that kind of thinking. That we are saved by the gospel, then, but then what we need to do is put a set of principles in our lives and follow those principles. That will be the sum total of our Christian experience and our and our responsibility before God. There's no seminar or symposium or anything. folks, that that is necessary for us to be able to follow after Christ. It's faith in Christ alone. Even after our conversion, it's still faith in Christ alone. You say, well, how does this work out? I want to illustrate it this way. Actually, what I want to do is point this out first, number one. For really us to understand this, we need to begin this way. We need to understand that every sin, every sin is a result of unbelief. If you sin against God, every sin is a result of unbelief. Hebrews 3, verses 12 through 13 say this, brethren. Beware, brethren, lest any of you, lest there be any of you an evil heart of unbelief to depart from the living God. But exhort one another daily while it is is called today, lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin. To to to no longer believe God is to follow after sin. Sin is always a result of unbelief. You say, well, I don't really No, in fact, I could see that. I mean I you know I I sin and I've never really thought, well, as I'm sinning, I am I am I am not believing in Christ. I just I just it comes and I sin Well, let's take that for a minute. I want to take uh there are there are I wrote down four different sins that are very common. I wrote down anger, sexual sin, bitterness, and worry. They're four sins that are clearly described in Scripture as sins. Let's take anger for a minute though, because anger is a little probably the easiest one to illustrate this point, and then we'll we'll apply it to other other ones. Let's say you have a problem with your temper, you have a problem with anger, and I I'm using this actually because the com one one of the commentators that I've read, they use this as well. This because it just it it works really well to help us illustrate the point. What do you when you realize you have an anger problem, which is like 95% of men, and a lot of women too. When you realize you have an anger problem and you've got to deal with it, what do you do as a Christian? Usually you have there are two possibilities. This is usually how we deal with these things these things. Number one, we say Um, I just gotta do better. I just gotta will it to do b I just gotta it's a matter of more will I exert more willpower. If I can just exert more willpower Then I'll stop being angry. Almost being angry as we say that. Okay. And that doesn't work very well. And the other way we look at it is we often say Um I just uh I'm just depressed. God just take it away from me. Would you just take this away? I don't know why you won't take this away. That usually, and this happens, same thing with sexual sin. Oh, if I just work hard enough at this, I can get rid of this. Or, Lord, would you just take this desire away? Same thing with bitterness. Same thing with worry. Remember worry is sin. Remember that. For some reason we think worry is not a sin. We, I just have anxiety. No, it's worry is sin. That's where it is. Call it what it is. Lord, take this worry away from me. Or I just need to real and that that's a hard one. You would you want to try to exert world wor willpower against worry, you get good luck with that. So those are the two ways we tend to deal with these things. And both and when we do it that way, you know what we're doing? We are depending upon the flesh. To do what only God can do. Here's what needs to happen instead. Let's take anger for a minute. We need to ask ourselves the question: why am I angry? Why do I get angry? Let me give you a couple of possibilities. One might be control. One might be that you You lose control of a situation and so you get angry. Another might be comfort. Another might be self-protection. Another might be approval. I mean it could be as simple as something as like approval. I love to have approval, and when I don't have approval, then I'm gonna then I get angry See, see, anger is the sin that you see, but there is there is control or comfort or self-protection or approval. Do you know what those are? Those are, as one commentator put it, functional saviors. Functional saviors. Think about it for a minute. You've been burnt before. You realize, you know, you really can't just trust anybody, really. So you know what? I'm going to I'm going to learn that I've got to protect myself. Nobody else is going to look out for me. I'm going to look out for me. I'm going to protect myself. And you know what you've just done? You say something like that, and you have now just put a functional savior in your life. Who is better at protecting you than anybody else? Christ. Christ already knows what's going to happen to you before it ever happens to you. Christ loves you in everlasting love. Christ can protect is the greatest protector of all. And when you try to put your self-protection in place of Christ, you are creating a functional Savior. No wonder you get angry when it doesn't work. Or maybe it's just being comfortable. Maybe your functional savior is, I really love to be comfortable. And when I don't get comfortable, and when I get uncomfortable, when I'm put in a situation and I'm uncomfortable, then I lash out in anger. Or maybe when I'm uncomfortable, I get bitter. And I start realizing that person's making me uncomfortable. Or maybe, you see, or maybe sexual sin. You know, you know, sexual sin happens a lot because of because of escape. I don't want to deal with life. So pleasure becomes my functional savior. And my functional savior is pleasure. Because I want to escape. And you're not depending on Christ. See, folks, we do this all the time in our lives, don't we? You begin to put it in those kinds of terms. When we sin, every time we sin, we've got to find that functional Savior that's taking the place of Christ. And we've got to admit that that's the problem. And we've got to learn to depend upon Christ for what that functional Savior is not able to do for us. The real issue with all of these things is that we are depending upon our flesh, we're depending upon ourselves to do what only God can do. Nobody can give you comfort like Christ can comfort you. You can't comfort yourself. You can't work to comfort yourself. Nobody can give you approval like Christ can give you approval Nobody can give you protection like Christ can. See, this is how we get diverted. This is how we get off track. We start going the wrong direction This is why sin is always a result of unbelief. And the question that we all need to ask ourselves when we are dealing particularly with a per set uh a besetting sin. A sin that keeps getting the better of us, we've got to look and ask ourselves the question. It's rarely the sin. It's usually something that we have replaced. Our Savior with that we are depending upon self. The problem, folks, is self. The problem is my flesh. And I've replaced the Savior with my flesh, and I'm just going to do things myself. When we have that kind of a spirit, when we have that kind of an attitude, or I can't handle it, I'm just going to run. Into whatever sin helps me to deal with it. The problem, see folks, the reality is every one of us depends on something. We are created to be dependent people. Nobody says nobody is independent of everything, at every one. I mean that doesn't even make sense. We are dependent. If we were dependent on ourselves, that's still being dependent So folks, what we've got to learn to do is be dependent upon the right person, and that is Christ. Who has bewitched you? Who has derailed you? You've got to live it's not just that you go you you you start in faith, you've got to live by faith. And very candidly we're teaching the same wrong things to our kids sometimes. Well, if you your your problem is anger, get to the root problem. Are you depending upon yourself? Is that the problem? Is your child depending upon his his or herself? Are we teaching our children, look, if you just if you just have enough willpower You know what we ought to be teaching our children before they come to Christ? You can't take and do this on your own. We need to have enough law in their lives that they realize that there is a problem and that they go out and that and that when that law when they keep breaking that law, I'm not saying remove law Keep the law so that your kids can see that they keep breaking the law and they realize, you know what, I can't do this on my own. Myself is not sufficient. I need Christ And so we have here a clear application of what's going on in this passage. Oh foolish Galatians. And he says then here, have you suffered so many things in vain? If it be yet in vain. Now the prophet is talking about here in verse 4. He's saying that they're actually going through some persecution as a result of depending upon Christ. And if they m adjust to Judaism, they adjust to those kinds of things, then uh they then they won't be going through suffering anymore. So so he says all the suffering that you already have gone through, is that all for naught? Stay trusting in Christ. And then he reminds them of something in verse 5. He says He therefore that ministereth to you the Spirit, and worketh miracles among you, doeth he it by the works of the law, or by the hearing of faith You know one of the things I love about reading the book of Acts, which we might be going through next in our our next series after we get through Galatians? You know what I love about seeing the book of Acts? I love seeing what God can do. I love seeing what the Spirit of God does in the book of Acts in saving souls and building churches. I mean it's it's crazy Crazy in a good way. The kind of the amount of churches that are built by Paul in shorts amount of time, people just coming to Christ. It's miracles that are happening in Acts. The reason that God allowed so many of these kinds of miracles in the book of Acts to occur was to demonstrate the power of the Spirit of God. And what he is saying here in verse 5 is, you are forfeiting that in your life There are times in our lives where we are not trusting in God for one area or another in our lives We're depending on approval. We're depending upon where we have some functional savior in our lives of comforter. And we're not depending upon Christ. And what's happening is we're not seeing God's power in our lives. We're not seeing God do things that we can't do ourselves. We're not on this walk of faith anymore. And what's really happening in our lives is that we're going the wrong direction. And we need to be very careful about this. So And concluding all of this, let's ask this question, a couple of questions here. Let's just kind of summarize things here. Number one We are prone to wander and we must constantly return to the cross. One of the illustrations that I'll I'll mention tonight as well is that the closer we keep the cross in view, the the less things that we less circumstances in life Don't fit that they fit within that. It'll be a lot better tonight, but uh that they they leak out when we have the cross far away from us. We look at circ circumstances in life and say God, how does that fit in your character? How does that fit in your character? How does that fit in your character? When the cross is up close and we see the cross up close, we st Start looking at everything through the cross. We know God is God is love why Because of the cross. We know God is just. Why? Because of the cross. We know God is wise. Why? Because of the cross. And we don't doubt those things looking at circumstances. You look at circumstances, you try to determine determine who God is through circumstances, you're gonna have a problem. Because we're live we live in a fallen world. But if you look at Christ and you say, how can I know God through Christ? Christ says, you've seen me, you've seen the Father. Then our faith will remain strong, will remain dependent upon Christ, and we'll live the life, we'll be living out the gospel. Number two, the Christian life begins by faith. Must continue by faith and must end by faith. We must live a life of faith, not dependency on self. That's always the problem. Number three, God has given us a spirit to every believer. His power is energized by faith. And when we live powerless lives, it's because we're not trusting in Christ. And we must recognize functional saviors. Now here's what I want to do. I want to give you just a few moments. We don't do this all the time, but I want to give you just a few moments between you and the Lord. In quietness between you and the Lord. And I want to ask you to ask yourself and the Lord this question. Are there functional saviors in my life? I'm struggling with this sin or with that sin or that problem with this problem. Are there things in my life that I am choosing to be my Savior rather than Christ? I think sometimes what we need to do is just be quiet and think and reflect And before we get out in the busyness of this of the traffic and the getting meals ready and all that stuff, look, get it Ask yourself the question, is there a functional Savior in my life that I'm holding on to that's keeping me from trusting in Christ? And do and talk with God about that. And reaffirm your faith in Christ to do what you cannot do for yourself. So I'm going to give you just a few moments just in quietness before the Lord, in silence before Him. Then we'll pray together corp corporately and then we'll close our service with a song. Okay, Father, I pray that today There would be many that would realize that even though we would not verbally say perhaps that we've lost faith But how we live our lives is as though we're living it in a faithless way. And it causes us to succumb to sin and temptation. To not have the power of your spirit in our lives. And we, like the Galatian Christians in that day, are foolish sometimes. Lord, may we really take take enough time in our lives to reflect on this. And as we look ahead to the night, may we learn how to build our families on the gospel. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Let's sing together.