Please take your Bibles and turn to Galatians chapter one. Galatians one This past uh actually a couple of weeks ago I had the privilege of of uh going on family vacation over in Ocean City, Maryland. And um it was a fun time that we did different things. that we can't always do because of busy schedules. One of the things that we did was uh I took Caitlin who's learned to ride a bike pretty well. Uh in the mornings we before it got too crowded, we would go on the boardwalk in Ocean City and we would ride our bikes. We would ride the full length up and down the boardwalk during the earlier earlier morning times where there was less crowd, although sometimes it was actually still pretty quite crowded. And we enjoyed doing that. On one particular day we were doing that, we had uh we had finished our ride and we had dismounted so that we could um go through the busy uh parking lot and then and then the busy road in order to get to where our car was parked. So we had dismounted on our bikes, we were walking our bikes along and we were using the crosswalks and things to get where we needed to go. Caitlin was just a little bit ahead of me and and as as She she was and as she was headed jump going down and setting down onto the uh crosswalk uh to cross over the street, um I said in a very loud voice, two words I said, Caitlin, stop. See now everyone's awake. And I said it just like that. Now, I wasn't angry at her. I wasn't upset, but what I did was concerned about is that she stopped Because there was a car that was coming and he and even though we were on a crosswalk, that car was not stopping. And that car was going extremely fast, probably Three times faster than it should have been going. I my wife is just learning about this now, I think, aren't you? Anyway. And my daughter, to her credit, stopped immediately. She stopped on a dime and everything was perfectly fine, honey. Um But there's a reason why I raised my voice, wasn't there? And I don't think there's anybody in this room that would question that I did a good thing by raising my voice and yelling at the top of my lungs for her to stop. Because she absolutely needed to stop. The Apostle Paul, in his writing of various letters, uh in the New Testament is actually usually a very academic writer. You write, you see, this is clearly the case as I've been studying We've just gone through the book of John not too long ago, and now I'm going through the book of Galatians, and just the way that he uses Greek constructions is so different than the way John uses them. For you grammarians out there, Paul just uses tons of partiples. It'll stack parciples on top of each other. And there's tons of information in each word that the Apostle Paul pens down. But um and he's very academic in most of his letters. Well, one of the things I learned, and this was true back then as it was today, that there is a certain style. That that is supposed to be characteristic of academic writing. When I was working on my dissertation, we had to I had to go through an entire class called Research and Writing and I had to read books. One book was called Elements of Style. It sounded like a decent title. It was a horrible book. It was a cure for insomnia, let me tell you. It was I mean I couldn't believe I had to read all of this. It wasn't really all that big, but it was Extr if there was no you know, there was no plot, there was I mean you just one do this, don't do this, do this, don't do this, all the way through this book on how to write write with the right kind of style. And one of the things it said is that when you're writing in an app academic kind of a setting You do not use inflammatory language. For instance, it's absolutely inappropriate if you're dealing with a particular person's viewpoint that you disagree with in your paper to say, well, that guy is just dumb. You can't do that in academic writing. You can't just say, well, that guy just didn't know what he's talking about. That's not appropriate in academic writing. You certainly can't can't say, I can't believe that guy thought that way. You can't do that in academic writing. The reason behind that is you're never going to win over somebody to your argument if you start off by saying that they're dumb. And so they're very it was it it's very known that that you don't use militant or inflammatory kind of language in academic writing. And the Apostle Paul, in a lot of his writing, if you look at Romans and Ephesians and some of these other other books that he's written, pretty much does that. But when you get to the book of Galatians, it's different. Now he is going to be very academic later on, and actually even in this passage he is, but he is going, he is speaking in a very Militant tone. And he is, as we noted last Sunday, absolutely shocked at what's occurring. He uses more inflammatory language in the book of Galatians when he says, oh foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you? 3-1? than he does even to the church at Corinth, who was steeped in immorality. In the church at Corinth in the first chapter, he actually thanks God for that church. for the good points that he could find in that very corrupt church, the Church of Corinth. He doesn't do this in Galatians 1. In Galatians, he it's the fact it's the only epistle in the New Testament that doesn't have any like any kind of gratitude when it comes to talking about this church, and he does that in every other opening of of each one of his other epistles. It's because he is extremely alarmed and he wants to speak in a way that is going to get their attention Because what is taking place in the church at Galatia is extremely unsettling for the Apostle Paul. And so he chooses to use language to express his own alarm about the situation. And what situation would cause the Apostle Paul to do that? Well, it wasn't morality, it wasn't contention in the church. It wasn't particular practices in the church that were problematic. No, it had to do with gospel compromise. On that issue, and that's what he's dealing with here in this passage, he is now going to use elevated, stern, alarming kind of language to get these people's attention. By the way, I want to say by way of application, I mean you could clearly see it here, verse 6, I marvel that you are so soon removed. Verse 9, he says, As said before, so say I again: if any man preach any other gospel unto you than that which I have preached, let him be accursed. He uses that kind of language in this passage, and I think that there is an important application for us. There are many times in the Christian experience and in our lives that we need to be very calm. and measured and appropriate in our responses to wrong behavior We need to be careful about issues that are not issues of morality. They're issues of wisdom. Doesn't mean we don't deal with them. It doesn't mean we don't confront and do what we need to do. But there is a level of measured carefulness that the Apostle Paulits when it comes to other other kinds of these kinds of issues. But when it comes to the gospel, there needs to be absolute Inflexibility. We're living in a culture that the the supreme rule in the culture is in tall is in is tolerance. If you the more it is built in now to the consciences of our young people that if you are not tolerant Then you are uh then you are wrong. Let me tell you, there are a lot of secondary issues in Christianity that we can have some patience and we can have some peace. And we can have, we need to be measuring our responses. There are a lot of secondary issues in Christianity that we need to be careful about. But when it comes to the gospel, we need to just stand firm. And we need to say what needs to be said. And if it needs to be said with with firmness and and and resolve and even militancy, that's what needs to happen. Back in the 1920s, when when true historic fundamentalism took place, they were fighting against liberalism. Liberals believed that the Bible was not inerrant. The fundamentals of the faith were at risk. And the fundamentalists said, we are going to be militant when it comes to this issue. We're not going to be tolerant. Unfortunately, many, many fundamentalists, as time has gone on, has gotten so caught up into secondary issues and made secondary issues primary issues. that in some churches in fundamentalism not all, but in some churches in fundamentalism the gospel has nearly been lost. We need to take our cues from the Apostle Paul. When it comes to the gospel, we need to be absolutely intolerant to any aberration or any modification to the gospel at all. And when it comes to secondary issues, we need to deal with them in a more measured response. We need God's wisdom to understand when we are supposed to take this kind of stand. And so we need the Lord's help as we look at this passage. Let's go to Him in prayer. Father, as we come to you, I pray, Lord, that you would help us to see the urgency and the absolute importance of what Paul is saying when it comes to the gospel of Jesus Christ. In this passage, we find here a church who of whom knew you. They were called by you But they have been, they have succumbed to this the deception of the Judaizers to believe a different gospel. And I pray, dear Father, as we look at this today, that we would lay in our hearts and our minds a strong and firm and resolved foundation That there may be flexibility in other areas, but there is absolutely no flexibility when it comes to the truth and the purity of the gospel. May we be a church that stands firm on this. May we be have families that will not lose the gospel in a generation. May we use us, dear Father, to just understand and establish in our hearts the foundational truth of the gospel today. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. We pick up here then in verse 4. We look at verses 1 through 3 last week. And in verse 4 He is now going to give us in a very short statement a very pure emphasis on the gospel here. Paul the Apostle says in verse 4, who gave himself, talking about Jesus Christ from the previous verse, and the source being God the Father, by the way. Who gave himself for our sins, that he might deliver us from the present evil world, according to the will of God and our Father. Now this is a very short statement about the gospel, but as much of Paul's writings, it's actually packed full. The Apostle Paul says here, first of all, he says, who gave himself, talking here about Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ, as you well know and I well know, that the God gave himself for us in sacrificing himself on the cross for us. In the midst of great confusion in the Church of Galatia, the Apostle Paul is now going to bring them back to the cross. He's going to do this several times as we go through the book of Galatians. In fact, he keeps bringing them back to the focal point of the cross. For instance, in Galatians chapter 2, verse 19, it says, I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me, and the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. Galatians 3:1. O foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you, you should not obey the truth, before whose eyes Jesus Christ was clearly portrayed among you as crucified. Galatians 4. 4, God sent forth his son. And so he brings them back to the cross. And particularly it says that he might, notice that word there, deliver us from the present evil world according to the will of God and our Father. He says. The Apostle Paul uses that word, and when that word was used for the Jewish audience that was there, it was a mixed audience, but the Jewish Jewish people would have immediately had their minds go back to another time of deliverance. In fact, the word, the Greek cognate in this passage, actually has a Hebrew equivalent That's mentioned three times in the in the book of Exodus. In Exodus chapter 3, verse 8, God is speaking to Moses and he says, So I have come to deliver them out of the hand of Egypt of Egyptians. It's kind of amazing where we're at in in Sunday school and I happen to be here the day this morning uh for Sunday school. Uh I'm always here for Sunday school, but I'm always in this classroom. Um, and uh and hearing hearing the the preparations to deliver the the nation of Israel out of Egypt. That was that was a that was an event that was going to go down in history. That was an event that was going to be repeatedly remembered by David later on in the Psalms. It was an incredible event uh uh after 400 years of slavery, they were going to be finally delivered to become the nation that God had promised they would be all the way back to Abraham and his covenant with Abraham Exodus 18. 4 says the same thing. The God of my Father was helped and delivered me. And the same thing, Exodus 18. 8, we see this word delivered. So there's no question. That the Jewish audience would have had this in their minds, the idea of deliverance. And that is exactly what Christ has done for us, has He not? He has delivered us from our sin. From the present, he says, from the present evil world. The Apostle Paul makes a a connection here. He's He he makes a connection between the present evil world that he essentially by illustration says that that's what that's what slavery in Egypt was like. He makes a connection and he says, basically, if you want to think of what the present evil world is like, a perfect illustration of that is slavery in Egypt. And he points this out to them. And he says that these people, the Galatian Christians, have been delivered from the present evil world according to what? According to the will of God our Father. The very will of God, the desire of God for these people was that they would be delivered. And Paul mentioned this actually because one of the things the Judaizers were teaching was that you cannot be in the will of God unless you are following the Mosaic law. And Paul is saying in the very outset of this epistle that you are in the will of God. When you came to Christ, you are in the will of God. With that in mind, then we ask the question, and by the way, I want to mention this as well. We see this sort of pure gospel statement: Jesus came to deliver us. from the present evil age. The deliverance of Christ is in is in in emphasis here In other words, the substitutionary atonement of Christ is here in this passage. When Christ came to die to pay the punishment for our sins, he came as a substitute for our sin. And can I just tell you that throughout church history, we're going to learn about this a little bit later in the message, but throughout church history, this has been under attack from the very beginning. There have been one kind of aberration and another kind of subtle dis uh adjustment to this absolute truth that That we must hold on to that Christ is our complete and total substitute for our sin. And you're going to see how this how this bears out as we go through the book of Galatians. I want to mention this key indicator of error for all of us because folks it's so important for us to be able to detect error and error to any adjustment of the gospel. And I put this in in this way, just by way of application. Anytime anyone gives any amount of credit to anyone's effort, in addition or subtraction of Christ's effort, you have error I'll read that again. Anytime anyone gives any amount of credit to anyone's effort in addition to or subtraction to Christ's effort, you have error. Now, this is absolutely important for us to just understand. There is no other way. And there is no other effort that must be included in order for us to come to Christ. Christ has done it all. The effort is complete. Now this might you might think to yourself, well, I know this. It's obvious. Okay, I I I I've been I I've grown up with this. I get it. Be careful Be careful about that. Because if we do not continue to rehearse the truth and the details of the gospel in our lives and the lives of our families and in the life of our church. Then we then we can lose the gospel in one generation. It takes one. And frankly, it could take less than one. Because what we find in this passage Is what Paul is going to say next. And by the way, verse 5, before we get to verse 6, to whom be, he says, be glory forever and ever. And by the way, that's why there can't be any addition. The reason that Christ gets did did all of the work himself to secure our redemption is because then Christ gets all the glory. And if we Attribute credit to anybody else's effort, self-effort, or others' effort, or any kind of effort at all in any way, we diminish the glory of Christ And the Apostle Paul wants us to see that as well. Well, how did this occur in the first century to these Galatian Christians, and how do we apply this to our lives? And the answer we're going to find here. is in verse 6. He says, I marvel. You can put it another way, I'm shocked. I cannot believe it. It's like he can't believe what has happened here. He says that ye are so soon removed. He that you are so quickly removed Now, there's actually he's actually pointing out something else here. There was very little time. Paul had come, they had uh accepted the gospel, as we learned last sun last week. And churches were disc were in the book of Acts, chapters thirteen and fourteen, churches were were built and um it was a great thing that God did, but Paul had left, Judaizers came up to the scene and they were reading havoc havoc in churches as We mentioned last Sunday. And they quick, it's Paul says they quickly turned. It wasn't, it was, it was a quick, determinative decision that happened. And he actually is going back, when he says this word quickly, he's actually hearkening back to that illustration where the nation of Israel was coming out of Egypt. They were being delivered. Do you remember what happened? A lot of miracles took place. You had the pillar of fire, you had the uh the cloud, and you had uh the parting of the Red Sea, and when they got over to the other side, and as Moses went on under the Mount of S Mount Sinai, what happened Aaron was left back, and all the people did what? They began to turn. They turned from the true way. They turned to worship the golden calf. Interestingly enough, if you read the passage, what you're going to find is that this golden calf was not supposed to be a totally different God. It was supposed to be a representation of God. But in doing so, they added They added to the truth that God had already given them. They went beyond what they had done and they had made God in their own image But they had rationalized it by saying we need some sort of focal point in order to be able to worship God. We need this image to be able to hold on to. And there is a lot of connections here with what has happened to the Church of Galatia, because the Church of Galatia are also very, very They're they're not it's like they're not they're not in their minds they're not abandoning Christ. They're just making sure that they follow all of the Old Testament Mosaic law so that they can maintain their standing with God, as we learned last week. Paul is going to correct them on this in no uncertain terms. And he's going to do so by saying that you, notice what it says in the passage, have deserted Christ. He says, I marvel that you are so soon removed from him that called you into the grace where uh grace under another gospel. That word removed means to desert. It's used of a military term. It's used of the military. You think of going out into war, into battle, and your own allies deserting you to go to the other side. It's also used in politics in the first century or in philosophy where you've changed positions, you've changed parties, you've changed your thinking completely He says, You have deserted. It's the way that it's put. It's also used in the New Testament several times. In Acts 7 7, 16, it says, You were carried back. In Hebrews chapter 7 verse 12, it says that the priesthood had to be changed. That's the same term. And in Hebrews chapter 11, verse 5, it was actually when Enoch was translated, you have this same kind of a word. Paul wants to, in those certain terms, help them to understand what they have done. They have turned to another gospel. But I want you to notice very specifically who they've turned from. See, it's not just what they've turned from, it's who they've turned from. I not marvel that ye so soon re removed from him. Now they would never have seen it this way And by the way, in our society, we don't see it this way. There are some times where people that have named the name of Christ say, you know, I I just want to try a different I'm not rejecting Christ, I'm not turning my back on Christ. I just want to try Sort of try a different way. I want to go a little different path. I I don't think, you know, I don't think that particular truth in the gospel is all that important. I I think it's a little broader than that. Paul says, you turn on the gospel, you turn on Christ. It is a personal desertion, he says to these people. I'm going to illustrate it this way. We've just gone through the book of Ruth, right? And one of the great examples in the book of Ruth is this man Boaz, who extended great kindness to Ruth. Well in that passage uh in that book you find that Ruth started off by gleaning from the field of Boaz, and Boaz finally says, I'm going to give you exclusive rights to my field. You don't need to go anywhere else. Just come and and take provision from my field. It wasn't before long that she's actually sitting at his table and they're learning to get they're getting to know each other. And before long, he goes to great efforts and great extent to appropriately and biblically marry her. Can you imagine let's just say a couple of years go by they have a kid or two and of course we know they did have a kid, it says right there in the Bible. And it's not like that part isn't imaginable. Let's say after a while they they have a they have a kid or two and and uh Mary gets this idea. You know, you know, I I I kinda like this idea of gleanings. I I I haven't done that in a while, so you know what I'm gonna go out and I'm gonna glean again. I just want to see what it feels like to gleam from the field again. So she goes out and gleans from the field. But instead of gleaning from their field, she goes to the neighbor's field. She says, I I'm gonna glean on the neighbor's field. So Boaz gets out and he's uh comes out and he says, Ruth, what are you doing? Why are you why are you gleaning from the neighbors field? We got our whole field right here. We got plenty of land. Why are you gleaning Not not that you need to glean at all. We got service for that. But but but uh um why are you gleaning in your neighbor the neighbor's field? She goes she goes, I just really wanted to glean from the neighbor. She goes he goes, why are you I don't get it. Why are you doing that She goes, Ah, don't take it personally, Boaz. I mean, would that go over well? That's a really bizarre story. That is not in the Bible, I'll just tell you right now. But I wanted to, but it makes this point. If you glean, if Ruth were to glean on the field of a neighbor, Boaz would take it personally. And folks, if you glean on another gospel, Christ is going to take it personally. It is a personal desertion of Christ. It's not just, oh well, you know, I just need to broaden this or rethink, you know, I just need to open my mind up a little bit. Or we need to think through the, you know, let me just add, no, no, no. It is a personal desertion of Christ. And Paul is very, very clear about this. And he says, he says this: he says, that have called you into the grace of Christ unto another gospel. He says, Jesus has called you. Paul likes this term called. It's throughout his epistles. Many, many times throughout the book of epistles he talks about this concept of called. It's probably best defined in 2 Corinthians 2, verse 13. Where it says, because God from the beginning chose you for salvation through sanctification by the Spirit and believed in and belief in the truth, In which he called you by our gospel for the obtaining of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. In that passage, it explains that Christ selected people. chose people for his purposes to obtain the glory of Christ. Paul is reminding them, you've deserted the very guy, guy is disrespectful, the very God of the universe. Who called you? This is an initiating kind of a call. It's it is incre But is that not incredible, folks, that God's chosen, if you know Christ your Savior, God's chosen you before the foundation of the world? Paul says in Ephesians chapter 1, it's a great blessing to know that. If you ever question your own security, realize that God chose you. And he says, blessed, Paul says in Ephesians 1, blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Now get the picture with all this put together. He says, You've deserted Jesus who has who has Pulled you out of slavery, delivered you from the slavery of sin, and personally called you. You've deserted him And he t then tells them what it's for. By the way, I'll just mention this. Look up these passages later if you want. First Corinthians chapter one talks about this calling again. It says it's through it's through the preaching of the Word of God that people are called. The purpose of it is in Romans chapter 8 verse 30. But I want to continue here in this passage to get the point here across that he now is going to tell them what they've what they've Gone into. Now, I want to pause and mention this. Remember a couple of things about these Judaizers, and remember a couple of things about what we said last week. Very, very important to grasp this. You would think so far by the way that Christ that Paul has described all of this, you would think that these people have gone off the deep end and they are rejecting even the name of Christ. You would you would think that they went into like Buddhism or something, which they wouldn't have known about. But you you would think they would have gone some totally different system comp Completely with no resemblance at all the way that the ra way that Christ that Paul describes this In fact, he says that you have gone to a different gospel. It says another verse 6 here, but another could be translated, a different gospel. You've gone to a different gospel. It's totally different. You would know this word. It's the Greek word heteros. Heteros meaning different. Homo meaning the same. Now you really know the word. So you have this word, it means a different gospel. You've gone a totally different gospel. Now remember, what were they teaching? What were the GGIers teaching? They were teaching, yes, you can have Jesus. And yes, Jesus' work on the cross was sufficient to pay the punishment for your sin. They would actually affirm that. But they would say, well, you know, in order to maintain this, you've got to have uh you've got to be circumcised, and you've got to have uh you've got to obey the Mosaic Law to maintain it. And there are a lot of people in that day that said, you know what, this isn't so different. This is not, you know, this is not that big a deal, you know, it's not that really that big a difference. So I I think what the Judaizers are saying, okay. In fact, you know, just to be on the safe side, I think I'm gonna go ahead and get circumcised, and I think I'm gonna go ahead and and uh start following the Mosaic Law. That way I'm I'm safe, I'll be on the safe side and I'll be able to to make sure that I have the right standard. With God. Paul says, you just a subtle difference. He says, it's a different gospel. And then just to emphasize, he says in verse 7 Which is not another, he says. Now there's your uh a word Alas there. Now you don't need to know Greek to know what it's saying here. He's saying it's not it's an it's not which is not another. It's not another. He says it's it's the same It's a different gospel, which is not another of the same kind. It's a totally different kind. It's not another of the same kind. It would be it'd be kind of like this. Uh suppose I I get uh a certain kind of of sickness. Let's say I get a s a snake bite, and this is an illustration that I I I didn't come up with this. I heard it from another Um I I let's say I get a snake bite and you have a shot with the antidote. You have a syringe with the antidote. To that snake bite. And I come to you, and you come to me and say, look, I've got the syringe, I've got the antidote. If I give you this shot, you're gonna be cured for your snake bite. And I say, I say, nah, I don't need that. I said uh uh let's say I I I say to you, uh just give me some give me some uh just give me some what do you call that stuff? I'm losing it. the term the the the w saline. Give me some saline in there. Just just just put some saline in there and uh and put that in and and I'll be good. I'm sure I'll be good. And you go What? Saline isn't going to cure you from a snake bite. You need the antidote. I've got the antidote. And I say, nah, just put just put the saline in there And you say to me, and so you do it, you say, okay, fine, you know what you want to say anything, so put you put this. And you say to me, look, I do not know why you have chosen another method, which really isn't another method. That's what he's saying here. Why have you chosen another gospel which really isn't another gospel? Why have you done this? I am shocked that you have done this. I can't believe that you have done this. He is absolutely uh uh uh uh alarmed by what has taken place by this. And he says this, I marvel that you would be so soon removed from the The one who has called you into the grace of Christ, into another gospel, verse 7, which is not another. Now let me ask you this. Now I want to apply this to our lives. Do you know that throughout church history I don't know if you mean you are possibly maybe you aren't aware uh uh some I'm sure you are to some degree, but of of the of the fact that the gospel through subtle ways throughout church history I'll give you one example that has carried out throughout church history. There's a man by the name of Pelagius. He was a theologian in 360 AD. This is you know, only a few centuries after Christ. And this man believed that the free will retained an element of God's grace, that man when he fell fall fell, didn't fall all the way. That there is an element within the free will that includes God's grace. He said this. We do also abhor the blasphemy of those who say that any that any impossible thing is commanded to man by God, or that the commandments of God cannot be performed by any one man. He said it's blasphemy to think that God would actually submit a command that man could not obey. So if man works hard enough and with enough effort, man would be able to obey that gospel. Now, Christ, Pelagius was not a rejector of Christ. He was, according to Paul, but he wasn't a rejector of Christ in the way that we might think of it. Pelagius believed that Christ's work was sufficient, but he also believed that we could that there was enough grace within the will of man that was retained after the fall, that man could of his own effort latch on to the grace that Christ offers. This was rejected, and there was a controversy between him and a man by the name of Augustine, which you may know. Augustine, with one statement, and it became a very famous statement, sort of rebutted what he said by saying Non posum non pecar. That doesn't help you at all, so I'll give the English for translation. I cannot not sin. I cannot not sin. That's a pretty good statement, right? Because not only does our mind agree with that, but our heart agrees with it too. Anyone in our personal experience knows you cannot not sin. And Augustus with one statement basically was able to discount the belief of Pelagius. But Augustus had a problem too. Augustus is actually the founder of theistic evolution and did not believe in a literal normal understanding of Scripture. And it was actually because of Augustus that what you actually find, or I'm sorry, not Augustus, Augustine, is that what you actually find in Augustine was that he begins the the the descent of the Roman Catholic Church away from the gospel, which has to be recovered 15 uh in in the 1500s by Martin Luther and and the Protestant Reformation But during the Protestant Reformation, then you have a problem because actually there's a man by the name of Arminius that was there during the Protestant Reformation. Arminius took the same kind of teaching as Pelagius And he adopted it, and he said that grace was in us, in our will, and that we had the ability to latch on to the grace of Christ and of ourselves through our own effort. Well, this was under great disagreement as well. And of course there was a reaction to that that probably went too far the other direction. But they were still battling that issue. Well, we get into the second Great Awakening, and there's a man by the name of Charles Finney. Charles Finney is known as the second great away, second revivalist. Charles Finney believed in this whole idea of the will having a measure of grace to it. And so he believed that through manipulative methods, you could actually convince someone's will to come to Christ. And so he came up with all kinds of pragmatic ways to get people to make a decision for Christ. He would have certain box he would actually people actually could could could go into if they were contemplating Christ and and then they could be prayed over and he he was actually the one that instituted the idea of having people come forward. There were all kinds which is has some merit to it, but also has some problems with it There are all kinds of things that Charles Finney did that really caused great problems and great pragmatism and infused this into into to churches in America. And instead of being the the second grade uh awakening being a cause of God, it really was more a cause of man. He was in New York uh primarily, the state of New York, most of his life. And the truth of the matter is that is actually where you get the roots of the new evangelical ecumenical movement come really from Charles Finney and the way that they began to do things pragmatically. All from wrong a wrong doctrine that nobody seemed to detect throughout history. Not nobody, but people often didn't detect. Folks, that is why it is absolutely so important that we are vigilant about not only understanding the gospel, knowing what is the true gospel and the fundamentals of the faith. But also, it is absolutely important for us to understand and identify when something comes into this problem of perverting the gospel, which he says is occurring. Like if you add a sacrament or two or seven. That is a means of grace. That is a problem. Or if we're emphasizing someone else's self-effort or our own self-effort or the effort of a church or the effort of a denomination folks, there are all kinds of ways that that Satan has chosen to infiltrate and to cause us, cause people to be sidetracked and to and to adopt another gospel. And there is one thing, if there is one thing that we must do, we must know our gospel, the Bible's gospel, the gospel of God. We must know the details of it. We must understand it. We must know the truth of it. We must be vigilant about this because the only way you can ever detect error is if you know the truth. It's like a banker who's so familiar with the truth w with the with what he's touching as far as the um uh the money that he's handling that when when a counterfeit comes in He could see it. I remember working at Chick-fil-A. And uh at Chick-fil-A occasionally we would see a co-counterfeit bill. And usually because we'd handle enough money, we actually could see it without um we actually had a way of checking it too. You I'm sure you're Many of you are familiar with that. But uh but a lot of times you'd handle so much money you just see there's something wrong with this. Something didn't feel right about it. Something didn't seem right. Well it's handling the right thing so much That the wrong thing comes in. They did not, in Chick-fil-A, they told us about the possibility of counterfeit bills coming in, but they they did not have us study all of the various counterfeit bills. Let's get you absorbed in all the kind of No, know the truth. Know the gospel, know it well. And it will help us to be able to detect error in our lives. So how do we how do we do this? Number one, we must learn to understand God's priorities. On secondary issues, we should remain calm, level, and gracious. But when it comes to gospel compromise, we must take a hard stand. Number two. We must continue to per to continue in the purity of the gospel by remembering that salvation is completely a work of Christ, plus nothing. And number three, we must remember that gospel error is often subtle and seemingly minor. But the immeasurable importance of the gospel must cause us to accept no compromises. When you think of the world religions and you think of the prominent uh false religions in our country, many of them would not overtly reject Christ. In fact most most of them would say they believe many of them would say they believe in Christ But they're false gospels because of the subtle errors that have crept in. Folks, when you're talking with people and rubbing shoulders with unsafe with people and make sh Be careful about thinking that they're saved if they don't really know the gospel. Or if there is something that is missing in their gospel or not or something that ad that has been added. Be very careful about that. Paul says, you have gone to moved on to a different gospel, which is not of the same category as the gospel of Christ. And we need to be vigilant about this. And really, we gather the day. Isn't it not true that we gather the day in remembrance of that true gospel? The gospel of Christ, Christ who is God. Christ, who because God has a just demand of perfection Jesus and we have sinned all the world has fallen we have sinned Jesus Christ died and he came to to pay that substitute that that that to pay that punishment for our sin The Bible says the wages of sin is death. All of us must die separated from God for all of eternity because of our sin. But Jesus Christ died in our place to pay the punishment for our sin as our substitute so that we could have A right standing with God. And he rose from the grave three days later, victorious over sin and death. That is the gospel. And that, folks, should never get old. And that should be something that we constantly rehearse and constantly celebrate and constantly remember. And that's why Christ has left us with this ordinance. that we can distribute and that we can partake in unity one with the other. The one thing that we all ought to be unified around is the true, pure gospel of Jesus Christ. And that is why God has given us Christ has left us this with this ordinance to help us to remember what Christ has done for us. And so in a few minutes we're going to do exactly that. I want to give you just a few moments in silence before the Lord, all of us to just Prepare our hearts for this. And just focus on Christ and the sacrifice that He's made. If the Lord brings sin in your mind, certainly confess that. But don't get focused on the sin, focus on Christ. And focus on what he has done for us, and then we'll be able to all in unity one with another partake together in a few moments.