Ephesians chapter six, and we have now reached the very final section in this study through the book of Ephesians. Paul has actually told us this in his first word of chapter 10 of chap of uh I'm sorry verse 10 of chapter six. Finally, brethren, be strong. And so we find here in this passage that after all of what he has said, he has said, for example, that husbands need to love their wives as Christ loved the church. He has said that wives have to submit to their husbands. He has said that children must obey their parents and fathers need to bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord and not provoke them to anger. He has said that we as as employees or and the in the context there with slaves, but for us the application is employees. He has said that we need to serve our employers as though we are serving because we are serving Christ. There has been a lot of admonitions and commands for us as we have gone through Ephesians chapter 6 here. And now he says, finally, you've got to be strong. Because what God is asking us to do as we think about the inner workings of our families As we think about the tall order of being God's habitation in our church. As we think about all these things The conclusion that we are we ought to come to is that we are not going to be able to do this without God's Spirit enabling us to do this. That is why in chapter 5, verse 18, it tells us that we need And now he is going to tell us in verse 10, as we'll read together here: finally, brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God. that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood But against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand. There is a lot of talk as well as writings about spiritual warfare. And there are a lot of takes throughout modern church history as we look at at perhaps the last 50 years, on what how we ought to relate to this person called the devil. And what is our job and our role in this whole warfare? And what is what what what is going on with the demon world and what's going on, how do we what do we do with that? There have been all kinds of aberrant suggestions, everything from we need to be, we need to uh Send evil spirits out of people to there's an evil spirit in each cabbage patch doll that comes off the shelf You think uh you think that's funny, but it's true. Have you ever how many have ever heard that before? Okay, I mean back when the cabbage tapa dolls were popular, um suddenly there was this idea that each one had this d and demonic name and that there are these cabbage patch dolls that you know you make sure you don't get y you know if your kids are having problems with disobedience you might want to check their closet closet for a cabbage patch doll. Um those are the kinds of things that we would uh you know you you heard from people that that seemed to be reliable and they're uh they weren't reliable. But anyway. Um But there have been all kinds of of thoughts of that nature. In fact, there are, when you think about it, we can almost identify four different groups. over the over the more you know 21st century church history here um that have suggested different things. For example Our charismatic friends have suggested that exorcisms are something that we as Christians should be involved in. Talking to demons is something that might be helpful It seems like it would be hurt harmful to me, but anyway. Um and all kinds of things of that nature. You have the restorationists, those are people that that think that our job as Christians are to reform society and we're living in this um this um spiritual warfare state and we've got to be soldiers of the cross, which that's okay, that's right. But what we're our job is to create a a um social construct that will be a good atmosphere for Christ to return and to set up his kingdom. And so that's our job is to is to construct this uh in this world. And we've got to fight the devil because the devil is the one that's battle we're battling against him and And it it becomes all about social construction. Another group out there are the Signs and Wonders movement. There have actually been three waves of this movement. Everything from uh speaking in tongues to holy barking, but um as you think about these kinds of things, um there seems to be this overemphasis on the spiritual uh world both on the on and the Holy Spirit and misunderstanding what his job is and what he's doing, as well as the the demon world and uh they would blame t tend to blame him for everything, uh basically, you know, if you trip on something, oh the devil was there. um or if you have a you know a problem in a service oh the devil is there, those kinds of things tend to be and and it's not that he can't be involved in those things, but some t everything tends to be blamed on the devil in those kinds of groups How many of you ever heard a few years back it was real popular, how many of you have heard of Frank Peretti? Frank Peretti, okay, that's that's an old name. You seniors back there probably don't know that name. They were popular back in the nineties, I think. Um and these books called This Present Darkness and it all about what really is going on in in in the spiritual warfare world, very sensational. And what you have in these different kinds of teaching, and finally that's that's the broader evangelicalism I just There is just this whole idea of uh an overly sensational idea of of spiritual welfare. And all of these kinds of things is overs is going beyond what the Bible says about evil spirits and about the spirit world and about what our job is in spiritual warfare But folks, I would also say this, that we don't want to react so far to the other side where we think that there is no spiritual battle. That there is not really a spiritual warfare out there, that there is no devil. And there would be some that would suggest to you, suggest even in seminaries, in fact it's a very popular notion in some seminaries now to suggest that Satan is not a real person, that is really just an evil force. And that they There is no actual will or plan or personality in the person of Satan. And it really it's really something that's just an evil force in the world. And that's really how we ought to take it. And that folks is also wrong because what we find in the Bible is that Satan was a very real person. He was uh a cherubim, he was an angel of the class of cher cherubim, he was to glorify and honor the Lord and he exalted himself to the point of being he said he could be have the glory of God and God cast him out. This is talking we're talking here about a real personality. He has a mind and a will and emotions. He was cast out with a third of the angels. So what we need to do, folks, isn't this true? What we need to do is come to some conclusions based upon what the Bible says. We need to go directly to what Scripture says about this. And what we're going to find is that on one hand, it is real Spiritual warfare is something that is real. It's something that we ought to factor into our spiritual life and spiritual growth and service to God. But it is also something that we want to make sure we're not going beyond what Scripture says in dealing with all of this. And we ought to also remember The Bible tells us that greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. And that though we are completely inept, To fight Satan in our own strength, we certainly do have the strength of God on our side as those of us who know Christ as our personal Lord and Savior. That is something that we've got to remember as we go through this. The key then is how do we how do we apply this strength? How do we access this strength that God talks about in this passage And that's something that we want to really delve into this morning. Let's go to the Lord in prayer, ask his blessing on our time together. Father, as we get into your word this morning, I pray that you would help us to see what is truly biblical. In this matter of spiritual warfare, there is no question that we see Satan at work in the world. Even apart from Satan, we would have the evil flesh and the world system. But all that combined does create for us a formative foe. It does create, it does cause us to be to see the need to rely on you and your strengths. And as we look on how to do that today, I pray that you would really help us. Help us to see how we can gain the kind of strength that you want us to. And really just the amount and the immensity of the strength that you want us to. have. Our our desire here, Lord, is to worship you and then by in our worship to apply this attribute of your strength. to our lives. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, Paul says in Ephesians chapter 6 Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. The word strong there is often translated in the New Testament power. And the word power there is translated in other ways in the New Testament. Testament and the word might there probably modifies power. So what we're really talking about here is we need to have power in the Lord, and it is it is mighty strength from him that we need This is not the first time, though, that Paul has talked about this in the book of Ephesians. And so what we want to do is recover some of the things that he has said in the past. about this concept of power. So if you would, would you turn back a few pages to Ephesians chapter 1, verse 18, and we're going to see the first passage where Paul mentions the power that we have in Christ. When he says in verse 18 of chapter 1, the eyes of your understanding being enlightened that ye may know what is the hope of his calling, what is the riches of the glory of his grace in the saints, what is the exceeding greatness of his power Toward usward who believe according to the working of his mighty power. Now, do you notice what God seems to what Paul and course God by the inspiration of the Spirit of God in Paul Paul's life there. Do you do you notice what what Paul is doing here? When he comes to God's strength and power, he seems to just stack these words on top of each other, or these phrases on top of each other. It's as though Paul, what Paul is doing here is, you know, one phrase about God's power just doesn't seem to be enough. We've got to add some to this some of this so that we can see the immensity of what he's saying. He is repeating himself when he says, what is the greatness of his of the of his power toward us who believe according to the working of his mighty power So God is the source of all strength and power, and He is the one who executes that strength in the lives of believers. And it can, and it is, for those who know Christ as Savior, directed to usward. Verse 20 says, and we're going to see here the kind of quality of power we're talking about. Before we read verse 20, let's just pause for a moment. When you think of God's power, what might you think of? Perhaps you think of the great rushing wind. Or maybe you think of the ocean and the power of the ocean. Or perhaps you think of there's just all kinds of things, but many of us when we think of God's power, we would think of creation, some sort of creation. Maybe we think of the great heat that emanates from the sun. or the great pole of gravity that keeps all of us on this planet. There are all kinds of ways that we can think of God's power in our world that would illustrate it for us, but God in his ultimate understanding Explanation of power doesn't use these things. Certainly he does in other passages, but in this passage he doesn't. What does he use in verse 20? Which he wrought in who? In Christ, when he did what? You all with me this morning? Those of you who are here for uh there at the at the book at the conference for a long day, you heard five messages Stay with me, would you? Would you do that for me? And those of you uh others of you went up to Six Flags, I know, and uh had a good time up there. Stay with me if you can. And um that's we'll we'll we'll get through this and we can do it by God's power, right? We can do it by according to his strength. Um which he wrought in Christ when he raised him up from the dead And set him at his own right hand in the heavenly places in Christ. Verse 21. So, so, verse 20. What's the illustration that God gives here of His power? The answer is the resurrection. Now When you think of the immense creation and all of what is involved in his creation, and you think of different illustrations of his power, most of us do not think of the resurrection In fact, the idea of just God, who's the creator of all things, the creator of all six billion people, for him to raise one person from the dead, I mean what what's the you know, you may almost almost think, well what's the big deal? I mean, does that really demonstrate God's ultimate power? But folks, when you think of the resurrection, what we're talking about is when Christ was raised from the dead, he was victorious over what? Over sin. The reason that the resurrection is such a great illustration of the power of God is because it has total power and victory over sin. When you think of the Old Testament and you think of all the times that Old Testament folks fell into sin. When you think of the failures of leadership in the Old Testament, when you think of your own failures of sin, when you think of the strong pull that sin has on our lives. Both prior to our salvation and even when we know Christ is our Savior, we have that flesh and the desires that pull us and and direct us and Uh want us to go a certain way that God does not want us to go. There is a great power. But there is a greater power than that, and that is resurrection power. That when Christ was raised from the dead, he was raised victorious over sin and death. Verse 21. Far above all principality and power, and might and dominion, and every name that is named, not only in this world, but also in the world to come. And hath put all things under his feet, and gave him to be head over all things of the church, which is his body, the fullness of him that filleth all in all. So we see there in that passage the great the grand power of God in his resurrection and being victorious over sin And so very practically in our lives there is some that there is a way in which we can fight sin by the power of God But let's go to the next passage and talking about God's power, and we're going to cover a narrowing of what God is wanting us to, how to apply this power to our lives. As we turn to Ephesians chapter 3, and we're going to see this concept of God's power beginning here in verse 16. Verse 16 says that he would grant you according to the riches of his glory to be what? To be strengthened with what? See how he's stacking these words again? To be strengthened with might by the Spirit in the what? In the inner man, we learned from the previous passage that we have sort of this illustration of the resurrection of Christ Of God's great power. But in this passage, we're now narrowing this and we're seeing that God's power, He wants to work toward us, to us Word, but He wants us to work it directly into The inner man. This is not a power that is just on the outside of us. This is a power that God wants to apply to us in the inner man. Verse 18 or 17 That Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith, that ye be rooted and grounded in love, may be able to comprehend with all the saints that what is the breadth and length and depth and height, and the love of Christ which passeth knowledge, that he might fill be filled with the With all of the fullness of God, not unto now unto him that is able to do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the what The power that worketh in us, unto him be glory in the church by Christ Jesus throughout all ages, world without end. So, folks, what we see here is a theme throughout the book of Ephesians that God has empowered those who know Him. And this power is something that God wants us to have internally in the inner man. And with all of that in mind, then we come. Now to our passage for this morning, which is in Ephesians chapter 6, of course, and we see here what the first of all we're going to see a couple of things, but we're going to see the purpose of the power. And we're going to see how to apply the power. Paul says, why is it that we need this power so badly? Verse, chapter 10, finally, my brethren, I'm sorry, chapter 6, verse 10, finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Put on what? The whole armor of God, that ye may be able to do what? To stand. God wants us to be able to stand. Now we have seen a different posture prior to this passage, and that is the posture of walking. He says to walk in wisdom. And walk in righteousness and walk in holiness. We see that is what he's saying in chapter 5, all the way through chapter 6, until we get to this point. And now he is saying that we just we need to stand. When God says that, what is he saying when we think of this concept of stand? Well, a couple of things. We won't go look at all the passages where it talks about, uh where Paul uses this word stand. But number one, standing includes the idea of fixed or firmly established. God desires for you and I to be firmly established in some way. thing. And we're going to see what that is, and we're going to see how important that is in just a few moments when we look at the work of Satan. But understand that what God wants us to do and the reason that God has this power for us is so that we are fixed and firmly Established. Let me just ask you a question. In your life as a Christian, do you feel as though you're firmly established? That you are standing. That you are stable. Certainly God has given us sometimes a certain level of stability, but you know, as I talk with Christians Aren't isn't it true that there is so many times where we feel a bit unstable? Maybe it's our circumstances Maybe it's our own emotions. Maybe it is a breach in our in our belief system. Maybe it is confusion about something, but it is true, folks, that God, if we have the power of God in our lives. that it is for the ability it is for us to be firmly established. Secondly, standing includes the idea of victory. Romans 14, 4 says, Who art thou that judges another man's servant? In his own master uh to his own master he standeth or falleth. Yea, he shall be upholden up, for God is able to make him stand. Talking here about victory. Thirdly, standing includes the idea. of settled in heart about a decision. This is really building off the same concept of stability or established an established mentality approach to life. When God says that he wants us to stand, and he says this several times in this passage, he is telling us that he wants us to be stable and established. He wants us to be settled in our decisions. God desires for us to have this kind of life. I want us to note also, just by nature of this concept of standing, is that it is a defensive position. He says walk before, but now he is saying that we need to stand. It is a defensive position that he is asking for us. And in fact what we're going to find is we go through the different various parts of the armor next week, we're going to find that nearly all of them, with the exception of one, are defensive parts of the armor. And the reason that God does this is that He need He it this works perfectly with his entire concept of the fact that we already have God's victory and power in our lives if we know him as our Savior. I mean, that's what you see in chapters 1 through 3. You see the reality that all of us have the power already in Christ. That's why it says over in 1 Corinthians chapter 15 that we can, it's just thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory in our Lord Jesus Christ. The power is already there for us to access. And now we have here a desire for God for us to stand in the power. So that what we are doing is we are defending the victory that we already have. I think it's going to be very important for us to understand as we go through Through this. We are defending the strength and the victory that we already have. In other words, folks, there are a lot of times where we in the Christian life we think of ourselves as needing to gain victory Man, if I could just do this, I can gain the victory. If I could just work a little harder, I can gain the victory. If I could just obey more, then I'll have more victory to obey. I mean, that does not even make any sense. Where God says if you know Him as your Savior, if you are genuinely His child, then you already have the victory. And that what we've got to do is to stand in the victory. Now, with all of that in mind, we find in this passage now It tells us what we're going to stand against. Put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the what? The wiles of the devil. The wiles of the devil. When the Bible uses the term wiles, what it's talking about here is the strategy of the devil the devil. Did you know that Satan has specific strategies That Satan is, his desire is to deal with the, to work these strategies out, to cause us to have defeat or to experience defeat in our lives. God wants us and has already given us the victory, but Satan, through his strategies, desires for us to get tripped up, if you will. And there are four that I can find in Scripture. There are specific strategies. There very well may be more, but before we get to the strategies, I want us to look at two objectives. And there they are. Just leave it right there. That's good. Satan, first of all, desires to devour us, the Bible says. The Bible says in 1 Peter 5, verse 8, Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour. God's desire, or Satan's desire is to devour us, is to render us useless for service to God. Satan, how does Satan do this? When you take your Bibles for just a moment and turn to Ephesians chapter 4, just go a couple of chapters back here, and I want you to see this in this passage. This is really in reference to the job description of a pastor that he is to to aid in people not being unstable. But I want you to notice what it says here, chapter 4, verse 14. that we henceforth be no more children, what does it say? Tossed to and fro and carried about with every wind of doctrine. By the slight of men, and what? Cunning craftiness, whereby they and the word that cunning craftiness is implying that there is somebody behind this sleight of men. And I think it's a safe assumption to think that we're talking the man behind the curtain here is the devil. It says, whereby they lie in wait to do what? To deceive. You see, what Satan wants to do in your life is to create instability. Now folks, what we're talking here is not about circumstantial instability. That happens because you're living. All of us have circumstances in life that create instability on the outside. Folks, what we're talking here about is an internal instability. For the Christian, the Christian can remain internally stable in a world that is unstable. We of course have seen this in living color in the last week as we have watched the news late hours in the night for some of us. I never watched the news late hours into the night, but I did this week a couple of times And watch what's happening with the riots over in Baltimore, folks. I mean, anybody living in that area is going to feel a little bit unstable. But do you know that no matter what your circumstances are, no matter what life brings you, whatever God and His providence allows in your life and His sovereignty That God has made every provision for you and I to be stable internally, to have internal stability But what Satan wants to do is to take all of these unstable circumstances around us and to deceive us into thinking that we are then internally unstable. He wants us to be unstable internally, and that's what he does. His tactic is to, if he can create instability in our lives, do you know what happens when we have internal instability? Very practically. It causes paralysis. It causes us to just seize up. The Bible says that fear has torment. When you are fearful and unstable in your life, it is going to cause you to just seize up. To not be useful for the service of God, to not be able to have the victory that God wants us to have. And aren't we living in a day where people need to see stability? They need to see us living out the gospel in our lives because they certainly don't have the stability if they don't know the Lord. Well, how does Satan do this? Number one, his strategies, number one, he does it through slander. In fact, the word for the devil in this passage actually means slanderer. For instance, in 1 Timothy 3, verse 11 it says, even so must their wives be grave, not slanderers, talking about um leadership, wives of leadership. Sober, faithful, and all things. The word slander actually, it's the same word there. It's mean slanderer. Satan's tactic, his strategy is slander. Number two, and we're going to talk about how all of these work together, but number two, persecution. It says in Revelation 2, verse 10, Fear none of those things which thou shalt suffer. Behold, the devil shall cast some of you into prison. Now let's just pause for a moment. Do you ever think of the devil casting someone into prison? No, normally people do that. You know, law, you know, um w uh uh you know, law officials or whoever. But but folks, in the first century he recognized uh John as he wrote this, and God of course recognized That the devil can cause someone to be thrown into prison. Do you think that we are exempt from persecution in our day? We we have in our in our Western world and our our United States of America we have been protected from a lot of persecution. But if you go into other parts of the world, if you go into mainland China, or if you go into um a lot of places in in in those kinds of areas in Asia and some places in Europe, you are going to experience persecution. In fact, just today I was talking with a couple of folks here in our um in a membership class and And um a one man in France was looking to be a pastor, but and he was bivocational, and so his job desired decided that he did they didn't want him to be a pastor, so he got fired. And even in our country, there are times where you will take a hit for standing strong for Christ. You may get passed up for a promotion. You may get ridiculed or taught that you are weak or that you need a cr or told that you are weak or you need a crush. Even in our country, though, the the persecution may not be as severe yet we still have it. And Satan uses those kinds of things. He's going to create instability. He wants to anyway create instability in the life of believers. Paul, remember Paul is writing Ephesians when he is where He's in prison. And do you sense, as Paul, as we read the book of Ephesians, or we read the book of Colossians, or some of his prison epistles, do you sense a great instability in Paul's life? Not at all. What we sense in Paul's life is great stability. I mean, he is in prison talking about how we ought to be able to stand against the strategies of the devil. Because Paul has internal stability. Number three, accusation Revelation chapter 12, verse 8, verse 10 says, And I heard a loud voice saying to him, Now to him uh now has come salvation and strength in the kingdom of our God and the power of his Christ For the accuser of our brethren is cast down, which accused them before our God day and night. So we have someone Satan does loves to accuse the brethren. And we're gonna see all how all this worked together, but number four, and probably the most, I would guess, this is Just my guess. But I would guess that this is the most frequent of day of Satan's tactics, and that is deception. He he does not, that's why the first armor is to put on truth. As we get to this. But Satan, folks, is going to use the tactic of deception Now, how does all of this work together? Let's just take a couple of scenarios. How would all of this work together in a family situation? How would Satan cause instability in a nuclear family unit using these kinds of tactics. Well, parents, have you ever falsely accused your kids? Have you ever not gotten all of the facts and thought that one of your kids did something they actually didn't do? Or have you ever, husband, ever accused your wife of something that she didn't do, or wife accused your husband of something he did he didn't do, and you thought for sure that they were at bl were to blame? And maybe you were the one to blame. Or have you experienced some sort of persecution in your life, even in your family? I mean if you if you did not come if you're not growing up in a Christian family and you trust Christ as your Savior, I'm just curious, I asked this question yesterday. How many first generation Christians do we have? That is, your parents don't know the Lord or didn't know the Lord when you got saved. Let's put it that way. How many first generation Christians do you have? Okay. Uh that a few. Well a lot of times you'll feel you'll you'll you'll have an ostracism from your family or a uh or uh uh some sort of distancing from your family as a result of that. So it does work that way in the family. How about in a church situation? Does Satan use these kinds of things in a church? How about slander? Let me use a word that we understand a little better. How about gossip? Does God does Satan excuse me, does Satan use gossip in In a church? Are you ever tempted to believe something even though you didn't see it yourself? You didn't have any any really really hard basis to believe something that's evil of someone, but you're tempted to believe that there got to be some sort of seed of truth there and so you're gonna root it out and you're gonna assume that that's the case and and you don't actually go to the source and you don't actually deal with the problem and you don't actually You're just going to believe and and you know you're not a confrontational person, so I'm not I'm a non-confrontational person, so I'm not going to actually go to the person and see if there's actually any truth to what's actually being said about them. I'm just going to let it simmer And as it simmers in your heart, the more you b begin to believe a lie, and the more Satan uses Deception in your heart that begins with slander, that Satan planted a seed thought in somebody's mind that was wrong and against truth. How many people in a church Does it take that are under the deception that somebody is wrong when they're not? How many people in a church does it does it take to really disrupt the climate of a church? Folks, it only takes probably one. Satan uses these things. So that's just a couple of examples. In your life personally, How does Satan use these things in your life? Well, maybe he tempts you to think that you have done so many wrong things in your life that you are not in right standing with God anymore. Even though we know good and well biblically that your performance has nothing to do with your standing. And yet you are so often doing the wrong thing that you feel as though you just must not be in right standing with God. Satan can do that. Or in your own personal life, there is some misunderstanding of Scripture. Did you know that Satan knows the Bible better than you do? Or I do And so you misunderstand something that Scripture is saying. Do you know that we had an entire, that the nation of Israel had an entire entire group, all of their leadership was misinterpreting the Bible? By the time Christ comes on the scene, the Pharisees and the Sadducees are essentially misinterpreting the law entirely and looking at all the externals of the law and not seeing the internal righteousness that the law demands. They're missing the whole thing. Satan uses all of these things. And so what we've got to have Is God's strength to have the internal stability to be able to stand against the strategies of the devil? Now whether we're going to take another next Sunday, we're going to look more into the details of this. In fact, I think the next two Sundays we're going to. But what I want to do for this Sunday is I want us to just hone in on a on as a direct application as I possibly can, at least I feel it is. I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn to 2 Corinthians chapter 10. Ephesians 6, this is one of the major, if not the most developed passage on in the New Testament on spiritual warfare. But another passage that has a significant contribution to this whole concept of spiritual warfare is in this passage here in 2 Corinthians chapter 10. And the Apostle Paul is going to be dealing with this problem in the church of slander that has been caused by a deception. That has been from the accuser of the brethren. Chapter 10, verse 1, it says, Now I, Paul, myself beseech you by the meekness and gentleness of Christ. who in presence am uh base among you, but being absent am bold toward you Now, why would he say that? He said that for this reason. The Apostle Paul, when he went to them, apparently was tried to be gentle and reserved. He did not come to them forcefully. He didn't come to them in a bold sense. Not boldness in the sense that he was fearful, but just that he didn't come, he was very gentle with them in the beginning. But by the time Paul writes his 1 Corinthians, his letter to the 1 Corinthians, you look at that letter, and what do you see? You have scathing accusations from Paul toward this church. He is correcting serious issues and immorality. And one of the reactions that a group of people in the body of Christ in this church of Corinth did was they said that Paul was duplicitous. in his in his actions toward them. Why is like Paul's a hypocrite? You know, when he's with us, he's just gentle. And when he's against us, and when he's out outside of us, he's not And he writes to us. He writes in a very direct and scathing manner. What a hypocrite Paul is. Kind of the mentality that they had Instead of realizing that the reason that he was gentle in the beginning is that usually it's a good idea to be gentle in the beginning But then as the sin went on and on and on, he had to deal with it in a more direct fashion. And so Paul comes to them with this problem, and listen how he deals with this. Look at how he deals with it. Chapter 2, I mean verse 2, but I beseech you that I may not be bold, that I may not be uh bold when I am present with that confident confidence wherewith I think to be bold against some. Which think of us as if we walked according to the flesh. For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war after the flesh. He says to them, he says, look, the real warfare behind all of this is not a physical warfare. This is a spiritual warfare, and we're going to have to fight this thing spiritually. And so he says in verse 4: for the weapons of our warfare are not carnal. That is, they're not physical. We're not talking here about a physical warfare or a physical fight. He says, but mighty. They are mighty. In fact, he's really implying here that the spiritual, mighty, mighty spiritual weapons are more powerful than anything physical. Mighty through God to the what? They're going to do what? They're going to do what? To the pulling down of what? of strongholds. Now, then what we need to understand is what a stronghold is. A stronghold is a thought process that has taken hold Of an individual believer or a group of believers that is essentially wrong. It's a conclusion that is really precipitated by Satan about something that is really it's it's it's a it's a falsehood. It's not true. It could be doctrinal, it could be error in in an accusation, there could be different things uh that but basically it's this stronghold and people are convinced that something is right when it's really not right or ra wrong when it's right And he says, there are weapons to defeat this. There are weapons to the pulling down of strongholds. Well, what are these weapons going to do? Verse 5. In other words, what he's going to say in verse 5 is how are we to apply these weapons to our lives? He says, casting down what? Imaginations. Do you know what imagination is? An imagination, we all have them. Imagination is when you have a thought and you go over and over and over and over your mind on this thought, and then you add things to the thought and you and you you meditate on the thought and you think, well maybe and you don't understand what what so you fill in the gaps of what you don't know in this thought process And you go over and over in your mind on this thought, and sometimes it might start off with a doubtful thought, like you really don't know if it's true, but the more you think about this thought, the more it becomes something very firm in your mind, and you're absolutely convinced that that's the way it is. And what Paul says is you've got to catch this at the very initial stages. Look at what it says here. Casting down imaginations and every high thing that exalteth itself against the what? The knowledge of God, and bringing into captivity every what? Every thought to the obedience of Christ We're going to look into the details of spiritual of the armor next couple of weeks, but I just want to say at the very outset of this discussion. But if you and I are going to fight the spiritual battle that God wants us to fight in defending our victorious stance, Then what we've got to do is to take every thought into captivity. In other words, we ought not to let a thought go by and let it develop into an imagination which will develop into a stronghold. We ought to take the thought and ask ourselves: is this thought true? Is this thought consistent with our knowledge of God? Now that presupposes something. It presupposes we have a knowledge of God. It presupposes that we know the Word of God in order to have a knowledge of God. It presupposes that we are living in a way that we are obedient to Christ. But folks, the key to this whole thing is we need to take every thought and capture the thought. And take the thought and compare it to the truth of God's Word and to the truth of what you know about God. And that is where the battle begins. It's internal. And we need internal strength. But our role in this is going to be to take the thought into captivity under the obedience of Christ. Now I just want to say this. Maybe the real issue for you today is that you don't have a true knowledge of God. And you have been deceived for a long time into thinking that there are all kinds of ways in which you can come to Christ. Or all kinds of ways in which you can be rightly related to God And our world would tell you that, you know, as long as you're religious and you're a good person and there's, you know, as long as you have some way to get to God, there's a lot of different ways. But John chapter 14 tells us that Christ said, I am the way, the truth, and the life, and no man comes into the Father but by me. And if you are thinking about some other way, then you need to understand what God says in His Word. And you've got to understand that Christ is the only way. And if you don't believe that Christ is the only way And it is through his work, not your own works, not your own religion. It is through his work on the cross and his pain. the punishment for our sin and rising from the grave, if you don't understand this, or if you would wouldn't would think that there are other ways, the Bible says that you don't know the true way, that the new true way is narrow. And I encourage you to come and talk to myself or somebody else that you're comfortable with so that we can show you the true way through Christ and His Word. Looks pretty good. Father, we come to you today and we thank you for who you are. And we thank you that you, through your word, have given us exactly what we need to apply your strength to our lives. And we admit before you that we are sometimes we succumb to Satan's tactics of creating instability in our lives. And yet we thank you in your word that you tell us that we have stability in Christ. And I pray that in the next couple of weeks you would teach us how to have that stability in our own lives. and to maintain it and to defend it so that we truly can stand against the wiles and the strategies of the devil. Lord, as we go into our time remembering all that Christ has done for us, and the shedding of his blood and the breaking of his body on the cross for us. It is why we have the victory that we have. And I pray, Lord, that you would just help us to bring to the forefront of our minds in remembrance of Christ all That we all that Christ has done for us in appreciation and proclamation of the death and burial and resurrection of Christ We pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen