Your Bibles, if you would, and turn to Matthew twenty-four. And we're going to begin in beginning verse forty-two of that chapter, Matthew twenty-four. So have you started setting goals for the new year yet? Some of you probably have. I know I have. I can't help myself. I like to set goals. And I like lists and I like to check them off. And I I'm the kind of person that will um do something and then write it down and check it off. So um uh so anyway, I don't know how how many of you ever done that before, by the way. Alright, yeah, okay, good. Uh it's I don't know, it's just like nice to be able to check things off. So so we're good at goals. Uh or we w many of us like to have goals, and maybe you're thinking I gotta I gotta get old uh uh I gotta have a goal to lose weight. Or I've got to get more organized this year. We just like lost it in the in December. So we just really need to get more organized this year. Maybe you're saying to your family family. Well I just need I just need um to get we need to get on a budget, you know. We know we need to get on a budget. We've been talking about budget for a long time, but we really need to to to nail this down and uh and get on a budget. There's all kinds of goals that we have for January in the beginning of the year for a new year, but let me just ask you a question If you have a singular goal, what would it be? I've been thinking about this for for the last little while here, and my prayer for our church Is that we would be ordinary. And that I would be, I'm praying for myself, that I would be ordinary. And I'm praying for you all individually that you would learn to be ordinary. You say, that does not sound very exciting. In fact, we're wondering now if you've just lost it. All of the problems with the sound system this morning, and you have just lost it now. Um Before I before we um you you think you come to the conclusion I've lost it, I'd like to refer you to to a book that I've been reading over the last couple of months or last couple of weeks Actually, Michael Horton is his name, and he's written a book called Ordinary. He says this in the beginning of the book. He says, radical. Epic, revolutionary, transformative, impactful, life-changing, ultimate, extreme, awesome Emergent, alternative, innovative, on the edge, the next big thing, explosive breakthrough You can probably add to the list of modifiers that have become, ironically, part of the ordinary conversations in society and in today's church. We tune them out unconsciously, doubting what is offered because it becomes so predictably common. As my grammar teacher said, if you make everything s every sentence and exclamation, you put every uh And you put every verb in bold, there's nothing that stands out. So he's written this book on the importance of being ordinary. He says later on in the book, we have become accustomed to looking around restlessly for something new, the latest and greatest, the idea or product or person or experience that will solve our problems. Give us some purpose and change the world. Although we might be a little jaded by the ads, we're eager to take whatever it is to a whole new level. And when you think of advertisements and you think of different things that you're seeing and you're you hear those all those kinds of uh epic and a whole new level and the next big thing and all these kinds of things that have become almost commonplace to us Nobody on you've never seen, I imagine, a bumper sticker that says my child is an ordinary student at Glen Burney High School. I mean that that's not what we say. I mean you might have a have it That says my child is an honor roll student at Glenburnie Elementary School. Or you might see my child beat up my honor your honor student at Glenbury. But you never see my child is ordinary. In fact, Michael Horton suggests that the most lonely word in our English vocabulary is the word ordinary. Nobody wants to use it It's as though we all want to be special. And he cites the Lego movie. How many of you have seen the Lego movie? I mentioned it a couple weeks ago. Lego movie is about is about an ordinary character named Emmett. And he goes to an ordinary workplace and he works an ordinary job. And then he goes home and watches the same ordinary sitcoms and sings the same incessant insidious song over and over again. Everything is awesome. And and the the then and the whole movie goes on and this Emmett character is depicted in the beginning anyway as someone who is just sort of blindly following things that you've got to be extraordinary. At the end of the movie he says this. He says, even the Lego uh he says this to Lord Business. Do you remember the movie? He says um You don't have to be the bad guy. Lord Business is the bad guy in the movie. You don't have to be the bad guy. You are most talented, most interesting, most extraordinary person in the universe. Then Emmett immediately adds, and so is everybody. I mean when you really think about it, everybody wants to be extraordinary, nobody wants to be ordinary, and yet we have come to this sort of conclusion That if you are ordinary, there's something wrong with you. And Michael Horton argues that what we've got to do, that this is a problem actually in our culture And it's gotten into our thinking when it comes to our churches, where we are everybody is trying to be extraordinary, and every individual has got to be extraordinary in one way or another. You have, you have I mean you have children's classes and and everybody has to get a prize. Everybody has to get something because we want all of our kids to think they're extraordinary. But if everybody's extraordinary, then everybody is actually only ordinary. Um and he goes on, he has a lot that he that I I could I could mention here. He says, who wants to be the ordinary person who lives in an ordinary town, is a member of an ordinary church, has an or ordinary friends, and works an ordinary job. Our life has to count. We have to leave our mark, have a legacy, and have and make a difference And all of this should be something that can be managed, measured, and maintained. We have to live up to our Facebook profile It's one of the newer versions of salvation by works. He continues this, and this is a choice quote here. He says, like every other area of life, we have come to believe that growth in Christ, as individuals and as churches can and should be programmed to generate predictable outcomes that are unrealistic and are not even justified biblically. We want big results sooner rather than later. And we've forgotten that God showers his extraordinary gifts through ordinary means of grace. loves us through ordinary fellow image bearers, and sends us out into the world to love and serve others in ordinary callings. You and I have got to come to the place in our lives where we realize that what God really wants us to be is ordinary. Now, if that's not particularly exciting as we look at 2015, I'd like to ask you a question. Let's use a biblical term. If you have one word, if you can only have one word to describe God's expectation of you biblically What would that word be? And I want to hasten to say that I believe the word biblically should be the word faithfulness. God desires that you and I be faithful. We ought to be faithful being ordinary. We ought to be faithful in what God gives us to do. And whatever our hand finds to do, we do it with all our might. Faithfulness doesn't mean that we don't work hard. It doesn't mean that we become comfortable or complacent It means that we understand the importance of what God is expecting of us is different than what our culture is saying of us or about us or to us. Let's not let the culture tell us what we ought to be following. Let's let God tell us what we ought what He expects of us. And we can establish this word and this concept as a key concept for us by looking at some of the texts in Scripture that explain to us the importance of this. For example, in Luke 16, 10 through 13, it says, He that is faithful in that which is least is faithful also in much. And he that is unjust in least is unjust also in much. In Acts 16, verses 14 through 15 It says, And a certain woman named Lydia, a cellar of purple of the city of Thyatirah, which worshipped God, heard us, whose heart and the Lord opened, and she attended unto the things which were spoken of Paul And when she was baptized and her household she besought us, saying, if ye have judged me to be faithful to the Lord. Come into my house. She said, the measurable things, Lydia says to these people, the measurable thing that you can look at in my life is, do you judge me to be faithful? First Corinthians 4 1 says, let a man so account of us as the ministers of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God. Moreover, it is required in stewards that a man be found. faithful. The Bible says in Telis 112, I thank Christ Jesus our Lord who has enabled me to be to and for who hath enabled me for that he counted me faithful, putting me into the ministry Second Timothy two, one thou therefore, my son, be strong in the law in the grace that is in Christ Jesus, and the things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men Who shall be able to teach others also. Thou, therefore, endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. No man that wareth entangleth himself in the affairs of this life, that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier, and if a man also strive for the masteries, yet he is crowned, except he strive lawfully. Proverbs twenty ten says, Most men will proclaim everyone his own goodness, but a faithful man who can find? When we look at the book of Revelation, we find most many of the churches in the of the seven churches in the book of Revelation are warned that they're going to be dissolved. If they do not continue in the things that God has taught them. But the faithful church of of Smyrna, it says in Revelation 2. 10, it says this fear none of these things that thou shalt suffer. Behold The devil shall cast some of you into the into prison that ye may be tried, and ye have tribulation ten days, but thou faith be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee a crown of life In the Old Testament you see the importance of faithfulness. If you look at Hebrews chapter eleven, it says, Without faith, it is impossible to please him, for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek Seek him, faith will produce faithfulness. The tenor of the New Testament and the responsibility of a Christian as a whole is not to be extraordinary. It is to be faithful. You see, the problem with us as Christians is that we it is easier to be extraordinary than it is to be faithful. I mean after all, it's really not that hard to go and minister to the poor. I'm not saying it's wrong to minister to the poor. But to take a Saturday afternoon and go down and minister to the poor Uh for go do a soup kitchen kind of a thing or something like that. I'm not against it and I think we should probably do more of that kind of thing. But if but just to do that one time, that doesn't take a lot. But on Monday morning to be faithful to your family To your job, to your spouse, to your church on Sundays and Wednesdays and all those other times, and and really just as a body of believers, it really isn't just a a matter of times, but faithfulness to our church as a whole. That is hard work. And in fact, a faithful man is in God's mind an extraordinary man. That's why Proverbs says, who can find him? That's why it would be far better for us to be faithful at being ordinary. than to be spontaneous at being extraordinary. When you look at some of the people that were used most greatly by God in history, I don't think they set out to have the act to do the exploits that God gave them to do. In other words, I don't think that Charles Haddon Spurgeon Set out to be a pastor of over 3,000 people. I don't think that some of these guys that that God used in these massively great ways set out to do this. They were, if they continued to be faithful as they did it, they were faithful, and God, through his divine providence, gave him what that he wanted to. And not as though, very frankly, all the unknown heroes, I think some of the greatest heroes in scri in in uh in our church history we don't know. The greatest people that have m done the greatest uh work for the Lord and been the most faithful, we will probably not know until we get to the get to heaven. And we'll say, who is that guy? And God will say, that man was faithful. And in our text in Matthew chapter 25, what you're going to find twenty-four and twenty-five, we're going to go through all the all the way through twenty-five in the next three. three Sundays, or this Sunday, and two more. But what we actually find in Matthew twenty-four and twenty-five is that the theme Starting in verse 42, is faithfulness. That's the overall theme. For instance, in 24, verse 45, you see, it says, Who then is a faithful and wise servant? whom his Lord hath made ruler over his household. And then you see in 25, 21 His Lord saith unto him, Well done, thou good and what? And faithful servant. Thou hast been faithful over few things And I will make thee ruler over many uh things. Enter thou into the joy of the Lord. Verse twenty-three says this his Lord said unto him, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Thou hast been faithful over a few things. Same thing is exactly said again. God's desire for the Christian is that he be found faithful. Faithfulness is that thing which can be measured presently. For example, it says in Scripture that church leadership, both pastors and deacons, must be faithful men. It actually says that deacons, pastors, and deacons' wives have to be faithful. Faithfulness is not is something it's very hard to measure a lot of things, but faithfulness it can be measured a little bit more. Not completely, but it can be measured. And ultimately, when we stand before the Lord, we are going to hear, if we have been faithful, not well done now, extraordinary servant. Well done, thou great person. You are have great ability and great giftedness. No, no. It will be well done, thou good and faithful. Servant. The difficulty here, folks, is that it's really hard to be faithful. I mean, wouldn't you agree with me? That faithfulness is difficult. In fact, if you consider your own and my own deceitful hearts, we might think as though it is impossible. Add to that the influence of the world and all the pressures of the world and the draws of the world and the desires that the world cultivates in our hearts We would consider it to be impossible. And then you add to that that we have an enemy that wants to deceive us and trick us into not being faithful. That's his ultimate goal is to derail us from being faithful. How in the world can a Christian ever Be faithful. And the answer to that, I believe, is found generally in this text as well. The answer to that, if you'll look over, for example, in 24 verse 30, The answer to that really is found in the context of all of this. If you recall Matthew 24 as a prophetic chapter, The disciples have asked Christ a question. The question is: what is the sign of thy coming? That's the question. And in verse 30. Actually, pick up in verse 29. You see here, actually just read verse 30. 29 talks about some of the details of the tribulation, but verse 30 says And then shall appear the sign of the Son of Man in heaven. And then shall all the tribes of the earth mourn. And they shall see the Son of Man coming in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory. And he shall send his angels with a great sound of a trumpet. And they shall gather together his elect from the four winds from from one end of heaven to the other. Then you see over in this passage, for example, also in verse 36, 2436. Look at that. But of the day and the hour, no man know not the angels in heaven, but my father only knoweth. And then if you look over in Matthew twenty-five, verse thirty-one, you see here And with clarity what Christ is talking about, when the Son of Man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, then shall he sit upon the throne of glory. What is it that is going to keep us faithful generally? We're going to look at this specifically, but what is it that's going to keep us faithful generally? It is to keep the coming of Christ in our minds. It is to keep in the forefront of our thinking what is inseparably linked to Christ's coming, and that is the judgment seat of Christ. If you've ever tried to draw draw a straight line without the help of a ruler or some o some sort of instrument that's going to help you draw that line One of the best ways that you can draw a straight line is to mark not only the beginning, but to mark the ending. And then try to straight draw the straight line. And it might be a little bit crooked, but it's going to be a lot better than if you don't have the ending there. You and I, if we're going to be faithful, what we've got to keep firmly in sight is not what everybody else thinks about us. It's not ultimately what we do in this life, it's who we are. Particularly our faithfulness. And it's ultimately going to be determined by God Himself. Through Jesus Jesus Christ at the judgment seat of Christ. That's why it says in 2 Corinthians 5. 10, for we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. That every one may receive of the things in in the body according to to that he has done, whether it be good or bad. Over in even in the book of Ecclesiastes, you have this entire book written from the perspective of Solomon, the perspective of Solomon, as he looks at this book. And he writes this book, and he looks at life, and he says, What is really matters in life? And his conclusion is this: Ecclesiastes 12:13 and 14. Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. Fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man. For God shall bring every work into judgment. With every secret thing, whether it be good or whether it be evil. There is a day of reckoning. There is a day that we look ahead to, and we ought not look, it isn't as though we look with terror as someone who doesn't know Christ But if you are, if you know Christ, we look to the day where where our works are going to be sifted. The things that we do in this body will be judged. It's very clear over in Corinthians chapter 3. That it will either come forth as gold and precious stones or wood, hay, and stubble. And what is the criteria with which it is one or the other? It is faithfulness. So the question then becomes and and and just I I don't want to lose this point. How do we be how are we do we remain faithful to the Lord? We keep our eyes set on the goal. And the goal is that one day Christ would find us faithful. What would happen in our lives if we would uh if we would orient our priorities based upon that? Not based upon what everybody else thinks we ought to do, but based upon what Christ wants us to do. What would happen to us if we began to look at all of our priorities and we woke up every single morning and we said, Lord, help me to be Be faithful because one day you're coming for me. And my desire is for you to find me faithful. That really brings us to Matthew twenty-four. And as we pick up here in Matthew twenty-four and verse forty-two. We see actually verses 42 through 25, 13, we see three parables that Christ offers. And remember, this is in the context of how a disciple ought to live in the kingdom. How is it that, and I just want to say on the outset of this, that there would be some sort of really strong dispensationalists that would essentially say that this passage really has no bearing on us I'm dispensational, but I'm not that dispensational. And the reason I mention that is because I think those who sort of include that there really isn't any application really very little application for us and in these texts are missing something that is extremely important. I mean Christ has just said, this is how the coming of Christ is going to happen. Here's how it's how it's all going to work. Here's how the kingdom is going to work. Here's how it's all going to hap And he says to the disciples, here, how this is how you respond to it. Disciples, this is how you do it. This is how you teach you how you ought to respond to this. Well, if it's only for tribulation saints, why would he say that to the disciples? So I do think this is for us. Verse 2042 says, Watch therefore, the first parable here, for ye know not what hour your Lord doth come. But know this that if the good man of the house had known in what uh in what watch the thief would come He would have washed and would not have suffered his house to be broken up. Therefore, be also ready, for in such an hour as ye think not, the Son of Man cometh. Christ's point here is to say that there is no way that you and I can just be ready when he comes. without being faithful. That means that faithfulness requires consistency Faithfulness requires consistency. You gotta m you got you if you have a A security system in your house, it has to be on for it to work, right? If you have an off-security system and you leave and a thief comes, it's not going to work. It's got to be the power's got to be on. It's got to be going to it. You and I have got to be consistent if we're going to become be found faithful. We find then the second uh scenario Here in this passage, we're gonna move quickly to verses forty f forty-five through fifty-one. And we find here it says, Who then is a faithful and wise servant, whom his Lord hath made ruler over his household, to give them meat in due season? Blessed is that servant, whom his Lord, when he cometh, shall find so doing. Verily I say unto you, that he shall make him ruler over all his goods. And if that evil servant shall say in his heart, My Lord delayeth his coming, and shall begin to smite his fellow servants, and to end the uh end and drink with the the drunken. The Lord of that servant shall come in a day when he looketh not for him, and an hour when he is not aware of And shall cut him asunder and appoint him his portion with the hypocrites, there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. In a parallel passage, Luke chapter 12, verse 23, says it this way: Let your waist be girded, and your lamps be burning. Back in those days what you had what you had was of course everybody wore tunics. They didn't wear pants like we have today, including the men. I can't imagine that personally, but um that's what they did. And but what they had to do in times of war is that they had to gird up their and everybody's visualizing this on me, an address, I know. What they had to do during these times is they had to gird up their they would bring their the back of their dress dress. Their tunic through and and tuck it into their belt so that they were ready to be able to move quickly. And God says you stay that way. You stay ready. In the passage, what we have in this parable, we have a man who is a servant who has been tasked with a responsibility to feed the other servants. But this man says, well, I'll get it all straight when I when I think the guy well when I think my master is coming back. I'll just keep looking over my shoulder. The master is going to come back when we don't know. So what what must we do to please our master? We must serve consistently Faithfulness requires alertness, that's number one in the first parallel, but faithfulness then requires consistency. We're going to then move to 25, 1 through 13, and we're going to pick up here and look at our third the third and final description of faithfulness. Then shall the kingdom of heaven be likened unto ten virgins, which took their lamps and went forth to meet the bridegroom. Now I want to say basically what you have here historically is Is a wedding. Weddings were very different back than they are today. Weddings were made up of wedding feasts, and they were days long, not one day long or half a day. It was I think a lot of times a week long or more perhaps. And so you had one day after another after another and you would have different festivities that would go on There really is no s significance to this word virgin except that usually what you had is just actually this is the same as you had in the wedding party. You usually have a lot of single uh people uh in the wedding party because they're young and they're getting married and um that that would be the same here. And so uh so that was the case basically you have in this text it's really just ten unmarried people. Unmarried girls, uh women. Verse 2 says, and five of them were wise, and five were foolish. So we have five foolish young women, and we have five wise young women. Verse 3: They that were foolish took their lamps and took no oil with them. Now most likely what this is talking about is the fact that they would go out and they would take torches with them. And they had the option of also taking a vial of oil with them as well if they were going to be using that torch from An extended amount of time. The foolish virgins only took the torch without the oil because they assumed that the bridegroom would not be long Apparently the bridegroom was off and um the wedding party usually assembled before uh the bridegroom and the bride got there. And they assumed that the bridegroom would not be tarrying, that he would be coming in soon And so the foolish versions only took a little bit. They only took the torch without the oil. Verse 4: But the wise took the oil in their vessels with their lamps. While the bridegrooms tarried, they all slumbered and slept. Now some preachers will make big deal over verse 5. There's no significance in that verse as far when it comes to like okay well we all ought not fall asleep. I've heard messages preached on well you know you just can't fall asleep in the whole thing. Both the wise and the foolish fell asleep. Okay. It wasn't wrong to sleep at night. Okay. That wasn't that wasn't the issue there. In fact most of us needed a little more sleep from the Ravens game last night. But anyway. Um So verse six says this. And at midnight there was a cry made, behold, the bridegroom cometh. Go ye out to meet him. Then all those virgins arose and trimmed their lamps. And the foolish said unto the wise, Give us your oil, for our lamps are gone out But the wise answered, saying, Not so, lest there be not enough for us and you, but go ye rather to them that sell and buy for yourselves And while they went to buy, the bridegroom came. And they that were ready went in with him to the marriage. And the door was shut. Afterward came also the other virgins, saying, Lord, Lord, open to us. But he answered and said, Verily I say unto you, I know you not. Watch therefore, for ye know neither the day nor the hour when the Son of Man cometh. Now there probably is a reasonable application for someone who doesn't know Christ as their Savior in this passage. But there is certainly an application for the rest of us who do know Christ as our Savior. And the application for you and I in this passage is that we that faithfulness requires longevity. You cannot be faithful for a short time and really actually be faithful. You can do service to the Lord for a short time in a particular place, and as long as you're being faithful to the Lord and wherever you go and wherever you do, you can be faithful. But folks, Faithfulness requires time. And what happened here is that these folks ran out of the foolish versions, they ran out of oil. There are a lot of Christians that do this. They get hot and heavy and all kinds of things and they get and they and they're excited about the new thing coming out Or the new thing on the shelf, or the new way of doing something. They're always excited about this, that, or the other thing And it's long as it's new and fresh and extraordinary to them, they're excited about it. But when that extraordinary thing just becomes ordinary, the excitement and the involvement wears off. What you and I have got to do is realize that what God wants us to do is be faithful in those things that are ordinary. Did you know, were you aware? that service to Christ is found in the mundane most of the time. I think it's some of the Facebook posts that we see oftentimes. Had an extraordinary year. I didn't see anybody that said I had an ordinary year. We're doing this, this is exciting, this is great, this is why I I uh there's no problem with any of that. Uh m some of it's a problem, but but most of it's not a problem. It's it's no big deal But I wonder what would happen if you posted did laundry today or or um filled the gas tank Or ate lunch. I mean, I don't think anybody would be particularly oh, what a wonderful Facebook post. Eight lunch. In fact, yesterday I posted Praying for an Ordinary Year in 2015. How many of you all saw that post? Okay, some of you did. And only a few of you had the courage to like it. What is wrong? No, okay. But it I some people go, what? Why do you want an ordinary year? What what's what's all that about? You know Service of the Lord is found in the in the day-to-day faithfulness to the ordinary, mundane things of life. That's why the Bible tells us that whatsoever ye eat, eating is ordinary. Or drink, that's ordinary. Or whatsoever ye do, do all to what? The glory of God. It's not suggesting that we shouldn't have a desire to to step out on faith in certain circumstances and what God wants us to do and we know he wants us to when he places through his pr providence, something in our path that we need to take some faith and go that way. It's not s it's not what the the idea is. But folks, there is a sense in which we have to be faithful in what in the small things, and God will give us greater things. In his time. Are we willing just simply to be faithful? And I would just say this Maybe you've been asking yourself the question, what is the purpose of life? Well, today we really discussed it. I mean, Solomon came to the conclusion that the purpose of life is to follow God. And that one day it would be discerned. But you and I have no ability to follow God without trusting in and depending upon the person and work He is God, and he came to earth to become a person. To live a perfect life, to die, to pay the punishment for your sin and for my sin, which which separates us from God. God calls that spiritual death. But Jesus died in our place to pay the punishment for our spiritual death. He died both physically and spiritually for a time. When he was separated from his father, so that we could have eternal life and be connected to God and have the ability to follow him. The Bible says, But as many as received him, to them gave he the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. If you're listening today, And you say to yourself, you know, I have never trusted in the work of Christ. He rose from the grave victorious over sin and death. I've never trusted in his death and resurrection to pay the punishment for my sin. I've never trusted those things. Then today can be a day where you depend on Christ, who will give you the ability to follow God. The Bible says, I am the way, Christ is speaking there. I am the way, the truth and life, and no man cometh unto the Father but by me. Acts The book of Acts, it tells us, Neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. And if you have not come to God through Christ Then you don't know God. The Bible says God is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. And you can today place your full dependence on Christ to pay the punishment for your sin. You've got to understand that he died for you. You've got to agree with that fact, and then you've got to accept him as your Savior. The Bible says if you do that, you will be his child, and God will make you a follower of him. That would be a wonderful thing if that happened today. And if you have any questions about that, come and see me or see somebody else here that you're comfortable with. We'll be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you are a follower of God.