Alright, take your Bibles if you would. Turn to Ephesians chapter 6. And we're picking up here in verse 17, where we will discuss the two final parts of the armor of God. We could think of the armor as something a bit trivial because of its illustrative quality, that it it's sort of an illustration, and so we don't need to take it very seriously. But I want to just say to you today that I really am becoming more and more convinced the more that I study this passage out and look at these dip various parts of the armor, if we as Christians would learn that discipline of putting these parts of the armor on, we would experience victory in in a much more consistent um manner in our lives. And I just want to encourage you that even after we finish up this portion of Ephesians and finish up Discussing this concept of the armor, I really hope that you will that these things will stick with you. That you'll not soon forget these things When I was um many years several quite a few years ago now, we celebrated our eleventh uh wedding anniversary this past week and Um several years before that, I went shopping for a particular item. Uh most of you probably figured it out that it's that I was shopping for a diamond ring to give to my To Elizabeth. And um, you know, you get I I had had a friend who got a diamond ring um and gave it and proposed to his wife and then They went out somewhere and somebody said, Where's the diamond? And I really didn't want that to happen to me. But I also didn't have a lot of money either, so I'm trying to scrape up as much as I could and and try to figure out what to do here And um so you know they they they talk about different um you know you I I everything I do I tend to do a lot of research on it, so I researched it and and found the cut and color and and uh clarity or are factors in the quality of the diamond and and anyway so looking at all of that and different cuts and then I sort of had to say to Elizabeth hype Like a hypothetical situation, not that this is actually going to happen, but what would you like kind of a thing? It's usually a good idea. But I I went I bought the ring a year prior to the fact that I proposed. A year before I proposed, I w I wanted to throw her off. I figured I'd marry somebody sometime, so at least I'd I'd have her animal I I'm kidding. I was well by the time I bought the ring I was quite sure I was I I I really felt like as long as she said yes I was gonna marry her. But um but uh I anyway, I b I'm I'm already in trouble. So so anyway So uh anyway I bought the ring and and um and one of the things I looked at was the setting of the ring. And you know you can make something look a lot bigger by the setting and um and make it look a little bit nicer by the setting. And actually depending on the setting you choose, a lot of men miss this. So teenage boys, uh just learn ahead of time. The setting will help determine will help you see the different facets of the diamond. And so a good setting is extremely important. Nobody told me that. I just started looking at all these rings and seeing some settings that were kind of um sort of not as good as others and I said, oh, you know, the setting actually really matters. And then you want something that's sturdy that's gonna last, you know, a l a while too. So anyway, so when I'm uh I couldn't when I think when we think of the this the armor here Really, what Paul is doing for us is he's giving us a different, he's putting the gospel, this diamond of the gospel, that we can see different facets of the gospel, and he's putting it in different settings. The setting of the righteousness of the breastplate, the breastplate of righteousness, or the setting of the belt of truth. He's putting the gospel in these different settings, and it's allowing us to see different facets of the gospel. And then specifically how we can apply the gospel to our lives, and that each one of these different facets of the gospel have an objective reality to them. And then we need to make sure we're applying the objective reality of our lives into a practical reality on a day-to-day basis. And we find we found that to be the case with every single one of these components And every one of these facets of the gospel we can find in most cases multiple places In the text of Ephesians, and we have referred in many cases back to each one of these different facets of the gospel as we've gone through these. And we have finally now come to this the final ones, the final two facets of the gospel, these parts of the armor, the helmet of salvation and the sword of the spirit. And these are, of course, no less important than the rest of them. They're not last because they're least important. The reason that they are actually last in the listing of these armor pieces is because a Roman soldier would likely have put these on last He would have put on the breastplate of righteousness and the belt of truth and all these other different things before he put on that helmet of salvation, or the helmet, uh put on the helmet And then he would have also then put on uh taken up his sword out of his out of his um uh sheath that was in his belt, the scabbard that was in his belt. And so these were the final pieces that would have made up the Roman ar Roman soldier's armor. And so he we have that here in this case as the last two pieces pieces, but these are going to be fine. You're going to find that these are vitally important for the Christian life as well, that we would be able to stand in the evil day. Let's go to the Lord in prayer and ask his blessing on our time together. Father, as we come to your word this morning, I pray that you would help us to understand what you are wanting us to understand in these two parts of the armor and to To learn how to put them on, how to take them up, as the words are there. To take up this helmet of salvation, and to take up the sword of the Spirit. Lord, we need these. Our own flesh. In it dwells no good thing. Our world is twisted, and Satan uses the world system. to get at our flesh and to cause us to stumble and to falter. Lord, we desperately need to To take heed to the different parts of the armor that we put them on. And Lord, as we do that, we pray that you would help us just to understand them. And how to apply these things to our lives. I pray that as a result of putting all these parts of the armor on, that it would give us confidence that we can stand. I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Amen. Well, the first uh piece of the army that we want to discuss today is this helmet of salvation. The Roman helmet was a hel- that this is the a word that was used actually in non-military terms as a head covering. And so of course we know where it was placed. It was placed on the head, but certainly in military context, which this is a military context. We are talking here about a helmet. It was likely made of bronze. In the Old Testament, in the in the Greek translation of the Old Testament, we see it attached this word attached and and bronze is is in the picture a lot of times. uh throughout the Old Testament. It certainly more than likely it was made primarily of bronze and it was lined with leather or cloth for comfort The function of this armor was really for safety, you would just imagine what it is. Obviously, it's pretty obvious it was it was for the safety of the head, which houses the brain. What we're dealing with here is when we're talking about the the helmet of salvation or the helmet of that's putting over top of the head. There is a sense of safety that a soldier would feel as he goes out into battle. Honer says this it is a conscious, a conscious possession of it, talking about the the helmet, in the onslaught of the evil one, with his head protected, the soldier feels safe in the midst of battle. And so this part of the armor would help the soldier to feel a sense of safety, even in close combat. Of course, last week we discussed the the shield of faith, which was really more for distance combat and darts being thrown. At us, but this particular part of the helmet is for closer kind of combat as Satan will sometimes move in and and have greater oppression and will cause greater discouragement, more of a deep kind of potential harming. And so when you think of all of this part of the armor, it's important for us to understand what God is saying here. But whatever it is, it is going to Make us cause us to feel safe if we put it on. There's going to be a sense of safety and security. That though other things might happen Our head, our vital mind is protected. And so it's going to help us to understand this. If you'll recall, as we've talked about many times before, when we're talking about these different parts of the armor, all of them really have to do with the mind. The Bible tells us, as I've repeated many times before, that we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers and the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness and high places. And the Bible also tells us that the issues are spiritual rather than carnal, and those spiritual issues start in the mind. And if you recall from Romans chapter 12, verse 2, it tells us that we, that is why we need the transforming of the mind. We need to be renewed by the spirit of our mind, as it says also in the book of Ephesians. And so this is going to protect our mind. It is going to help us feel safe in the midst of our battles with the enemy. The question then needs to come: what is it talking about when it's talking about the helmet of salvation? This obviously is written to Christians. This epistle is written to believers. There's no question about that. So why would he say to believers that we need to put on the helmet of salvation? Do we need to get saved over and over again? Well, of course, if you know, if you see scripture clearly, we see that once we know we are a child of God, then that is established for us. We cannot un Be we cannot become something else. We are always a child of God once we are. So we we enjoy the eternal security of the believer. That can't be what he's talking about here. He must be talking about something else when it comes to the salvation. Of course, the word salvation is the idea of being rescued from something. The key to this is actually in another passage where we see this helmet of salvation mentioned. It's over in 1 Thessalonians. Would you take your Bibles for just a moment and turn there? 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 and verse 8, we're now going to see what this helmet of salvation is. There's going to be another word that is attached to this concept that's going to help us with it. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, verse 8. But let us who are of the day be sober. Putting on the breastplate of faith, that's sort of interesting there, that uh he says the breastplate of faith instead of the breastplate of righteousness. Really, all of these are different components of the gospel, and that demonstrates that. And love. And for an helmet, what does he call the helmet here? Okay, so what additional word do we have? It's the word hope, right? The hope of salvation. So if we're going to understand what Paul is meaning by this helmet of salvation, we need to understand what he means by the hope of salvation. Hope in the Bible and the New Testament is not the same concept as as hope that we would think of in our in the in our use of it If we say we hope that we have enough people at work day, what we mean is we hope that people will have the the the the desire and the I I didn't think you wouldn't. I just was hoping that you would. That's a different, it's it's a lot shakier, or we hope that we have a good Father's Day, or we hope, whatever it is that we're hoping When the New Testament talks about this concept of hope, we're talking about a confident expectation. This is something that's going to happen in the future, but it's something that will, guaranteed, it will happen. And so when we're talking about the hope of salvation, it is the fact that we are looking forward to the day where our faith will become sight. We are looking forward to the day where where we will our salvation will be complete. If you'll recall, there are actually three components to our salvation. We are not only saved from the penalty of our sin, we are also saved from the power of sin. That's sanctification. Justification is saved from the penalty of sin. And one day we will be saved from what? From the presence of sin. And our salvation, our redemption will be complete. And when we fight in our battles today with the devil, when we are walking that walk that God wants us to walk, when we are standing the way God wants us to To stand, it is a great sense of great safety that there is going to be a day where we will be freed from the presence of sin. Aren't we looking forward to that day? Every Christian, that's the hope of the believer, that we will one day be resurrected in our new bodies. And we will see Christ and we will be with him and we will be freed from the presence of sin until then we toil and labor. But there is intrinsic in this concept when we really get down to it, what we're talking here is about the assurance of our salvation. Did you know that you can be saved and not have the assurance of it? You can be justified, you can be declared righteous by God. You but you can be a you cannot have the assurance of knowing that you are. And did you know biblically you can lose that assurance You can't lose salvation, but you can lose the assurance of your salvation. This, of course, really complicates things because there are some people that think they're saved, but they're not saved. And there are other people that are saved, but they are lacking for some reason the assurance that they're saved. And I will just give say to you that just as I've rubbed shoulders with other believers, I would I would imagine that any that every believer, if you Been saved for any length of time at some time or another, has doubted whether or not you are truly saved. In fact, I'm that I am so confident that this is the case. Please Please don't prove me wrong. I am so confident that this is the case that I would just wonder if you would be willing to indicate that there have been some time in your life where you have doubted your own salvation How many of you would say that with with an upraised hand that there would sometime now that is just around everyone? I mean if you look around, that should be sort of a testimony to the reality that this is something that is that is we we've got to settle or we've got to know how we maybe we regain our assurance of our salvation And I just want to say that there are many methods that are suggested in our churches and in our Christian circles that are not biblical suggestions. There are some that would suggest that what you really need to do is you really need to write your, write the time that you got saved in your Bibles. And if you will do that in the front of your Bible with the date and the time, maybe the age, maybe the place that you were at, then every time you doubt it, you can just go back to that date in your Bible Or there might be somebody that says that what what you really need to do is you need to go out somewhere and put a stake in the ground, and you need to just have a stake there. You can keep going back to that stake. Every time you doubt your salvation, you go back to that stake. Or maybe somebody says, well, you know, you need to just look to your baptism. If you'll just think about your baptism, that's kind of more obvious and you've done that and you just look back to your baptism, then maybe that's the that that's the answer Folks, do you realize that none of those are biblical methods, biblical methods for gaining your assurance of your salvation? And this idea that you can in your own strength muster up what you need in order to have your assurance. I mean I've heard testimonies This is very common among teenagers. And and really all uh everybody, uh adults as well, but but seem to be very common among teenagers. I've heard testimonies where people say they prayed four and five and six times and they keep praying, and finally the one prayer took. Well, what does that even mean? I mean, is it really the prayer that saves us? It's not. It is the expression of our faith that gives us salvation. And folks, what we've got to do is know how we gain our assurance of our salvation. And I want to take you directly to Scripture for this. Would you take your Bibles and turn to 1 John? 1 John treats this concept of salvation, assurance of salvation very thoroughly. And I'm going to actually have you turn to 1 John 3, but I want you to see in 1 John 5 just how sure someone can be of their own salvation in just a few moments here. And while you're turning there, I actually want to read another passage to you just so we can understand the blessing of our assurance of our salvation. Peter says in chapter one, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant mercy hath has begotten us again unto the lively hope. Of the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you, who are kept by the power of God through the faith unto salvation. Ready to be revealed in the last time, wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now for a season, if need be ye are heavenliness in heavenliness through manifold temptations That the trial of your faith being much more precious than gold that perisheth, though it be tried with fire, might be found unto the praise and the honor and the glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ. Whom having not seen ye love, and whom thou though though not ye see him not, yet believing ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory, receiving the end of your faith. even the salvation of your souls, of which salvation the prophets have inquired and searched diligently, who prophesied of the grace that should come unto you That's the kind of blessing that you can have when you are assured, not just of the beginning, but the end, that there will be one day where this will all come together and you will be freed from the presence of your sin. You are freed from the penalty of your sin if you have trusted Christ as your Savior by faith. You are freed from the power of your sin, and you should be progressively experiencing that in your life. But there will be one day where you will be freed from the presence of sin. But we doubt, don't we? And we find that our heart condemns us. 1 John 5, verse 13 says this: These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye might know that ye have eternal life. And that ye may believe on the name of the Son of God. If you'll go back a couple of a couple of chapters here to 1 John chapter 3, I want to show you Just really two things that are necessary for the to gain a biblical method to gain the assurance of your salvation. Would you look at 1 John chapter 3, picking up here in verse 19? And hereby we know that we are of the truth. And shall what, folks? We shall assure our hearts before Him. Isn't that exactly what we desire? Isn't that exactly what a Christian needs who is doubting his salvation? He needs to know that he is of the truth. And he needs his heart needs to be assured before who? Before God This tells us, folks, that the foundation of our assurance is the truth. It's the truth. It says in the passage, hereby we do know that we are of the truth. Sometimes the problem with our assurance of ourselves Salvation is the fact that we have we have believed a lie about something. It may be a lie about God. That you believe God is something that He is not, that the Bible does not describe Him as. Or it's unbalanced, or it's you're focusing on one characteristic to the exclusion of others And it is and you are not finding your basis in the truth, or there is something about the gospel that you are you are believing that is not right. Either the character, in most cases, it's going to be either the character of God or the gospel, and there is a breakdown of your faith in the truth, and it's causing you To have a failure in your assurance. And God says in this passage: if you want to assure your heart, it's going to find its basis in the truth. And then he says this, because folks, isn't it true that our hearts could still condemn us? It's how faulty they are. They are marred by sin. They do feel the effects of the fall. And so it says in verse 20: For if our heart condemns us, Then what does it say? God is greater than our heart and knoweth all things. Beloved, if our heart condemn us not, then we are condemned, but then we have confidence toward God. Look, folks, the real issue here When you lose your assurance of your salvation, the real biblical method is that you've got to focus on God. Because God is greater than your heart. It means, folks, that we've got to know God more. We've got to constantly learn about who God is. I am one of the things I really appreciate about this Sunday school series that we're And then we've done on Sunday nights in the past, behold your God series. It really can could really help somebody get give somebody the assurance of their salvation If you go through this, you'll begin to know God more and all of his attributes. Just got little parts of them. And the more you know God, the more you begin to say, I know God. We'll never know everything about God. He's infinite. We're finite. We will, for the rest of our existence, which is also unending, we'll constantly be knowing more and more about God But there is a sense in which when there's a certain level that you know about God and you are walking with God, you begin to say, I know him. And therein lies the assurance of your salvation. That's what happens. True biblical assurance is focusing on God and knowing on God and coming to the point where you trust God more than your own heart. And when you trust God more than your own heart, God will give you assurance and confidence. And do you see in the text in verse 21, Beloved, if our heart condemns not, then that is when we have what? We have confidence toward God. If you're struggling with your salvation, I'm just going to tell you that it's very unlikely that writing a date in the beginning of your Bible is really going to be particularly that much help for you. Or setting a stake in the ground somewhere, or looking to some other event in your life, folks, those kinds of things are faulty foundations. The foundation for knowing that you know God is knowing God. It doesn't mean that if you don't have this assurance that you're not saved, it simply means you don't have assurance of your salvation. And many times what causes a failure of assurance of our salvation is some sort of sin, or some sort of besetting sin, or some those kinds of things. It causes us to ask the question: are we saved? And folks, the answer to that is to return to God and to know more and more about God. And when you do, you will begin to gain the assurance of your salvation. Again. Because the reality is as we fight the devil, as we fight In this battle, we are struggling with, we struggle with the sense and need for safety The Christian who has this helmet of salvation, this assurance of salvation, firmly placed on his head, protecting his head and his shoulders and the back of his neck. He has this firmly placed on his head, can go into battle with confidence, knowing that, hey, my head is protected. My future is secure. I can deal with the darts of doubt I can deal with even close combat. Why? Because my future is secure. No matter what happens in this life, no matter the presence that we're dealing with, whatever it is, it's okay. I'll get through this because my future is secure But folks, when that hope is not secure in your heart, when you don't have the assurances of your salvation, when you begin to falter in that Everything is going to begin to break down. There's going to be sense of doubt and fear and insecurity and all of that begins to invade your life. And Satan's got you exactly where he wants you. Because you know what happens then You're very little used to the Lord. In a state of of lack of assurance and fear and doubt, it will debilitate you. It will paralyze you. Fear brings paralysis. First John says fear brings torment. And so the answer for you and for I when we're struggling with the assurance of our salvation is we've got to return and focus on God because God is greater than our hearts. Now, with that in mind, we then move to the next part of the armor. The next part of the armor is the sword of the spirit. To really set the stage for how this is going to work, I'd like you to take your Bibles and actually turn to Ephesians chapter 2. Ephesians chapter 2. Ephesians chapter two is going to remind us of the kind of battle that we are in. And picking up here in verse chapter 2, verse 1. And you he made alive, who were dead in trespasses and sins. In which you once walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air. The Spirit who now works in the sons of disobedience. What this verse describes is the battle that we have where we are, that there is, there is, folk folks, a force in the world. It is an evil force. It is piloted by Satan. It is the darkness of this world. And and we need to understand, folks, that that a couple of things about Satan. Number one, we need to understand that Satan Is smarter than you and me. We are never going to get to the point where we can know Satan, we can fight Satan. We are never going to get to the point If we think we're going to do it with our own intellect. Nor are we going to be able to do this with our own strength. Satan is stronger than us. And in fact, Satan is really more experienced than us, right? I mean, he's been living a long time Christian, do you realize that if you're going to rely on your own mind or your own intellect or your own strength or your own or your own experience You in the Christian life are going to eventually fail. And if we are going to actually make forward steps of movement movement for the cause of Christ and for the f furtherance of God's kingdom, There is literally, folks, only one way. And there is only one offensive weapon. And that is the word of God. God's word is the only thing that can make advances, offensive advances towards Satan. Now, this sword in the Roman, the Roman sword that's depicted here is a very short sword. It's about two inches thick or two inches wide. And only two feet high. It's really almost more of a dagger that's pitched pictured here. And this is a sword that again is used for close combat. The picture here really is not that we're going to make advances in gaining ground. There's a sense in which God already has the ground. And our job is in our own lives personally to make sure that he doesn't gain ground in our lives. And so we have this short sword that is an offensive sword that keeps Satan at a distance. So that the only thing you do is shoot darts, which we'll always have, and we have a shield of faith for that. But what we are going to do is we're going to be able, when he gets in close, we're going to be able to be very precise in dealing with Satan with precision. Now we have another problem. Not only is Satan smart And Satan's strong. Not only is he experienced, but did you know that Satan knows the Bible better than you do? I mean, that's the reality. He knows the Bible better than all of us. We are not talking about a foe here who doesn't know what sword we have. And yet, Paul uses this concept and he's going to explain for us, he has something more in mind than just the rote. the rote truth as it stands here. That's the foundation. The foundation for us is that we are we believe the Bible. And that truth comes from the Bible. And what we have here is absolute truth. That's the foundation. In fact, we will remember when we look at the belt of truth, we have the scabbard, and that sword is in the scabbard of truth. The basis for us being able to use the sword is that we understand the truth. But but God uses by the inspiration of his spirit uses a different word here when it's When he says the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. The word here, the normal word for word in the New Testament is the word logos. Most of you, even if you don't know Greek, are familiar with that term. Or some of some of you anyway. But this is not that word. It's another word. It is the word Rhema. It's a different word. Now, sometimes this word logos and this word remah are used interchangeably. But there does seem to be a difference in this word Rhema from the word logos And I want to take you to the very first time this word Ramah is used. It is it is by no accident that this is the case. If you'll take just take your Bibles and turn, you know what, for sake of time, don't turn there, but you can write- I would encourage you to write this down Matthew chapter 4, verse 4. And the context in Matthew chapter 4, verse 4, is that Christ is fighting the devil. If you remember, he's come to him with some temptations. And Christ then says with the first temptation: man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word. And that word is the word Rhema. That proceedeth out of the mouth of God. We find also in Hebrews 11, verse 3, it says, Through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the word, the Rhema of God. In 1 Peter chapter 1, verse 25, it says, the word of the Lord endureth, and we would immediately think of the Bible when we're Thinking that but that word bears the word Rhema. So what it's probably talking about, more likely, is talking about Christ's speech of his own words. And then he says And this is the word which by the gospel is preached unto you. And over in Romans chapter 10, when it talks about faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. We also find this word in that context several times, the word Rhema. It seems to be that what we're talking about with this particular word is that this is God's word articulated. God's word, it seems to have something to do with speaking the word. In most contexts, we're talking about the spoken word when we're talking about the term. Not in every case, but in most cases. So when we're talking about this and we're talking about the spoken word, how can we use the spoken word? Very frankly, here's what it's not talking about. It's not talking about some sort of Formula that if you know these words for this situation, then you can fight the devil. We're not talking about that here. Folks, what we're talking about is the fact that we know the word well enough That when Satan comes close on us, that we can take the precise word of God and we can use it in a precise manner. It's not that we just generally believe this stuff. You know what? I'm fine because I believe the book. I just believe the book. I just know the book. I know the Bible. After an ordination council, one time I was on an ordination council where the candidate very candidly did not know his Bible well. He passed ordination and now is out of the ministry. He said to someone, I I asked him some questions. I was very uncom I just was very uncomfortable with his answers. He just didn't seem to take things seriously. And um anyway, I was talk I afterwards I uh Heard that he said what he really wanted to just say to everybody is, you know, if it's in here, I believe it. Folks, that is not enough. It is not enough just to say if it's in here, I believe it. Now, if it's in here, we need to believe it. But folks, we've got to be able to know how to use this thing. It is not enough just to say, well, if it's in the Bible, I believe it. So, you know, that's fine. So I'm I'm good. I'm good. You know, I don't need to know the Bible well. I don't need to know how to use the Bible effectively to make sure that my mind is correctly aligned with the thinking of God. I don't need no, I just need to, you know, I need to, I just the Bible is the Bible. Well folks, we need to have a skill when it comes to knowing the word and using the word. And frankly, that comes as we articulate the word. And I think what we're talking here, folks, is about articulating eating our minds The Bible, the Old Testament calls it meditation, where we're going to go over and over in our mind the Word of God and memorization And meditation, and we're going to think through it, and we're going to sift it through and we're going to chew on it so that we know this and that when when the when the fight comes, it's like, oh, I know exactly that's just Here's how we deal with this. We're enable, we have a skill in wielding the sword correctly. Folks, that is what this is talking about. It's talking about that, and that is really verified by the fact that it's said in Ephesians chapter 6 verse 5, and having tasted the good word, Rhema of God. In that passage, what we're talking about is it's the experienced word. So folks, let me just suggest this to you. When we're talking about taking up the The source of the Spirit. What we're talking about is that you know the truth of the Word of God. It's there, but it's going to be converted from this to over here, where I can say I've experienced the Word of God for myself And how do you get there? You get there by preaching to yourselves. You know, the preaching of God's word is absolutely vital for the Christian. The preaching of God's Word is one of the key characteristics that ought to happen in every single church that exists. The expository Preaching of the Word of God. But Martin Lloyd Jones suggested in the book, and he entitled Christi uh, I think he entitled it Christian Depression, something like that. He said that we need to learn to preach to ourselves. We need to say, as David said, Why art thou cast down, O my soul? Hope thou in God from whence cow cast my from whence comes my help. David was preaching to himself. And if we're going to take that word and effectively use it, we are going to have to learn to preach to ourselves. Let me just ask you a question. You listen to preaching every Sunday. But on Monday, how and Tuesday and Wednesday and Thursday and Friday and Saturday, how often are you preaching to yourself How often are you taking the truths from the Word of God and literally talking to yourself about them? Consciously, as David said he meditated upon these things on his bed. He was thinking about them all the time. He was Rolling them over in his mind. Folks, that's how you go from the wooden word of God, which is absolutely vital, to the experienced word of God, where you've experienced it. It's as though you have tasted it for yourself. And when you have tasted of the Word of God, folks, it is like it's like taking a good steak and enjoying it. If you have not enjoyed God's word on your own in a very long time, folks, you're not doing what Psalm 1 says in delighting in the law of the Lord. Don't expect that your ways are going to prosper. Don't expect that you're going to be a tree planted by the river of water. If you're not taking from the water that the river is from the source, you're not going to be that tree that's that's flourishing. It is absolutely necessary for you to experience the Word of God on yourself. You remember what Joel said a couple weeks ago? Missionary Joel Pochet. He said that the reason that every single day people we met the the first century, they met for church every day in the first century. You know why? Because they didn't have the written word, all of them. They had to listen to it spoken They had to listen to it preached every single day. Folks, we've got the written word of God in our hands in multiple forms in various versions. computer programs and concordances. We have all kinds of things. Folks, we can do this on our own every day. Doesn't mean that we that the preaching of the Word of God on a in a corporate setting becomes unimportant. It's biblical. We've got to have that. But if we're going to fight the devil and make forward offensive advances Toward the devil, we're going to have to be able to learn to experience the Word of God on a day-to-day basis. And that is the final part of the armor. Now, it says the sword, here finally, the sword of the Spirit. We're not going to take the time to look at all the occurrences in Ephesians on this term spirit, but the Holy Spirit is talked a lot about in Ephesians. And if you recall from Ephesians chapter 3, verse 16, when we covered that passage, the main thing that the Spirit of God does is he motivates us. He motivates us to do what he wants us to do. That he would grant you, according to the riches of his glory, to be strengthened with might by his spirit in the inner man. And the Bible says in Ephesians chapter 5, verses 18 through 22, that we need to be filled with the Spirit of God. That means we need to be under the influence of the Holy Spirit. And if you recall, there are three results to that. Number one. You're going to worship God when you're filled with the Spirit. Number two, you're going to be thankful. You're going to have a thankful heart, not a complaining heart, not a griping heart, a thankful heart toward God and toward others. And you're going to have a submissive heart toward others. Those are the three results in Ephesians chapter 5 of being under the influence of the Spirit of God in your life. And folks, that is entirely necessary if you're going to fight a devil who knows the word better than you do. Because the Bible says that he is stronger, that is in you Than he that is in the world. It takes the combination of the Spirit of God and the Word of God to fight the devil. So when you think about all of these various parts of the armor, the belt of truth, the breastplate of righteousness, the faith of the shield of faith. The helmet of salvation, the sword of the spirit, the shoes of the preparation of the peace of the gospel. When you look at all when you take all of these parts of the armor, folks If you are struggling in your Christian walk, you would do so well, and I would do so well to look and see where there is a breach in the armor. To do some self-diagnosis and to look at the arm different parts of the armor and say, okay, well where am I, where is the problem? I got pro I am not growing in my Christianity Christian life. I am not advancing the way I'm not being used of God the way I think the Lord wants me to use to be used. Why is that? If you would learn, if all of us would learn to take these different parts of the armor and just think through them Where am I do I not am I not in right standing with God? Or am I not experiencing the peace of God because I'm not establishing that fact Or am I not, if there's is there some lie about God's character I'm not believing, or some lie about the gospel I'm not believing, so I don't have the belt of truth on Or I'm not trusting in God the way I want I need to, so that the darts are coming in and they're penetrating my my own armor. Folks, if we would learn to think through all of that, it is going to it could radically change our lives Now we just leave you with this. The entire armor, Honer says this in his commentary in Ephesians, which is, in my mind, the best commentary I've ever found in Ephesians. The entire armor is absolutely necessary in the spiritual warfare against the devil and his angels. As in other parts of this book, the exhortation is directed to both the individual and the corporate body. This is in keeping with the dominant theme of the book: unity of the believing Jews and Gentiles in one body. Thus, the church, the body of believers, is in this warfare together. As the Roman soldier did not fight alone So must believers as a body, united under the commander-in-chief, stand against the spiritual wickedness in heavenly places. As we are really becoming concluding this book, I've got a couple more messages on prayer, but we're coming very close to the end of this book. All of this is going to work together for the sake of God's kingdom, for the habitation of God in the church If all of us are putting on this armor as individuals, then we are stronger as a body of believers for the sake of God's kingdom. But folks, if we are leaving off the armor, if we're not paying attention, if we're not Focused on these on living out the gospel in our lives. The furtherance of the kingdom is is at risk, at least in our working in it. Our involvement. God will do what he will do for the further of his kingdom. But our involvement in the kingdom, our usefulness in the kingdom. is directly tied to how we live out the gospel and we have a divinely inspired list of things to look at to make sure that we are rightly and rightly related to the gospel. And I just really want to challenge you and encourage you. Don't let these parts of the armor slip through and you don't think about them again. When you're struggling in your Christian life, recall them and think through what these different things mean. If you need to listen to a message again, they're all online. Get the messages. If you don't have an internet, go on go to go go ask Pat and he'll burn them for you. Don't let these things Slip through your fingertips because they therein lies the keys to being able to live the Christian life as God desires for us to live them. And maybe there's somebody here Or we're going through all this, and you're going, you know, I'm not living the Christian life because I don't know the Lord. I can never have the assurance of salvation because I don't know Christ. I have never really agreed and accepted the gospel in the way that you've been talking about in your eye I yeah, maybe I prayed a prayer when I was a kid. I I kind of know something about Jesus. I grew up in church or whatever, but I have never really embraced the gospel for my very own. I've never really uh understood what God Christ did for me. I've never really applied it to my own heart in life. And if you're listening that and and and that's the situation that you're in, would you I I just encourage you, come and talk to me after the service or talk to somebody you're comfortable with. Don't leave here without knowing that you know Christ. God desires, he's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. Let's pray.