As we've been looking at this book, he has taught us about the greatness of Christ. He has taught us about the deity of Christ Christ and the fact that this deity of the second person of the Trinity that went uh that pre existed all of creation became one of his own creation and took on humanity And still retained his deity somehow. And limited his own glory, but showed his glory to a select group of disciples so that they could testify. of the glory of God that was more prominent than Moses' uh encounter with God But John is now going to turn to his narrative. In verses 4 through 14, or 1 through 14 of John chapter 1, we have the prologue. That is establishing the very purpose that John is writing, and it's an extended prologue. Now, John is going to turn to a narrative that is going to continue the same kinds of themes, but in a different manner And he's going to identify a very prominent figure in the beginning stages of Christ's life and ministry, and that is the person of John the Baptist. John desires to continue that we see the greatness of Christ. But in order for us to be able to do that, he's going to give for us a comparison. Comparisons are very helpful for us to understand and to gain perspective. For example, If you, if I were to tell you that a aircraft carrier has 1,092 feet long, it's 1,092 feet long, you would say, oh, that's big. But it doesn't give you a lot of perspective. However, if I tell you that an aircraft carrier is the length of four football fields, It gives you more of a perspective, doesn't it? It tells you the greatness of that aircraft carrier. It is four football fields long. Some of us would probably start gasping at running one football field long, but four football fields long And so when now we introduce, or God in John here introduces John the Baptist as an individual He is doing so to give for us a contrast and a comparison, contrast and comparison comparison in this passage. So that we can even more see the greatness of Christ. The other thing that this passage is going to do for us is it's going to demonstrate for us the model witness. of Christ. What would a model witness look like? And we're going to find it in this man, John the Baptist. Galatians chapter 2, verse 20 says, I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live yet, not I, but Christ liveth in me. And a life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. Philippians chapter 1, verse 20 says, according to my earnest expectation and my hope, that in nothing it shall be ashamed. but that with all boldness as always, so now also Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life or by death, death for me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. We are all familiar with those words by the Apostle Paul in several different passages where he expresses that he his life is hid with Christ and God. But what does that look like practically? John is going to help us with that by demonstrating through John the Baptist the kind of Christ-like life. that is lived by one who is entirely focused on the preeminence of Christ alone in his life. And we're going to have the privilege to be able to look at this. Let's first go to the Lord and ask his blessing in our time together. Father, we come to you and thank you for your word. It always stands strong and true. It helps us to see Christ in ways that we would never see Him otherwise. And I pray, Lord, that as we go through your word this morning, that we would gain a greater appreciation. Of the Lamb of God who taketh away the sins of the world. It is so appropriate by your providence that you have allowed On a day where we will celebrate together the death of Christ, the broken body, and the shed blood of Christ, it's so appropriate for us to be studying a passage that exemplifies a man Who lived his entire life and preached a message that was clear that Christ is the Lamb of God. And I pray, Lord, that you would help us today to see clearly the preeminence of Christ and to know how, even practically, to make Christ preeminent in our lives and to express it. In a way that others might see it. We admit before you our own failings in these things. We so easily take Christ for granted in our lives And I pray today, Lord, that you would help us to see the significance of the truth this morning, that it would It would give us a resolve to make Christ preeminent. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen We begin in John chapter 1, verse 19, where it says, and this is the record, or you could say the witness. It could be translated that way. This is the witness of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, Who art thou? I want to show you a couple of things with regard to structure in order for us to understand what's going on here in this passage. You saw you see there that you have some some Israel uh uh leadership Jewish leadership there's going to ask John some questions about who he is. You'll also notice in chapter 1 verse 25 that they ask him specifically Specifically about the the kind and the authority of his baptism. And they asked him and said unto him, Why baptize thou then if thou be not that Christ, nor Elias, neither the prophet? And then we see in verse 29 the following day that John is now going to elaborate on his entire on his message that God had given him. to display and to declare to the to the world when he says, The next day John seeth, verse 29, seeth Jesus coming unto him and saith, Behold the Lamb of God which taketh away the sin. We begin here by looking at John's how John describes his own his own role, his own identity, as as John the Baptist here in this first section. So the Jewish leaders have come to him. Priests and Levites have come to him from Jerusalem to ask him who he is. And particularly to ask of him if he is the Christ, the Messiah. They had seen the greatness of his preaching, they had seen the masses that had that had repented as a result of his ministry, and they wondered if this was the man who was prophesied to come To deliver the people from their sin and from the tyranny of the Roman government. It is interesting how John responds, and we're going to see an example of humility in John. just by the redundancy of what he says next in verse 20. He says this, and he confessed, and denied not, but confessed. I am not the Christ, you sort of see what looks to be like like what is he trying to say? Have you ever been ever has anybody ever suggested that you were something and you start stammering like No, I am not. You're like wanting to emphasize I am not him. I am that that is not me. I did not do that. Um John knowing the greatness of Christ and his and the fact that he is God incarnate or um knowing that he is the Messiah, knowing who that That he has come not to be the Messiah, but to proclaim the Messiah, wants to make it very clear that he is not the Christ. He is not Christ Jesus. And he wants to make it very clear, wants to make the people the Jewish leaders very clear about this. It is interesting then that they move to another question. In verse 21, they say, and they asked him, What then art thou Elias? They said, okay, well, if you're not the Messiah, are you Elijah? John answers in an interesting manner, and it is it's interesting because there's a couple of other passages that would seem to contradict John's answer. John answers by saying, he says, no. Art thou that prophet? And he answers, no. Well, this is interesting. And the reason is interesting because over in Matthew chapter 11, verses 11 through 14 Jesus actually says that he is Elias, verse 14, and if ye will receive it, this is Elias which was from for to come And so we so which is it? Christ is saying he is Elijah, and John is saying, No, I'm not Elijah. But Luke is going to help us with all this. He's going to resolve this with the specificity of wording that we We come to expect from Luke as a doctor. And he says in chapter 1, verse 12, if you recall, uh the angel comes to Zacharias to prophesy that he's going to have a son Name John well yeah, name John, and that is of course going to be John the Baptist, and as verse fifteen it says, For he shall be great in the sight of the Lord I mean great in the sight of the Lord, he says, and shall drink neither wine nor strong drink, and he shall be filled with the Holy Ghost, even from his mother's womb, and many of the children of Israel shall be shall he turn to the Lord their God. And he shall come, verse 17, and go before in the spirit and power of Elias, to turn the hearts of the fathers to their children. And so we find in this passage That John is correct in saying that he is not actually Elijah Elijah, not a pre- or a reincarnated Elijah. But because of the Spirit of God in him, in the same way that he empowered Elijah, he empowered John the Baptist. And so you can just imagine, folks, you can imagine the kind of greatness of his ministry. John's ministry was prolific and popular and and incredible. And you would not think it to be, considering the description that you find in various passages of John being a man of the w you know of the wilderness. Being out in the wilderness and being one who is going to be describ uh shouting and yelling and stammering and eating locusts and all those kinds of things, you would not think of that being a man who is going to be able to have the kind of kind of influence that he does. But when you when the Spirit of God is on him, you can't stop God's Spirit. And you almost wonder if if the reason that Christ had John the Baptist depict himself in the way he did and live the way he did was that nobody would be able to Noah would be able to deny the fact that this had to be the Spirit of God in the life of this man. In fact, this uh actually we'll get that in a minute, but also then so then they move to another question. They say, Art thou that prophet? And specifically, you have that prophet. They're not asking, are you a prophet? They're asking, are you that prophet? And they're referring to a prophecy in Deuteronomy chapter 18 that actually is prophesying Christ. And apparently the Jewish leaders of the day did not realize that Deuteronomy 18 was prophesying Christ. They thought it was a special prophet. And so they did not make the distinction between the Messiah, or they did make a distinction between the Messiah that they just asked about and the and the prophet that they're asking about now And of course, then John is or John is clearly going to say, he just says no. He's not that person. In Deuteronomy 18, 15 we find this: And the Lord thy God will raise up unto thee a prophet from the midst of thee, of thy brethren, like unto me, unto him ye shall hearken. According to all that thou desirest of the Lord thy God in Horeb and in the day of the assembly, saying, Let me not hear again the voice of the Lord my God. Neither let me see this this great fire any more that I die not. And the Lord said unto him, They have well spoken that which they have spoken. I will raise them up a prophet from among their brethren. Let unto thee and be put my words in thy in his mouth, and I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak unto them all that I shall command him. And this man, of course, is a this is becomes a prophecy of Christ himself. And so John says no. He says no to all of these things. And it is as though he would be glad just to leave it there But the leaders of the day, the Jewish leaders, keep pressing. And so in verse 22 it says, Then shall then said they unto him, Art thou the prophet? And we that we are verse 22 says, Then said they unto him Who art thou, that we may give an aim an answer to them that sent us? What sayest thou of thyself? He said, and so he's going to give the answer. In other words, they're pressing, look, we got to be able to tell people something about who you are. Would you tell us who you are? Now, before we read the next verse, I just want to pause and point something out about this man, John the Baptist. Christ's own description of John the Baptist is quite incredible. Because in because what we're going to find actually in Matthew chapter eleven, verses nine through eleven is that John Christ says that there is no greater man born uh born among w women in history. In other words, folks, John the Baptist was the greatest man to ever live according to Christ himself, up to that point that men were born of women. That's what it says. So perhaps it excludes Adam, but that's it. It's incredible what Jesus says about John the Baptist. John the Bapt the greatness of this man, the ministry that this man had, the immense amount of power that he had from the Spirit of God. And if you look at John the Baptist's reply, you see none of this. Look at how he replies. He just says this He said, I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness. And by the way, don't you love that reply? It's direct scripture. What a great way to reply to a question of this kind. Let me just tell you what Scripture says I am I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness. Prepare ye the way of the Lord. Make straight the way of the Lord. As said the prophet Elijah. Um this is sort of anecdotal, but um I find personally it a little bit difficult to uh sometimes describe what I do when I I'm um uh talking to somebody that doesn't know the Lord, um they'll say, maybe I'll be in a in an airplane or or uh in a restaurant or something, they'll say, Oh, what do you do? and I'll s and I'll say I'm a pastor. I normally get some sort of expression like, oh. And they sort of look down. Sometimes I'll get that or I'll get um they'll be like, that's Interesting. Like, what do you do as you as a pastor? Or sometimes I'll get I mean I get different different kinds of expressions. It's it's it's sort of interesting to watch. And sometimes I find a real hard time stammer sometimes I'll just say, yeah, I just work a couple hours a week and and uh I kind of make a joke of it a little bit. But but um I found I found that a great answer is just You know, just to quote Ephesians 4, it says, my job is to equip God's people for the work of the ministry. That's what my job is. I'm supposed to equip God's people to serve the Lord. And that's a lot easier. And I just sort of say that and that they don't usually know what that means, but at least I know I've answered correctly, you know? At least I've answered with scripture. And uh John here is just gonna answer with with God's word. He's gonna answer with scripture, and that's just something that that is uh that is the right way to answer He doesn't say, you know, I have this great ministry, or he's not focused on himself. He's just focused on what God wants him to be. Verse 11, verily I say unto you, oh I'm sorry. Um and so okay, so so we're back over here. Verse um uh twenty-three. He said, I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness. Make straight the way of the Lord, as said the prophet Isaiah. And they which were sent were of the of the Pharisees And they asked him, so they asked him that question. Now, then they asked him this question, verse 25. And they asked him, and said unto him, Why baptizest thou then, if thou be not the Christ? Nor Elias, neither the prophet. Now that is an interesting question, isn't it? They're looking at this guy And they're saying, why are you baptizing? You're not Elias, you're not the prophet, you're not, it's like you're not anybody important. Why are you baptizing? Well, John could have said, Well, you know, I am kind of important. I mean, it almost would have been right for him to say that. Christ himself said that he was important, but he doesn't do that. In fact, what he does is he takes his own baptism that he's doing. He says, I baptize with b with water, but there's someone coming that's greater than I. I mean he immediately like, yeah, I baptize with water, and he turns and he moves that direction. He says, hey, there's somebody greater than I that's coming. And he's going to say later that baptizes according to the Spirit or with the Spirit. He immediately deflects it. I mean, is this not a great example of a model witness? Who just wants to reflect Christ in all he says and does. And he immediately just moves to Christ. It's incredible. Man, how awesome. Often do we fail? He says in this passage Verse 25, and they asked him, or verse 26, Jesus uh John answered to them, saying, I baptize with water. But there standeth one among you who whom ye know not. He it is, who come after me, is per preferred before me. Those shoes, latches I am not worthy to unloose. John the Baptist's baptism is a bit unique. Why did John go around baptizing people, and what was the significance of his baptism? And this is important for us to establish because if we misunderstand this, we're going to misunderstand a couple of uh some other things about John's baptism later on in the book. And what's important to understand is that there is the kind of baptism that apparently preceded John's baptism, and to understand the kind of baptism that obviously followed John's baptism. The baptism that preceded John's baptism was what we would call, or what could be called, proselyte baptism. And what that was was in the Old Testament you had proselytes. Proselytes were Gentiles who chose to embrace entirely the Jewish faith. And there isn't, there is some evidence in Scripture, but not clear, explicit statements in Scripture. But we know from extra-biblical sources that they would go through this ceremony called, they would call it baptism. where it would be a clear declaration to all the nation of Israel that this gentile is now a proselyte, which is actually trans can be translated as stranger. This person is now accepted and embraced the Jewish faith. And you actually had thousands of proselytes in the Old Testament. Most people don't realize that And so it wasn't as though these leaders were completely unfamiliar with the idea of baptism. But when we come to John's baptism, there that that's confusing to them because this they were always, the the proselytes were always baptized by either a Levite or a priest or a prophet or somebody with great significance. And so when when John says, I'm not these people, it's a bit confusing to them. And so that's why they ask the question. This is really kind of cleared up to some degree as far as the nature of John's baptism, if you will take your Bibles and turn to the book of Acts for just a minute, because this is going to be dealt with in this book. Acts chapter 19. Because what we want to do is make sure that we do not identify John's baptism as believer's baptism. It is not the same thing. Some people make the grand mistake of identifying John's baptism as the reason that we are called Baptists. Folks, that is not true. It's frankly not even the kind of baptism in the uh in in uh in scripture that we do. The bat in other words, folks, the believers' baptism that we do is not the same kind of baptism as John's baptism. And you want to know how I know that? Well, it's what's what's mentioned in this chapter. Acts 19:1 says, and it came to pass that while Apollos was uh at Corinth, Paul having passed through the upper uh coasts came to Ephesus and finding certain disciples, he said unto them, Have ye received the Holy Ghost since he since he believed? And they said unto him, We have not so much as heard whether there be any Holy Ghost. And he said unto them, Unto what then were ye baptized? See the question? And they said unto John's baptism. And so after that they said, well, that's the same thing, and they moved on their way. Is that what happened? That's not what happened. Verse 4, then said Paul, John verily baptized with a baptism of what, folks? of repentance, saying unto the people that they should believe on him which should come after him, that is on Christ Jesus When they heard this, they were what? They were baptized again. They were rebaptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. And so this baptism, in other words, folks, it's clear from this passage that you have two kinds of baptism. John's baptism is not the same as believers' baptism. Well what kind of baptism was John's baptism? And we see an indication there along with actually all over the place when it talks about John's baptism. It is a baptism of what Of repentance. And repentance, of course, is a change of mind that results in a change of direction. And so basically, what we would say about John's baptism is simply this: that John was come to manifest Christ to the nation of Israel and to give them an opportunity to change. their thinking and to demonstrate and repentance as a result of it and and to demonstrate that publicly There was something about this idea of demonstrating this baptism publicly as in preparation for Christ's coming, who would then baptize them in an entirely different way altogether, which we'll see in a minute. That's John's baptism. It is, folks, an entirely different kind of baptism than believers' baptism, and of course it is a different baptism than Holy Spirit baptism. Which we will talk about. Now, with all of that in mind, we need to go back to John chapter 1. And what I want us to notice about this. And regain our thoughts about John the Baptist and his response, is that he is going to say to them, the one who is coming I'm not going to emphasize the baptism I'm doing. The one that is coming, the latchet on his sandals, the shoe latchet, I am not worthy to unloose. It was very common in those days to go through a a uh a ritual called uh very common, I don't know, ritual is probably not a good word, it's probably it was a very practical thing, uh, called foot washing. And of course the the streets were not paved with asphalt back then. They were paved they were they had stone and and and uh dirt and those kinds of things and your feet got very dirty and you were usually doing uh had sandals on and of course you go into somebody's home and have dinner and they would wash your feet or they'd have their servants usually their servants wash their feet for you And John says, I'm not even worthy to unlatch the sandal. John didn't say, I'm not worthy, I'm not even worthy to wash his feet John said, I'm not even worthy to take off the sandals in order to wash his feet. John's point was, look, I want you to understand that compared to Christ have nobody. Now Jesus just said he's the greatest man that ever lived up to that point And he's saying, compared to Christ, I'm not even worried to unlatch his sandals. What is that doing, folks? It's demonstrating in the most tangible, practical way that John knows how to demonstrate the greatness of Christ. It's incredible. Do we think of Christ that way? Do we live that way? Do we wake up in the morning and ask, how can I reflect Christ? Do we have the attitude of Christ, of John, who says, He must increase, and I must decrease. Verse twenty eight these things were done in Bethabarah beyond Jordan, where John was baptized. What was baptizing? Now the next day, verse 29, John is going, John sees Jesus coming. See that? He seeth Jesus coming unto him and saith, Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. Now there was some and there are even some commentators that suggest that this concept of or this description of Christ here depicts the meekness and lowliness and um and gentleness of Christ. But I'm going to suggest to you that that was not, at least primarily, what John had in mind. And what tells us this is something that's extremely helpful for us in understanding this is the time period with which this is all happening. Would you notice in John chapter 2, verse 13, so not too far away, would you just flip over a page and look at what it says here? What time was this? The Jews' Passover was at hand. Okay, so this is the time of the Jewish Passover. And do you remember as we're reading through this, you're seeing that it's identifying the days. I mean we have the first day of course in chapter 1 verse 19. The next day in verse 29, okay, it says the next day John seeth, okay, that's the next day. But then would you notice chapter one verse thirty five? It says again the next day. So that now what day are we on? This isn't hard The third day, very good. Okay. And then we have it again in verse 43, the day following. I mean, it seems as though John is trying to map out some days here, isn't he? I mean, all of the narratives in the Gospels are not chronological, but in this case they are chronological. And so he goes through the first day, the second day, the third day, the fourth day, and then he says in verse um Chapter 2 verse 1. And the third day. Well, he's not going backwards. What is he doing? It's the third day in comparison to what? The last fourth day. So four plus three equals oh boy. That like three people said that. Four plus three is seven. Okay, very good. All right, seven. How many days were the Passover? Seven days. What we have here is a description of the Passover. That John is in the midst of the Passover. The Jewish people are coming to him at a time during the Passover. And Jesus comes and John sees him there. And John says to about Christ, this Is the Lamb of God. It has been depicted that perhaps with the background noise of the slaughtering of lambs for the sacrifice of the Jewish people, John is saying, this is the Lamb. Which taketh away the sin of the world. Unless we lest we diminish that Just look at our own sin. If that phrase does not ring to you as significant and prominent and And life changing. Take two minutes, look at your own sin And if you make little of sin, that will mean very little. But if you see sin the way God sees sin, that will mean a great deal to you. Jesus is the Lamb of God that takes away the sin of the world. John then says this, This is he of whom I said, after me cometh a man which is preferred before me For he was before me. Now, this is very interesting. This is the third time that John, the writer of John, has depicted this statement. He said in verse 15, just look back there for a minute, you'll see it. Verse 15. John bear witness of him, and Christ saith, this was he of whom I spake. He that cometh after me is referred before me, for he was before me. And then you're going to see it here again in verse 27. Do you see it? It is he who cometh after me is preferred before me. And now again, he's going to say it again in verse 30. This is he whom I said, After me cometh a man which is before. Prefer before me, for he was before me. Three times in this one chapter we have this exact phrase. I mean, what you have here is John, who previous to this point is saying, There's a man coming. who was preferred before me, or who came who who is before me and preferred before me because he came before me. He kept saying that, even though he's coming before him In other words, John is preparing the way. He's coming first, but he keeps saying, hey, there's somebody coming after me. Don't miss him. Because, and and it's almost as though John knew the influence of his own ministry, that he really was anxious about the reality that they can't miss Christ. Instead of Charles Spurgeon, who at the height of his ministry were packing in 25,000 people into an auditorium and hundreds of people couldn't even get in. Because he didn't have a ticket to get in. And it was reported of John Charles Spurgeon that it was not it never turned his head. It caused him actually to it plunged him into depression, actually. Because he was very concerned that the people would be focused on him rather than Christ. And John says the same thing here. John's desire is for no one to focus on him. He wants Christ to be preeminent. Verse 31, and I knew him not, but that he should be made manifest to Israel, therefore am I come baptizing with water. And John bare record saying, I saw the Spirit descending from heaven like a dove, and it abode on him. He's referring now to Jesus' baptism, who and John baptized him. And I knew him not Why did he say that? Well, when John when Jesus came to baptize him, he didn't recognize him. And John would point this out more than likely just as out of humility to say, it isn't as though I have I just recognize everything and I know everything. I didn't know him. I didn't recognize him when he came, but because I baptized him, I knew him. And God, he wanted me to baptize him. I saw the Spirit descending from from heaven. Oh, I knew him not, verse 33. But he that sent me to baptize with water, the same said unto me, upon whom thou shalt see the Spirit descending and remaining on him, the same is he which baptizes with the Holy Ghost. And I saw and bear record that this is the Son of God. Why does John mention here the baptism of the Spirit? It is because he wants the people to realize that all John was doing and baptizing was with water was just an outward manifestation of repentance. On the behalf of the people that accepted repentance and accepted the new way. And he wanted them to understand that, but there was somebody coming who would baptize not with water, but with what? Or who Another person of the Trinity. I mean, just consider the comparison. John baptized with Water, common everyday water in the Jordan River. He baptized with water, but there was somebody who is coming who's going to baptize with the Holy Ghost, who's going to baptize with the Spirit It demonstrates again in another way the preeminence of Christ. Only God could baptize with God. That's exactly what Christ came to do. But let's not read too much into that, and what I mean by that is we have a fuller understanding in the New Testament. In the New Testament, in the epistles, about this whole idea of baptism of the Holy Spirit, but realize that when John says this, that has not been fully developed by the epistles yet. So when John says it, what does it mean And we could go to other passages in the gospel that will help us with this. We won't take the time to turn there, but there are other passages that add the idea of fire involved. Where it says the Holy baptized with the Holy Spirit and with fire What does he mean by that? Well, in the context, and you can write this down if you want and look at it later, Matthew chapter 3, verses 11 through 17. He begins to talk about this idea of batter or this baptism is added, this baptism with the Holy Spirit and with fire, and more than likely is talking about a cleansing agent. You see, John's baptism had absolutely no way of cleansing anyone. That's not the point of John's baptism. Frankly, neither is it believers' baptism isn't that that point either, isn't it for that reason either. either. But there is a kind of spiritual baptism that happens at the point of regeneration that does occur That Christ does to anyone who accepts him and receives him by faith. He baptizes them. In other words, folks, he cleanses them with his Spirit. Sometimes when we think of the work of Christ, we think of it as sort of a distant concept that historically 2,000 year years ago Christ died on the cross for us. But folks, let's not forget that that that that death on the cross on the cross for us was effective to do something to us That was very immediate at salvation, the cleansing power of the Spirit of God in the baptism with the Spirit. And let's remember this. That it is not the Spirit of God that baptizes, it's Christ that baptizes with the Spirit. That's what happens when somebody comes to Christ. It's an incredible concept. And all of this was demonstrated by John So that they would see how great Christ is. And in comparison, John Was nothing. We are so consumed With our own thoughts and desires and needs. And I'm putting myself in this category too. I'm not preaching in any way as As one who is above what I'm preaching, and frankly, I'm probably below what I'm preaching. We are so consumed with our own thoughts and intents and desires and wants. And what we think what our pursuits are. We very rarely consider the pursuit of Christ alone. John gives us an example. An example of a model witness. You see, it's not enough for us to just say, well, I'm going to go out and hand out tracks. Or I'm going to preach the gospel to people, or I'm going to bring people to church. No, that's not the kind of witness that people need. They need to see Christ. Christ. And when they ask us about Christ in us, we ought to deflect to Christ. And not even say, oh, that's because I have such a rel sometimes wrong to say this, but it's not, oh I have a relationship with Christ. It's no, it's it's It's what God's done to me. It's not has nothing to do with me at all. It's all what God has done to me and for me If we have that kind of humility, it might be amazing to see what God does with us in allowing others to see Christ through us. And if you're listening today, and maybe you're saying, you know, I have held Christ at I've held him at a distance. Maybe in one sense, you've never actually really embraced him as your own. Or, in another sense, you have, but it's been a long time since since you have considered him to be your friend, your closest friend that sticks closer than a brother, that loves you with an everlasting love. Christ said in John, he's going to say later on in John 15, you're my friend. It's incredible. He's done all of this for us. He is the Lamb of God that taketh away the sin of the world. We have just an immense and incredible privilege now. To partake of the Lord's Supper together after hearing from a text that exemplifies the Lamb of God. And I am just thrilled that we're going to be able to do this. And we're going to do something a little different than we've done before. I've already mentioned this. We're going to sing a song that I think really depicts uh the Lord's Supper and the and the and the the message of the Lord's Supper. We're going to sing the first three verses. And then after the three verses, we're going to Um we're going to uh take some time just to in our own hearts. And maybe the Lord has pre has brought up a sin or sins in your life that you need to confess, but primarily, primarily just to take some time to reflect and thank God in our own hearts for the sacrifice of Christ for us. And then we'll partake together, and then we'll sing the final verse together. um as a as a just a a way of unified um worship to the Lord. So let's sing Behold the Lamb. You don't have this the music to this so but hopefully the the tune is easy enough.