Alright, let's worship the Lord together. I'll be reading from Psalm 61, verses 1 through 4. Hear my cry, O God, attend to my prayer. From the end of the earth I will cry to you. When my heart is overwhelmed, lead me to the rock that is higher than I. For you have been a shelter for me, a strong tower from the enemy. I will abide in your tabernacle forever. I will trust in the shelter of your wings. Let's pray together. Father, we praise you for who you are this morning. We thank you that you are a God whom we can turn for shelter. we can turn to. And the reason that we can is because you have made a way for us to be, for us to be in your presence, for you to be in our presence. And as we reflect on Exodus 25, which we'll be looking at today, we see your clear holiness that You cannot have your character of holiness cannot be defiled. And we also see your intense desire to be with your people. And you lay out a way for that to happen through the tabernacle, and you've laid out a way for us to have that happen through the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. Because of the completed work of Christ, and we praise you for that. And Lord, we admit before you often that in our own thinking we are not aware of your presence like we ought to be. Your spirit indwells us individually and your spirit meets with us corporately as we work worship together. Your church is a habitation. of you and your presence according to your word. And we often forget that. We confess that to you, Lord, that sometimes we're so busy going through the motions of the di of the of the various aspects of life and living and our schedules and we get distracted and preoccupied and we confess that to you. And today, even today in this service, I pray that our minds and our hearts would put away those distractions and focus in on who you are to be aware of your presence today as we look at your word. We praise you for your holiness. We praise you for your compassion and love for us. We praise you for the extent to which you have made yourself present in our lives. And desire for us to be one with you. We praise you for all of that this morning. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Let us pray together. Father, we uh we come to you and we do thank you for our fairest Lord Jesus. Jesus. Truly, all adoration, praise, honor, and glory is to you. We thank you, Lord, that That we have been given your Son, and that through him our sins have been removed. Our home in heaven, our future is secure. We thank you that we can rely on Jesus and we do not have to depend on On ourselves. Because if we had to depend on ourselves, we would fail. We would truly be miserable and hopeless. And you have brought hope to the hopeless because of Your son. We thank you, Lord, that as we have been seeing in your in the book of Exodus and your word that you are truly one who wants to be with your people, your creation. And we thank you for that desire that you have, Father. And even though there is a great barrier, this barrier of sin. That you consistently throughout history have made a way through your wisdom and your mercy, you've made a way for us to be with you. To be in your presence, for your presence to be here. And we think of the future when presence with you will be reality. And there will be no barriers anymore. But we will be with you forever. We thank you, Lord, that these things are true. And these things are I do pray, Lord, for uh the service to come and I pray that you'd be working in our hearts as we consider the the passage ahead, Lord. Thank you for the work that you're doing in our lives. I thank you, Lord, that Hisham is able to be with us today. We do know he's been dealing with a a lot of back pain and we we ask that you continue to work in his situation. We ask that uh you would uh intervene on his behalf that he could be back to full health again. We thank you, Lord, that um that we have this uh this hope, this this certainty that that you know what we're going through. And we know that that you uh you are not surprised or you don't are not ignorant of of the struggles that we deal with. And and one of the struggles, Lord, that we deal with is the the state of our nation and and the direction it seems to be headed and we do pray that you would uh be working through your people and through those that you have appointed in leadership in In this state, in this country. We know that the heart of the king is in your hands. And I ask, Lord, that you would be Moving and working in such a way to further your kingdom, to really make your name great among this nation. So often, Lord, you are ripped misrepresented. And uh it's it can be difficult to listen to sometimes, Father, but we know that you are in the business of of proclaiming your truth and and causing yourself to be glorified. And Lord, we ask that you would do that in our midst and in this nation. Pray, Lord, these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Today's passage that Pastor will be preaching from is Exodus 25, 1 through 22. And I'll begin reading now. Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying Speak to the children of Israel that they may bring me an offering. For everyone who gives it willingly with his heart, you shall take my offering. And this is the offering which you shall take from them: gold, silver, and bronze, blue, purple, and scarlet thread, fine linen, and goat's hair. Ramskins ramskins dyed red, badger skins from and acacia wood, oil for the light, and spices for the anointing oil and for the sweet incense, onyx stones and stones to be set in the ephod and in the breastplate, and let them make me a sanctuary that I may dwell among them. According to all that show you, that is, the pattern of the tabernacle, the pattern of all its furnishings. Just so you shall make it. And they shall make an ark of the acacia wood, two and a half cubits shall be its length, a cubit and a half its width, and a cubit and a half its height And you shall overlay it with pure gold, inside and out you shall overlay it, and shall make on it a moulding of gold all around. You shall cast four rings of gold for it, and put them in its four corners. Two rings shall be on one side, and two rings on the other side, and you shall make poles of acacia wood and overlay them with gold And you shall put the poles into the rings on the sides of the ark, that the ark may be carried by them. The poles shall be in the rings of the ark, and they shall not be taken from it. You shall put into the ark the testimony, which I will give you. You shall make a mercy seat of pure gold. Two and a half cubits shall be its length, and a cubit and a half its width. And you shall make two cherubim of gold, of hammered work. You shall make them at the at the two ends of the mercy seat. Make one cherub at the end, and the other cherub at the other end You shall make the cherubim at the two ends of it of one piece with the mercy seat. And the cherubim shall stretch out their wings above, covering the mercy seat with their wings and they shall face one another, and the faces of the cherubim shall be toward the mercy seat. You shall put o put the mercy seat on top of the ark, and in the ark you shall put the testimony that I will give you. And there I will meet with you, and I will speak with you from above the mercy seat, from between the two cherubim, which are on the ark of the testimony. So if you recall from last week when we were in Exodus 24, what you find is that God had met with Israel's leaders. His presence was there with the is with the leaders of Israel. Maybe one verse from that passage would be help us to sort of get our bearings, verse ten it says, And they saw the Lord God of Israel, and there was under his feet, as it were, a paved work of sapphire stone, and it was like the very heavens in its clarity. Now God is going to, in this passage, detail instruction for us on how Israel was to make the tabernacle. Then it's going to narrow into particularly how God is how the Israel is to craft the Ark of the Covenant and the mercy seat and all of that. God last week met with his people, his presence was with his people, and this week he is showing them how to maintain a uh uh uh the the right conditions for them to continue to to be for God to continue to be in his presence. Um You know, it's uh it brings up kind of an kind of an interesting question. When we think about our world today, we think about our earth today, we think about how things are. Have you noticed that there seems to be a less uh there seems to be less interest in the things of God among our world, particularly among our country? This is evidenced by the fact that that church attendance, for example, has dropped in the last few years and and not including 2020, because you can't really That's an aberration, you know, you can't really even go by those statistics. Uh but in 2007 there were fifty-four percent of the US population that attended church on a monthly or monthly or more than monthly basis But by 2019, that number is down to 45%. And that is also inverted Uh in the sense that there are now you know of as of n uh twenty nineteen, fifty four percent go only a couple of times a year. And forty-five percent go um go m once a month or more. And so so we see a clear decline in the attendance of church. People just don't even think it's necessary anymore They don't see it as valuable. They don't see it as something that's that is as uh that is helpful or whatever. Uh the question is why Why is it that people find maybe they find church to be boring, maybe they find the preaching of the Word of God to be boring or hymns to be boring, or whatever. Why is it that you see such a decline like that? Why is it that you see such a decline in the interest of people in God? And I think we could point to preoccupation with with material, maybe distraction with schedules. You know, I've heard it said before that you can't be, if you're too heavenly-minded, you can't be any earthly good. And I frankly think that's a little short-sighted. Because I think what's really actually happening is people are so earthly minded that they don't see the connection between heaven and earth And because they are so earthly minded, they're getting to the point, people are getting to the point, it seems, as though they think there is nothing besides this earth. Remember Christ's prayer? He said, Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. For the Christian, for God's people, there is to be a connection between heaven and earth But the earth, the world, really, I think part of the problem is they just don't see the connection. They don't see the practicality of it. They're preoccupied by their own lives and what is practical And we as Christians, if we're not careful, can kind of just do our church duty and not really see the va the value of it ourselves. Why is that happening? And why what was God's original intention with all of that? And how does this all connect with this passage? Let me illustrate some things. by an illustration illustration that really help us set the stage as we go through uh chapter twenty-five. Imagine that there is a king This is a king of uh he lives in a uh a beautiful palace up on a hill, and below there are villages that he is that are all part of his kingdom, and he has created these villages to be beautiful and wonderful, uh that they are that they he is going to be able to go and be with his people and the people can be with him. And he creates these villages, the people populate the villages, but the villages are destroyed by the people. They're utterly just destroyed. They're mess. You go to every village and it's just destroyed. There's chaos. It's ruined. It's mess. It's like they're all living in mud, in pig sty mud. Like it's just it's just totally destroyed And the king looks at the villages and what people have done, what his villa what the villagers have done to all of these villages in his kingdom. And he is distraught by what has happened. It's so bad that he can't even go down there anymore because it actually is just it just is so in it just makes him sick And yet he desires to be with his people. He still loves them. He's still wants to be with them. And so he decides that he is going to, in the middle of all of it, he is going to take the same kinds of materials that were created in his palace. And the same kinds of of uh of expense and value and all of that that were originally part of all the villages, but they are really only part of his bow uh his palace now And he is going to build a very small place for him to be able to go so that he can be right in the middle of his people. Why? Hopefully, he's hoping that the people will actually see the contrast and they'll actually want to improve their situation. They'll actually want to not be living in a mess when they see the contrast between what they could be living in and what they are living in. And hope and also he can then finally actually be with his people. He wants those kinds of things to happen. Now you're probably seeing the connection already, hopefully. But that is the point, that is the purpose of the tabernacle. The God of heaven wanted to be with his people, present with his people in the mess of the world. But God could not be defiled in his holiness by the people and the mess. And so he creates, he tells them how to create an environment that is consistent with his character, and that is the tabernacle and the Ark of the Covenant, so that he can finally be with his people. And they can worship him in his presence, and ultimately it actually can bring about a new kingdom on earth for Israel and for the surrounding nations as they are a city set on a hill. And a light to the Gentiles. And what we see here is God desiring to be with His people, and now He is setting in place exactly how to do that. What God is going to describe in Exodus 25 are the conditions necessary to worship in His presence, the conditions necessary to worship in the very presence of God. Now, the question is: what are those conditions? And we're going to see three different things in this passage. First, we're going to see that the conditions necessary are number one, an enthusiastic heart. We're going to see that in verses 1 through 9. Then we're going to move on and we're going to see a worthy location. We're going to see God Establishing and telling giving them instructions on how to establish a location that is consistent with the very character of God. And then we're going to see a clear connection. Number three, a clear connection between heaven and earth. So let's begin by looking first of all at an enthusiastic heart. An enthusiastic heart, we pick up in verses 1 through 9, the Lord is telling Moses that he needs to gather the children of Israel and speak to them, and they need to bring an offering to him. Now God's goal of this offering is that they are going to be the materials with which He is they are going to be able to craft the tabernacle and the Ark of the Covenant and the mercy seat and all the different furniture, eventually all of that. And God is saying that the nation of Israel, they need to bring their offerings. But God, it's very interesting how God does this. God had every right to just demand it as a tax But God doesn't do that here. What God does is he wants them to come of their own free will and give them An offering. Give them and give him their offerings. He says in verse 2, speak of the children that they bring me an offering from everyone who gives it what? Willingly, with his heart, you shall take my heart, or you shall take my offering And we see that there is a desire for the people to bring an offering. He says what the offering should include It should be the best of everything really. And this is the offering which shall you shall take from gold, silver, bronze, blue, purple, scarlet, thread, fine linen Goat's hair, ramskins tied around, and then you could and th those are all the the materials necessary to be able to build this tabernacle Now, I want us to notice something about this passage, I think, that is important to understand, that God wanted God's people to be in this in their heart, to be enthusiastic about it. to worship him in their offerings as they build the temple to be to to be really can I say it this way into it To be enthusiastic about it, to not be a side thing, to not be a not to be, okay, well, this is part of what I do in my life. No, to be the central aspect of their lives to be to be uh enthusiastic about this. And if you go to Exodus 36, you're going to find that the people we we're going to talk a lot about the people being bad, and we already have, but the people are actually quite uh a a good example in this area because in Exodus thirty-six they're gathering all the craftsmen are they're gathering things for the craftsmen to be able to build this tabernacle They say so. They continue to bring him free will offering every morning. They're constantly bringing their offerings. And in verse 5 of that passage, it says the people bring much more than enough for the service of the work which the Lord commanded us to do. God actually Moses had to actually had to cause them to stop bringing so much because they were bringing so much to the Lord. of their own free will to God. They were consumed with this. It became the very first thing in their mindset. Every morning they're getting up and saying, what can I offer to God? What can I give to Him? Not of the last, but of the first. Reminds me of the passage in Matthew 6 that says, seek first the kingdom of God. That's what these folks were doing. And you see the same thing when the temple was built. Over in 1 Chronicles 29, verse 2, it says, Now the house of my God I have prepared with all my might, David said, and he was getting it ready for Solomon to be able to assemble. And it says in verse 3, because I have set my affection on the house of God. David did this as a as an example to the people. He set his affection on this. And then in verse 9 of that same passage, the people responded the same way when the it says that the people rejoiced, for they had offered willingly, because with a loyal heart they had offered willingly to the Lord. And the king David also rejoiced greatly. As they, that was the temple later on, as they gathered what they and gave of their offering to be able to build this temple for God. They were loyal to God and they rejoiced over all of what they were able to do for God. That was the mindset. That was the attitude And that is the kind of conditions that God says are necessary to really worship Him in His presence. What was the thing, folks, that ultimately kept God, caused the Shekana glory of God to leave the tabernacle and the temple? It was idolatry. It was moving and putting something else as primary besides the worship of God. And God said, I cannot reside here anymore. The presence of God desires to be with people that put him first. God is deserving of this. And that is no different for us as Christians. There are many things here. We're not supposed to build a tabernacle. We're not supposed to have all these things bronzed and you know, gilded and gold. That's not what we're supposed to do. But folks, what we are supposed to do according to Romans chapter 12 is that we're actually supposed to present our entire bodies as an offering to God. It says in verse 12, I'm sorry, chapter 12 of Romans, verse 1, I beseech you, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies, you present them. them, your whole body, your whole being, everything, you present it to God as a living sacrifice wholly acceptable to God, which is It's just reasonable. Why? Because Christ gave himself for you. And so it's only reasonable for you to give yourself to him. Don't be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind that may prove with the good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Well these materials are all are are God says bring all these materials together as an offering so that the the craftsman can begin to craft this And we find a clear goal. This is maybe the most important two verses to really help us to understand what's the sacrificial system all about, what's the tabernacle all about, what is it all about. Look at verses 8 and 9. You don't want to miss this. Verse 8 says, and let them make me a what? A sanctuary, a dwelling place. That I may what? I may dwell among them. All of the ceremonial laws, all of the defilement laws, all of the tabernacle, everything is so that God may dwell with his people as a holy God. And that's the purpose of the tabernacle. Verse 9, according to all that I show you. That is the pattern of the tabernacle and the pattern of all its furnishings. Just so you shall make it. So he's going to give them a pattern, but there's something else that's alluded to here. He says this is as a pattern of something else What is he talking about when he says that the tabernacle is a pattern? Well, we find more about this in Hebrews 9, verse 11. In that passage it says, But Christ came as a high priest of the good things to come with the greater and more perfect tabernacle. There's a greater and more perfect tabernacle that's what? Not made with hands. There is a tabernacle not made with hands that is not of this creation. It's not of this creation. Not with the blood of goats and calves, but with the with his own blood, he entered the most holy place once for all, having obtained eternal redemption. What is he talking about? He's talking, folks, about heaven. Did you catch that? What the writer of Hebrews is pointing out is that the tabernacle on earth was to be uh to be a symbol and a a I I don't know if replic replica is quite the right word because there ones One's uh not exactly the same, but but they're it's to be symbolic of what is in heaven The very presence of God. And when Christ died on the cross and shed his blood and died and rose from the grave and then ascended into heaven, what did he do? He went to the sanctuary of God and resides there in the presence of God and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. The throne is going to be important as well. The throne of God is in heaven. Now keep that in mind as we go through this passage. We now understand that the tabernacle is the dwelling place of God, and it is to at least picture what is up in heaven It is a reminder to the nation of Israel that God Himself and His glory and His presence is with them. And he's taking the very best of the materials available, the gold and the silver and all the most the best materials available on earth To symbolize the greatness and the glory and the holiness and the beauty of the presence of God, the best that the earth can do. Now in verses ten through sixteen we have uh a continued understanding now of what this loc he He he focuses in on uh the the Ark of the Covenant, and he's going to focus in on uh the location of the Ark and all of that. The Ark of the Covenant now becomes the focal point The focal point of the tabernacle, and the tabernacle is the focal point of the nation of Israel. All of it is telling us and teaching Teaching us and helping us to understand about the presence of God, as we pick up in verses 10 through 16. And he says in that passage, first of all, that you have these very finest of quality of materials in verses 10 through 13 that are now going to be how they build this ark. Look at verse 10. It says and they shall make an ark of acacia wood, two and a half cubits. So we're talking about it's small. This is not large This is a this is you know two and a half cu half cubits is not very big at all. Um and uh uh between two and three feet and it's not it's half the ma half that size is i it's wide, and um and a cubit and a half its width and a cubit and a half its length, its height, and you shall overlay it with pure gold Inside and outside you shall overlay it and shall make it on on it a moulding of gold all around. You shall cast four rings of gold for it, and put it at four corners. Two rings shall be on one side and two rings on this is a this is an impressive I mean just kind of imagine it. This is you know for those of us who've gone up to how many of you have gone up to uh Lancaster to see the the tabernacle. Okay, the one thing that they couldn't do is, you know, gild everything in pure gold. Okay? There's no it's all painted wood. Okay? Alright. I was going up there I thought it'd be pure gold. They said it's a replica, you know I'm kidding. Um I actually didn't know what to expect, but uh but I will just tell you this the beauty of the original tabernacle would far surpass the beauty of the replica up in Lancaster by a lot, actually. It would have been stunning because the whole thing was gilded in pure in a in a very pure gold. In fact, one thing they knew how to do really well back then is how to get the dross out of the gold, so it was extremely pure And so that that's what you find here in this passage as they make these materials. It's interesting in verses 14 through 17, we won't take a long time with this, but the function of this is that he makes these rings that are also overlaid in gold and so that there's also these poles that go through it because God has an intention Here, he wants to the very presence of God is going to lead Israel where they're to go. The presence of God leads them. And so this is to be a portable thing. This is something that is there they're going to have to be flexible as God leads them here and leads them there and then they go here and then they go there. And there it says in the passage, you're not supposed to take these poles out. Why? So they could get up and go at whatever time God says to get up and go. That's what God had intended. Now later on, you're actually going to find that the polls are finally removed and when it when it when it's established as a uh and then certainly the temple they're they're they're removed as well when when Israel begins become more established as a nation But at this point, they're not to be removed. They're to be uh they're to be uh remain portable. I think something else that's extremely important about this passage, would you look then at verse 18 of this passage? Pick up in verse 18. It says, and you shall make actually uh pick up verse 17. I'm sorry, sixteen. Sixteen, I apologize. And you shall put into the ark the testimony which I will give you. Inside of this ark, this may be the most important thing as far as the ark is concerned until we get to the mercy seat But they're supposed to put the testimony. That is the covenant. Now there's a reason for this, because God wants his people to understand that the Word of God and the very covenant of God is to be the very basis of their relationship. That the foundation of the relationship of his people, of his people between him is to be the very word, the very law, the very covenant of God. Now why is that? It's for this reason. The covenant of God, the law of God, and I say it this way: the word of God reflects the character of God. It says in Psalm 138, verse 2, I will worship toward your holy temple and praise your name for your loving kindness and your truth. For you have magnified your word above your name. Now the name of God is what identifies him. He is Yahweh. But it is the word of God that God says is actually is actually elevated higher than his name. That's incredible. In Psalm eighty-nine verse three it says, And I have made a covenant with my chosen. I have sworn to my servant David, your seed I will establish forever, and build up your throne to all generations. Verse 89, uh forever, O Lord, your word is settled in heaven. In Psalm 89, your word is settled in heaven. Do you understand what this passage is saying among other passages? That this is heaven on earth. That the word of God is heaven on earth for us. If you want to see, if you want to understand the connections between the character of God and the earth. It is the word of God. And the very basis in the New Testament as well. The basis of our relationship, the foundation of our relationship. is always the Word of God. I referred to this passage last week, but in 2 Peter 1, verses 17 through 21 It tells us that the Word of God is more sure than even experiencing God on the Mount of Transfiguration. He says, We have the prophetic word confirmed which you will you well you will do well to heed as light that shines in the dark place and the day dawns and the morning star rises in your hearts. Knowing this first that no prophecy of Scripture is of any private interpretation, for the prophecy never came by the will of man, but holy men of God spoke as they were moved by the Holy Spirit. There is something very dangerous, brothers and sisters in Christ, about putting your spiritual experience above the Word of God. Don't ever do that. When someone says, well, I've heard from God, well, God has spoken to me, and this is what God has said. And they are regarding their experience as more important or more valuable than the Word of God, they are false prophets. And it happens all of the time. It is very, very common. And it is extremely dangerous. When you have some sort of spiritual experience and it does not is not consistent with the Word of God, understand there is more than the Spirit of God at play. We wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers. And that's why, folks, we must rely on the Word of God. It is the Spirit's sword. The sword of the Spirit is the Word of God. Everything must be founded on the foundation of the Word of God in our lives. You can't, it is the the thing, this side of heaven, that is truly reliable And the expectations of the Word of God put us in a place where we are in right standing with God. And the expectation is perfection. Which can only be obtained through Jesus Christ. That we are positionally declared righteous by no merit of our own, we are declared righteous by Jesus Christ. See, God knew even back then, even back when he writes this, God knew that the law of God, the covenant of God, was going to need mercy. There's going to have to have mercy that was connected. And now we're going to see this clear connection in verses 17 through 22. We see the mercy seat of pure gold. This mercy seat, God knew. Now we're constructing something. Remember we said that this is a pattern of this is a pattern that is in heaven? And you're going to see this. This is going to become very clear now. You have here in verse 17 a mercy seat. You shall have a mercy seat of pure gold. Two and a half cubits shall be its length, and a cubit and a half its width, and you shall make two cherubim of gold. We'll get to the cherubim in a minute. I just want to mention on the this mercy seat. Don't want to I don't want to go past this too fast. The mercy seat made of pure gold is is the the width essentially it's the width of the of the uh of the Ark of the Covenant. It lays over the Ark of the Covenant. It's also, it could very easily be translated the atonement cover. The atonement cover. And I do want us to notice that there is a location, that the the the location is that this mercy seat is over top of the Ark of the Covenant with the law underneath, the law being the foundation, but above the Ark of the Covenant rests two cherubim. And we're going to see why the cherubim are important in a minute. But understand that between the cherubim and the law is the mercy seat That was where the high priest would come and sprinkle blood on the mercy seat as an offering for the people. to obtain the mercy of God so that they could continue to dwell in the presence of God because God knew they were going to violate the covenant of God. Now, what is there is there is even more here. Understand that location and understand something about it Remember I mentioned before Exodus 24 verse 10. In Exodus 24, verse 10, it says, And they saw the God of Israel, and there was under his feet, as it were, a paved work of sapphire stone. and it was like the heavens in its clarity. This mercy seat is actually the seat of the throne of God. Now you're going to see this more clearly. It is to symbolize the seat, the place Of the throne of God. Now, with that in mind, we'll move to the cherubim. You're going to see this all come together in a few moments. You'll notice then in verses 18 through 20, you have the cherubim. The cherubim are angelic beings. They are creatures. I don't recall anywhere in Scripture where actually cherubim are called angels, by the way. I don't think that they are anywhere. So we can say they're angelic beings, but technically we probably shouldn't say that they're angels. It's not like an archangel Michael. They had a more elevated role than that. They were the most elevated of all of creation. The first time in the entire Bible that we see cherubim mentioned, does anyone know where it is? It's in Genesis chapter 3. Remember that the Garden of Eden was cut off when sin came into the world and through Adam and Eve, that Adam and Eve were were exiled from the garden. What was placed there? Cherubim were placed there. Why were cherubim placed there? Well, it's because the Garden of Eden represented the place of the presence of God in the world. The the they Christ walked the with with them in the cool of the day. Um this was the place where they met together with God, the presence of God. Do you understand the connection here? That the tabernacle is actually symbolizing the Garden of Eden. There is a restoration that is happening here when we get to this passage. There's a lot going on here. It's quite remarkable, and it's symbolized by these by these cherubim. These cherubim obviously are not real cherubim. They're physical uh representations of cherubim. They're made out of gold. They're hammered out. Um they're I mean, these things are made of pure gold And they're hammered out. And uh they're placed on the two ends of the mercy seat, and the wings were supposed to stretch downward toward the ner the mercy seat. They were to face one another and the and um and also their faces were to be down toward the mercy seat, focused on the mercy seat. Now, we won't take the time to turn there, but you can actually find that these were enlarged by a lot in the temple in 1 Kings chapter 6, verse Verse 24, if you want to study that out later, you'll see that they that uh Solomon made these much, much larger, but they weren't made of pure gold anymore. They were they were gilded with gold. But these were made of pure gold. But they all symbolize something. Now, I want I let me ask you to take your Bibles and turn for just a minute. I want you to see this. Ezekiel chapter 1. This is all going to come together when we look at this book of Ezekiel again. Ezekiel chapter 1, I wish we had time to go through the entire chapter and to look at all the details of the cherubim. By the way, what you see on your screen is an artist's depictions of the cherubim. They don't look beautiful to me when you actually look at one. It looks a little ugly. But we just have to believe what God says. They're beautiful. Okay? And and um and I want you to see this. Ezekiel is having a vision, a true vision of God. And we find in chapter one of Ezekiel it says, Now it came to pass on the thirtieth year of the fourth month, on the fifth day of the month, I was among the captives of the river Chinese So what is what is the vision? The vision is of the heaven opening, and this is a vision of God, Ezekiel. is having. Now notice that even in the vision, as you work through this passage, you are not going to actually see the image of God. You see part of it, but you're not going to see all of the glory of God. Even in this vision, he's not going to see it. But the focal point of the vision are these cherubim In verse 5, it says, and from within it came to the likeness of four living creatures. Now look at these, what do these cherubim look like? You're going to see a description of them. And we won't take a time to look through all this, but I want to read for you just a little bit. It says, All from within it came the likeness of the four living creatures, and this was their appearance. They They had the likeness of man. Each one had four faces, and each had four wings. Their legs were straight, and their soles of their feet were w like the soles of calves' feet. They sparkled like the color of the burnished bronze, their hands of man the hands of man were under their wings on their four sides, and each of the four had faces and wings, their wings touched one another and the creature the creatures did not turn when they went, but each one s uh went straight forward. So they had four faces and they didn't apparently turn. They just used the other face based upon which face they ha they needed to go as far as the direction that they were going. I mean this is this is imagine understand this is Ezekiel trying to trying to make these con like uh uh help us to understand From an from the only earthly the is it going to be exactly the way it's described here in heaven? Perhaps not, because Ezekiel is doing the very best he can to describe what he's seeing from an earthly perspective. It's probably going to be even more incredible than what we're reading here. And then he says Uh I I don't have time to read all this. I mean they're there there's they've got eyes all over them. They've got they're covered with wings. These are creatures that you I mean you wouldn't really I don't know that anybody could imagine this up. This is Incredible, but I do want you to see this verse 26. And above the firmament of over their heads was the likeness of a throne. Do you see that? The likeness of a throne in the appearance like a sapphire stone. Where have we seen this before? We saw this over on the mountain of God. We saw this over in Mount Sinai. twenty four ten, which we read at the very beginning, they saw this, the leaders of Israel saw the sapphire floor, the throne of God there. And you see it again here Verse 27, also from the appearance of his waist and upward I saw as it were the color of amber with the appearance of fire. He's trying to describe here the glory of God, the presence of God fire all around it and from the appearance of his waist and downward he's now talking about God himself downward I saw as it were the appearance of fire with brightness all around like the appearance of a rainbow in a cloud on a rainy day So was the appearance of the brightness all around it. This was the appearance of the likeness of the glory of God. Now do you do you see what now that you know we've heard about these different parts of the tabernacle before? This is all to picture heaven. This is intended to make a connection But to to have a little bit, can I say it this way, of heaven on earth for Israel. It's incredible. And so we see all of this come together. If you look at Exodus again, you're going to see all of this come together in 21 and 22 Verse 21 says, And you shall put the mercy seat on top of the ark, and in the ark you shall put the testimony that I will give you And there I will meet with you, and I will speak with you from above the mercy seat from between the two cherubim, which are on the dark ark of the testimony. about everything which I will give you in the commandment of the children of Israel. So the presence of God is going to speak to them from between the cherubim on top of the mercy seat, which is to picture the throne of God, the the the seat of the throne of God And it is the presence of God that is going to be able to direct them exactly the way he wanted them to go. This is incredible Now I have a question for you. What is being set up here is the worship is the presence of God to worship God as a nation of Israel, so that there would be, I'll just say it this way, a little bit of heaven on earth What is our heaven on earth? What does God intend our heaven on earth to be? We don't have a tabernacle. We don't have the Shekana glory, we don't have the cherubim, we don't have the ark, we don't have these things. What is our heaven on earth? Would you take your Bibles and turn to Ephesians chapter two verse nineteen. I know I'm sorry I'm going over time, but I just can't stop here. Ephesians chapter two verse nineteen. And while you're turning there, I want to read another verse for you. First Corinthians six verse nineteen says, Or do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you? Who you have have from God and you are not your own. The very presence of God, God says, our bodies are the temple of the Spirit of God. But then he says in Ephesians chapter 2, verses 19 through 22, it's fleshed out here. Notice what it says, verse 19. Now therefore you are no longer strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints and the members of the household of God. Hold that. Verse 20, having been built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, and apostles and prophets, by the way, what is that a reference to? It's a veiled reference to scripture. The prophets wrote the Old Testament, the Apostles basically wrote the New Testament. It's a veiled reference to Scripture. It's built on the foundation of the apostle prophets, Jesus Christ Himself being the chief cornerstone. And in whom the whole building, being fitted together, grows into what? A holy temple of God. In whom you also are being fitted together for a dwelling place of God in the Spirit. Did you know that the church Is intended to be the dwelling place of God. Let that sink in, that what we are doing right now As we assemble, is intended to be heaven on earth. Do we see church that way? Do we see assembly that way? Does the world God's intention is for that to occur. And that is what we are supposed to be to the world. And God's intention, if you read through the book of Ephesians, you find that the more that this is the case, that it it it really is, that the assembly is the presence of it is is is showing the presence of God is the truly the dwelling place of God that it really influences the world. So, how do we put all this together? Number one, do you worship God from an enthusiastic, willing heart? This is where it starts. You really worship in the presence of God. The Spirit of God dwells in you if you genuinely know Christ as your Lord and Savior. If you don't, he doesn't. That's your first step. Accept Christ's work by faith. Do you worship God from an enthusiastic, willing heart When you assemble, when we assemble together, are we enthusiastic about worshiping together? When you wake up in the morning, is your first thought to worship your God as the temple of the Spirit of God? Are you ready, as the Israelites gave of their gifts to God? Are you willing ready to present your body a living sacrifice to God? Number two, do you view the Bible as heaven on earth? Do you view the Bible as heaven on earth? Do you realize how value this book how valuable this book is? You stay away from this book, and you will lose the ability to understand and to know that there truly is a heaven on earth. Or truly is a heaven. And number three, do we really understand that the church is intended to be like heaven on earth? That assembly of believers together is not optional. It's not a nice thing. It's not just a ritual. It is intended to be the habitation of God in the world. So that we understand as we live out every day, we are reminded of the fact that we live for something greater than ourselves. We live for something even greater than this earth. We live for God. Do we understand this? And if I I would just say this, the world does not. The world is wallowing in its own mud. It knows no different. There is no contrast? Why is there no contrast? Could it be, folks, that we as Christians, that the church Is not seeing itself the way God intends sometimes. We're not really seeing ourselves as that heaven on earth for people to view And to value and to see the contrast. Why? Because the other two things maybe aren't happening We're not enthusiastically willing to worship God, or we're not viewing the Bible in the right light, living by it. And so that third thing isn't happening where the church is If you know Christ if you don't know Christ as your Savior, it is going to require that God work on your heart and your life through the the word of God to cause you to realize that there is more than just this earth. There's more than what you just can feel, there's more than what is just physical. There's more on there is more to that than that. God says we need to be cons you need to be concerned about what's the uh what be concerned about eternity more than what's on this earth. If you don't know Christ, uh know the Lord as your uh as your Savior, understand that. And come to Christ and realize that if you will repent of your sin, And trust in the finished work of Christ on the cross, then you too can be a child of God, have a relationship with God, and live for eternity with God. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you this morning and we see the grandeur as best as we can understand it, and we look at these passages and We know that this is that that we are limited in our understanding of heaven by what we know on earth. And yet, your word so clearly describes for us the connection. And I pray that it would genuinely and truly work in our lives and hearts. To help us to be able to say in our own hearts that we're going to put the kingdom, your kingdom, first. And your righteousness and all these things will be added to you. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. people from very different backgrounds and from every age group. But we all have one thing in common. We have found a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. When a person discovers how to have a genuine relationship with God, they are given a sense of purpose and meaning in life. When that same person belongs to a loving community where God's word is taught, they will grow in their relationship with the Lord, and their life grows in purpose and meaning. Our focus is on making and building disciples for God's glory. We accomplish this through corporate worship on Sunday mornings. Through adult Bible studies where we learn God's Word and how to effectively apply it to our life, and through our discipleship home groups that meet in various locations throughout the region. Additionally, there are one-on-one and couple-to-couple counseling and discipleship opportunities. We genuinely desire to help you grow spiritually any way you possibly can. Our children's ministries are extremely important to us. We have a lot of young families with children, and we believe in the importance of teaching truth to the next generation. Teachers and nursery workers will be available to introduce themselves and assist you in signing your children in and out of their classrooms. Bethel Baptist Church is a growing, loving family community. We hope that we've been able to show you a small glimpse of what Bethel is like. But we'd love to meet you personally. Join us for a worship service, a small group for Bible study. Let us be a blessing to you and your family.