Good morning. Aren't you glad to be here this morning? Let's go to the Lord in prayer Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning with grateful and thankful hearts. You are so gracious and so kind and so merciful. Toward us, Lord. We are grateful for Jesus interceding on our behalf even this morning. At your right hand, we give you all the praise and all the honor and all the glory because you are the only one worthy And Father, as we are preparing to come under your word this morning, we would ask, Lord, that uh those who are unable to be with us this morning, uh that Lord, that they would be able to Catch on to the live stream and be able to be blessed and encouraged by your word. And I pray that you would help us all to set aside all the distractions of this week. week and Lord that we would focus completely upon your word this morning and allow your spirit just to work as you do so well in our hearts and our minds and we ask in Jesus' name Amen. Romans chapter 8 this morning, verses 26 through 30. Likewise, the Spirit also helps in our weakness. For we do not know what we should pray for as we ought. But the Spirit Himself makes intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered. Now he who searches the hearts knows what the mind of the Spirit is, because he makes intercession for the saints according to the will of God. And we know that all things work together to those who love God and to those who are called according to his purpose. For whom he foreknew, he also predestined, to be conformed to the image of his Son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. Moreover, whom he predestined, these he also called. Whom he called, these he also justified. And whom he justified, these he also glorified. We have been learning a lot about the work of the Holy Spirit, both actually in Sunday school. And concurrently running with Romans chapter 8 as we see a great deal about the work of the Holy Spirit in our lives as Christians. This has been a wonderful journey for me anyway, and I hope it is for you as we've gone through Romans and particularly Romans 8, which is such rich with truth about how we are to live as Christians, how we are to be sanctified in the Spirit. And I want us to notice a few things as we as we begin this morning. Just in reviewing what we've seen so far in Romans 8, we have seen in verses 1 through 2 of Romans 8 that the Spirit frees us from sin and from the law We see that very clearly. Is that can that go up on the screen there? Is that possible? If the Spirit frees us from this from sin And from the law. It says there in Romans 8, there is therefore now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus, who walk not according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit. For the law of the Spirit is life in Christ Jesus, who has made me free from the law of sin and death. So the Spirit there is therefore no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. The Spirit frees us from the law. The Spirit also helps us to please God when we walk in Him. It helps us please God as we walk in Him. The Spirit indwells us in Romans 8. 9. The Spirit will resurrect us. in Romans 8, 10 through 11. And the Spirit leads us in Romans 8, 13 through 14. All of these things that the Spirit does for us and will do for us. as we walk through this life and as we go through the life that um that actually we um we have to deal with also the world and the fact that we live in a fallen world and we saw that as well yesterday. I was thinking about that and that's where we come to today. We come to the Spirit's help. Even as we live in a fallen world. What we've learned so far is that the Holy Spirit works in us to change us. He works in us to do things in us that cause us to be able to be in alignment with the purposes of God. But um we still are left with this world we live in. We're still in a fallen world. It's kind of like If you wanted to go to London, you were here and you wanted to go to London by way of ship, by way of boat, and you found yourself for some reason in the Pacific Ocean in a dinghy. I mean you you have that's not we're nowhere close to London. Um you're in an entirely wrong place. And even if you move from a rowboat to a to a massive ship liner, um You still have another problem. You're in the wrong sea. You're in the wrong ocean. You're not anywhere close to London. And even though the Spirit of God has worked in all of these ways in our lives as Christians um to to make us what he wants us to be and to and to and to put us as a pos with our position in Christ intact. There's no condemnation. We're free from the law, free from sin, all these different things. We still live in this world. But God, that's part of God's plan. His plan is to is to actually perfect us in this fallen world. Jesus, in his high-priestly prayer to the Father, he says in John 17, verses 14 through 19, I have given them your word, and the world has hated them because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. I do not pray that you should take them out of the world, but that you should keep them from the evil one. They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. Then he says this, Sanctify them by your truth, your word is truth. As you sent me into the world, I also have sent them into the world. And for their sakes I sanctify myself, and that they also may be sanctified by the truth. So it is that in this process of becoming more and more like Christ, this sanctification process, God desires not for us to be separated from the world. But that we are in the world and that God would actually use the fallen world that we live in to work out our sanctification, to to carve us and mold us into Christ-likeness. But do you find yourself wishing that it weren't that way? You you ever find yourself saying saying to yourself, you know, Lord, it'd be so much easier if wh why didn't you make it so that I come become a Christian And then I just get to go home to be with you. I don't have to deal with all the problems of the world. Why has God done it the way he's done it? And there's, of course, one of the answers is simply that we have other people to tell. I mean, there are other people that we need to share Christ with. And so that's part of the reason. But God actually uses this world to shape us. We're going to see how he does that. And we're going to see, but in the process of this, how God provides for us and helps us. and carries out his purpose in the world. We're going to see this in three ways. Number one, God's help. And then we're going to see God's promise. And then we're going to see God's goal. God's help, God's promise, and God's goal. First we'll see God's help in a fallen world. It says likewise. The Spirit also helps in our weaknesses. This word weaknesses, it means it's sometimes translated infirmities. It's weaknesses or infirmities. This actually is because of the fall. We have infirmities. We have weaknesses. We have struggles as as a result of living in a cursed world. And the example that we have is actually Christ. Did you know that Christ in this sense had weaknesses as well? Hebrews chapter 5, verse 2 says, he can Have compassion on those who are ignorant and going astray, since he himself is also subject to weakness. Jesus himself, being when he was in this world, was subject to the weakness of the world. And it's interesting that when Jesus was here on earth, he went to his father to pray at one particular time. at the Garden of Gethsemane, and he struggled with what God had called him to do. And it says in Matthew 26, as he prayed to his father, My soul is exceedingly sorrowful even to death. Stay here and watch with me. He actually said that to his to his disciples. And he went a little farther to and fell on his face and prayed, O my Father. If it's possible, let this cup pass from me, nevertheless, not as I will, but as you will. Hebrew says about that experience of Jesus praying to his father and wrestling and struggling with what God had called him to do. In Hebrews chapter 5, verse 7, it says, In the days of his flesh when he had offered up prayers and supplications with vehement cries and tears to him who was able to save him from death, and was heard because of his godly fear, though he was a son, yet he learned obedience by the things which he suffered. That even the this is hard to imagine, but that Jesus, though he is perfect and sinless, he learned, or we could say it this way, he experienced what it was like to obey in the midst of of suffering in this life. And that's where we find ourselves, don't we? God has called us to follow him, to serve him, to obey him, to follow carry out his will in the midst of the life, the infirmities, the weaknesses, the struggles that we find ourselves in because we are in a fallen world. And the problem we find is in verse 26, because we live in a fallen world, because of our infirmities and our weaknesses, we do not, it says, know how to pray for as we ought. We don't know what to pray for. Isn't that true? Don't you find yourselves in various situations? And in certain situations you know exactly what to pray for, but there are other situations you're like I don't know how to pray. I don't know what God's will would be in this situation. I want to remind us. Back to Galatians chapter 5 from last week in verses 16 through 18, that it tells us there that we have from the Spirit of God in our lives, desires that help us to discern the will of God for us. We have desires from the flesh and desires from the spirit, and if we will cultivate and follow and obey the desires from the Spirit of God in our lives, it will lead us into the will of God for us as we are in the Word of God. All that has to go together. But even though we have the Word of God and we have the Spirit of God and we have all of these wonderful blessings, it still is quite confusing, isn't it? I think of driving. And driving in various kinds of weather. If you, what what do you think is the worst kind of weather to drive in? Somebody says snow. I actually don't think or then apparently there's an ice f people over here. Um the uh or ice. I actually don't think that that is absolutely the worst. There are actually things that you can do in snow and ice to compensate for that. You you put chains on, you can actually go through snow. Do you know what I think would be the absolute worst um worst conditions to drive in? Dense fog. Where you can't even see in front of you. I mean, you know exactly where you're going, you know how to get there, but the problem is you're in you're in such dense fog you can't even see. And the fallenness of this world that we struggle with, the the infirmities that we have, the life that we're living causes us sometimes to live in such a fog that we really can't discern what God's will is. This passage actually presupposes that we are praying in the will of God. God wants us to pray in his will, and it presupposes that we are tr asking God to meet the needs that will fulfill the purposes of his kingdom. So it presupposes that, but there are just times that we don't know what the will of God is, and so therefore we don't know how to pray. Well, I'm thankful to share with you this morning that God, in those situations, He has the solution for us. What a great comfort this passage is going to be. Because it says in the passage, it says, but the Spirit Himself, the Holy Spirit Himself, makes intercession for us. Now, understand this concept of intercessor. We know from Scripture that it says that Christ is our intercessor. Hebrews 7, verse 25 says, therefore he is also able to say to the uttermost, those who come to God through him, Since he always lives to make intercession for us, in Christ's intercessory work, he is actually making sure that we stay saved in a sense. And 1 John 2, verse 1 says that we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. He is our advocate. He is our intercessor. He is the one that goes before the Father and speaks on our behalf. But here it says that the Spirit of God does that. Now, are we talking about two separate things here? Well, remember that certainly we are talking about two separate persons. The Holy Spirit is a distinct person from Christ, but there is another sense in which we just learned from Romans chapter 8, verse 9, it says But you are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if indeed the spirit of God dwells in you. Now if anyone does not have the spirit, and it literally says, the spirit of Christ. So I would take it then that the Spirit works in close connection with Christ and the Father. They're all working in close, of course, in close connection with each other. So that the experiences of Christ as he suffered and struggled in this fallen world would be experiences that the Spirit would understand. And that those that as we go through this struggles of the fallen world, that the Spirit who dwells in us understands the infirmities and the struggles that we are going through. And it brings us then to the very next point. How does this intercession work? How does the Spirit go before us to the Father and plead our case if it will. What's going on here? Well we see, it says, with groanings which cannot be unuttered. What does it mean that there are gro that that he the Spirit of God intercedes with groanings that cannot be uttered? Well, this these unutterable groanings We see other times where this inexpressible or unutterable word is used. 2 Corinthians 9, 15, thanks be to God for his indescribable gift. It's actually the same word. 1 Peter 1 verse 8. That we rejoice with joy inexpressible and full of glory. First Corinthians fourteen fifteen What is the conclusion then? I pray with the Spirit, I will also pray with the understanding, I will sing with the Spirit, and I will also sing with the understanding. So so this idea of inexpressible, unutterable But then this word groaning, what does this word groaning mean? Well, actually we've just seen the word before, and we're going to get there. But do you know that it actually says in Scripture that Christ groaned when he was on this earth? In Mark chapter 7, verses 33 through 35, it says, and he took him aside from the multitude and put his fingers in his ears, and spat and touched his tongue, and then looked on heaven, he sighed, it's the same word, and said to and said to him, uh F Immediately his ears were opened, and the impediment of his tongue was loosed, and he spoke plainly You have this infirmity, this sickness as a result of being in a fallen world. Christ sighs, and then he heals that sickness. During the Lazarus sickness and death, Christ actually groans twice. In verse 33, it says, Therefore when Jesus saw her weeping, And the Jews who came with her weeping, he groaned in his spirit and was troubled. And John 11, 38, we have the same thing, but Jesus, again, groaning in himself, came to the tomb. it was a cave and the stone against it. So we see Christ himself in certain circumstances groaning, groaning over perhaps the the lack of faith of the people that were around him, groaning over the fact of the sadness and the weeping that they experienced as a result of the death of Lazarus. He groaned. But we also see, I'll remind us that we've seen this groaning before in Romans chapter 8, verses 21 through 23. It says, Because the creation itself also being delivered from the bondage of corruption into the glorious liberty of the children of God, for we know that the whole creation groans and labors with birth pangs together until now. So the creation groans, but uh but not only that But we also who have the first fruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves grown within ourselves Eagerly waiting for the adoption, the redemption of our body. We, it says, groan within ourselves As we experience the fallen world, as we experience the curse of this world and the sin and the problems, the struggles, the suffering, the infirmities, all of this, we groan. World affairs, sickness, pain, complications of sin, frustrations, all of this cause us to groan. But here's what it's saying. As we groan, it says the Spirit of God groans as well. He makes intercession and with groanings that cannot be uttered. Uh that ca that cannot be uttered. You could go both ways with it. And so some people would say that this is actually just referring to our groanings Some people actually suggest that the Spirit of God is groaning to us, and I don't really see that in the passage. I think that what you have going on here is that the creation groans over the curse of sin We groan over the fallen world that we live in, and the Spirit groans with us over the fallen world that we live in. But as he empathizes with us and groans with us, and we are in communion with God, and we're praying to him the best we know how. The Spirit of God knows exactly what the will of God is. And the Spirit then is able to make intercession for us. Verse 27 further explains this. Now he who searches the hearts, that's I think the father there, he who searches the hearts knows what the mind of the Spirit is. So God, who is actively, this searches in the hearts is this active work on the part of God the Father. And that that's significant in in and of itself. You know, you spirit spirit do its work down there and Christ does his work. No. He is actively searching and it says the hearts here. Some people think that must be talking about the Holy Spirit's heart, might be talking about our heart. I think it's a general idea of just hearts. He he is this is what he does. He searches the hearts. Hebrews 4 13 says it this way, and there is no creature hidden from his sight, but all things are naked and open to the eyes of him. to whom we must give account. God is aware of all, he knows all, he's searching out all. And this idea of the mind in this passage is also in Philippians chapter 3 verse 19. Where it says, Whose glory is their shame, who set their mind on earthly things. So this idea of a mind has to do with focus. So he who searches the hearts And knows what the focus of the Spirit is. Know what the mind's, the focus of the mind of the Spirit is He uh because why? Because the Spirit of God makes intercession for the saints, what, this is really key, according to what? According to the will of God It's according to the will of God. So that when we come to God and we're praying the best we know how, we're struggling, we're We're groaning over our situation. We're desiring the will of God, but we don't know what that is. The Spirit of God groans with us over the situation that we're dealing with or the struggles that we're dealing with. He groans with us and he intercedes for us with the will of God, because he knows what the will of God is. Now, this is intended. primarily for us to have assurance. In fact, Romans chapter 8, the entire chapter, this overarching point. Is that the believer would have great assurance in this life. So that as we go through life and we live in confusion and struggle, we live in difficult circumstances because of the fall. The Spirit of God intercedes in our behalf and prays for us in the will of God so that it can come to pass. See, there's great assurance for us. So it's kind of like this. Guess I'll put it this way. So I was using the driver illustration before in the fog. If you imagine have this internal navigation system. This isn't we're not far away from this technology where you have like satellites above. My truck has this. It just won't do it. It'll only do it when you park for some reason. But you live we literally have the technology now that you can actually look at a screen And there's satellite technology from above, I assume it's what it is, that you could actually park a vehicle just by looking at the screen. You don't have to look at anything else around. Now that's not a good illustration of what happens here. Because we don't get sometimes we don't get better perception of what's going on. But what what does happen is that it's like this illustration will break down, but it's like as we're driving in the fog We have this internal nav navigation system that sends signals so that the traffic is arranged in a way that we're going to be okay. In other words, we have, and we move moves us right into the promise of God, we have this problem from God the Father, and from God, verse 28, that we know. That all things work together for good to those who love God, to those who are the called according to his purpose. We just learned about what happens when we don't know. We don't know how to pray. We don't know what the will of God is. But here is something, no matter what, that we always know. That in every situation we find ourselves in, we always know this to be true. This is, of course, a very, very familiar verse. And sometimes when a verse is so familiar, we can easily kind of glaze over it and not really value the significance of this verse. I really want to make sure that we don't do that this morning. He says, we know this knowledge, this certainty. We have a knowledge and a certainty in this life. And then he says this, that all things. Everything. All things. What does that include? Well, Isaiah 45, 7 says it this way, I, meaning God, form the light and create the darkness. I make peace. I create calamity. I, the Lord, do all these things. God is sovereign. He is in control over all, and all things includes all things. From suffering to difficult circumstances, to sin, to the consequences of sin, to the complications and confusions of living in a fallen world, all things include all things. And all things God will use in our lives so that they work together. This is amazing, amazing concept here, that he takes all of the things of the world, all of the things in our lives, and works them all together. 1 Thessalonians 2 verse 13 says it this way, for this reason we also thank God without ceasing, because when you receive the word of God which you heard from us, You welcomed it not as the word of men, but as it is in truth the word of God which also effectively works in you who believe. That God is effectively working in us. I think a good illustration perhaps is when you think of chemical compounds. Uh like table salt, for example. Did you know s table salt is a chemical compound? Some of you are like, what are you talking about? It is. Uh it's a compound that is made up of sodium and and chloride. two things together, so sodium and chloride. And it's it's it's actually my understanding is, if my my understanding is right, it's actually a one-to-one ratio. Okay, that the mixture of this sodium chloride as it is combined together makes salt that is completely palatable and we're able to consume But did you know that if you had if it was off in the mixture, if you had too much of one or the other, it would be poison? So what it's so it illustrates well this idea that God works things in such a way in our lives that it's it's like it has the right mixture, the right proportions to bring about good in our lives. He how does he do this? Well he permits circumstances, he orchestrates events. He withholds blessing. He showers blessing. He chastens us, Hebrews 12 tells us. He does all of this ultimately for our good. And for his glory. That's God's two goals for us. Our good and his glory. You ever feel like though that as you ever feel like that that things in life are going in opposite directions that you don't see how on earth What is going on is ultimately going to fulfill God's will and ultimately going to be good. Lloyd Jones gave this illustration. He of course we don't we use digital everything all the time. now. But you know, back in his day there there were watches. We still have watches. And we still even have analog watches. And and analog clocks as well. But if you take an old clock or analog clock or an analog watch and you look and and of course you know it's going all one direction. But if you look behind it, the gears on any clock or any analog watch or any gear system at all, they're actually working in opposite directions. That's just the way the nature of gears. All gears work that way. They're working in opposite directions. And if you were just to look at the directions it's going, it would look like those gears are working in totally opposite ways But they are constructed in such a way that when you look at the face of the clock, everything's going in the same direction. And that's the way God does it in our lives. And we may not be able to see it. And there are certain things in my life, I have to admit to you, that even now I look back and I think, Lord, I still don't see it. I I still don't understand how that actually worked worked together for my good. Now there are many things, c Christians, can't you attest to this as well, that there are many things that you can look back at your life and you can say, I see why God allowed that. Or I see why God orchestrated that. I see how He took those things and worked them for my good. And we're encouraged by that when we see that. But there are many things in life where sometimes we still don't get it This is a promise for both circumstances. We have to believe what God says, that ultimately in our lives, He will work everything for what the passage says here is good. Well, what then is the condition? We're going to see what the condition is for a minute, but before we there do that, I do want to note one illustration in the Old Testament that I think I think exemplifies this wonderfully. And that is the life of Joseph. We won't take the time to go through his life in detail, but I just want us to, to me, it's the perfect illustration of this. I mean you have a man who is who is dreaming a dream, a young boy, a young young boy, who is dreaming a dream that his family is essentially going to ultimately serve him. And he sees it as from God. And he, in my mind, doesn't act too well on that. He goes and tells his brothers and tells his dad and not sure that was the most discreet thing to do. Hey, you all are going to serve me someday I didn't exactly say it that way, but just describing the dream, it was kind of obvious what was happening. And they weren't too happy about that. In fact, they were so unhappy about that that they decided that they were among other things other reasons they were unhappy, jealousy for The brothers decide to throw him in a pit. And you can imagine sitting lit, you know, being in that pit and wondering, how in the world am I going to How is this going to cause me to be in a place of authority and prominence and for them to serve me? I mean, how is that going to work? Then he sold into slavery into Egypt, and then he's accused of uh of wrongdoing by Potiphar And then he's thrown into jail after that. I mean, how are all of these things ultimately going to work out for his good? And yet we know the story. Ultimately they do, where the brothers come back to them and they're restored to him. And he says to them, But as for you, you meant it evil against me, but God meant it for good. in order to bring about, bring it about as it is this day, to save many people alive. In fact, many lives were saved because of the famine that was that was going to happen and how he was able to lead uh lead in making provision for all of that. And his own family he essentially saved. As we go through life, very often we come to these situations and we have to believe that God will do all of this ultimately for our good and for his glory. Well, What is the condition? Well we have the condition here. It's we have to be truly Christians. That's what it says. To those who love God, this is not a promise for non-Christians. This is definitely a promise that only applies to Christians, for those who love God, to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. Now, question, why did God use the term, why did he describe Christians as those who love God? We find this actually in other places. In 1 Corinthians 2, verse 9, I have not seen, nor ear heard, nor entered the heart of man the things which God has prepared for those who love him. First Corinthians 8. 3. But if anyone loves God, this one is known by him. Ephesians 6 26 24. Grace be with all with all those who love our Lord Jesus Christ. And there are other places well. Even Romans 5:5, just a few chapters back, now hope does not disappoint because the love of God has been poured out in our hearts by the Holy Spirit who was given to us. Why is it described this way? Because that is the distinctive, the distinguishing factor. If you can only pick one factor to determine whether someone knows the Lord or not, it is whether or not they love God. And the reason that is, is because of God's love for them, God's love for us. If we know Christ our Savior and we love him, it is only because he loves us. We love him because he first loved us. And in Romans 5, he shed his love abroad for us. And then we have here called. Well what does it mean to be called here? Well the New Testament uses the word called in two different ways. For example, in Matthew 22, verse 14 it says For many are called, but few are chosen. That is a general calling, not a specific calling. But in 2 Timothy 1, verse 9, it says who has saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given to us in Christ Jesus before the world began. This calling is a specific what would be called a special calling, not a general calling. And we are called, it says this, according to his purpose. God has called believers to himself according to his purpose, so that God works all things together for good. What is that good? Well, that good is according to the purpose. This verse is such a helpful verse and such a comforting verse as Christians. We really can say it's going to be okay. You know, uh I looked up, I I I remember a song called It's Gonna Be Okay, I heard somewhere. So I Googled this, It's Gonna Be Okay, a song It's gonna be okay. There's actually a lot of songs called It's Gonna Be Okay. This is a common theme. It's going to be okay. And of course you tell your children when in a thunderstorm it's going to be okay. And when there's boogie monsters under the bed, it's going to be okay. But we all kind of want to know it's gonna be okay. The piano guys wrote a song called It's Gonna Be Okay. How many of you heard that song by the piano guys? I think it's by the I couldn't find any other author except the piano guys. And it says this, doubt is a broken record that plays inside my head. I try to turn it down, but I can't quite drown it out. I'm tortured every day, these never-ending worries pulling on my sleeves. So many times now I was supposed to tap out. All the walls would fall around me. Uh all anybody would tell me is all the bad news how's how it's all going to fall through. But no matter what they say or what they say, it's gonna be okay. A. I knew you would recognize it if I said that. No matter what you've been through, here you are. No matter what you think you've you're falling apart. It's gonna be okay. And there is a battle raging in your heart, but you must win. It comes for all of us saying we are not enough. So fight for your life. The world's gonna try to sell you some lies. That's true. So many times now I was supposed to tap out and it goes on, it's gonna be okay. So s this is not I don't think it's the Christian song. And the truth of the matter is for a non-Christian It's not going to be okay. But for the Christian, it will be okay. And that's the promise that we have here. that God will work all things together for good to those who are called according to his purpose. But it's actually going to be better than just okay. And that brings us to the next passage here. It actually is going to be glory. What is the purpose of God? We're called according to his purpose. What's the purpose? Verse 29. for whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son, that we might be the firstborn among many brethren. Moreover, whom he predestined, these he also called, whom he called, these he also justified, and whom he justified, these he also glorified. So the Christian life is not intended to be a book that you open up and you read from beginning to end And that's usually how you read books, right? From beginning to end. But the Christian life, God intends for us to be, it's like a book where you actually open up and you see the beginning, that we are justified by faith, and we're just And you already see the end. Have you ever done that before? I used to read Encyclopedia Brown books. How many of you ever read Encyclopedia Brown books? I read every Encyclopedia Brown. Wow, like four of you. Look, if you want to get your particularly sons and daughters too, but into reading, those books are excellent Because they're very practical, you read through, there's a mystery, and at the very end, after the mystery, then you could guess how how Encyclopedia Brown solved the mystery. Unless you cheat. And you actually are in the middle of it, you go, oh man, I just gotta find out what that is, and you look at the end and you see how he did it. Well, we know what the end is. The end for the Christian is that we are conform to the image of his Son. That's what Scripture says. The end is ultimately that we will be Christ-like. The mystery is not whether or not we're justified. The Bible tells us we're justified by faith, and if we've accepted him, we are declared righteous. That's clear. And it's clear also what we will be like. We will be like him for we will see him as he is. That's clear. It's the in-between that we've got to navigate. But it is extremely helpful to know the end. So that when we come across difficulties and trials and struggles, we may not know what the will of God is in the particular situation that we're in. But we are not thinking to ourselves, Lord, what in the world? And we mentioned this last week, what in the world? No, we're thinking, I know, I already know that you will use this ultimately for my good and for your glory to bring me to a place where I am more Christ-like as a result. The question is how How are you going to do this? That's really what we see in the passage. That's Paul's point. For whom he foreknew from the beginning of time He predestined to be conformed to the image of his son. He saved us in order to be conformed to the image of Christ. This idea of predestined had had in it God had in his thinking not simply for us to be saved from sin, but ultimately be to re to be able to be restored to a place where we are truly able to glorify him in the image of his Son. Ephesians 1 says it this way. having predestined us to the adoption as sons by Jesus Christ Himself, according to the good pleasure of His will, to the praise of the glory of His grace by which He made us accepted and the beloved In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of his grace, which he made to abound toward us in all wisdom and prudence. having made known to us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure which he purposed in himself. that in the dispensation of the fullness of times he might gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven and which are in earth in him. In him also we have obtained an inheritance, being predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will. that we that we who first trusted in Christ should be to the praise of his glory. Over and over and over again in that passage We are predestined according to the will of God. We are predestined for the purposes of God, to bring him glory. How does that happen? It happens like this. Go back to Genesis. Genesis chapter 1, verses 28 through 20, or 26 through 28. I won't take the time to read that passage, but basically we see in that passage, we are created in the image of God. In other words, we're created to reflect the glory of God. There are certain tr uh things that are true of God that God desired for them to be true of us, his love, his holiness, his mercy, all those things that are true of him, that he desired for them to be true of us, so he made us in his image. It's like a mirror that reflects an image. Except that when we sin, when Adam and Eve sinned, that mirror was broken. It's like you got a crack through it So it's it's distorted. Everything is not right. It's distorted. And what is God doing? God is taking that cracked mirror. And he has saved us, and then he is taking those cracked pieces and he is putting together, he is welding them all together, he's putting everything together in such a way that that now accurately reflects his image once again. We're we're in a process of that. One day the mirror will be complete. There will be no more cracks in it. Right now, hopefully there are less cracks in the mirror now than there were than there were last year or the year before or the year before. But that is what God is doing in our lives. That is how He is working all things for our good and all and then ultimately for His glory. Colossians 3 helps us understand this in verses 8 through 11. But now you yourselves are put off on all these anger, wrath, malice. blasphemy, filthy language out of your mouth. Do not lie to one another, since you have put off the old man with the de with his deeds, and have put on the new man who is renewed in knowledge according to the image of God who created him Where there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision, barbarian Scythian, slave nor free, but Christ is all in all. God is in the middle Our job is to put off the old and to put on the new, and he is we are renewed in knowledge according to the image of Christ who created us. And then we see here, so that he might be the first fruits of them of us. And then he summarizes this all in verse 30. It says, Moreover, whom he predestined These he specifically called. And those he specifically called, those he justified And those he justified, those, these, and notice what it says here, these he also past tense glorified Now I would have thought that he would have said he's those he will glorify, right? I mean that hasn't happened yet, has it? Are we in a place where we are completely gl we're in our glorified we're completely m made perfect No, of course we're not, and we know from many other places in Romans that we're not. But I think the point here is that that in the mind of God this has already taken place. God is working out that process so that we the glorification will be revealed in its right time when we are conformed to the image of Christ. But the point here is simply that we are, as I said last week, we are in the midst of this already not yet situation where in God's mind we are glorified But we have not seen the revealing of that yet. As we think through all of these things, I want to three takeaways for us. Number one. When living in a fallen world prevents us from knowing how to pray, the Spirit intercedes as we pray. This should be a great comfort to us when we don't know what the will of the Lord is, when we don't know how to pray, when we are in confusion. Let me just encourage you to pray. Even if you don't know how to pray, I'm I'm gonna actually push back on a statement I've heard before, and that is be careful what you pray. Have you ever heard that? Well be careful what you pray, you've got to be careful what you pray. I'm not sure you should And what I mean by that is that certainly we want to pray in the Lord's will, but ultimately we need to pray. We need to express our prayers to the Lord. It's not as though the way prayer doesn't work in such a way that we we suddenly have a right right formula of combinations and then it's going to come out the way we want it to come out, so be careful what you pray. We should be careful in the sense that we want to be, we want to pray in the will of God. But I'll just tell you right now that there are times sometimes, and not, if not many times, where we don't know what to pray. Just pray. Just reach out to God and even say, Lord, I don't know what to pray here. I'm not sure what your will is here, but Lord, I'm dependent on you in the situation We can always pray for wisdom, James 1. Lord, would you give me wisdom in this situation? God wants us to pray. And know as as we pray and talk with Him and commune with Him, struggle through different difficult circumstances and difficult situations that we're dealing with, that the Spirit of God knows exactly what the will of God is, and he knows exactly what we are going through And he intercedes on our behalf. Number two, our wise father knows how to work all things together for his glory and our good. All things. He knows how to work it all together. for his glory and for our good. And then finally, through all things, God purposes to fashion us into his likeness So that we reflect his glory. Through all things, God's purpose is to fashion us into his likeness so that we ultimately will reflect the glory of God. If you're here this morning and you don't have a relationship with God, this entire message has been on how a Christian goes through this life and how God works in a l in the life of a Christian to make him um to make him Christ-like. But it starts with being a Christian. It starts with and and you have the opportunity, the Bible says God is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. So if you don't know where you stand with God, you don't know what your If you have a relationship with God or not, let me encourage you to come after come to me afterwards and I'll be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can sure make sure you have a relationship with God. Let's go, Lord, in prayer. Father, we do come to you and we praise you for the wonderful truths that we have in your word here. We praise you that the Spirit of God Intercedes on our behalf, and we thank you that you know all things. You know um, you know our hearts, you know your will. And that you and the Spirit are working for to make all things work together. for good in our lives, so that we can ultimately do exactly what you've called us to do from the very beginning. And that is to glorify you. Help us to remember that. Help us to to um To live in light of it, to pray, to wrestle, be willing to wrestle through the difficulties of life so that ultimately we can grow. and be Christ-like. We ask for this, Lord, in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.