Good morning. Morning He has risen. Amen. Okay, if you would bow your heads with me this morning and we're going to go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we come this morning with humble and grateful hearts, with great joy as we celebrate your resurrection. Father, we know that without your resurrection we have no hope. And we are grateful this morning that because of all that you have done on our behalf going to the cross, taking the sin of the whole world upon yourself and suffering there, paying the penalty in full and satisfying the just demands of God the Father And dying on that cross and going to the tomb. And on the third day you arose up out of that grave, and you are now seated at the right hand of God the Father, interceding on our behalf. And you tell us in your word that those who will come and put their faith and their trust in the sacrifice that you have made and turn from our own wicked ways and our sinful ways. And turn to you, that you would take that sin and put it as far as the east is from the west, and impute your righteousness upon us, that we may have a place in heaven with you one day when we will be resurrected. That is our hope, Father. We are so grateful for the resurrection. And Father, we come this morning and ask that you would help us this morning, Lord, to move away those scales from our eyes and unstop our ears from all the noise. And all of the chaos going on in this world. That Lord, for the next hour, as we sit under your word, I pray, Father, that you would prepare our hearts and soften our hearts to hear Your truth. And I pray for Pastor Jim as he brings your message this morning that you have laid upon his heart, that you will give him clarity of speech and thought And help us, Lord, to be attentive. And I pray that as we leave here today, Father, we will be changed closer and closer. Closer into your image. Help us to meditate upon what we hear and apply it in our lives this week, Father. Help us not to be ashamed of your gospel. Help us to go and tell all, Lord, about what you have done and that you have risen again. And we ask in Jesus' name that you guide us and direct us and we praise you in Jesus' name. Amen. I'll be reading from the Gospel of John this morning, and we're going to be looking at chapter twenty in uh the Gospel of John, and I'll be reading from one to eighteen, and then we will go from twenty-four to twenty. 29, if you would like to follow along. Now the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene went to the tomb early while it was still dark, and saw that the stone had been rolling away. From the tomb. Then she ran and came to Simon Peter and to the other disciples whom Jesus loved and said to them, They have taken away the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid him. Peter therefore went out, and the other disciple, and were going to the tomb So both ran together, and the other disciple outran Peter, and came to the tomb first. And he, stooping down and looking in, saw the linen clothes lying there. Yet he did not go in. Then Simon Peter came, following him, and went into the tomb, and he saw the linen clothes lying there. And the handkerchief that had been around his head, not lying with the linen cloths, but folded together in a place by itself. Then the other disciple who came to the tomb first went in also, and he saw and believed. For as yet they did not know the scripture that he must rise from the dead Then the disciples went away again to their own homes. But Mary stood outside by the tomb weeping. As she wept, she stooped down and looked into the tomb. And she saw two angels in white sitting, one at the head and one at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain. Then they said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? And she said to them, Because they have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have laid him Now when she had said this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing there, and did not know that it was Jesus. And Jesus said to her, woman, why are you weeping? Why are you seek what are you seeking? Whom are you seeking? She supposedly She, supposing him to be the gardener, said to him, Sir, if you have carried him away, tell me where you have laid him, and I will take him away. Jesus said to her, Mary? She turned and said to him, Rabboni, which is to say, teacher. Jesus said to her, Do not cling to me, for I have not yet ascended to my father. But go to my brethren and say to them, I am ascending to my father and your father. And to my God and your God. Mary Magdalene came and told the disciples that she had seen the Lord and that he had spoken these things to her. In verse 24. Now Thomas, called the twin, one of the twelve, was not with them when Jesus came And the other disciples therefore said to him, We have seen the Lord. So he said to them, Unless I see his hands, the print of the nails, and put my finger in the print of the the nails and put my hand into his side I will not believe and after eight days his disciples were again inside and Thomas with them Jesus came came, the door being shut, and stood in the midst, and said, Peace to you. Then he said to Thomas, Reach your finger here, and look at my hands, and reach your hand here, and put it into my side. Do not be unbelieving, but believing. And Thomas answered and said, to him, my Lord and my God. And Jesus said to him, Thomas, because you have seen me, you have believed Blessed are those who have not seen and yet believed. So this passage is from the book of John, the Gospel of John, and John was the disciple of Christ that was probably very likely closest to Jesus himself. He was the only one that of the disciples that witnessed his crucifixion and he had a very close relationship with him. In John chapter 20, verse 31, just a little bit after what Harry had read, it says this, but these things are written that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you may have life in the In his name. John's concern for us is that we understand what real faith looks like, what it really means to believe. What is real faith? What does it look like? We're actually going to see as we go through this passage exactly what real faith looks like. According to Pew Research, in 2022 it was reported that 58% of Americans believe that there was a connection between God and morality. But now and well actually a few years ago, 2019, only 44 see that connection. We're really going the wrong direction. I suspect that actually that that that is probably lower now in 2023 There seems to be a decline in the belief of who God is, and particularly that there is a connection between God and reality. See, there's two kinds of faith that we often see in the world. One is a sensational faith. Sensational faith is, you know, those sort of those. health and wealth kind of people, the people that they'll preach and they'll say that if you come you can be healed, if you come and give enough money, then you can then you can have uh you could you you'll get more wealth re back and and and and it's it's a sensational kind of a faith. And there's a lot of people that look at that kind of faith and some people Grab hold of and they say, Yeah man, I I just want to believe so I can get rich or I can get wealthy or I can have be healed They do that for a while and it discourages a lot of people. That's a sensational kind of faith. And there's a lot of people that are sort of skeptical and they look at that and go, oh, I'm not really sure about that kind of a faith. And they would be right But there is another kind of faith. There is a, let's call it a religious faith, an empty religious faith. And this kind of empty religious faith sees no connection, or little connection, if not any connection. Between God and reality. In fact, there was a man by the name of Albert Rich who said this. There are many superstitions, miracles, miraculous elements in the Christian faith. Modern people can't believe these things actually happened. So if we are going to appeal to the modern world, we have to reinterpret them as fiction, but fiction that preserves the essential principles of living and that of the Christian faith. He's saying, don't believe in the things that are miracles in Scripture. Don't believe in the things that are supernatural. We can't believe in that in modern times. What we have to do is realize that these are fictional lessons to teach a moral truth. In that vein, that empty religion kind of vein, where people say, you know, yes, God is a nice idea, and Christ is a nice idea, and even the the death of Christ is a nice idea, and the resurrection is a nice idea. But they're not real. There are people that would suggest that the resurrection was not a literal bodily resurrection of Christ, that it was somehow a spiritual resurrection. Yes, we know the historical Christ died. He was, of course, the Christ is historically a figure in history. Nobody questions that, but He died, and it was a spiritual resurrection that was sort of trumped up by his disciples as something more, or looking at the passage and saying that all these different things mean something different than what it's actually saying. And then there are others that would actually say, well, actually the thing is he didn't rise from the grave. He never died in the first place. And so because he didn't actually die, he was sort of resuscitated in the grave. Pastor Matt mentioned that in the earlier service. He sort of resuscitated in the grave. And and that's why we have that's there wasn't actually a resurrection for that reason. By the way, you notice those are two Completely contradicting theories. The belief real faith Is resurrection faith. It is a belief in the literal, biblical, bodily resurrection of Jesus Christ. That it did actually happen. And it's absolutely important if we're going to have real biblical faith, faith that saves our souls, faith that that ha ha has a hope of resurrecting ourselves in eternity, we uh that we are going to be resurrected in eternity, we need to understand that Christ rose from the grave. This was read earlier in 1 Corinthians 15, but I want to reiterate a few things about it. It says, moreover, brethren, I declare to you the gospel of which I preach to you. And then later on in that passage it says, For I delivered you first of all that which I also received, that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures, and that he was buried. And that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures, and that he was seen of Cephas, that's Peter, then of the twelve. After that he was seen of five hundred brethren at once. of whom the greater part remain in the uh to the present, but some have fallen asleep. Later on in the same passage, he says this. Now if Christ is not preached uh uh if Christ is preached, then he has been raised from the dead. But do some among you say that there is no resurrection of the dead? But if there is no resurrection of the dead, then Christ is not risen. If Christ is not risen, then our preaching is empty, and your faith is also empty. That's empty faith. And yet Later on in the same passage it says in verse 20, for now Christ is risen from the dead, has become the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep, for since By man came death, by man also came the resurrection of the dead. For in Adam all die, even so in Christ all shall be made alive. The very basis of our faith, real faith, is the fact that Christ died to pay the punishment for our sin, but also he rose from the grave bodily. Literally he rose from the grave. And it was viewed by many people. There were many, many witnesses. There were great details to demonstrate this. Somebody says, well, you know, I don't believe something unless I can scientifically observe it. Really? Do you do you belie what about all the other historical things? And do you believe in the founding of this country? Do you believe in the Second World War? Do you believe all those other things? Can you observe the Second World War? Do you question whether it was really real? There are all kinds of things that we believe that we haven't actually seen. We believe them because of the overwhelming evidence that they are true. And there is no, I would suggest to you that there is no event in history that has more overwhelming evidence that it is true than the resurrection of Jesus Christ. It is verifiable by many different sources, and there are it is verifiable by many different witnesses. So, what does real faith look like? John's concern in this passage is that we would understand what real faith looks like. And we're going to see three things First, we're going to see that real faith connects the Bible to real life. That's chapter 20, verses 1 through 10. Then we're going to see that real faith makes the spiritual personal. And then finally, real faith connects the spiritual and the physical. It connects the Bible to real life, makes the spiritual personal, and connects the spiritual and the physical. And without these things, folks, you do not have real faith. So let's begin by looking at the fact that real faith connects the Bible to real life. And we pick up here, it says in verse 1 of chapter 20, now on the first day of the week Mary Magdalene went to the tomb early. While it was still dark, and saw that the stone had been taken away from the tomb, then she ran and came to Simon Peter and to the other disciple, whom Jesus loved. That's John himself, who wrote this, and said to them, They have taken away the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid him. So Mary Magdalene comes to the tomb. She gets there first, early in the morning. She sees that the tomb is empty. She goes and tells John and Peter. And then John and Peter come. Now, Mary doesn't notice when she comes to the tomb, she doesn't make the connection. Remember, real faith connects the Bible to real life, and she's not making the connection at first. She got, in fact, it's gonna be interesting how Much it takes for her to make the connection. She doesn't make the connection. She goes back to John and Peter, says, Where happened to the body? Like where'd it go? She is assuming that they're she's not making the connection There is a connection, by the way, because in Matthew chapter 16, verse 21, it says, From the time Jesus began to show to his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things. from the from the elders and the chief priests and scribes to be killed and to be raised the third day. Jesus was teaching people. He was teaching the disciples and probably Mary Magdalene at some point as well He was trying to make the connection before he died. He would rise from the grave. And yet, these you're going to find out here that many of these guys did not make the connection right away, particularly Ma Mary, she doesn't make the connection. And so we move on a little bit later, and Peter and John are moving together, verses 3 through 6. Peter and John are 3 through 5, they come together the tomb. The text says that John beat Peter there, but John sees the empty tomb. He sees the graves closed inside, but he doesn't go in. Peter has a little different personality. Peter just runs right in, runs past John, barges right in, sees the grave grave clothes there. It is interesting in the text that it says in verse 6, then Simon Peter came followed following him and went into the tomb. And he saw the linen clothes lying there and the handkerchief that had been around his head, not lying with the linen clothes, but folded together in the place and it was Why would he give all that description? We have a folded handkerchief. Why would it be so detailed? Because John wants us to know this was this really happened. There is great. This is not a fable. This is not a fictional story. This actually occurred. This happened. There was evidence of this. It was purposeful. It was intentional In another text, we find what Peter does with this information when he sees it. Luke 24, verse 12 says, Then arose Peter and ran out of the sepulchre and Stooping down, he beheld the linen clothes laid by themselves, and departed, wondering in himself at which at which was come to pass. He looks at this and he goes, Huh, I wonder what's going on here. He marvels at it. What's going on? What's happened? But he doesn't he doesn't appear at least that he makes the connection. But there was one that made the connection. It was John. John made the connection. Notice what it says in the text, then in verse 8. Then the other disciple, that's John who wrote this, the other disciple, he came to the tomb, went in also, and he saw the saw and believed. For as yet they did not know the scriptures that he must rise again from the dead. They didn't understand. Jesus had put uh had told them, but they didn't make the connection. But at that point, John makes the connection. He realizes that Jesus did rise from the grave. Verse 10, and the disciples went away again to their own homes. You see, real faith connects the truth of the Bible with real life. That's exactly what Jesus did. I mean what John did here. Well Jesus did it too, but John did it, for sure. Jesus had prophesied that he would rise from the grave in John chapter 2 But Jesus finally believed, John finally believed. And in Psalm 16, verse 10, it says, For you will Not leave my soul in shield, nor will you allow your holy one to see corruption. Prophesied all the way in the Old Testament that Jesus would rise from the grave. John puts this all together at this point. It's very, folks, it's very important for us, if we're going to have real faith, to make these connections. How does this happen? Well, it happens through the preaching of the Word of God. In Romans chapter 10, verse 14, it says, for then Sh uh shall they call on him in whom they have not believed, and how shall that they believe in him in whom they have not heard? And how shall they hear without a preacher? And how shall they preach unless they are sent? As is written, how beautiful are the feet of those who Isaiah says, Lord, who has believed our report? For then faith comes by hearing and hearing by the Word of God. So why don't people make the connection? Have you noticed that most of the world doesn't make the connection? Why don't they? The Bible actually tells us why people don't make the connection. In 2 Corinthians 4, verse 4, it says, Whose minds the God of this age has blinded who do not believe, lest the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine on them. It is the God of this world that darkens the mind of the person so that they Cannot see the light of the gospel. That's why the preaching of the Word of God, the light of the Word of God, is so absolutely necessary and so important. So John actually believes. He makes the connection. And then we pick up in verse 11 of this passage, and we see now Mary Magdalene is here. She's come back to the tomb, apparently, and it says here, but Mary stood outside by the tomb weeping, and he and and as she wept, or she came back close to the tomb anyway, and as as she wept, she stooped down and looked into the tomb. And she saw two angels in white sitting, one at the head and the other at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain. Now, let me just pause for a minute. She's still not going to make the connection You would think at this point she sees she sees a uh angels there that are brightly arrayed and they are in white, I mean like this is like when do you see that? And she's even that amazing sight that she's seeing, she still doesn't make the connection. She is apparently such so emotionally distraught, she at this point must not be thinking right. And it says in the text, then they said to her, Women, why are you weeping? She said to them, because they have taken away my Lord, and do not know where they have laid him. Now, when she had said this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing there, and did not know that it was Jesus. She didn't know. She turned around, saw him. Jesus said to her woman, Why are you weeping? Whom are you seeking? She, supposing him to be a gardener, said to him, Sir, if you have carried him away, tell me where he is. where you have laid him that I that and I will take him away. Now so notice what's going on here. Either she's so distraught her back is turned to Jesus and so So she can't really see who it is, or more likely in the text, Jesus actually at this point has chosen not to reveal himself. He did that over in Luke 24. Do you remember on the disciple the the uh the disciples on the road to Emmaus, at first when he met them, they didn't recognize him, and he began to share the scriptures with them, and at the appropriate time, then he revealed who he was. Seems to be that that's the case here. And notice then, finally, the connection is made. Notice how the connection is made. We find in verse 16, Jesus says one word, Mary. When Jesus speaks that word, Mary, she recognizes It reminds me of John chapter 10 verse 27 says, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me, and I give unto them eternal life. It was the very word of Christ that caused, finally caused Mary to make the connection. Now, of course, what happens in the story is she is overwhelmed with this news. I mean, just imagine. I mean just think about a loved one who's passed away and then suddenly they appear and you see them. I can't hardly imagine that, what that would be like. And this is what Mary has done. Mary has grapped very likely what's happened is she she just latches on to him. Maybe she's uh latches onto his legs, kind of like, don't go anywhere now. Are you real or don't go anywhere? And Jesus says to him, Mary, d don't cling to me. I'm not going anywhere. I'm I'm I ha I'm not I'm gonna send my s essentially he's saying I'm I'm gonna send my father later, but I I'm not going anywhere right now He says, go and tell, tell, and I want you to notice what he says here, because this is really, really important. Go and tell these my brethren, he says. Now that is an amazing thing, isn't it? That he said, he's talking about his disciples, he wants them, he wants Mary to go and tell And he says, My brethren, Jesus, the God of this world, the creator of the of the ends of the earth, who has no beginning and no ending. says about these disciples, they are my brethren. Now that is an amazing Truth. You know what? You know what Jesus is saying? He's saying, because of my death and resurrection, there is a personal relationship relationship because that's what faith does. Real faith can makes the spiritual personal. It makes the spiritual personal And we have seen, he said before, he's told the disciples, you are no longer servants, but you're my friends. He said that in the book of John. And now he says, now he says, You're my brethren. You're my family. Now let that sink in. That is a very personal relationship with Jesus. That's what God intends for real faith to produce, a personal relationship. And if you know Christ as your Savior today, you have a personal relationship with Him. It says this in Romans 8. It says, for as many as are led by the Spirit, they are of the sons of God. For ye have not received the spirit of adoption again to fear, but ye have received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba Father The Spirit itself bears witness with our Spirit that we are the children of God. And if children, then heirs, heirs of God, joint heirs with Christ. if so be that we suffer with him, that we may also be glorified together. Over in Hebrews chapter 2, it says, There I will declare your name to my brethren. Christ there is speaking of the fact that we are we are we are those who know Christ our Savior are brethren. It's it's it's it reminds me of an old testament passage where Ruth comes comes to faith in Naomi's God and says, your God is my God. There is a personal relationship that occurs when there is real faith. John has talked a lot about belief in his book He is even said at one point in John chapter 2 verse 23, it says in that passage, and when he when he was in Jerusalem at the Passover, the feast day, many believed in his name. when they saw the miracles he did. And in the same passage it says, but he did not believe in their belief. Later on in John chapter 6, we find out why. Jesus answered and said to them, Verily, verily I say unto you, you seek me not because you saw the miracles, but because you did eat the loaves and were filled. Do you ever you ever have a you ever had a relationship with somebody and you realize and you and you think, you know, I think they're just using me There's not really a love, a mutual love. There's not really a personal relationship. It's more like a business cooperation or not even two-sided. Maybe you just feel like you know, I think they're just using me. That's not a personal relationship. You know why? You know what? I think some people in their faith toward God, that is pretty much the sum total of their faith. They're looking to God for what they can get out of Him They're looking to God for maybe you know if I have enough belief in God I can get I I I can make more I can have more money I can get healed I can do all these different things And it's not a personal relationship. It's not a genuine mutual love relationship, is I think that he can give me these things if I have faith. That is not real faith. It's not personal faith. This is a personal faith. Or real faith is a personal faith. Now, I just want to mention something else that's just it's kind of on the side, but I think it's really helpful to understand. So so notice notice who Jesus appears to first. He appears to Mary first, right? And in fact, in Luke 24, we find that there were a lot of other Marys he he appeared to. It's interesting how involved these women are in even sharing the truth of the resurrection with the apostles and with the disciples. And I'll just make this point because I think it's helpful for us. If this were fables, if this was just sort of this uh this contrived fictional story, I can promise you they would not have used women as the original witnesses of the resurrection. You know why? Because back in those days, wet women were not considered to be equal. Of course, we know biblically they are equal Christ was very clear about that. Christ, but as far as in in value. But when it comes to them, you know, if you have all of these Jewish men, they would and they were coming up with some sort of story To try to come up with this idea of a resurrection, they would never have written it this way. You know why they wrote it this way? Because it's true. Because it's actually exactly how it happened. And these women witness, Mary Martha, Mary Magdalene witnesses the truth of the resurrection. So then What then is real faith? Thirdly, real faith connects the spiritual to the physical. Real faith connects the spiritual to the physical. In verse 19 it says this, and then the same day at evening, being the first day of the week, when the doors shut where the disciples were assembled. for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in the midst and said to them, Peace be with you. When he had said this, he showed them his hands and His side. Then the disciples were glad when they saw the Lord. So Jesus said to them again, peace to you, as the Father has sent me, I also send you. So Jesus comes and he shows them who he is. He allows them to touch him, to make this connection. He says to them, he says, peace to you. Peace to you. Do you know what he's saying there? We find a little bit more description in Luke 24. It says this in that passage. Now as they said these things, Jesus himself stood in the midst of them, and he said to them, Peace to you. But they were terrified and frightened. And supposed that they had seen a spirit, and he said to them, Why are you troubled? And why do you your do doubts arise in your hearts? He's recognizing that even there's appearing to them, and yet doubts are arising in their hearts. Behold, my hands and my feet, that it is myself, handle me and see for a spirit Does not have flesh and bones as you see I have. Do you know what Jesus wants them to understand? This was truly a bodily resurrection. You've got to make the connection. You've got to make the connection between the spiritual and the physical. This actually happened, and it was so necessary for Jesus to come to them and show himself to them so they would make this connection. And he's standing right in front of them, and they're still doubting. It's amazing how how m how darkened our hearts are and how skeptical we are and how fearful we are. And finally Jesus says what he says and and they're able to understand it. And they're able to make this connection. Well, there's another man that wasn't able to make the connection. You remember Thomas? Of course, we know Thomas is doubting Thomas because he wasn't there when Jesus first appeared. And all the disciples are giving testimony to the fact that Jesus really did rise from the grave. And of course, you know the story where Tom where Thomas says I will not believe unless I, you know, unless I see him and I put my hand on his side and touch him. I will not believe. Of course, what does the Lord do seven days later? He appears to Thomas, and we see that in the text. But I want you to notice particularly verses 28 and 29. Twenty eight, twenty nine of this passage, it says And Thomas answered and said to him, My Lord and my God. Jesus said to him, Thomas, because you have seen me. Thomas has faith. Thomas makes the connection and and what's the result? He says, My Lord. Lord and my God. He recognizes the authority of God, and he recognizes the ability of Christ, the authority of Christ and the ability of Christ. True faith makes these connections and recognizes this The Bible says in 1 Peter 1, verse 8, whom having not seen ye love. in whom though now ye see him not, yet believing, ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory, receiving the end of your faith, even the salvation of What God calls us to do is to believe without seeing. That's why he tells Thomas, he says, Blessed are those who believe without seeing. But do you understand, folks, that what God did was he gave us the entire Word of God? And the Word of God testifies to the truth of the truth of who Jesus really was and what he did. So that if we will be exposed to the Word of God, faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. And that makes the connection for us. It is the word of God that makes the connection so that we can have true, real faith. And I would simply ask you this question: do you have real saving faith today? Do you have real saving faith? Say, well, my faith has been a little more sensational It's been a little more, boy, I I've people talk about healings or visions or you know, I get into all that kind of stuff and um or you know uh get making money and I you know I give a lot of money that you know when Somebody writes something on the on the uh uh says something on the TV to write in and give money and you'll have this blessing and I'll have bless you and send you some all that kinda that that's really where I'm at Hopefully not. It's possible. Or maybe you're over here on this side and you your faith It's not a real faith. It is it is you you the idea of Jesus is a nice idea The idea of the death of Christ and the resurrection of Christ, that's all nice ideas, but it's not real. The only way that you make the faith, your faith, the only way that faith becomes real is when you will actually believe and make the connections that the Bible makes. And I want to make the connections for you here. Number one connection, God is holy. God is holy, and the Bible says that he can't look on sin. Number two connection, connect this, we're sinful. Right? Do we do I I don't even there's it's all over the Bible that we're sinful by the way, but I don't even have to take you to the Bible to know that, right? Just look around. Look in your hearts, realize we are all sinful. The Bible says all have sinned The Bible says that he can by no means clear the guilty. That means that God cannot overlook your sin. He can't just look the other way. If you're a parent with a child, you might be able to look the other way. But God is just. Sin must be punished, and he cannot look the other way. That is not how forgiveness works because he is a just God. It's like somebody who has committed clear, you know, first-degree murder and the judge just looks the other way. That's not just. So instead, Jesus God has to execute justice on our sin, so that we can then be connected to him. But God loves us. And so in so he made a way. Who is this way? Jesus. Jesus, his own son, came, lived a perfect life that we could not live. The Bible tells us that he took on our sin on himself. Who's own self bare our sin in his own body on the tree? He bore our sin on himself. So that we could have our sins forgiven, so that God could execute his justice on his own son on our behalf So that God could both be just and loving at the same time, and that is exactly the way He is toward us. And the only and and the key is for us to make those connections and to say, okay, it's not about my works or what I have done or all the things that I can do or whether I'm my good outweighs my bad, it's none of that. The Bible says, But as many as received him, to them gave he the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. It is through true faith and belief in Christ and what he has done. for us. Do you have real saving faith this morning? And I would just say this, if you don't You say, ah, you know, I I I you know you've y if you have some sort of faith, you're not an agnostic exactly, or you're not a A theist, uh I mean uh an atheist, you're you're not you know, you're a theist, you're you believe in God, but you're really not sure if you have that kind of faith, that real saving faith Can I encourage you to come and talk with me after the service or one of the other guys up here? Boy, we would we would there it would be it would be thrilling, frankly, for somebody to come and talk with me after the service. And I'll take a Bible and I'll show you how you can have this saving faith. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you for what Christ has done for us. Thank you for the resurrection. Thank you, the fact thank you for the fact that uh we are not left in our sins, for the death of Christ Truly did pay the punishment for our sins, and we know that because it was verified by a real bodily resurrection. And Lord, I do pray that if there is anybody here today They've had some sort of faith, but it's not real faith. I pray today would be a day that they would understand their sin, their need of a savior, and that they would be saved. Lord, we thank you for all that you have done for us. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can Can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.