Let's go ahead and uh turn to Psalm 18 to begin our service as we worship the Lord together this morning. Psalm 18 And we'll read verses one through eight. I will love you, O Lord, my strength. The Lord is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer, my God, my strength in whom I will trust. My shield and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold I will call upon the Lord who is worthy to be praised. So shall I be saved from my enemies. The pangs of death surrounded me, and the floods of ungodliness made me afraid. The sorrows of Sheol surrounded me. The snares of death confronted me. In my distress I called upon the Lord and cried out to my God He heard my voice from him from his temple, and my cry came before him even to my to his tear e to his ears. Then the earth shook and trembled, the foundations of the hills also quaked and were shaken, because he was angry. Smoke went up from his nostrils and devouring fire from his mouth, coals were kindled by it. Let's put together. Father, we come to you and praise you because you are our strength, you are our protection, you are our fortress. And we come to you and love you for those things. Our heart agrees with the psalmist. And today, as we come to you and worship you corporately, we pray, Lord, that you would help us to put aside and to set aside the distractions that so easily occupy our thinking and our mind and really focus upon you because of who you are. All of your your your character was displayed supremely in the person of Christ as he came to earth and lived a perfect life and died to pay the punishment for our sin. Your justice and your love, your protection, your strength, all those things are afforded to us because of the glorious gospel that we that we have placed our trust in you. And we pray if there isn't anybody here that has not placed their trust in who Christ is and what he has done, I pray, Lord, that you would today, this would be a day where they would understand their sin and their need of a savior and that they would be saved. I pray that as we worship you today, we would do so in spirit and in truth, and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Let's pray together. Father, as we have been singing this morning, our hearts are full Regarding your disposition towards us. And the fact that you, in your goodness and graciousness Have provided for us so many promises in your word. Promises about our future and promises about ourselves about yourself And we thank you, Lord, that all of the promises regarding yourself remain true. And they are never not applicable. Lord, we thank you that for every one of those promises we can hold true. We can hold fast firmly to them. And they are there for us because we need them. We need them every day. What I I We admit to you, Lord, that we do not uh live each day in light of your promises for us. We are not always reminded of the fact that we have access to your grace. We do not always remember that we have access to your strength. So often, Lord, we in fact go about it on our own. And we wonder sometimes why we we fail and fall. And it's because we didn't use what's available to us. And in our pride we we look to ourselves when we should look to you. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to remember your word, to remember your promises. To know that you have secured our salvation through the precious blood of your Son. And that can't be taken from us. And on top of that, you have provided for us a home with you that is certain. And that also can't be taken from us. And just those two promises alone really are enough to face each day with power, with conviction. With strength. I ask, Lord, that you would help us to be those types of people. Help us to stand in your promises, never wavering. Help us to know you more completely Having an accurate view of who you are. I pray, Lord, that as we go to your word in a few moments, that that our eyes Would see you high and lifted up, and that you would be elevated in our minds and our hearts, even more so than before when we came here. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Reading from today's text that Pastor Jim will be preaching from will be 1 Peter 5 verses 5 through 9 Scripture says, Likewise, you younger people, submit yourselves to your elders. Yes, all of you be submissive to one another, and be clothed with humility For God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. Therefore, humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time Casting all your care upon him, for he cares for you. Be sober Be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, walks about like a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. Resist him. Steadfast in the faith Knowing that the same sufferings are experienced by your brotherhood in the world. What is your picture of an ideal Christian? I'm going to give you two options. Some people, when they think of an ideal Christian, they think of a fighter. You ask them if a person is spiritually mature or they're growing the Lord, they'll say, well, he's on fire. He's a fighter. He's just on fire for God. And their ideal of a their picture of an ideal Christian is someone who's just on fire and fighter and kind of that kind of a picture. Other people, their picture of an ideal Christian is someone who is really more passive They're ones that are sort of maybe um s maybe super spiritual, maybe not much of a fighter, in fact sort of sort of passive and know not how know how to stay away from trouble and stay out of the fray of of controversy. Some people really view the ideal Christian as someone who's kind of a pacifist, someone who is just passive in nature. What is your ideal of a what is your picture of an ideal Christian? In the passage that we're going to be looking at this morning, Peter is is he has a series of commands. He's about to close up this book as we've gone through the book of First Peter. And he has a series of commands here. They almost look like they don't relate to each other very well. They sort of look like just bullet points. They actually have a very important relationship to each other that really shows us what an ideal the stance or the posture of an ideal Christian in this world as he comes against Satan and he comes against opposition from the world, how should this person be? Peter's going to describe this to us. He's going to give us four commands. One, he's going to say, submit yourselves. Then he's going to say, humble yourselves. That's going to be followed by awaken yourselves, and then finally actively oppose the enemy. First, he's going to say submit yourselves. Number one, submit yourselves. And I want to set up what he's about to say here in this way. In fact, look at verse 5 for a minute, if you would, first. Notice what it says. Likewise, you younger people, submit yourselves to your elders. That all of you be submissive to one another and be clothed with humility. For God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. So so I want to set this up this way. What is your view of freedom? What what it what does it mean to truly be free? Paul David Tripp in his in his devotional that he has written somewhat recently in New Morning Mercies this past week as I was going through the devotional, he said this. He said, freedom that fills and satisfy your heart, uh satisfies your heart is never found in setting yourself up as your own authority. True freedom is not found in doing whatever you want whenever you want to do it. True freedom is never found in putting yourself in the middle of the world of your world and making it all about you. True freedom is not found in resisting the call to submit to anybody any authority but your own. True freedom is never found in writing your own moral code. True freedom is not the result of finally getting your own way when you attempt to do these things. You never enjoy freedom, you only end up in another form of bondage. Now what Peter is going to do toward the end of his of this whole book as it culminates is he's going to give some direction. to believers on how they are to to f finally to stand in this world. And he's going to begin by something that would not be particularly possible uh not be particularly popular and in fact would almost be counterintuitive particularly to the young person. You say, well the old person too, but the Bible actually Peter actually addresses the younger person here. He says the younger people Now what does he mean by that? He's not really talking about children here. He's talking about younger adults. People that were in there in the young adult, probably anywhere from 13 all the way probably through age 30 or so. Or maybe forty. Can I include forty that way I can be young? Um In the rage, the range of the young, he says, be very careful that you submit to the office of elder. Of course last week we talked about the office of elder uh to to uh to uh you know an extended discussion of that, and now he is saying he turns to the younger people particularly And not only, but he says, you younger people, make sure you are submitting to the office of the elder. Now what is he pointing out here is he talks about this idea of submission. Well, Peter has already talked a lot about submission in his book. Do you remember that? In 1 Peter 2, verse 13 It says it talks about submitting to government. It says, therefore, submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake, whether to king as supreme, and it goes on in that passage. In 1 Peter 2 verse 18, he says, Submit, masters, submit to your servants. Or in our day, we would say, employees, submit to your to Service submit to your masters, or in our day we would say, employees, submit to your employers. Then he says in 1 Peter 3, 1, wives, submit yourselves to your husbands. And now he finally says in this passage, submit to the elders. Why would he say that? Why would that be important? Well, it actually tells us in Hebrews chapter 13 why that's important. In Hebrews chapter 13, which we referenced last week, it says in verses seven through eight, remember those who have rule over you, or I would say it this way, the word rule has a connotation that it's nothing wrong with the translation, but but it has a connotation that I think a better a better word would be lead. Remember those who lead you, who have spoken the word of God to you, whose faith follow, considering the outcome of their conduct. Jesus Christ the same yesterday, today, and forever. And in verse 17 of Hebrews 13 says this: Obey those who have or who lead you, who have rule over you. And be submissive, for they watch for your souls as those who must give account. Let them do so with joy and not with grief, for that would be unprofitable for you. Now it's it's you know it's always a little awkward as a pastor, as an elder, noting the importance of submitting to elders. It almost it could come across as self-serving, but I'll remind you that I am commanded just prior, I am commanded as an elder not to lord over God's heritage. And so when I say the things that I'm about to say, I'm not in any way saying to you that that you need to follow me or follow your the elders here with you know total blind kind of submission. It's not what's really what what's in view here What is in view here, and it is talking about the elders, in 1 Timothy 5, verse 17, it says, Honor elders, let elders who rule well or who lead well be counted worthy of double honor. So it's talking about elders here as it mentions in Hebrews 13, 17, but it says something at the very end of that that I think really helps us. It says, if if you don't, it's unprofitable for you. What is he talking about there? What he is saying is that for for a Christian who is and every Christian and God's economy and God's You know, the the idea of a of a Christian not vitally linked to a local church in the first century is absolutely foreign. That idea is just foreign in the New Testament. But someone who is a Christian, the goal, the role that the elders play, the pastor plays in the life of the Christian is to help him grow in Christ. is to help him to be a spiritual benefit to him. And so what this passage is telling us in Hebrews is to make sure that you arrange yourself under those who are doing they're doing what they're supposed to be doing. They're doing what they do to to be of spiritual benefit to you. Because if If they're trying to be a spiritual benefit to you and you're bucking them and you're not submissive to them, then They're not doing it with joy, and there's conflict and there's problems, and then you're not going to grow. You are going to hinder your own spiritual growth if you do not If you do not arrange yourself under, that's what submit means, arrange yourself under the spiritual leadership of those who have been placed in spiritual leadership over you. That's what the passage is saying. It's not saying that there is uh you know in the church some sort of magisterial authority that the pastor or elders can do whatever they want and say whatever they want, and you just gotta follow blindly. That's not what's in view here. It's saying that if you don't, it is going to be to your detriment. And he particularly says this to young believers. Why? Because the truth is, young believers, is it not true that young believers particularly would struggle in this area? Young believers, young men, particularly, I think, struggle in the area of submission. In fact, that is why in Titus Titus addresses particularly young men in verses six through eight it says this Exhort the young men to be sober minded In all things showing yourself to be a pattern of good works in doctrine showing integrity, reverence, incorruptibility Sound speech that cannot be condemned, that one who is an opponent may be ashamed, having nothing evil to say of you. Why is it? Well, Peter, I want you to think about Peter. Peter's writing writing this, right? But Peter is not, when he writes this under the inspiration of the Spirit of God, it is not Separated from his own personal experience. And do you remember Peter back when Christ was on earth and he was Christ's disciple while they were on earth? What was Peter? Well, Peter was headstrong. This headstrong approach by young Peter made him say things that were wonderful, like, You are Lord and God. Referring, you are the Christ, the Son of the Living God, as he exclaimed to Jesus when Jesus asked of him. But he also said things That were very foolish. And what were the things that were very foolish that he said? Even to the point where Jesus had to say, get thee behind me, Satan. Well what did Peter say? Well Peter said, Well, you won't go to the cross. I will defend you. I will protect you. And in his own arrogance, in Peter's own arrogance He locked off the ear of uh of someone who was going who was uh attempting to arrest Jesus. Peter was both headstrong, but he was not Submissive. He had not learned that yet. And over time, mature Peter, who's writing 1 Peter, now realizing in his own In his own youth, how he was headstrong and self-dependent, says, you really need to make sure, young believers. That you are arranging yourself under the elders so that they can be profitable for you. So they can be encouraging to you. Peter understood the nature of really, I think, all of us to be dependent on self. What is the ideal Christian? What is the ideal picture of a Christian? Well, in God's mindset, it is one who knows how to submit. who knows how to arrange himself under. In fact, it says to the, it says scripturally, not only should we submit ourselves under spiritual authority, But we also ought to submit ourselves one to another. It says the same thing in Ephesians 5, verse 21: Submitting to one another in the fear of God. How do you know if you really fear the Lord, if you really have a true reverence for God? Well, do you have a submissive spirit one toward another. Particularly this one other phrase is a reference to those in the body of Christ. Do we have a submissive spirit in the body of Christ? I dare not say that I am a fear, a God fear, if I am rebellion, if I have a rebellious spirit toward other people. And that that's essentially what this is saying. He's saying the the ideal Christian is a submissive Christian. And this goes for everybody. This includes elders. We ought to have this general disposition toward each other that we are submissive one to another. We arrange ourselves under one another. It says this, to be clothed with humility. Submit yourselves one to another and be clothed with humility. What is it saying there? Here's what it's saying. The clothing of humility is submission. Now we are learning on Wednesday nights and learning other times. We know throughout the entire New Testament that we find that God greatly values the quality of humility. You can't come to Christ without humility. And you can't live for Christ without humility. And you can't grow in Christ without humility. But how in the world do you know whether or not you are truly humble? How do you know? Well, I just decide I'm humble. Well, that doesn't even make any sense, does it? Well, I just, you know, looked in my heart one day and said, there's humility there. That makes no sense whatsoever. How is it that you are to measure your own humility? What is the external clothing of humility? It's submission. That can be measured. You can measure submission. You can measure whether or not you're arranging yourself under other people. Uh whether you're arranging yourself other government leadership, whether you're arranging yourself un uh other under uh uh proper family marriage relationships, whether you're arranging yourself under your parents in uh for your for children, whether you're arranging yourself You can you don't say you're humble. First of all, just don't say you're humble. But don't even think that you're humble if you're not submissive. And when you are not submissive, just know, just know that there is pride in your heart. It is an indicator to us. It's like a thermometer. How's my humility level? Just look at how submissive I am. That's why then God says this. Why is this so important? Because God resists who? The proud. He resists the proud, but gives what? Grace to the humble. This comes from Proverbs 3, 34, which says, surely he scorns the scornful, but gives grace to the humble. To the humble. God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. What is grace? Grace is kindness. Grace is God's gifts of kindness toward us. We see the concept in the Old Testament of kindness that's culminated in what Christ did on the cross for us, in giving for us eternal life. And every single day, because we live with our own sin, our own flesh, and a fallen world, we desperately need the grace of God. We can't do anything of any value without God's grace. And God says that if you want His kindness, He resists the proud. He opposes the proud, but he gives grace. To the humble. God resists the proud and gives grace to the humble. Paul Tripp continues in what he was saying about this, he continues, he says, Freedom and authority are not enemies. Here's the point. You and I always exist under some kind of authority. We either willingly submit to God's rule and the authorities that he has placed in our lives, or we are we set ourselves up as our own authorities and rule our lives as we see fit. But none of us is wise enough, strong enough, faithful enough, or righteous enough to rule ourselves well We are no more hardwired to rule our own lives than a beagle is hardwired to live in a water-filled aquarium. Self-rule never leads anywhere good. So the goal of grace is not to produce in you the ability to live independently. The agenda of grace is to transform you into a person who humbly recognizes your need for authority and celebrates the holy, loving, and benevolent authority of God. It is the role of grace to cause us to realize that being under authority, to be under the authority of God, is to be in a place In a place of safety and security and grace So how does this affect us? How is it that this works out practically in our lives? When this is what's going on internally in our lives? Well, we then move to verses 6 and 7 where it says to humble yourself. Submit yourselves, but also humble yourselves. Verse 6 says, Therefore, humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time, casting all your care upon him, for he cares for you. First of all, he says to humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God. This mighty hand of God is no doubt a reference all the way back to the book of Exodus. Over and over in the book of Exodus, you have God's mighty hand. And you'll recall as we went through an entire series in the book of Exodus. Over and over, we saw the power of God and the mighty hand of God as he worked through his people to deliver them. from from the world and from Egypt. In Exodus 319 it says, But I am sure that the king of Egypt will not let you go even by my mighty hand. Jesus God said this himself. God says, I have a mighty hand. And in reflection on what God did for Israel as he delivered them from the hand of Pharaoh. In Deuteronomy it says, Or did God ever try try to go and take for Himself a nation of the midst of another nation by trials, by signs, by wonders, by war, by a mighty hand and an outstretched arm, and by great terrors according to the Lord your God? did did for you in Egypt before your eyes. And over and over and over again in Deuteronomy, this word mighty hand is used. Deuteronomy 434, 515, 621, 78, 719. 926, 112, 26, 8. Don't try to write all this down. My point is that over and over again, as Moses reflects all of what God has done. He keeps using this term mighty hand. God has a mighty hand that is able. What is the idea? The idea is that God is not powerful Only in this sort of ideal sense that nobody can understand. But God works in such a way with his hand to execute his power in this world on our behalf. And we are to humble ourselves under the mighty hand of God. Even in Daniel, years, hundreds of years later, Daniel chapter nine, verse fifteen, and reflecting on what happened with Moses, and now O Lord God, who brought your people out of the land of Egypt with a mighty hand and made yourself a name, as it is this day, we have sinned and we have done wickedly. Now the idea here folks, the idea, it says, is to humble yourselves unto the mighty hand of God that He may exalt you in due time. This is exactly the opposite of the world. The world says exalt yourself pull yourself up by your own bootstraps. You need to make it and depend on yourself. You've got to do it. You've got to make it happen. And God says, humble yourself under the mighty hand of God, and I will exalt you In due time. Jesus said this over and over again in Matthew 23, verse 12, and it says, Whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted. Luke 14, 11, for whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted. Again in Luke 18, 14, same thing. I tell you This man went down to his house justified rather than the other, for everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted. Jesus was constantly getting this across If you see a man in this world or a woman in this world that is exalting themselves, know that one day he will, he or she will be humbled. It will happen. And the exact opposite is true as well. Those who truly humble themselves under the mighty hand of God will one day be exalted and will rule and reign with Christ. Now, I want you to notice the next phrase here. And this was not randomly put in there. This is a very common verse, verse 7. And m most of the time it's you it's used in isolation. In other words, you'll see this all over the place on you know bumper stickers and Facebook posts and all kinds of things. But it usually is not used in its context. Look at verse 7. Casting all your care upon him for he what? Free cares for you. What in the world does that have to do with humbling yourself under the mighty hand of God? And the answer is everything. What he is talking about here is anxiety. He says, casting your care upon Him, for he cares for you. This is this care is talking about the anxieties and worries of life. In Matthew chapter 6, Jesus said the same word, do not care for take no thought do not have this kind of anxiety and now he is saying here's how you deal with anxiety you cast all your cares on him Now let me ask you this question. What would keep a Christian from casting their cares on God? Well, maybe they think that God doesn't care. Which is exactly why Jesus Peter reminds them, he cares for you, casting all your cares on him, for he cares for you. So why? Why is it that a person, a Christian Was it because God isn't powerful enough? No, that's why he says, humble yourself under the mighty hand of God. If God is truly all-powerful to deal with your problems in the way he wants to, And God is truly caring and concerned about your needs, what would stop you from casting your care on Him? And the answer is you Our pride, our arrogance, our thoughts that we can Figure it out ourselves. We can manage ourselves. We can make the right decisions on our own. We can have self-confidence in what we can do so that we can we can I can make this work so I you know that's where anxiety comes, folks. Anxiety comes from me running this thing over, some problem, over and over and over in my head, and trying to figure out how I'm going to solve my own problem. Instead of saying, God, you have a mighty hand and you care for me. And so because you have a mighty hand and you care for me, I'm going to get rid of my own pride and humble myself under you and just submit to what you want so that I Cast my care on you. The idea of casting our care, casting our care, it's sometimes translated to throw, to throw our care. In Matthew 15, 30 it says the sick are cast at Jesus' feet. In Matthew 27, 5, Judas throws money into the temple. In Luke 4, 35, the demon throws a man down who is exercised. In in uh Luke seventeen, two, uh uh the uh one is threatened to destruction. In Acts 22, 23, he's there's throwing off clothes that's expressed a resolve. It's the throwing off. How many have ever been fishing before? How many have ever been casting while you fish? Here's here's how you if anybody's casting while uh uh uh uh casting, here's one thing you can't do while you're casting. I'll just let you know. If you try to cast and you cast, okay, you do an overhand cast or you do a side cast, and you and you cast and you let up in the middle of your cast, what's going to happen? You're gonna get all tangled up, it's gonna go everywhere, it's gonna it could spool your your there's a thousand there not a thousand, but there's a lot of things that can happen If you let up in the middle of your cast. If you cast and you let up in the middle of it, or you hesitate in the little uh in the middle of it instead of casting it and following through correctly, you are not going to go where you want to go The idea of casting or throwing is you you give it to you you let it all you throw it out. You throw it down. And in casting it's very important to direct your cast exactly where you want it to go. And if you don't learn to do that correctly, you're gonna have trees and all kinds of things. And how many have all done that before, including myself? All right. What this is talking about, folks, is to cast our cares on the Lord, to give it over to God, to say, God, I I don't have the answer to this. I'm not I'm gonna stop trying to deal with this mys I'm I'm gonna stop trying to Figure out the solution and I'm going to and I'm going to cast the care on you. Now let me let me be clear. This is not saying I'm going to let go and let God. It's not saying that, okay, well, I'm just not going to do anything. Fine, God, you got it. Okay, fine, I'm not doing nothing. Sometimes that's the way we are. Our flesh is that way. Our flesh is like, I'll handle it all myself, or all right, God, I'm not even touching it. No, that's not the point here. The point is this. There are there is in with with every problem, there is a level to which we have responsibility. And then there is a point to which we can do nothing about it and we don't have responsibility. You understand what I'm saying? In every problem we face We have something that we, and I would say every most problems we face, we have something within the problem that we have a responsibility to do. If nothing else, pray. And there may be other things within that problem that we need to do that are it's just responsible and this is my responsibility and this is what I need to do. And then there's another side to that problem that you have absolutely no control over. That there is absolutely nothing that you can do about do. And that can become a weight to us. That can stress us out. That can cause such extreme anxiety to us. And that weight within the care, that's what you've got to cast. That's what you need to say, I'm going to cast my care on him. And when you and I refuse to do that, when we refuse to admit where we have no control, where we refuse to refuse to admit where w we got nothing. We just we need it That is where pride is set in. And God says, you're not going to get the grace I can give to you if you will not cast your care on me. Casting all your care on him because he cares for you. Well, so far, for the most part, this passage has said things about humility and submission And casting our care, it almost looks passive, doesn't it? It almost looks like the Christian life is just sort of this passive life that I just sort of float by and And and I just cast everything on God. No. Now Peter's going to turn and he is going to say, we need to awaken ourselves. We gotta wake up. Yes, we need to be submissive. Yes, we need to be humble, but we also in the midst of this, we need to wake up. We need to awaken ourselves. Look at verse 8. Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, walks about like a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. What is this talking about? Well, in Matthew, in Mark chapter 13, verse 34 through 37, in fact, this di this these two concepts of sober and vigilant, these two concepts These two words are coupled in the New Testament multiple times. They they tend to go together as you read through the New Testament. And not just Peter, but Paul uses it and Jesus uses it. So you have different writers that use these two words that are coupled together. In Mark 13, verses 34 through 37 says, It is like a man going to a far country who left his house and gave authority to his servants to each his work and commanded the doorkeeper to watch. Watch therefore, and that's actually our word, vigilant. Watch therefore, for you do not know when the master of the house is coming in the evening and at midnight or at the crowing of the rooster or in the morning. Lest coming suddenly he find you sleeping. And what I say to you, I say to all, watch. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, verse 6, we have the same thing. It says, Therefore, let us not sleep as others do, but let us watch, same words, watch and be sober. How are we supposed to live this life as Christians? Yes, we are to be humble. Yes, we are to submit to God, but we need to be on alert. We need to be watchful. We ought not sleep through the Christian life. The Christian life is not in we are not intended to just exist through this life and just sort of be do whatever we want and and and and then just sort of sleep through it. God says that we need to awaken ourselves. The word sober Has the idea of, and both of these words have so much meaning to them, there's really that's why they're translated so many different ways. There's no way to really get you know, there's some words like that in the New Testament, but there's no real way to really pin it down to one word To be self-controlled, to be serious, to be concerned, to be occup that that's the idea of this word. It's the opposite of someone who's just floating along and doesn't care or takes life as just this You know, just kinda laughs through life. You ever met somebody like that? It's a particular politician that comes to mind that la seems to be laughing through everything. But anyway, sorry I probably shouldn't have said that. Um they just laugh through life. Everything's laugh. Everything's funny. Well, nothing wrong with having a sense of humor humor, it helps, okay? Uh either laugh or cry at some things. But God wants us to be sober, to be serious about life, to be serious about what God wants us to do. And this word vigilant means to be alert. Or watchful. That's this term watch that you see over and over again. For the sake of time we won't go through all the text. But Matthew twenty-four and twenty-five when When Christ talks about the coming of Christ, he uses this word watch. And Peter says, be aware that Christ is coming. Watch for the coming of Christ. Pay attention. Awaken yourselves. Be aware. It is so easy for us as Christians. How do you do the exact opposite of this? I'll tell you how. You basically forget that Christ is coming back. You basically live your life as though Christ is not coming. You basically don't think about the fact that Christ is coming. That's really what it boils down to. Just like when you sleep, you're not aware of your environment. When spiritual sleeping for a Christian is not being aware that Christ is coming Spiritual sleep as a Christian is going throughout my days and every day I'm not thinking about the fact that Christ is coming again and I'm going to stand before him and I'm going to be accountable to him for the things that I do. That's spiritual sleeping. And God says, you and I need to be spiritually awake. Realize that Christ is coming. And I'll tell you another reason why, and Peter says another reason why here. Because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walks about seeking whom he may devour. The picture here is it's interesting that it uses the word devil. There's a couple different possibilities of what it could use. It could use the word Satan, but instead it uses the word devil for a very important reason. It uses the word devil because the word devil means means uh slanderer or accuser Do you remember the Old Testament that Satan came and told God that if God takes his hand off Job, that he will certainly curse him and die? You remember that? Satan was an accuser of Job. Satan wanted to bring accusations against Job and And understand that that's what cr Satan's goal is for you and me. That's why it's so important for us to be awake and to be vigilant and to be aware of our environment. Satan's desire for you and Satan's desire for me is to tempt you so that you may fall, so that he can then accuse you. That's Satan's goal. What is the whole idea behind temptation? Why does God Satan tempt us? Why does the world tempt us? Why does Satan use the world to tempt us? What's going on there? So that when we fall, We then can be Satan then wants to accuse us. He is an accuser. He's the devil. And frankly, I'll just say it this way: he wants to destroy us. It says, as a roaring lion. He comes as a roaring lion seeking whom he may devour. And what he is not talking about here is like a Lion King idea of a lion. This is not okay a kunabatata and it's nice and uh you know it's not the lion that we're talking about here. We're not talking about a lion who, you know, somehow has all you know you know this grand story of a lion uh that's such a weird story. And frankly, it's not the lion in the zoo who could care less whether there whether you're there or not. You know, we we have this sort of domesticated concept of a lion. We go and say, Oh, those those lions are so cool. And they're like, uh I mean they barely move and oh he walked. That's not a lion that he's talking about here. You know the picture here? The picture here is of a lion in the Roman Colosseum executing someone with a vicious execution tearing apart flesh. As a lion goes and rips a person apart limb from limb, tears apart his flesh. It's a bloody mess, mess. And Peter knew by using this picture, it would put in the minds of his readers. A lion destroying the flesh of a human being. He wanted to get this picture across that that's what Satan's goal is for you and me And that's why he says, you and I must be aware, awakened, and vigilant. Christian You have to understand this, and I have to understand this. We've got to understand that we cannot go through life living for ourselves, doing whatever we want, not thinking about the coming of Christ. And not expecting to be sifted like we. This is going to happen if we are not aware. Of what God is doing in our lives. The final point we're gonna have I'm gonna bump to next Sunday because I'm out of time. Let's recap here. And let's point a couple of things. Number one, let's ask some questions. Number one, and the concluding applications. Number one Will we put on the clothes of submission? Will we do that? Will we choose to put on the clothes of submission? Which is humility. The internal working is humility, the external working is submission. You know, we're living in a world where it's it's it's like it's hard to submit. I mean, some so often our leaders aren't making a lot of sense. And yet God says that even in times where you can't submit because it violates the Bible, we are still supposed to have a submissive spirit toward our leadership. Whether it is government or family or church, that there is there ought to be a a submissive spirit. We ought to put on the clothes Will you do that? Will we do that? God says that's the picture of an ideal Christian. Number two, will you let go of your pride and cast your anxiety on Christ? That's where and the root of anxiety I guess I should say what you know put a very mild disclaimer on this that there are other Physiological reasons for anxiety occasionally. But as it normally goes, the normal root of anxiety is self-dependency. And what we've got to do is realize that when we cast our anxiety, the weight of our care. on the Lord. Fulfill our responsibility and say, okay, Lord, I'm doing what you've called me to do. I'm doing fulfilling my responsibility, and Lord, I'm trusting you with the rest of it. Number three, will we actively resist the devil who desires to accuse us before Christ? Now the truth is as you read through this, let me ask you this question before we close. As you read through this and we as we study through this, do you look at this and say, yeah, I got this figured out? I got no problems with this. We can do this. I I I c I got this handled. If you do, then you missed something. Because the truth is, as you read through this list of humility and submissiveness, and all of this, do you realize that there is no one that can do this without the gospel? It actually propels us toward the gospel. I look at this, I read through this, and what God is expecting and what God is wanting of us, and I go, ah, I don't know how to do that. How in the world can I be humble all the time and submissive all the time? And I know I'm not, I'm so prone to my own pride, and uh and I d I don't like casting my I mean I do like casting my cares, but I really don't, and I'm not really I mean All these kinds of things come in my life as I think through these things, and I realize that what it really drives us to is our need for Christ. Because you can't do this on your own. And if you're looking at this and you're saying you're saying, well, you know, uh if these this this is what a cr good Christian looks like, I got no shot at this. Well great, that's exactly where you need to be. Maybe you've never actually truly accepted the gospel before. See, it's the gospel, it's the gospel that comes in and changes our hearts and makes it like this. And there's clear responsibility and command for us. But all of this is summed up with this one word, dependency. I've got to depend on Christ. And if you know if you don't know Christ as your Lord and Savior, you've got to depend on Him to save you from your sin. Depend on what Christ did for you and dying on the cross for you to pay the punishment for your sin. And if you know Christ as your Savior, you've got to return back to that dependency and live your life that way. In utter and total dependency on Christ. And when we do that, then we will be the kind of a Christian who stands in the midst of a crooked and perverse world. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and praise you because of your word. We thank you for your truth. Lord, we we go through this and see what the kind of a heart you want for us as your people, and it does bring us to our knees. It brings us to a place where we we don't know. Uh we we we we We know we've it's gonna have to be we're trusting your work and your gospel to work through our hearts to make us this way. If there's anybody here that doesn't know you as their Lord and Savior, may they understand that the place where they must come to is a place of total dependency on you to save them from their sin. And for those of us who know you as our Savior, Lord, I pray that you would help us to understand that the place that we need to come to is total dependency on you. So that we may receive your grace in our lives. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.