Good morning. Feels like we're in a jungle. They did a great job decorating. We're going to be uh reading from Romans this morning, but before we do, why don't we bow our heads together and let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we come this morning with grateful hearts and thankful hearts. And Father, we come with cares and concerns. And we come with all kinds of things that we're thinking of. But I pray this morning, Father, that you might enable us to set aside these things this morning. As we sit under your word, I pray, dear God, that your Spirit will do a mighty work in our hearts. I pray for those who are unable to be out this morning, Father, due to illness or traveling. I ask God for your Spirit to be working in their hearts and their minds, if you would keep watch over them and continue to provide for them. And I pray that if they have the ability to even be watching uh by streaming, Lord, we ask that you would bless them this morning by your word and through your spirit. And Father, we're thankful for those that you brought out here today. A lot of uh a few visitors and all, Father, we're grateful. We're thankful And I pray as we come to read your word that you will help us to set aside just this hour, Lord, all of our cares and concerns. And Lord, that we would be able and be enabled by your Spirit to concentrate upon your word. And that, Father, when we leave here today that we will be a little different than when we came in because of sitting under your word. And we ask these things in Jesus' name Amen. We are in Romans chapter 4 this morning. Going to be looking at verses 18 through 25. Romans chapter 4, verses 18 through 25. 18 begins, who contrary to hope, in hope believed, so that he became the father of many nations, according to what was spoken. So shall your descendants be. And not being weak in faith, he did not consider his own body already dead, since he was about a hundred years old. And the deadness of Sarah's womb. He did not waver at the promise of God through unbelief, but was strengthened in faith, giving glory to God. And being fully convinced that what he had promised he was able to perform. And therefore, it was accounted to him for righteousness. Now it was not written for his sake alone, that it was imputed to him, but also for us. It shall be imputed to us who believe in him, who raised up Jesus, our Lord, from the dead, who was delivered up because of our offenses. And was raised because of our justifications. Romans 4 here we have been going through this passage. It is a passage where the Apostle Paul sets up Abraham as an example of how we are to be made right with God. This is an example that the Jewish Christians who heard this or read these words or heard these words read um would have would have uh immediately identified with Abraham as one who they really respected. I was uh uh studying this last week and really wanted I I it's sort of funny. I when I when I'm studying for service Setting out what passage I'm going to preach from, I really struggle because on one hand I like to be able to move through a book at a a a clip that is reasonable, you know, where we get done a book in a year or two years, something reasonable. Um right but at the same time s uh and I was going to go all the way from uh nine through twenty-five last week and when I hit verse eight eighteen to this this passage I said oh there is There is too much rich important truth here. I'm going to have to set this aside. In fact, Martin Lowe-Jones said about this passage that it is the most important passage on faith in the entire Bible. He believed even surpassing Hebrews chapter 11. That tells us something about this passage that is extremely to understand really what faith is, what it does, and what it does not. And there is much misunderstanding about the nature of faith. Um faith is something that people will say. You may hear somebody say, Boy, we gotta keep the faith. What does that mean? Keep the faith. Or um you hear or there's a campaign in Baltimore years ago, I think it was when I was like a teenager maybe, and all over Baltimore it said, believe, believe. Believe. Never said what to believe in, just said you need to believe. So you believe or keep the faith. You hear these kinds of things. Well, what on earth are people talking about when somebody says keep the faith? I actually to this day don't know what somebody's talking about. when they just say, keep the faith. There's gotta be more than just that. Take the chair illustration, which I use often. I think it's a good illustration. The ill the chair illustration helps us to understand what the dependency aspect of um here's a chair for example. Well I don't want to knock down a chair. Trumpet. Um uh here's a chair for example. And you might you've heard it before, uh probably that faith is like sitting in a chair. And so, you know, like if you're doing this, you're not really putting your full faith in the chair. It's not until you actually sit in the chair, now you're putting your full faith in the chair. Except actually and and and it's a good illustration for for faith, except actually my putting my sitting on this chair isn't faith at all. It's really not. You know what it is? It's a calculated risk. Okay? I've sat in many chairs, so experience tells me that when you sit in chairs, you should be able to Well, they should be able to hold you up. And I see no visual reason why this chair wouldn't hold me up. And so I'm cal- you know, I might not be consciously calculating all this, but basically When you go sit in a chair, you expect it to hold you up based upon previous experience and other ram other factors. When you go into a plane, you're not really putting your faith in the airplane you're putting your faith in the fact that statistically you're more likely to be successful flying than you are in, for example, a car driving. And successful in the sense of not having an accident. And you drive in a car because you've always driven in a car. And so really that none of that is actually faith. Faith is not calculated risk or or based on previous experience, okay, now I'm coming to a conclusion that This is a good direction for me to go. No, faith is something quite different from that, particularly biblical faith. You'll hear other people say, name it, claim it. You just need to name it and claim it. You ever heard that before? Oh, you know what, brother? What you just need to do is you need to name and claim that promise. What are they talking about? Name and claim it? Is that the is that the answer? If you just name something, is that faith when you just name it? And if you name it, there are people that Suggest essentially the power of positive thinking and speaking, I guess, where if you name something and say something, then it oh don't say that, it could come to pass, or say that and don't come I mean, no, that's actually called superstition, is what that's called. It's not faith. This passage is going to teach us what faith really is. This is the channel. Faith is the channel by which we become right with God. Downstairs in the basement right now, they're putting together, they're putting in uh Harry and uh and Joe are working together to put in um conduit. which is could call channel maybe, uh conduit down the basement. And they're running wire or running cat six cable, cat six or cat five, anyway, uh uh that kind of cable through through the uh through the conduit Well, faith is the conduit by which the grace of God is able to flow through. For by grace are you saved, for by grace are you saved what? Through faith. But it still leaves us with the question: what is faith? How do we, how does faith actually result in what we see here in this passage, resulting in being declared righteous or righteousness credited, imputed to me. What is that kind of faith? And how does faith function in that way? We're going to see three things in this passage. First, we're going to see that faith trusts in divine guarantees in verses in verse 18. The trusts in divine guarantees. Very, very important. There's a particular biblical dependent dependency on So faith trusts in divine guarantees. Sometimes play people are placing their faith in the wrong thing, and that's why their faith is Essentially fails. Faith, trusts, and divine guarantees. Number two, faith glorifies God. Faith glorifies God. Verses 19 through 22. And we're going to see how faith, exactly how faith glorifies God in 19 through 22. And then faith depends on God's execution. God doing what needs to be done. Faith depends on God's execution. And we'll see how that I don't mean execute like killing somebody, I mean executing in in the sense of doing something, performing something. So let's first then look at verse 18, faith Trusts in divine guarantees. Verse 18, who contrary to hope, in hope, believed. So we on the very outset of what Abraham's faith looks like, we understand that on one hand, it's contrary to hope, and on the other hand, it's in hope. Well, how can it be contrary to hope and in hope at the same time? The answer is that the New Testament uses the word hope in two different ways, at least two different ways, but certainly two different different ways. And we find actually that in Acts chapter 16, verse 19 that he uses it. For example, in that passage, it says, but when her master saw the that their hope of profit was gone. when the uh girl that was uh that had demon was demon possessed was helping helping prophesy uh things for the future and and businessmen were taking advantage and using her And they're upset when the disciples cast out demons of her. And their hope or their potential of profit was gone. So we use hope that way. In fact, that's usually how we use hope. We're we're looking ahead and we're saying, well, I hope that'll happen. There seems to be a good potential of that happening. Or oh that that's not going to happen because there's no potential of that happening And that's usually how we use hope. God's another way of using the New Testament uses hope is something very different, where we are confident in our expectation of something that God says is going to happen. It is both have the idea of expectation, but one is, oh, there's potential of something happening, but not necessarily going to happen. And the other is I'm expecting for it to happen based upon what God guarantees is going to happen. And so this is saying faith is when we hope against all hope. When we hope, when it seems like there is no hope, that's faith. Faith, contrary to hope, in hope, believed. Now, so that the passage says He became the father of many nations. So actually, if you take your Bibles and turn to Genesis chapter fifteen, we're going to go back there. We were there last week. We'll look at it again. And I want you to see this, how this fleshes out in the life of Abraham. How in Abraham's case, that first definition of hope, of hope so ex You know, expecting the potential of something happening. There was no potential of anything good happening, of the thing that he was hoping to happen would happen. There's it was hope against hope. It was contrary to hope. Notice what the passage says, Genesis chapter 15, verse 1. After these things the word of the Lord came to Abram in a vision, saying, Do not be afraid, Abram. I am your shield, your exceedingly great reward. Abraham, remember back in verse chapter 12, God had promised Abraham that he would make of Abraham a great nation The problem was Abraham at this point is close to 100 years old, and he doesn't have someone that he doesn't have any children of his own. He points this out. God says, I'm your exceedingly great reward. I am your shield. And Abraham says, verse 2, Lord God, what will you give me seeing I go childless? How are you going to make this come to pass, seeing I go childless? And the heir of my house is Eliezer of Damascus. This was uh very likely a um someone that was in this house that was a servant and And uh and he would actually end up getting becoming the heir of his inheritance because he had no children. I mean, it was a situation where there seems to be no hope, right? Sarah is, according to the King James, well stricken in years. And so is Abraham. They're both. way beyond child particularly a Sarah, way beyond childbearing years. So there doesn't look to be any significant hope. But faith confidently expects what God has promised. God had promised that he would make of Abraham a great nation. And so it confidently expects that that would be the case, that that would take place. Verse 18 of our passage in Romans chapter 4, it says this: for who contrary to hope, in hope, believed Abraham believed this, so that he became the father of many nations according to what was spoken. Hebrews chapter 11 says it this way, verse 1 and 2. Now faith is the substance of things hoped for. The substance. The promises of God, the things that are true about who God is, the thing, truth of God and his promises, the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. See, looking at a chair and going, well, there's evidence there. You know, it's got looks like the welds are okay, looks like the construction works for me, got four legs, I've sat in it a thousand times before, that'll work. That's not faith Faith is when you actually believe when there is no hope and there is no there's It's there's un it's like there's no realistic expectation of something happening. That is hope. And faith results in the fulfilled promises of God. It results in that way. In our text, Genesis chapter 15, it says this, this one shall not be your heir. Abram, this one will not be your heir, but one and he's he specifies the promise even more. I'm going to make of you a great nation. But one who will come from your own body shall be your heir. Abrams? Abram, it's got to come from your body. Then he brought him outside and said, Look now toward the heaven. Count the stars you are able to number and uh if you are able to number them. And he said to them, So shall your descendants be. And he believed in the Lord, and he accounted it to him for righteousness. God gives Abram two illustrations. He says, It'll be like the stars and the s and in Hebrews it says it'll be like the sand which is on the sand. seashore. That's interesting. I looked up how much sand. You know you can Google things like how much sand is in the world. And apparently scientists estimate this. They don't count it. Scientists estimate that Earth contains between seven point five and twenty-one sextillion grains of sand. Sextillion is a billion trillion, by the way. That's a lot of sand, and that's a lot of descendants. Um stars, astronomers estimated that that the observable universe contains about 200 billion trillion or sextillion stars. It is staggering. It's uncountable. Both of those are uncountable. And God is promising to Abram that that is going to be the nature of your descendants. You won't be able to count them all throughout the ages and his and of throughout the ages. We need to understand as well this that true faith squarely depends on God's Word. It squarely depends on the Word of God. True faith, biblical faith, doesn't depend on experience. It doesn't depend upon your own thinking or your own imagination or your or what somebody else said. Depends squarely on what the Word of God says. Look at the passage with me again, and you'll notice it says, according to what has what was spoken. God specifically spoke. so shall your descendants be. The promise that Abraham believed in was based upon what God had said was going to happen. Not an impression, not a feeling, not experience, not what somebody else told them, but clearly what God's Word said. That is biblical faith. It's not calculated risk. It's on a God-given knowledge. To be able to see what can't be seen. Faith is a God-given gift. It is a knowledge to be able to see what can't be seen. Hebrews chapter 11, 3 says this by faith we understand the worlds were framed by the Word of God, so that the things which are seen were not made of things which are visible. In other words, you look around and you see creation, and faith tells you that it's actually the invisible that undergirds the visible That it's actually the things that are not seen that sets the foundation and creates this God, particularly the creator who's invisible, makes that which is visible. It's faith that ultimately Helps us, it causes us to see that. It's what people cannot see apart from God's working Now, the passage then we move on here and we're going to see in verses 19 through 22. that faith very specifically glorifies God. And in verse 19, we pick up and we see some things that faith Does not do because it glorifies God. What does it not do? In verse 19, we pick up and it says, and not being weak in faith, He did not consider his own body already dead since he was about a hundred years old, and the deadness of Abraham's womb. So, first of all, we need to see from this passage that it does not ignore circumstances and limitations. Faith does not ignore circumstances and limitations. Some people, that's it's blind they're not willing to really look at what the circumstances there are. They want to put their head in the you know sextillion sand. And they think faith is sort of just blindly not paying attention to the circumstances and the limitations around. That is not true. Faith considers, it counts the limitations and circumstances that are around. This The you see from the passage it says in uh verse nineteen, and not being weak in faith, he did not consider his own body. The wording there is a little bit confused. It could be translated this way. He did consider his own body but considered it dead. Or so there's a there's a the way it's translated there, it's not as though he just didn't consider it. No. He considered, he factored in what was true about the situation. That his own body is not usually bearing children and h his wife's body is not I mean definitely that doesn't happen. Okay? At ninety-nine or whatever she you know Close to a hundred years old. Not and maybe uh she was in her nineties. So uh so he contemplated it. He thought about it. He thought about the circumstances that he was in He considered it. And we see scripturally that we should this idea of considering or contemplating is something that we should do. He realized it actually says it this way, he was now as good as dead, the way he saw himself. Um and his wife was barren beyond childbearing years. Hebrews chapter 11 says it this way, verses 11 through 10. twenty. By faith Abraham Sarah herself also received strength to conceive seed, and she bore a child that she would was past the age, because she judged him faithful. She Even she judged him faithful who had promised. Therefore from one man and him as good as dead were born as many as the stars of the sky in multitudes innumerable as the sand which is by the seashore. Why? Because God gets the glory. That's why. God put Abraham and Sarah in such a situation that there was that if they were going to have a child at this point, there was nowhere to look except God being the getting the credit There was no other human explanation. And Abraham and Sarah chose to believe that this was going to happen. Number two, faith is not weakened by circumstances or limitations. It's not weakened by circumstances or limitations. Now, as soon as I say that, you may be thinking, are you sure about that? Really, understand that the nature of faith is that just as we already sat seen, they hopes against hope. The nature of faith is that it doesn't look at what is there and says, okay, there's no way, so I'm going to lose hope. That is not the nature of faith. So on one hand, it doesn't ignore circumstances. Limitations, but on the other hand, faith itself is not weakened by circumstances or limitations. In other words, true faith isn't that way. It did not, scripture says it did not weaken his faith. This word weakened often is translated sick or weak. Matthew 10, 8 or James 5, verse 14. It's a sickness or a weakness. Faith isn't sickened or weakened by the circumstances because faith isn't based upon the circumstances or limitations. Faith, verse 20, first part of verse 20, does not allow unbelief to win. It says he did not waver at the promise of God through unbelief. But was strengthened in faith, giving glory to God. Now I'm sure, I would imagine anyway at this point, I certainly was, when I was reading through this and studying it. I thought to myself, well, wait a minute. Didn't Abraham waver? I mean, do you remember the story where Sarah says to Abraham, take my handmaiden. It's not working between the two of us. Take my handmaiden. I mean, you remember that? So how is it that the Bible here could say that he didn't it doesn't you know he Abraham didn't waver? I mean what how how does this work? Well, a couple of things to understand about this. First of all, we need to understand that waiver means to discern or to distinguish. It's actually usually translated discernment. It's sometimes translated judge or to make a distinction. and it is actually translated on occasion doubt or doubting. That's the nature of this And Lloyd Jones says this, he did not stagger at the greatness of the promise. You think of James chapter 1. You remember James chapter 1, verses 5 through 8? If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask of God, who gives to all liberally without reproach, and it will be given to him. But let him ask in what? In faith with no doubting. By the way, what is he asking? He's asking for wisdom. Remember what he's asking for. Okay? If any man lacks wisdom, but let him ask in faith with no doubting. For he who doubts is like a wave of the sea, driven and tossed by the window. For let not a man suppose that he will receive anything from the Lord. He is a double-minded man, unstable in all his ways. So if you think of wavering or staggering, you think of someone who can't walk straight Someone who's constantly staggering or wavering back and forth. They can't walk in a straight line. They're staggering and they're wavering. This does not mean though, folks, that we will not have thoughts of doubt. In fact, it's interesting in Ephesians chapter 6, verse 16. It says this. Above all, taking the shield of faith with which you will be able to, listen to this, quench all the fiery darts of the wicked one. Certainly, those darts that come at us certainly they include doubts. See, doubts in one sense, doubts are temptations to lose your hope in God. Right? To turn your back on God, to be in despair. Doubts are that way. They're temptations. Well, are Christians tempted? Absolutely. But what this passage is saying is that someone who truly has faith, though there may be darts of doubt, ultimately the faith will win. And we see that in Abraham's life. The faith wins. And I think that there's a wonderful application for us as well in Ephesians chapter 6, where it tells us that we need to take the shield of faith. To quench the doubts. That's very interesting. It doesn't say that you take all of the doubts and you figure them all out in your head. Right? Aren't we tempted to do that? Well let me just figure all these out. Let me take one at a time and I'll research it. I'll Google it. You know, I'll Google everything and figure it out. It's amazing the things you can Google now. Now they have AI. You notice that you Google something and it's like AI and it gives you like this whole multiple paragraphs on this and um I was fine with just Google, but anyway. So faith is using the faith that God is giving us, seeing the truth from Scripture. To be able to quench the doubts. For example, circumstances in our lives may make us believe that God is not faithful Then you go to Scripture and you energize your faith from what Scripture says that allows the darts to be quenched. We must believe what God's word says regardless of our circumstances. Faith does that. Doesn't mean that we get confused about how God is going to accomplish something You ever been a situation where you have no idea how God's going to accomplish something? I mean that was the situation Abraham and Sarah were in. Genesis chapter six verse one, which I referred to already, it says, Now Sarah, Abram's wife, was born uh had borne him no children, and she had a she had um an So Sarah said to Abram, See now the Lord has restrained me from bearing children. And Abram heeded the voice of Sarai. Then Sarai, Abram's wife, took Hagar her maid, the Egyptian, and gave her to her husband Abram, to be his wife, after Abram had dwelt ten years. So he went to Hagar and she conceived, and when she saw that she was she had conceived, her mistress became dis uh despised in her eyes. Now Galatians helps us understand what this is what's going on here. In Galatians chapter 4 verse 21, it says this, tell me You who desire to be under the law, do you not hear the law? For it is written that Abraham had two sons, the one by the bondwoman, and the other by a free woman By he who was the bondwoman was born according to the flesh, and he and he of the free woman through promise. So Paul sets this up and says that one was was man's way of attempting to comp to accomplish God's promise And the other way was God's way of attempting to accomplish God's promise. During all this, would you and I think we actually have to take the passages in Romans and Hebrews and help us uh to understand what's going on in the mind of Abraham and Sarah because it really fleshes things out for us. Did Abraham after Genesis chapter 15 Did Abraham and Sarah ever lose faith completely that there would not be a seed or not be a child born to them? They never did. They got confused on how it was going to come. They even decided there must be they need to help God out. They decided to do things, take things into their own hands by their own flesh, but they didn't lose faith in the promise of God as they went through this. It stayed intact. That's the nature of faith. Ultimately, faith wins. And finally, faith changes people. Faith changes people. Why does it glorify God? It changes people. Genesis chapter 17. Verses four through five As for me, behold my covenant is with you, and you shall be a father of many nations. No longer shall your name be called Abram, but your name shall be Abraham, for I have made you father of many nations. Hebrews 11 13 says this these all died in faith, not receiving the promises, but having seen them afar off, assured of them, embraced them and confessed that they were still. Strangers and pilgrims on the earth. This would really when I really actually think logically about this, this should be in the next category of what does glorify God, this last one, faith changes people. Nevertheless, what it's saying here is this, that when you when there is true faith, it changes your entire outlook on things. You begin to see things from God's perspective. You realize that you are a stranger and a pilgrim on this earth. Before faith, you're gonna you this is all you have. This is everything. All your goals are bound up in the temporal. All your goals are bound up in the here and now. All of your goals, you're looking ahead to accomplishing what you can while you're alive. But when you have the faith that God desires for you to have Your goals go beyond the temporal. Your perspective is that you are a stranger and pilgrim on this earth. And we have the patriarchs of the Old Testament that teach us that. And that's exactly how Abraham lived. So how does faith glorify God? Verse 20 tells us the second part, faith strengthens us. Now we have precedent for saying us because we're later going to see that Paul is very clear that what occurred in Abraham can occur in us. So we see from the passage in 20 here that it says, but he was, but was strengthened in faith, giving glory to God. He was strengthened in faith. This implies that faith has levels. Sometimes we think of faith as only, you know, like it you either have faith or you don't. But apparently that isn't the case because our faith is strengthened as we go through things that cause us to depend upon God. It's similar to, but it's still faith even in its immature state. I'd illustrate it this way, you have a a full-grown tree like an oak tree, and but that comes from a little sapling. All of the all of the underlying structure, all of the you know molecules and DNA, everything that is necessary for that tree to be what it is is there in that sapling. And yet it becomes this massive, strong, well-developed tree. And this kind of reminds me sometimes of even in my own life as a Christian, you ever grown in your faith to the extent that you look back years and years ago and you want to Because it looked so different than what it is now because of the things that you've learned, the the how real God is or how certain things that God has taught you through the uh along the way. So understand that someone can have faith, but it's actually it's just it's just you know It's at its sapling stage, and it must be strengthened. Well, how is it strengthened? The passage is going to help us with this. Look at how it's strengthened. Look at verse 21. Verse 21 says, and being fully convinced that what he had promised, he was able also to perform. So how is our faith strengthened so that we are fully convinced that what God promises, He is able also to perform? Well, faith fully convinced is convinced by the ability of God. What he's promised He's able also to perform that promise. So it stands to reason then that we number one need to study and know the promises of God. And frankly, we need to know the nature of God, the ability of God. God is all-knowing and all-seeing and omnipresent and infinite and wise and Scripture shows us. It doesn't just tell us these things. It shows us these things. And my devotions, my personal devotions, I'm going through the book of Esther. God is not specifically mentioned in that entire book. And yet you see, as everything unfolds, you see that God is working sovereignly. The word of God shows us the sovereign working of God, the providential working of God. Doesn't just tell us. That's why we've got to know the word Faith comes by hearing, and hearing by what? The Word of God. We've got to know it. It's got to be developed. We've got to be The word strengthens our faith as we know the object of the faith, which is God and who and his promises. Sometimes the problem is that people struggle with a promise not being fulfilled because the promise actually was never ever actually made to them We mentioned this a couple of weeks ago, but the context of Scripture, not studying it carefully, not seeing who the actual recipients are. leads people to believe that a particular promise of Scripture actually never was promised to them. And when it doesn't isn't fulfilled the way they think it should be fulfilled, they lose, they begin, doubts begin to invade and they struggle. Knowing the character of God, the ability of God, how he works in his word. Take the book of Habakkuk, how God works in ways that we would never fathom. We need to know the Word of God and how He works, and that strengthens our faith because we know Him and His promises. Hebrews chapter 11, verse 17 says, By faith Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac. And he who had received the promises offered up his only begotten son, of whom it was said, In Isaac your seed shall be called. Concluding that God was able to raise him up even from the dead, from which he also received him in a figurative sense. We have Abraham who's continuing to live out in faith and act in faith. God says, put your son to death, and he concludes, we have it fleshed out for us here, he concludes that God is able to raise him from the dead. if he chooses to, so that his confidence is in the ability of God 1 John 5, verse 10 says, He who believes in the Son of God has the witness in himself. He who does not believe God has made him a liar because he has not believed in the testimony that God has given of his son. Think of Shabrachma Meshach and Abendigo and and Daniel. Do you remember do you remember uh when they would not bow down to the golden image? Most of you are familiar with that story. And Nebuchadnezzar calls them in and says, Why haven't you bowed down to my image? And they said this, we are not careful to answer you in this matter. If God wants to rescue us, he will, and if God doesn't want to rescue us, he won't. Their confidence is not in what they don't know, whether or not God would choose to do that. The confidence is what they do know that God has the ability if He wants to. And that's what our faith must be in That God is the performer of the one, He is the performer of His own promises. He is able to accomplish that which He promised. That is where our faith should be. And the passage tells us then those things caused it us it to be accounted for righteousness, accounted to him for righteousness. Because of the kind of faith, the biblical faith and the right things that Abraham had it righteousness or right standing with God was credited to his account. And the next passage is going to tell us so it can be with us. In verses 23 through 25. I'd like you to pick up here in verse 23 and so and notice what it says, Romans 4. Now it was not written for his sake alone, but it was imputed to him. The writing of all of this in Scripture was not for Abraham's sake. Oh, let me write a memoir or something. That is not what it was. I mean, Moses actually wrote it down, not him, but it wasn't written for Abraham's sake, actually. But also for us, so that we could read it as an example. It shall be imputed, the passage says, it shall be imputed to us who believe in him. who raised up Jesus our Lord from the dead, who also was delivered up because of our offenses, and raised because of our justification. Now, here's what he's saying. The substance of our faith, notice the passage, it says, in him. It starts there. It actually doesn't start with the work of Jesus. Now, it certainly must include the person and work of Jesus. But the very start of what he says, he says, in him, that is in God, in the ability of God to carry out the truth of the gospel, in God. In him. Lloyd Jones notes that we have this tendency sometimes to attribute only things to Jesus. Or only things to the Holy Spirit, the work of salvation to the to Jesus, the work of salvation to the Holy Spirit. But we actually Our confidence is not in the actual nature of God to perform the work, to declare someone righteous by what Jesus did and only because of what Jesus did. Did. Why? What is our trust in? That's why you have in the Old Testament, you have all kinds of the truth of the Old Testament reveals the character of God. You you don't get to the when when you get to the New Testament, then you begin to see it fleshed out in action with Jesus and what he did on the cross, and certainly you have it in the Old Testament as well. But the emphasis of the Old Testament is on the on the character of God, so that if you read through the Bible, you are knowledgeable about the character of God and his ways. And then when we come to Christ and When you see what he's done for you in his death and his resurrection, you realize the confidence is in who God is and his ability to save souls because of Christ and by means of the Holy Spirit. faith. But I want us to notice the emphasis of this passage as well. The emphasis is the same emphasis that they had on in the book of Acts. That emphasis is the resurrection. Notice in the passage, frankly, the actual death of Christ is assumed. I mean keep in mind this is the first century that really wasn't in dispute that there was this person of Jesus that was that was went to the cross that was, you know, uh executed by Roman soldiers. That really was not something that was in dispute. But the literal bodily raising of Christ from the dead, yeah, that was definitely in dispute. Why? Well, it's the same reason it's in dispute today. Because that's not possible. Someone who is dead, who is truly, completely, physically dead, doesn't get raised to life. See, see how faith works? Faith doesn't look at, okay, well Jesus was resuscitated. Okay, Jesus, Jesus kind of died, but he didn't really die. He went to the tomb and he would like passed out and then he was resuscitated. No, no, no, no. That's not faith. Faith is he com died completely for our sin. And was raised for our justification. He was raised from the grave bodily. And if you do not believe in the actual literal bodily resurrection of Christ, you don't know him. First Corinthians chapter 15 makes that extremely clear. Our faith is in vain, we are yet in our sin. So faith believes in the promise of promises of God carried out, and we see that even in Scripture in the resurrection, that's promised of God. And it says that even God delivered him for our offenses. This is quoting from Isaiah 53, 12, and was raised as well for the purpose of our justification, our being declared righteous by God. Righteousness is credited to us. Because of the work of Jesus, because of God's ability to be able to put it all together. So we end with three questions. Number one, has God opened your eyes to see and accept the truth of the gospel? Simple question. Has God opened your eyes to see the truth of the gospel? If he has, you at least have that germinating faith. You've got that um sapling. The next question then is important. Is your faith being cultivated and strengthened by exposure to the truths and promises of God's Word? Is your faith being cultivated and strengthened by exposure to the truth and promises of the Word of God? See, you know what gets cultivated? Our reasoning. Our reasoning gets cultivated. We go through life circumstances and we reason things out out. Our ability to problem solve gets cultivated. Our ability to think through things, our ability to fix things, our ability to make things happen, that gets cultivated. But our faith, our shield of faith, see our shield of faith is not going to get cultivated the same way. Our shield of faith gets cultivated as we know the character of God and the work of God and the promises of God. So that when the darts come, we are able to extinguish them by the shield of faith. So my encourage you know you say, well, you know, I've got tons of doubts that I'm dwelling on all the time. Are you extinguishing them with a shield of faith? Well yeah well I don't know if I um what does that mean? Cultivate your f your faith by the Word of God. You you may have the sapling of faith that's there that God's given you and you And it's not being cultivated by the character of God, by the ways of God, by the by the presence of God, by the promises of God. You're not cultivating it. Don't think if you don't cultivate it, when the when the darts come And sometimes they're really powerful that you're going to be able to just stand. That's God's goal, that we would be able to stand, Ephesians 6. Number 3, and extremely importantly, do you trust solely and fully on God's work through his son to make you right with him? This is a very simple question. Do you know for sure that where you where you will spend eternity with? And will that be with the Lord? You understand are you are you in a right relationship with God? We've learned this before, but we'll mention it again. It can't be through self-effort. It can't be through works. It can't be through anything you do. Abraham saw himself as dead. And his wife, uh the uh the the deadness of his wife's womb, so that so that he believed Knowing that there was nothing he could do. That's faith. And there's nothing that you can do to be right with God. That's faith. And if you have been if you have been wrestling with this and you're saying, well, you know, I don't I I need to do this or do that, I'm sure I need to um go to church or I need to be a good person or anything like that. Any kind of self-effort to sort of mix in with your faith so that God makes you may you're made right with God. The Bible is very clear, if it's explicitly clear in this passage, it can't work that way. Because without Faith alone, you do not have the grace of God and the unmerited favor of God, and then God isn't glorified. To glorify God through the gospel, you have to have grace alone. Through faith alone. And if you're unsure about that, please come and talk with me after the service or somebody else that you're comfortable with. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you have a relationship with God. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you this morning and we praise you for your character. We thank you that you are able. You are all powerful and and um all knowing. You're everywhere, you're all wise. And Father, I pray that you would help all of us to delve deeply in your word, to not only understand these basic concepts of your character, but to understand from your word how they work out. You show us from the narratives of the scripture how they work and And what promises we truly can place our dependency on. May we know your word so well and interact with it so well that it strengthens. our shield of faith so that when the darts of doubt come, we can quench them with that faith. Lord, if there is anybody here today that doesn't know you as their Lord and Savior, I pray today that you would help them to come to a saving knowledge of Christ. Help them them to understand their own sin and their own need of a savior and that they would be saved. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God. according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone. or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.