I've I've never personally lived in old pagoda, but I think smelling smoke would be a bad thing. That's what we're looking for. But we're talking about new in quality. But those who are reading straight through you, they're going to see this stark difference between the great harlot that is wicked, beautiful, but wicked and terrible, and now remember that that it represented the place He gets through Exodus, you know, got the plagues, you know, he's he's doing well. What will he do? Now we've not read we've not studied the whole book of Revelation. And the spirit and the bride say, Come. But just like it doesn't work with Roman Catholicism or any kind of religion that forces a motor uh a morality upon a people group, it can't be done today either. This is our hope. As it said in 2 Peter 3, the day of the Lord will come. Then I, John, saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride, adorned for her husband. But it gets a little tedious driving all around. You know, you schedule one call, the long distance is so expensive. That salvation is not complete. That the apostle John wrote. But there's a picture here he gives of heaven. to bring the gospel to Asia. Well that wasn't the part that disturbed him. With the corpse of her husband. In Isaiah chapter 65, verse 7, Isaiah prophesied, 700 years before Christ, for behold, I create new heavens and a new earth, and the former shall not be remembered, nor come to mind. is in heaven, from which we also eagerly wait for the Savior, the Lord Jesus, who will transform our lowly body, that it may be conformed to his glorious body, according to the working by which he is able even to do all things to himself. And that one is not necessarily better. God Himself will be with them and be their God. But they're like, what is that? And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. We are saved. But here it's not us. I am the beginning, I am the end. And many of the natural disasters we see actually were originally caused because of bad decisions or evil things done, once again, between groups of people. He's not talking about doing that in the new heaven and earth. And to and to say, God, I am not going to keep going my own way. from taking the water of life. What do we do? Why is he waiting so long? His job and his ministry took him through India. out of that garden and into the cool mixture of sunlight and shadow under the trees, walking on springy turf that was all dotted with white flowers. There came from further away in the past the two good beavers and Tumlestifan, and there was greedy and kissing and handshaking and old jokes revived But no one had time to think about that, for people were coming up to meet the newcomers from every direction. You have no idea how good an old joke sounds when you take it out again after a rest of five or six hundred years. And at the foot of that tree were two thrones. than you would have thought. There were forests and green slopes and sweet orchards and flashing waterfalls one above the other, going up forever, and the land they were walking on grew narrower all the time, with a deep valley on each side The light ahead was growing stronger. She forgot everything else because Aslam himself was coming, leaping down from cliff to cliff like a living cataract of power and beauty Amen. And as he spoke, he no longer looked to them like a lion. And for us, this is the end of all the stories. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. in which the heavens will pass away with a great noise, and the elements will melt with a fervent heat. He uh reached out to William Carey and he ended up living in a converted old pagoda. I saw where some digging had been done. This world that is so broken by sin, that's so corrupted and perverted, the good has been turned backward. Jesus, the night before he was crucified, he gave us his glorious promise. There's a part inside every one of us that sees injustice and wants that to be made right. For all this is actually verse one, twenty-one verse one. In the book of Revelation, specifically chapter 11, verse 8, it describes Jerusalem, the Jerusalem of earth. Here we come to Revelation chapter 21. I mean really fancy. uh about the sacrifices there because also we should read the gospels too but he wanted to start at the beginning so he was doing that. They would know his presence was there. What he began when he made made us new creatures in Christ. In Romans chapter 6, through the beginning of eighth, he talks about our salvation in the present. Because of what Christ did for us on the cross, we are saved from that penalty of sin if you believe on Christ as your Savior. to societal problems. Was cast into the lake of fire. The creation, the environment around us will be perfect. That group who takes of the water of life, who becomes a child of God, who have that inheritance in heaven. We want people to leave that group. I don't know how many of you are familiar with that. fanciful in some ways, but yet he writes the story to teach spiritual truth. By now the mouse was again urging them to come in, so all of them passed in through the golden gates. seemed to be there. For these two were King Frank and Queen Helen, from whom all the most ancient kings of Narni and Archonland are descended. Up toward mountains higher than you could see in this world, even if they were there to be seen. All their life in this world and all their adventures in Narnia had only been the cover and the title page. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. 2 Peter chapter 3, beginning in verse 1. Being flooded with water. That you may be mindful of the words which were spoken before by the holy prophets and of the commandment of us, the apostles of the Lord and Savior. We, according to his promise, look for new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells. India. At the end of Revelation 20. He will make all things right. With this city, the new Jerusalem, the holy Jerusalem, and with, well actually, if you look back just a couple pages, there's another woman there. And now a different place. Of the wickedness of this world. I'd like to have something to look ahead to. I anticipate that. We have health problems. Why was that tense so important? We spent an awful lot of time talking about this tent. In the church age, it's a little better. Now we face death. But one day, as he said, we read the verse earlier in Philippians. Power over sin, victory over sin. For the creation was subject to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it in hope, because the creation itself also will be delivered from the bondage of corruption into the glorious liberty of the children of God. There will be destruction, and yet there will be a new creation. From God. And he said to me, It is done. When we come to the new heavens and new earth. He says, I will give of the fountain of the water of life freely to him that thirsts. He actually already talked about that before the new in heaven and earth began. But you can't force morality on people. God will fix it all. It should make us focused on what truly matters. In this society. If you teach assurance of salvation. Grow in grace and the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. But I went to a funeral about 15, 18 years ago. this hope that we have and this this thought of of what we're looking for ahead in heaven, this anticipation is really really brought out in this this this section. About a half an hour later, or it may have been a half a hundred years later, for time there is not like here. Looking down over the wall of that garden and seeing all Narnia spread out below. Which no one on earth has read, which goes on forever, in which every chapter is better than the one before. No fear of that, said Aslan. said Aslan softly. The term is over. Whoever desires, let him take the water of life freely. And he promises that if you come, he will not cast you out. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. Knowing this first, that scoffers will come in the last days, walking according to their own lusts, and saying, Where is the promise of his coming? But his real mission was to reach the Indian people with the gospel. Even the actual world itself has got problems and we hear about that all the time the Green New Deal and that kind of thing. But half the time I walk outside where I live there and and the sky is kind of yellowish and grainy. That comes that's adorned for her husband. My wife especially likes likes looking forward to things. But no, she would prefer, let's know about this ahead of time. 1 Corinthians 15, 54 says this: So when this corruptible has put on incorruption, and this mortal has put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory. Nowadays it's battery. No more death, because God is right there. That incorruption, that corruption will put on incorruption. And she says, Give me that water. Christianize them by force. It's not just perfect physically, but the society is righteous. Number one, be diligent. Society. Then she turned inward again and stood with her back to the wall and looked at the garden. Then Aslan turned to them and said, You do not yet look so happy as I mean you to be. Let's pray. Or email us at info at bbcofmd. For this they willfully forget, that by the word of God the heavens were of old, and the earth standing out of water and in the water, by which the world that then existed perished In which righteousness dwells. Have a hope of living in that new heaven and new earth. Yet so many things are perverted. Sin has affected things. These wicked practices were going on. This planet, this world is messed up. We look ahead into the book of Revelation and a lot of it, I mean I love the book of Revelation, but a lot of it's pretty dark. As a bride adorned for her husband. But you know what we built in before we dropped her off? In this grand scheme of things. You kind of realize I'm missing the interpersonal relationship there. complete. It would be almost like saying I'm the A to Z. In this world. And so now in verse 6 to 8, especially 7 to 8 here, God gives the answer. Individually crime crimes occurring. To take of that water of life. It's appointed unto men once to die after this the judgment. That kind of certainty will make Christians complacent. Now nobody's would actually think it quite like that. At that time there was a pandemic, well at least an epidemic in that region of the Black Plague. In his funeral. They will be saved. At the end of the book of John, Paul writes, and it goes for the whole the whole word of God, but these are written that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you may have life in his name. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. But we really would love to meet you in person. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. But beloved, do not forget this one thing, that with the Lord one day is as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day. One day, early on in his ministry, early on in his time in India, he smelled smoke in his house. Decades, not decades, we're trying centuries of civilization and trash everywhere, part of the environment. You have this 1,000-year kingdom, which is glorious. And when he says new, he means as in better. In the New Testament, we see this picture of the bride, and sometimes we get a little confused. I booked a place. To break patterns of sin in our lives. A new presence, being there with God Himself. By believing on Jesus as your Savior. Share the hope that God has given to us. The arduous journey from Tehran, Iran, through modern-day Iraq all the way down into modern-day Turkey. And then she forgot everything else. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. So appreciate your hospitality to our family and the fellowship we've had over the last many months. Looking for and hastening the coming of the day of God, because of which the heavens will be dissolved, being on fire, and the elements will melt with fervent heat, nevertheless. We look on the news and we just get a list in video of the problems of the world. Sin has affected the people. It's not just a vision of destruction. He talks about a seven-year period of tribulation where God's wrath comes down. The holy city, Jerusalem. The Great Harlot. We put something like that into our schedule. But we put something in the schedule to look forward to. Look at verse 3. One guy would get on there with his girlfriend forever and ever and ever. That's what God's promising. Romans chapter 8. He says it's not worthy to be compared. For we know that the whole creation groans and labors with birth pangs together until now. For the adoption, the redemption of our body. Behold, I make all things different. He walked with them. 1 Peter gives us the promise of an inheritance incorruptible, undefiled, reserved in heaven for us. Shall have their part in the lake which burns with fire and brimstone, which is the second death. There's a relationship there. There's no more salvation for you. You can look back through history. Thousands, millions of those who have put their trust in Christ, there will be no conflict, there will be no war. The only true changing of society comes when hearts are changed, individuals are changed. Turn back to 2 Peter 3, because 2 Peter chapter 3 gives amazing application to this hope. No, we can't force the society to change. Living in the holy city. To go on. It says this Come quickly, Lord Jesus Was traveling through Iran. For the first heaven and the first earth had passed away. But God gives us the hope of eternal life, the guarantee that all those who come to Him by faith, who stop trusting themselves, who trust Christ alone to save them. Reaches out to you. And yet the place isn't the best thing about it. Romans 8, 18. Twice there as we read it. We don't dread the end of the world. Lord, I pray this morning as we look at your word, that you'll fill our hearts with hope. Technically he wasn't a missionary. An older gentleman had passed away. A lot. Yet God gives us something to look forward to. He'll dwell with us. Once saved, always saved. You can live however you want, because in the end you're going to heaven. Lord, I pray that you would give us ears to hear what your word says to us. God wants to make us holy. A place that we who know Christ as our Savior long for. I'm the beginning. And yet, for those of us who have believed on Christ, we look at this passage and we see this is going to be perfect. And secondly, to extend that invitation to others and say, come, take the water of life freely. And be their God. Obviously he was saved, so there was that hope of heaven there. That's the hope that we have. If you've not believed on him, you don't have life and you don't have the hope of the new heaven and new earth that we've talked about today. Therefore, since all these things will be dissolved, what manner of persons ought you to be in holy conduct and godliness? A lasting hope. This world is messed up. In Philippians 3. Those are not good pictures. New does not always mean better. The environment. The tabernacle of God is with men. Strange indent in the wall with a hole in the middle. But of course, we all just went through the pandemic and there was a time where all were separated and we did church by Zoom and well it's not so great actually. No, death is dead. Who will transform our lowly body, this body that is still subject to the effects of sin. Not only does this world need to be recreated, but the society, the people, and how we interact in this world, that also needs to be made new, does it not? We look at the news, and it's not just natural disasters that are happening in this world. Here's an invitation to be part of the first group he's talking about here. How does change come? This is what we're anticipating. The certainty and the assuredness of our future is not an excuse to do nothing. That's the last thing he wrote. When that hope today is our hope. You look around us and even when you y do you see that that that the sin is being celebrated We're looking forward to these things, so we be diligent. You read through Revelation, you hit chapter 19. A new heaven, a new earth. Now I I knew immediately what it was. That final aspect that not only affects the spiritual and our relationship with God, but affects the physical of our bodies and this broken world around us. God Himself is with us. This morning, do you have that hope? Behold, I am the Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end. These are believers. In their own strength is only possible when God makes all things And as he knew his life was coming to an end, we don't know what he died of. There was Glimfeather the Owl and Pudiglon the marshal and King Rilli Rillian the Disenchanted and there's a whole long list of people he saw that lived in the all the ages of uh of of of Narnia, which we won't get into, I'll skip here. There's tyranny in many countries. Racism still exists. Why does God tell us about this place? But they knew the place to go. But you know communication there was communication, which is good. And what would God be doing? But it will come. We cannot change society by forcing people to change. We're to be salt, we're to be light, we're to make a difference in the society where we live Oh, when shall time give place to eternity? Dear Lord, thank you so much for the promises of your word. This image was heared upon his memory. That's what we're eagerly waiting for. He says the tabernacle of God is with men. Today, that offer is good for any who would come and believe on Christ as their Savior. It comes from change that begins on the inside, that begins in the heart of individuals. He'll make all things new. I look at this passage and I say, this is our hope. In fact, in many cases, they would just jump on. It's a vision of hope. Since you know these things beforehand, beware lest you also fall from your own steadfastness, being led away with the error of the wicked. The wife of this older gentleman, decades younger than him, he knew would be thrown onto this same fire Our future does not have those things. That place is not just guaranteed. I think you know in college, you know, you when I was in college, there was a phone just in a room. Behold, I make all things new. Your future is not in the new heaven and the new earth. In the end of Revelation, chapter 22, there's a certain phrase that keeps getting repeated three times in that short chapter. That should be our prayer. And I thoroughly I mean if I I it would be really weird to rank funerals as the best funeral I ever went to, but this was definitely the best funeral I've ever been to It sank down with shining cliffs thousands of feet below them, and trees in that lower world looked no bigger than grains of green salt. Dear Lord, thank you for your goodness to us. We're going to read verses one to thirteen. And so he kind of did double duty. I eagerly wait for that. You read through the Old Testament, I'm discipling a man right now, and he decided he's going to read through the whole Bible. The new heavens, the new earth. 2 Peter 3. God said Jerusalem is like that, but he said there's going to be a new one. I used verbo. We have we have uh conflict with people around us at times. When I think of heaven, I often think about this particular passage. Their works are listed there. Isaiah 66, 22 says this, For as the new heavens and the new earth, which I will make, shall remain before me, saith the Lord, so shall your seed and your name remain. By day they'd see the pillar of cloud. That's a fantasy story. That was normal. Why is there so many details? It's of all creation. John 4, where Jesus comes to the woman at the well and offers to her the water of life. A lot of people some people they look at this passage and we think of our hope and our certainty. It's kind of like this. My my daughter's gonna go to college. In the beginning, what does he do in Genesis 1? He describes two different groups of people, two different kinds of people that are in the world now today. Your father and mother and all of you are, as you used to call it, in the Shadowlands, dead The holidays have begun. This morning, if you don't have that hope, come and talk to me after the service. Here is God's promise. And so what he's doing here, he's contrasting that we've we have not studied through Revelation, we've not gone through, and so of course we did not do chapter 17 and 18 before this. He says, I go to prepare a place for you. I mean, it's complete in the sense that it's done. But you know what? The hope of heaven focuses our efforts on what truly matters, the salvation of souls. God wants people to leave that group. Those of you who are familiar with it will be very familiar with this. Lucy saw that a great series of many-colored cliffs led up the front of them like a giant staircase. God has given to us eternal life through Jesus Christ. It's holy. I've gotten to know Route seventy really well in the last two weeks. That's nothing compared to heaven. And I heard a loud voice from heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people. It's more like Zoom. I love Romans 8 too, talking about the future. Now this this is an allegory. This is a new that is better. And not just that. No more death. I am the end. He dwells with us. He was a chaplain with East India Company, which was not at all a good company, but it was the only way he could figure out to get to Asia I I live in Asia and um you see evidence of this. I've lived in Asia for over ten years. If you look in Revelation chapter 22 at the very end, Revelation 22, verse 17, it says this If you teach that once you're saved, you're always saved, which is what the Bible says. You promise that you will keep their promises. We know your word tells of it. Even the flesh, the body that we have that's that's that's affected by disease and sickness and pandemics Kind of gives me hope. We see death. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. He said, We eagerly await. Here, God offers it to us. Don't be lazy. That was just the living in in India, the culture. Anybody ever get a new refrigerator? Death will die. No, no, no. And then he also asked someone to read this particular passage about heaven. But the heavens and the earth, which are now preserved by the same word, are reserved for fire until the day of judgment and perition of ungodly men. But then we come to Revelation 21. 20, Paul writes, For our citizenship is in heaven, from which we also eagerly wait for the Savior. You know, it looks beautiful. That's what he's talking about here. Have you not guessed? We're gonna be working on our third when we go back. Now we do a lot of traveling. Our body is still not saved. He dwelt with them in the garden. And let him who hears say, Come. No need to, you know, no need to don't worry about the planet. How should that affect my life today in this broken society on this broken planet? Be without spot and blameless. This world is messed up, it's broken. This is not the same. Verse 13 and following. Eventually he ended up in Persia, where he translated the Bible into into Persian. The day of the Lord will come. You don't deserve his love. 13, we just read this. There's no separation from God, so there's no eternal death. Two different groups of people. Beloved, I now write to you the second epistle, in both of which I stir up your pure minds by way of reminder. And the earth, the ground, it was made of three parts. There's a great white throne where all those who have rejected Christ as their Savior stand. That's what God says. Not just the physical environment, but the interaction with God, the angels, and other people. This is what we look forward to. Face to face with him. He'll interact with us. You know, it doesn't matter where you are, you can still communicate with God. But we come to Romans chapter 8, verse 18, and he talks about that final aspect of our salvation. These are people who have already drunk that water. Be diligent. That is not the passage I'm going to preach this morning. And that is a picture of Babylon and of Rome. That is a phone jack. We are born again, given new life in Christ. Clear example, Roman Catholic Church, medieval times. And we can most truly say that they all lived happily ever after, but for them it was only the beginning of the real story. And as the custom was there, he was going to be cremated. He is our husband. Today, I know I gotta do my normal thing. The best thing about heaven, this new heaven and new earth, is the one who lives there She's gonna I one of the things I got her as a present before going was a way to communicate with us. He says, Behold, verse 5. And that's what what Henry Martin looked at that day. It's not just a vision of justice finally being served on a wicked world. The book of Isaiah tells a lot about that. Like a bride. And we can experience that aspect of salvation on a daily basis as we learn to yield to Him, rely on Him God says believers are overcomers. I'm going to believe on Jesus and my Savior. Look at verse 17. It's affected the actual creation itself. Now I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away. What's this picture here? It wasn't about the place. The judgment is in Revelation chapter 20. Don't say, hey, it's gonna burn up anyway, who cares? We we we we we be peacemakers, we be without spot and blameless, he says here. Then it was called Persia. I saw a new heaven and a new earth. By night they'd see the pillar of fire. The best thing about the new heaven and new earth is the actual, literal, physical presence of God with his people. He gets through all of Exodus. Nowadays, you know, just you know, talk anytime you want, child like that. He says, death has passed away. The A and the Z. The Lord's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance We look in scripture and we look for hope, but as we look ahead, what we find out is oh things are going to get much worse before they get better. Their name is not in the book of life. And I felt like I needed to clean it after he was done. And there shall be no more death, nor sorrow, nor crying. He says, I make all things new. Let's read. And in those two thrones, a king and a queen, so great and beautiful, that everyone bowed down before them. I like traveling. But that's kind of the idea here. Like everything about it, what it's made out of, how how big it's supposed to be. God says, I will make a new heaven and new earth, a new body, no more death, no more pain, no more sorrow, no more suffering, no more separation He's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. But you know what? Sodom, a place of wickedness that God had to destroy with fire from heaven. He's just getting the good part in verse 3. 1 Corinthians 15 26 says this: the last enemy that will be destroyed is death. There's nothing more you can do. He's not saying that we don't suffer. Because he's not willing that any should perish. That hope that we see in 2 Peter was his hope. So there's talking animals, there's different things like that going on in it, which is obviously this is That was just what they did. This is the same picture, the bride, the purity there. It's better than before. For the earnest expectation of the creation eagerly waits for the revealing of the sons of God. Can you look forward to with confidence the end of the world? Because Aslan himself was coming. This life that we live now is only the title page Totalitarianism seems to be making a comeback. We have sorrow. He will complete. Our citizenship is in heaven, from which we also eagerly wait for the Savior of the Lord Jesus The Lord is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. Today, there's a new morality. They want want to do anything good for their society. Thank you for the hope of eternal life, the hope of heaven, the hope that gives us purpose in the struggles that we face each day. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. You may never have heard the name Henry Martin, but he was a missionary in the early 1800s. Hopefully everything is you know as advertised, you know? Our body is still under the curse of sin. Why'd he say that? But he had planned his own funeral. His official job was to be chaplain to the expats who were who were stationed in uh in Calcutta Abortion is a crime that our country continues to commit. I've been farther north from where I live, and I was amazed to see the countryside. In my father's house are many mansions. Think of the old creation. The dream is ended. And so he he looks outside and there was a gathering a little ways in the distance and he saw what was going on and he thought, oh, that that's not good Now, new doesn't always mean better. The new Jerusalem. He creates the world, a perfect world. It is done. The hearts leapt, and a wild hope rose within them. Our scripture reading this morning is in 2 Peter chapter 3. Finally, Christ returns. It's not just a promised place. Jesus said to us, I go to prepare a place for you. We preach at a lot of different churches. Verse 19. Verse 6. But who will not be there? It could have been tuberculosis, it could have been the plague. But Revelation 21 and 22 is not. If you have questions about this, please come and talk to me afterwards. It's guaranteed. We should submit to him. The contrast is stark, completely different. Wednesday, we're driving to Florida. A little bit of time at the beach. Look look again what he says there in verse 4 I don't think. You therefore, brethren, since you know this beforehand, hey, we know these things. When shall appear that new heaven and new earth wherein dwelleth righteousness? There's opportunities to repent, because as we read in Second Peter, the Lord is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. He's going to talk about the new Jerusalem. What's the bride of Christ? We wait for. That's what he said in 2 Peter chapter 3. The kind of people who live in this in this new heaven and new earth are those who have taken and drank of that water of life. But the things that began to happen after that were so great and beautiful that I cannot write them You don't deserve his salvation. Because then you have all this time to think about it and look forward to it. Nevertheless, we, according to his promise, look for a new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells. And consider this. Those of you who are not, you're gonna have to follow a little bit here We've been back and forth up and down that thing three times You had to send a telegram. Nations fighting against nations. If we had, we would have noticed in chapters 2 and 3 that there's a repetition of this word, overcome. Therefore, beloved, looking forward to these things. He just finished translating the Bible into Persian. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. A Greek alphabet starts with alpha ends with omega. We're to put these morals on you. We reach out to individuals when God changes hearts through Jesus Christ. God says, be diligent. Be at peace. That is our hope. And here he's teaching spiritual truth through this story. He had heard of William Carey. Revelation 21, verse 1. But in this case, this is a new word, not just new entire Because we know where we are headed, keep going that direction. At the end of his life, Henry Martin, Funeral of Dr. Is it better than the old one that you had for like thirty years? And he said to me, It is done. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. org. And we know that hope only comes through your Son, Jesus Christ. He wants us to have hope. On a much grander scale, God gives us something to look forward to. It's guaranteed. The society in the new heavens and new earth are made up of those who seize the opportunity. And let him who thirst, come. It's better. Anybody know what that was? But my children have never seen the phone that's stuck to the wall before. And finally, as we look at verse 6 to 8, we see a new people. No, that's not what he says. Open our hearts. This city is pure. Now this isn't the first time the Bible talks about a new heaven and a new earth. I gotta work, do my nine to five. And remember the joy when you've gotten back together and saw people you hadn't seen in weeks, or in some cases months. In the Old Testament, it was kind of like the landline. Our salvation began the moment you believe. Romans talks about our salvation. These kind of people, they've drunk of the water of life. I hope not. I first connected it with Revelation 21, probably when I first read it, but I read it as a child and didn't really think about it. This morning, if you don't have eternal life, there's only one way. And then at the end, what happens? Although the place was very important. When we moved over to the parsonage, my children discovered this He's a new believer. No separation from other people who have trusted Christ as their Savior. There's nothing more that Jesus needs to do. He's acknowledging that we do suffer. Right now, he's basically giving a semi-invitation here. Think about this, verse fifteen. And so he writes in a journal, I ran out. And it's going to be holy That's what Ephesians tells us. We experience pain. Now today, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. That mortal will put on immortality. What disturbed him was what he was known was going to happen next. One day we will be. No, you got a phone, but you got to be in the room, you gotta be stuck to the wall. He says, come drink of the water of life. Into the delicious smell that blew toward them Everyone you'd ever heard of, if you knew the history of these countries. May the Lord richly bless you. It is holy. Sam Fowler. Both the earth and the works that are in it will be burned up. Turn to Revelation 21. So he jumped over Leviticus, got into numbers and he realized some things. God was among them. If you're unwilling to do that And even though he was a doctor of theology who wrote a systematic theology, he actually had another doctor there stand up and give the wordless book, which is a method for teaching the gospel to children. And the whole company moved forward to the center of the orchard where the Phoenix sat in the tree and looked down upon them all Peter talks about this hope. This world is not our home Death has died. What did God do with man in the garden? The end of Revelation chapter 20 it says this, and anyone not found written in the book of life. Today we can find strength. It had to be done pretty quickly in that very hot climate. He wrote, I do not know when I was so shocked. I just walk out the door and I can hardly breathe. For those of us who have believed on Jesus as our Savior, that is our hope Like we are, the church. This is certain. Most of the news actually is people hurting other people, isn't it? It used to be used like a as a temple kind of thing, but it had been abandoned and they fixed it up and that became his house not far away from uh where uh William Carey lived. Not just cultures far away from us, our own culture has got major problems. It's holy. We have amazing uh churches and individuals who have partnered with us in the mission that we're doing. That's just a tiny, tiny, tiny thing We look forward to that day when God makes all things new: a new body, a new heaven, a new earth. Lord, you promise a new heaven and a new earth. You promise that those who turn to you in repentance and belief in Jesus Christ will It's not fog. God is a just judge. It's a holy place. This is something we can look forward to as we face the struggles and the pain and the sorrow and even the death. But sometimes they say if you teach that, people will get complacent, you know And soon they found themselves all walking together in a great, bright procession it was. It's a privilege to be with you all again this morning. We saw just a shadow of that in the Old Testament with that tabernacle where God Now, when we read that word tabernacle, immediately you get what picture in your mind? He's going to transform our lowly body that it may be conformed to his glorious body. You have this cancel culture kind of thing where you cancel people, you shame them in order to conform to a certain type of morality. Don't worry about your neighbor. No. No, the plague, the Black Death. But when you look down, you found that this hill was much higher This is the morning. Now there's of course a couple different reasons for that. Revelation chapter 21 in verse 3. For the earnest expectation. He who overcomes shall inherit all things, and I will be his God, and he shall be my son. Verse 8. You pass that day there We look forward to it. There shall be no more pain. This is our hope. I am the Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end. That is true, that is real, that is our hope, that is our anticipation, and that should color how we live our life each day. In fact, when he first got to um first got to uh India It is what does he say? You got as long as you have a Wi Fi that's it's pretty free. And you know they're not wrong. My parents had the same washing machine the entire time I grew up here in Maryland. He started in Genesis, and boy, lots of stories. He's now in Leviticus. I mean not good. I don't know if any of you knew him. Lucy stood with her dear friend, her oldest Narnian friend, and the fawn, Tumnus Yes, we still see examples of the beauty that God built here. But in this case, there's two words for new. He's not just talking about our bodies. In the end, what does he do? God says in Revelation 21, I saw a new heaven and a new earth. Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself will be with them. If you're not familiar with the story, Aslan is the picture, the great lion, the picture of Jesus Christ But you know what? These are things you must stop doing, these are things you must do. What do you do? His life was interesting. Sin rears its ugly head. Look at keep reading. We have struggles at work. Then he who sat on the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. That's the hope we have. It comes from the Chronicles of Narnia by C. But there was no snow on these mountains Lucy said, We're so afraid of being sent away, Aslan. Now at last, they were beginning chapter one of the great story. Everyone stands before God. But now the illustration here is now of this city coming down. I like looking forward to things. We have sickness. And they're cast into the lake of fire. If it were not so, I would have told you. But it looks nice. That's a terrible perspective Consider that the long suffering of our Lord is salvation. And I saw a new heaven and a new earth. No, it wasn't a previous tenant who had damaged the wall. You no longer have to fear hell and the judgment that God talks about in Revelation chapter 20 God says, because we have that sure and certain hope, we should live holy lives, because that's our future. No, it's a motivation. We have war, the Ukraine, the image from the images from there are terrible. God has promised us. A perfect place. Romans 1 to 3, 1 to 5 talks about our salvation from the penalty of sin. And now in Revelation 21, what does God do in the new creation? Those are the people. What'd they do? Throughout history, different groups have thought to force morality on other groups The salvation of souls, the transferring of people from darkness into God's light through Jesus Christ. Be holy. Lord, thank you for your word. I go to prepare a place for you. On the cross, he said, it is finished. Him that overcomes, God gives them the strength to overcome the difficulty in the life. The things that destroy this world will not be there. God says, it is done. But that can become our default position when we think, oh yeah, God'll fix it all in the end I read this passage because I think it kind of gras kind of uh summarizes this Our citizenship is in heaven. Ephesians 5 talks about it. Whoever desires, let him take the water of life freely. I look at this passage, I think about it. Here was a beautiful place, beautiful jungles of India, and yet It is holy. There's meaning, there's symbolism there. Him God giving us There are hard times. It's guaranteed. You know, it'll all come out. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. One part dirt, one part rock, one part trash. They had to go to a certain place where God, you know, the temple. Freedoms are disappearing in many lands. It's a good place. He says it's like a bride. Four people had to use one phone and if you want to have a private conversation, you kinda had to, you know, cradle that thing and talk into it really, really quietly and hope your roommates aren't listening. One day we will be face to face with God. But the cowardly, unbelieving, abominable, murderers, sexually immoral, sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. Also there was no more sea I'll be able to see the beach. Both will not be there. But if you harden your heart and refuse to come to repentance, He was in this area for many years. And Tyrion felt as you would feel if you were brought before Adam and Eve in all their glory. I would love to take God's word and show you his promises of eternal life. We hope to see you soon. Verse 21. We have death. God says this. 2 Peter chapter 3, we read verse 13, but that's where we stopped. It was short. And then, as he struggled with chronic tuberculosis, he knew he needed to get back to England to rest. This world, this planet does have problems Or would you like to know about it ahead of time? For the former things have passed away. Your soul was saved. God says, I make all things new, a new place. They'll just sit back and say, well, it's all going to burn up anyway. Be diligent, first of all. So please turn your Bibles to 2 Peter chapter 3. But the day of the Lord will come, as a thief in the night Turn our eyes to you. That passage sets it up. You can look outside and instead of seeing a beautiful sky like we've got today, by the way, it's a gorgeous day today Well, I said maybe we maybe just go to numbers, because we'll come back to Leviticus. No, you were. What's death? In God's eyes, all these things have already happened. There's two groups here. And so he's giving us the opportunity first to get saved. This planet is messed up God is going to judge And he calls it Sodom and Egypt. We're looking forward to that Old things are passed away. Once again, that's that anticipation. We don't want them to be like verse 8, unbelieving, abominable murder. It's smog. I got the same struggles, things, but you know, I'm gonna go on vacation later on. I mean how it's a beautiful tent, but he's like, I'm not getting a whole lot of that thing about that tent You've got it, you know, they force it, they they take their their their their religion, they go to the Americas, force the native peoples there. The very first thing which struck everyone was that the place was far larger than it had seemed from outside Lord, I pray that you would give us Nevertheless, we, according to his promise, look for new heavens and a new earth in which dwells righteousness. He wants us to have something to look forward to. They have overcome. And so That's not good. He must punish sin. And listen to John's words as he recounts the vision that God gave him. And every single one of them, those who are alive, those who are dead, they stand before God. Do you want to know how many washing machines I've owned? He only lived into his late 30s. But the unfortunate woman had committed herself to the flames before I arrived This is a promised place, a holy place, a new place. We have sorrow. And when that day comes, yes, there will be judgment. And so what he's saying is I'm the beginning. It kind of sounds a little bit like another passage that The devil is loose for a season, and a battle once again happens. For I saw a new heaven and a new earth. One is new in time. It's like a it's like a it's like a bride that Yes, we face difficulties in our life, and they're real, they're genuine. There was communication happening. Not only that, but we also who have the first fruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan within ourselves, eagerly waiting. This hope for the future should not make us inactive. Tomorrow we can we can have hope for tomorrow because of these promises of God. I'm going to end the sermon this morning with a bit of a lengthy passage I'm going to read from a different book. But today that can change. Yet he says to you, come. Main reason being we need to take Beth to college. The best thing about heaven is not. Live holy lives. And the idea that you have to stay near that wall while talking on it is a very foreign idea. But when you compare it to what we're looking forward to in the future Today is the day of salvation. God has given us this revelation, talking about this perfect place, perfect presence, perfect There was a real wit railway accident. She's got her own smartphone. Ah, so what should we do? I live in an old pagoda, I don't want to smell smoke God says, I'm going to create a new heaven and new earth. It is not. He creates the world. People with those characteristics will make up the society of this new heaven and new earth. It kind of makes the vacation even better because I have something I'm looking forward to. A holy place. I will give of the fountain of water of life freely to him that thirsts. But verse 18. We are the bride of Christ. This world is not an easy place to live in. It's separation. We have pain. He's going to transform this creation, a new heaven, a new earth. Now sometimes they were right, sometimes they were wrong. Therefore, beloved, looking forward to these things Grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. It's triumphant, it's glorious, and yet many stand against him. They couldn't see him face to face. All those things will be gone. Verse 6. It's done. But even better, he says, I will be his God, and he shall be my son. But that offer will not always be on the table. It's going well. We want everyone to be in that first group. But as he knew his life was coming to an end, he made his final journal entries and listened to what he wrote. And um yeah, you can communicate. No more separation from God. But we have not fully experienced the extent of our salvation. Behold, all things are become new. Well, what how does this change come? S. For since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they were from the beginning of creation. I mean there's many beautiful things, but Egypt, a place of worldliness and worship of false gods, where the plagues came. But the most important thing about the tabernacle was who was in the Holy of Holies. Be found by him in peace. In fact actually in Exodus he really started noticing that If that's all you're doing? And they think Lewis. We're all sinners, separated from God. My soul revolted at everything in this world. Theology teacher. You are no longer going to be separated with God. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. I love the book of Revelation, though. We wait, he says, we eagerly wait for the Savior. In Greek, there's two words that are often used here in the New Testament. This is a place you want to be. And well they might. The utopia that generation after generation have sought The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some count slackness, but is long-suffering toward us. Revelation 21, verse 6. The society itself is broken and corrupt That's not what he's teaching here. If you're familiar with the Old Testament, you've got a really fancy tint in your mind right now, right? But one day If you drink this water, you will never thirst again. There will be no more curse. It's by believing on Christ, trusting him alone. I go to prepare a place for you. We're not eagerly waiting for the destruction, although I'll be able to rest. In Jesus' name. We've got Zoom, we got FaceTime, we can see face to face. This is our expectation Once again, people say if you Second Peter chapter three. There's violence. He started in India. So let me read this this rather lengthy section here. A lot of people like surprises. Although it was kind of looking damaged And face-to-face is a lot better. What does he mean by Alpha and Omega? Why has he waited so long to come and to make things right and to make things new and to bring true justice? A new world. For the first heaven and the first earth had passed away. We read 2 Peter 3, you know? And you have sent us back into our own world so often. That's where God was It comes A new place. There will be justice, true, real justice in this world. At this point, you're probably thinking, this is not a very encouraging sermon. You are a new creation in Christ. It's done. That those things were bad, those things were good This world is not all that there is. I'll be out of the normal schedule, the normal grind. I don't know when it will come. He was actually on my ordination council. God Our salvation will be A new heaven, a new earth, a perfect world wherein dwells righteousness. Who are these overcomers? And by new, it is better. Have you believed on Christ? But many refuse. What's going to happen here? You have a relationship with God which is eternal. Let's pray And we're going to Revelation 21. Where is this world headed? We're headed for death. There's a lot of details there about the uh It's something to look forward to. We don't hide our head in the sand Peace with God, peace with those around us. Amen. God dwells with his people. We see it in our own streets sometimes. There's carnage again And there's a contrast. In equal measure, it seemed. How do you drink of the water of life? God says you can't put a date on it, and we're so we're not gonna do that. These overcomers, they are the ones who inherit all things. It is called the Exchange. They harden their hearts against God, and so judgment will come. That's great. You will be satisfied. 2 Peter chapter 3. One means new in time. In Jesus' name. So, you know And then, which was a wonder beyond all wonders. We wait for the promised place. It's prepared. Turn in your Bibles to Romans chapter 8. Hey b you know, back in my day in the college you you got a I I always enjoyed doing that And so he travelled. It's a much much better relationship. But one day but you know it You will have eternal life. There is so much more. We are to be peacemakers.