Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we are grateful this morning to be here in the house that you provide for us, to come together as your church. And Father, we are grateful for who you are, the great I am, the creator and sustainer of all life. You are holy, holy, holy. All of your ways and your thoughts are so Much higher than ours. And Father, we're grateful this morning that you have provided a way for us to be reconciled to you through your Son, Jesus Christ. Christ. And we are grateful that we can come this morning and worship you here together in spirit and in truth, Lord. And we pray now that you would prepare our hearts and our minds as we are preparing Preparing to come under your word, Lord, and just uh I pray that you would open our ears to hear your word, Lord. Open our eyes to see your truth. And I pray you would bless Brother Jim as he brings the message, Father, and that we would be willing to use what you teach us this morning. In our lives and apply it to our lives, Father, that in all things you would be glorified and lifted up in us. We ask in Jesus' name Amen. We'll be reading this morning from Matthew chapter twenty-one, verses twenty-three through forty-six, and uh follow along if you have your Bible And it's uh Matthew twenty-one, twenty-three through forty-six. Now when he came into the temple, chief priests and the elders of the people confronted him. And he was teaching and said, By what authority are you doing these things? And who gave you this authority? But Jesus answered and said to them, I also will ask you one thing, which if you tell me, I likewise will tell you by what authority I do these things The baptism of John. Where was it from? From heaven or from men And they reasoned among themselves, saying, Now if we say from heaven, he will say to us, Why then did you not believe in him? But if we say from men, we fear the multitude, for all count John as a prophet. So they answered Jesus and said, We do not know. And he said to them, Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things. But what do you think? A man had two sons, and he came to the first, and he said, Son, go and work to day in my vineyard. And he answered and said, I will not. But afterwards he regretted it, and And he went. Then he came to the second son, and he said likewise. And he answered and said, I go, sir, but he did not. Which of the two did the will of the father? They said to him, the first. And Jesus said to them, Assuredly, I say to you that tax collectors and harlots enter the kingdom of God before you For John came to you in the way of righteousness, and you did not believe him. But tax collectors and harlots believed him. And when you saw it, you did not afterwards relent and believe in him. Here another parable There was a certain landowner who planted a vineyard and set a hedge around it, dug a wine press in it, and built a tower. And he leased it to vine dressers and went into a far country. When the vintage time drew near, he sent his servants to the vine dressers, that they might receive its fruit And the vine dressers took the servants, beat one, killed one, and stoned the other. Again he sent other servants, more than the first, and they did likewise to them The last of all he sent his son to them, saying, They will respect my son. But when the vine dressers saw the sun They said to themselves, This is the error. Come, let us kill him, and seize his inheritance. So they took him and cast him out of the vineyard, and killed him Therefore, when the landowner of the vineyard comes, what will he do to those buying dressers? They said to him, He will destroy those wicked men miserably, and lease his vineyard to other vine dressers, who will render to him the fruits in their seasons. And Jesus said, Have you never read the scriptures? The stone which the builders rejected Has become the chief cornerstone. This was the Lord's doing. And it is marvelous in your eyes in our eyes. Therefore, I say to you The kingdom of God will be taken from you and given a nation bearing the fruits of it. And whoever falls on this stone will be broken, but whomever it falls on It will grind him to powder. Now, when the chief priests and the Pharisees heard his parables, they perceived that he was speaking of them. But when they sought to lay hands on him, Often the greatest threat. To the true and genuine work and mission of Christ is something that is counterfeit. There are lots of things in the world that products that are made that are counterfeit. I looked up uh I Googled what was the top product that was counterfeit and I got nine. Maybe you can guess what some of them are. Uh one the the the ninth one is jewelry The next one is toys. The next one is toys. Why would you counterfeit a toy? I don't know. But anyway, I that's what that's what the the the the eighth one is perfumes and cosmetics, so you might be thinking that you're wearing L'Oreal women, but you might not be. Uh cameras and video cameras, watches, electronics, leather goods, clothing and textiles, but do you know with a number one um the number one product that is counterfeited all over the world? I I was surprised by this. It was shoes and footwear. Shoes and footwear is the number one product that has counterfeited all the world. I was talking to Mia Maya before the service. He works with shoes and he said that you have to actually use black lights to make sure that the seams and things in shoes are correct because they're so frequently counterfeited Now um there's a whole world there that I'm not sure I really know about uh when it comes to why you would counterfeit shoes, but um but uh it is interesting, isn't it? The truth is when it comes to the cause of Christ, when it comes to the mission of Christ, often the thing that is most The the thing that could be most damaging to the cross of Christ is not something that looks t entirely different than the mission of Christ, but actually something that is that is a counterfeit. It it looks like it is, but it really isn't. And that has been going on what I would call organized religion or man-made religion, self-made religion. That's been going on for as long for probably as long as Almost as long as time has been, almost as long as the earth has been created. Um and if you think if you think to what's going on here in this passage as these religious leaders uh question Jesus What has really taken place now in the lives of these leaders and even in the Old Testament, the Jewish leaders and what they did there and persecuting the prophets as we're going to see. And all all of what they did, what what what had happened was it was it had become really not all about uh uh uh a relationship with God. It was not about the presence of God and all of that that God had initially wanted it to be. In in fact, that is the case even with our church history. If you go back to, for example the fourth century where Christianity became legalized in Rome. It was probably one of the worst things that happened to me. Christianity. Now you have the whole Roman Empire that is adopting Christianity and then infusing it with all kinds of paganism and it becomes this organized structure and then you have authority structure within it and all of these things throughout history where there are power plays and and uh uh power plays going on between religious leaders and political leaders and those kinds of things and before long you don't have anything that looks like a church that God intended it to really be So Jesus is dealing, and I want us to make, we'll make those connections as we go along here, but Jesus is dealing in this first in this first uh in this passion week with these people, these religious leaders, and they're questioning him and questioning his authority. A few things are going to be helpful as we get into this. Uh if we think about the fact that Jesus Jesus is now in his final week of uh of his life. And um and this is probably on Tuesday when this happens. when the the they begin to question him. If you recall, the Sunday was the triumphal entry of Jesus. Went over that a couple weeks ago. And then the cursing of the fig tree, you'll remember that. That was probably on Monday morning. And then the clearing of the temple after that, that was also on Monday. The miracles and challenges in the temple was on Monday as well. But then the ne the next day and Tuesday, there was this reaction again. reaction to the cursing of the fig tree that Jesus did, and you'll remember that from a couple of weeks ago as well. But then the the leaders, the religious leaders are looking at all of what is going on, the cleansing of the temple, they're looking at the miracles, they're looking perhaps they knew about the fig tree. They're looking at the triumphal entry, and they're they're now asking the question, by what authority do you do all of this? And we're going to see, really, we're going to see that organized religion is hostile against the cause of Christ. And we'll see that in this passage as we go on here. We're going to see three things here. One, it is threatened by the authority of Christ. Two, it is blinded by hypocrisy of self-righteousness. And number three, it desires to be in the place of Christ. So first let's look at the fact that it is threatened by the authority of Christ. And we pick up in verse 25. It says, Now when he came into the temple, the chief priests and the elders, the people confronted him, and he was t uh as he was teaching, and said, By what authority are you doing these things? And these things probably include the triumphal entry and And probably include the teachings and the mur and the uh cleansing of the temple and the miracles and all that he had been doing. Uh who gave you this authority, they asked? But Jesus answered and said to them, I also will ask you one thing. And so he asks a question of them. These were chief priests and elders. The elders were probably uh laymen that were part of the Sanhedrin. chief priests were sort of more of the professional uh priests that were paid for what they do but together they made a uh made up of very prominent high-ranking officials in uh the in the in the Jewish religion in the temple there and they're asking Jesus this question by what authority do you do these things The truth is they are not really cu they are not really asking the question because they really want to know. They're asking the question out of being threatened, out of skepticism. And maybe they're hoping to trip Jesus up or question Jesus in a way that causes him to not be so popular with the people. But in any case, they ask this question. And Jesus answers the question in such a wise way as of course we're used to Jesus doing by now as we've gone through the book of Matthew. In verse 24, Jesus answered and said to them, I also will ask you one thing which you tell me, I likewise will tell you by what authority I do these things. And then he says this, the baptism of John, where was it from? Heaven or from men. Now that is, why does Jesus ask this question of them? He returns with a question. That's normal. Jesus does that a lot When somebody asks him a question, especially if it's an antagonistic kind of question, he will also often return with a question. But he he asked particularly about the baptism, or I think more broadly we could say the very ministry Of John the Baptist. Was it from heaven or was it something that was simply man-made? Was it from man? Why would Jesus ask this question? Well, I think if we go back, if you could think back to when we studied Matthew twelve and ta and we talked about the various witnesses. In fact we go back to John chapter five and there are five different witnesses that witnessed of the authenticity of who Jesus really is. The first one was John the Baptist. And in that passage, John chapter 5, verse 31, it says this if I bear witness of myself, my witness is not true. There is another who bears witness of me, and I know that the witness which he witnessed Witnesses of me is true. You have sent to John, and he has borne witness to the truth, yet I do not receive testimony from man, but I say these things that you may be saved. He was the burning and shining lamp that you were willing for a time to rejoice in his light. So instead of Jesus simply telling them from what authority he does these things, He actually goes back to pointing out the witness of John and the fact that John witnessed of who Jesus really was and asked them, What do you believe about him? And Jesus said back in that passage, I'm not witnessing of I'm not speaking of myself, I'm not bearing witness of myself, I'm allowing other people to bear witness of me. And he's continuing, even in John's death, to do just that. So what happens? Of course there's this dilemma. They they don't if they say, well yes, we believe John, then the natural We we believe in John's ministry. Yes, it was from heaven. And the natural thing is, well, why don't you believe what John said? John spoke of me. And of course he did. John one nineteen. Now this is the testimony By the way, they asked John those kinds of things as well. They questioned him. In Matthew 11, it says What uh and what did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I say to you, more than prophet. Jesus is talking about John the Baptist here, for this is he of whom is written, Behold, I send my m messenger before your face And then in John chapter three, verses twenty five through thirty, we see John's testimony here. It says, Then there arose a dispute between some of John's disciples and the Jews about purification, and then They came to John and said, Rabbi, he who was with you beyond the Jordan to whom you have testified, behold, he is baptizing, and all are coming to him. John answered and said, A man can receive nothing unless it has been given to him from heaven. You yourself bear witness bear me witness that I said, I am not the Christ, but I have set been sent before him. He who is who has the bride is the bridegroom, but the friend of the bridegroom who stands and hears him rejoices greatly because the bridegroom's voice. Therefore, this joy of mine is fulfilled. He must increase. But I am must decrease. John uh on many occasions witnesses of who Jesus is and and the Pharisees and the sa the uh The scribes and the different religious leaders, they heard who John said it was and they questioned John and John pointed out who Jesus was, but the pop problem was they did not believe John Of course, if they said that John was just a man-made self-proclaimed prophet, rather than being a true prophet of God, the general consensus among the Jewish people was that he was indeed a prophet who was killed by Herod, who uh who was martyred in their mind, and of course they were concerned they feared the people and the uprising from the people. And so they answered the question, we do not know We don't we don't know. That's an easy way out. It's kind of a cop out answer. We don't uh okay. And then Jesus says, Well, neither do I need to tell you about the things that uh of what from what authority I get these things. Now the question is then, why were these folks threatened by the authority of Christ? And the answer to that question is because of their own self-ambition, their own self-righteousness, their own desire for power, their own motivation and rarely, when you think about it There's a sense in which they had worldly motivations under the guise of religion, the desire for power. The desire for notoriety, the desire for perhaps money as well. We see that he's turning over the changers of the temple earlier. Maybe it was money as well. And so there it's it's kind of like if you if you if you bring it into modern terms, it's like the person who's climbing the corporate ladder, stepping on everybody as they get up the ladder. You think that's you know, cruel and has a very wrong perspective on how things are. They get to the top and they're fighting for their they're at the top of the you know, maybe the seas there's a CEO and they're fighting to maintain their position and they're cutting people off when uh and and doing everything they can when anybody gets close to them. I mean that's they they usually lose their family in the process. They neglect their family. That that kind of thinking that worldly s uh uh uh self-ambition is the kind of thinking that's in this context and yet it is under this Under this guise of religion, can this happen in organized religion today? The answer is yes, it can Can it happen in gospel preaching Baptist churches? And the answer is it can. We should be very careful about this. The fact is, the church, the gospel preaching church can become a monument. It could be filled with power plays and be treated like a business uh where the the gospel is no longer the main thing and Making disciples is no longer the mission of the church, and it becomes this organization that you're just running and everybody's vying for what they want. And maybe there's power, a desire, desire for power, desire for position, those kinds of things. It's really sad and horrible when a church, when that happens to a church. And something that we need to be aware of, that we need to constantly in our minds, every individual, we need to think both individually and corporately that we want to submit to the authority of Christ. We need to want what Jesus wants and not want what we want. It's really that simple. If every individual in a church wants what Jesus wants instead of wanting what they want, then it will be a church that is centered on Christ. And will avoid these kinds of serious problems that plague many, many churches, mainline denominations, all kinds of churches over the years. Jesus isn't going to stop there. He is going to continue to he's not just going to walk away. Now he is actually going to further implicate and even in a sense indict these folks, these uh these h high these chief priests and leaders. And we see here that they are blinded by hypocrisy of self-righteousness. By the hypocrisy of self-righteousness. We pick up in verse 28, it says, but what do you think? And he gives this very straightforward parable. He says, A man who had two sons, and and he came to the first and said, Son, go work today in my vineyard. And he answered and said, I will not. But afterward he regretted and went. Then he came to the second and said, likewise, and he answered and said, I go, sir, but he did not go. Which of the two did the will of his father They said to him, the first, Jesus said to them, Assuredly I say to you, that tax collectors and harlots enter the kingdom of God before you For John came to you in the way of righteousness, and you did not believe him. But tax collectors and harlots believed him. When you saw it, you did not afterward relent and believe So he uses this very simple, very simple illustration. He uses the concept of a vineyard, and that is something that the the Jewish people probably, the even the chief In fact, in Isaiah chapter 5, verses 1 through 7 it says this now me, uh now let me sing Uh to my well-beloved, a song of beloved regarding his vineyard. My well-beloved has a vineyard on a very fruitful hill He dug it up and cleared out cleared out its stones and planted it with the choice choicest vine. And we're going to see he's going to use this this idea later on as far as the vineyard is concerned. But it brought forth wild grapes, and now, O inhabitants of Jerusalem and men of Judah, judge please between me and my vineyard. For what more could have been done to my vineyard that I have not done in it? Why then, when I expected it to bring forth good grapes, did it bring forth wild grapes? on that passage. In Isaiah 5, Israel is depicted as a vineyard, but it's bringing forth, it's not bringing forth fruit that is healthy and good. It's bringing forth the wrong kind of fruit. And that's exactly what's happening to the nation of Israel at this point, led by these chief priests and elders. And so they we see two different kinds of men in this parable that Jesus is talking about. We've got one son who's initially rebellious and then he's compliant. He says, No, I don't want to do what you want me to do, and then he goes and he does it. And another one who, by his words, is compliant, but then he never actually carries out the will of his father. And the question is asked which one actually did the will of the Father, the one who gave lip service or the one who actually did it. And of course, the answer is the one who at first rebel was verbally rebellious, but eventually. went and did what they were supposed to do and fulfilled will the Father. And they had to answer, well, the first one And in so doing, it's kind of like in the Old Testament, remember when David. That was interesting. I suddenly felt very Powerful. Anyway. So remember when David in the Old Testament was confronted by Nathan. Now I'm not hearing Are we okay back? Oh are we okay back there? Okay. Um so uh David back in the Old Testament, uh he uh we've got um Nathan who's confronting David, and if you remember the illustration, uh Nathan uses the rich person with a lot of sheep who steals from the poor person with with only one sheep and Jesus or David rather says that that person should be you know should be restored multiplefold and killed and all these different kinds of things and then Nathan says, You're the man. And it's the same thing here. The Pharisees admit who does the will of the Father and then who and really doesn't as well, and Jesus says, you're the man. You're the one who has not been fulfilling the will of the Father. In fact, these these tax collectors, these prostitutes, these folks, they have they are the ones doing Now that would have been shocking, utterly shocking to these these uh religious leaders. The the lowest of the low, the scum of the earth, so to speak. are being elevated to the place of doing the will of God. And these folks who claim to be doing the will of God are are now being indicted for their self-righteousness, but it is not enough. The issue here is self-righteousness. That's the problem. And of course, as you'll recall from Matthew chapter 5, verse 20, Jesus told them, For I say to you that unless your righteousness exceeds the righteousness of your Of the scribes and Pharisees, you will by no means enter the kingdom of heaven. And yet this kind of thing could happen in our world as well. We can say one thing and do something quite different. For example, or we can have put on a good posture and not really live in the will of the Father. For example, a person could come to church. If a person comes to church and and maybe they're even involved in ministries, but the rest of the week they live for themselves. What is, or you have another person who doesn't come to church and yet every single day they live for Christ. Well, I actually created a false dichotomy, right? Because the Bible's really clear in the book of Hebrews that you cannot faithfully live for Christ unless you are faithfully in the assembly. But out of those two choices, you would have to admit the person that is conscientiously and faithfully living for Christ each day or is the person that is really following after the will of God. It is something that must be a life, so a life that we live, not just something that we do. In fact, that is the problem when we're playing church. And you see many mainline denominations and not mainline denominations and got uh churches that preach the gospel and have very similar doctrinal statements. statements than ours. Folks, there is a real danger if all we're doing is thinking that we have somehow appeased God by giving our dues in attendance or doing certain things and now we can just live for ourselves. That is not doing the will of the Father. That is not truly being a follower of Christ This can happen, I think this is even more a possibility among those who are second-generation Christians or third-generation Christians. Christians. We've been saved in a Christian home and uh grew up as a Christian. The thought of not being in a Christian context is so foreign to us. And yet if it we're not careful, we're just sort of going through the motions. We're We're we're we're almost faking it. We're not really thoughtful about doing God's will every day of our lives, submitting to God. And the real issue here that we find in the passage is he says that when these when these tax collectors and these uh uh these uh uh harlots, all these different kinds of people, they do come to Christ in repentance. These religious leaders don't see the repentance and turn from their ways and relent, the Bible says, which is It is a different word than the word repentance, so the different different Greek word where the word repent, so the New King James uses the word relent there But what they're what he's saying is you never changed your mind. You never went back and did anything different, even though you saw people coming to me, you saw people's lives changed By the work of Christ, you did not relent. You continued to go your own way. And that does become the issue. It's the issue of repentance. Christians, the Christianity is based on repentance A true church who is proclaiming the gospel is one who's going to be proclaiming the truth of repentance, that we must turn from our sin and turn to Christ. The failure of true repentance leads to easy believism and sort of a casual attitude toward following Christ. Something we have to be very careful about. But Jesus isn't going to stop there. And most commentators really seem to Note that this is a whole block. It's a la larger passage, but it all really kind of goes together in succession. And Jesus is going to continue now in this final parable to point out some very serious issues. And to point out to really indict these these religious leaders. Now he's already been doing that. For example, in Matthew chapter 16 16 verse 21 it says from the time Jesus began to show to his disciples that he must go uh go to Jerusalem and suffer many things from the elders and the chief priests He told his disciples that all the way back in Matthew sixteen. Matthew seventeen seventeen, twenty-three, and they will kill him, and the third day he will raise them up, and they were exceedingly sorrowful Matthew 20, 18, they talk about it again. Behold, we are going to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be betrayed to the chief priests and the scribes, and they will condemn him to death. This is this is the destiny of Christ, and as Christ is looking squarely at these chief priests that are going to uh put him to death He is now going to say to them that they are they are s they are guilty. And that brings us then to that the fact that their desires were actually to be in the place of Christ. And we see this in verses 33-35. 46. He gives another parable. He says there's a certain landowner who planted a vineyard and set a hedge around it and dug a wine press. And this is a reference to Isaiah chapter 5. And during the harvest time and he rented it out to these vine dressers. So this owner rents it out. This is very common. They did this all the time. And during the harvest He sent his servants to the people to whom he rented out to be able to get his share of the profits from the harvest. And when he went, when he sent his servants to these vine dressers, verse 35, one uh they uh the uh the vine dressers took his servants, beat one, killed one, and stoned another. And this and you would think that would be enough, right? But this owner of the vine dresser, the owner of the vineyard does not stop there. Again, verse 36. He sends other servants. More than the first, and they did likewise to them. So, first group of certain uh servants, he they kill them off, beat them, and cruel to them. Then he sends more servants and they do it again. Now this by this point this idea is unheard of. I mean, how would an owner of a vineyard rent it out with an agreement that he's going to get some of the profits and he's sending people to collect the profits and they're killing the servants By this point, all the public that are listening to him at this point, the multitudes that are very likely there, and the chief priests, everybody's listening, they're they're though this is weird. What's going on here? This is crazy. But Jesus continues. Verse 40. Therefore, when the owner of the vineyard comes, oh, uh actually verse uh verse 38, and when the vine dressers Saw the go back verse 37, sorry. Then last of all he sent his son to them, saying, Will uh they will respect my son And when the vine dressers saw the sun, they said among themselves, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him and seize his inheritance. So they took him and cast him out of the vineyard and killed the him. Therefore, when the owner of the vineyard comes, what will he do to these vine dressers? He's asked he asked these men, and what do they say, verse thirty forty-one? They said to him, He will destroy those wicked men miserably and lease his vineyard to another vine dresser who will render him fruits in their seasons. Jesus said to them, Have you never read the scriptures? Which by the way he said many times before, we've seen that before. The stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone. This was the Lord's doing, was marvelous in their eyes. They admit that this is terrible what has happened to the servants of the owner of the vineyard They understand this is awful, and yet Jesus is referencing them. Actually, what he's referencing is, for example, the prophets of the Old Testament. The prophets were massacred by Israel. For example, Jezebel massacred prophets in 1 Kings chapter 18. 4 and 1813. Micah was beaten in his face, 1 Kings 22, 24, and Zachariah was murdered in God's temple, 2 Chronicles 24, 20 through 22. Eurijah the prophet was in Jeremiah in Jeremiah twenty-six, was brought was put to death, killed with the sword by Jehoiakim. And there are others as well in the Old Testament. prophets were persecuted and murdered and put to death. Those who are truly prophets of God by Israel. And Jesus is saying that this is continuing to go on, and now finally the Son has come, and he's saying, You are going to, and so and uh you are going to put me to death. He's prophesying this. Therefore, and so He says this, the stone, he quotes scripture, the stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone. This is the Lord's doing, it is marvelous in our eyes. twenty through through twenty-three in the old testament. The build the stone which the builders rejected has become the chief corner. And of course, uh the cornerstone was in a building the way that that was set, it was uh Selected very, very carefully, make sure that it was structurally sound, that it became uh the corner with which everything else was aligned and set right as far as the foundation was concerned on a building. And it you know uh uh a faulty stone would be rejected by the builders. And what it's saying here is that the builders actually are the leaders of Israel. And Jesus is the stone. And he says the stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone. He prophesied that he is going to end up being the chief stone This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. In Isaiah 8, 13 through 15 we find this. It says that the Lord of hosts him you shall hollow Let him be your fear and let him be your dread. He will be as a sanctuary, but a stone of stumbling, a rock of offense to both the houses of Israel. There's a trap and a snare in the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and many among them shall stumble, they shall fall and be broken, be snared and taken. He's a Jesus is the st is a stone and he is actually Isaiah eight, a rock of offense to Israel Now would you take your Bibles and turn to Acts chapter 4 for a moment? Acts chapter 4. And I want you to see how Peter, in Acts chapter 4, now this is 50 days later. At Pentecost, you'll remember that 3,000 souls are saved at Pentecost. Peter uh speaks in tongues and and others with him and then preaches and people come to Christ and Here you have the religious leaders again, the rulers and the elders and the scribes. Of course, by this time, Jesus, remember, Jesus has died, he's risen from the grave, he's ascended to his father. You've got uh now Peter, now these religious leaders can't confront Jesus. He's ascended. Now they're confronting Peter. And notice what it says, Acts 4, verse 5. And it came to pass On the next day that their rulers, elders, and scribes, as well as Annas and the High Priest, Caiaphas, John, and Alexander, as many as were of the family of the high priest, were gathered together in Jerusalem. And when they had set him in the midst, they asked, by what power or by what name have you done this? Does that sound familiar? It's essentially the same question they asked Jesus: by what authority do you do this? Then Peter, filled, verse 8, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them, rulers of the people and elders of Israel. If this day are judged for a good deed done to a helpless man, by what means he has been made well Let it be known to you all and to all the people of Israel that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead, by him the man stands here before you whole. This is the stone, Jesus, the stone which was rejected by you builders. Now we have a very clear real clarity about who these people are, which was which has become the chief cornerstone. And then he says this, nor is there salvation in any other, for there is no other name under heaven given among men. By which we must be saved. He is the chief cornerstone, and there is no other way except through Christ. Now Peter is going to continue to use this kind of language. In 1 Peter chapter 2, verses 6 through 8, it says this Therefore it is also contained in the scriptures, behold I lay in Zion a chief cornerstone, elect precious And he who believes on him that is Jesus will be will by no means be put to shame. Therefore to you who believe He is precious, but to those who are disobedient, the stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone, the stone of the stumbling and the rock of offense. They stumble being disobedient to the word to which they also were appointed. Peter develops all this and he says, you've got two choices. You believe on Christ Or you are or Christ becomes an offense to you. It's one or the other So he then says, Jesus, back in our passage, Matthew 21, Jesus says to them, Therefore I say to you The kingdom of God will be taken from you. But then he says this, and given to a nation bearing the fruits of it. The kingdom of God is going to be taken from you. You're not going to have it. And somebody's going to be given to a nation bearing the fruits of it. We're going to look at what the word nation means there, but first let's understand what the word fruit means means. fruits means. What does he talk about bearing the fruits? We've already seen this before. It's vine dressers we're talking about, bearing bearing wild fruit versus good grapes and Well if you go back to Matthew chapter three verses seven through nine it says this. And when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees, this is actually Bat John the Baptist talking Coming to his baptism, he said to them, Brood of vipers who warned you to flee the wrath to come, therefore bear fruits worthy of repentance. Folks, that's the fruit. The fruit is the fruit of repentance. What is the fruit that Christ was looking for? Well, it was the tax collectors and the harlots and all that that they they bore the fruit of repentance. That's what Christ was looking for in his kingdom. Well, who was supposed to do that? These these were they were bearing the wrong kind of fruit. This was there were they're not bearing the fruit of repentance at all. And so Jesus says, I'm going to take the kingdom and I'm going to give it to somebody else. The word nation is the word ethnos. It means a group of people. And it's interesting in 1 Peter 2, verse 9, it says this, but you are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation. His own special people, that you may proclaim the praise of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light, who once were not people, but are now the people Of God who had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. And in a very real sense, folks, the church has become they that we are the people of God. And it is our now our responsibility to bear fruit of repentance, something that the Pharisees And the religious leaders did not do. In Ephesians chapter 2, we find this, verse 20: having been built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself, being the chief cornerstone. Now, that doesn't mean that God is finished with Israel. We know that from Romans chapter 11, verse 2, it says God has not cast away his people from whom he foreknew. And in Romans chapter eleven, verse twenty-five and twenty-six explains, for I do not desire, brethren, that you should be ignorant of this mystery, lest you should be wise in your own opinion. That blindness in part has happened to Israel, unto the fullness of the Gentiles come in. So all Israel will be saved, as it is written, the deliverer will come out of Zion, and he will turn away ungodliness from Jacob. We look forward to the day where Christ will come and he will set up his kingdom on the earth. He will set up his king as true king of Israel during the millennial kingdom. He will fulfill all of the full all of the of the uh everything that was uh prophesied in the Old Testament that has yet to be fulfilled when it comes to Israel But for now, it is the responsibility of the church to produce the fruit of repentance or to uh to help uh bring forth the fruit of repentance. Now, the lead religious leaders at this point realize they're talking about us. He's talking about us. It says, he says this, and whoever falls on this stone will be broken. The stone, remember, is Christ. And falling on Christ is those who put Christ to death. That's these religious leaders. And he says, those who fall on the stone will be broken. And Romans 9 33 bears this out. Behold, I lay in Zion a stumbling stone, a rock of offense, and be and whoever believes on him will not be put to shame. It's a rock of offense to these Jewish leaders. He says even further, but on whomever it falls it will grind him to powder So these religious leaders understand this. They perceive who they're speaking of, but they couldn't, they still couldn't do anything. Why? Because they feared the multitudes, verses 45 and 46. Now, what do we learn from all of this? Several things. Now, one, the religious leaders put Jesus to death because they Wanted to replace him. It says in the passage that they wanted the inheritance of the son. Let's kill the son, and then we'll get what he has and what he's going to have. They were altogether evil through these religious leaders and self-absorbed with self-righteousness But I want you to notice something that is quite amazing in this passage. Do you realize, I mean I just want us to want us to think about this, what Jesus is saying. saying here. In this illustration, you know, sometimes we we get this idea or people get this idea that Jesus, you know, he comes across in this passage as so judgmental, he's declaring uh so many judgmental thing toward these things toward these people and and certainly Jesus does come as a judge but I want to you know what I see in this passage? I really see the patience I mean, just think about it. All the prophets of the Old Testament All of the witnesses of who God really is. All of the witnesses of who Christ came to be. I mean think of Isaiah coming and being persecuted and the things that he preached was a were prophecies of who Christ was in very clear terms, Isaiah 53, for example. He was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities, the chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes were healed. Give that kind of prophecy, and they they kill these prophets in the Old Testament. And when Jesus comes, of course, these chief priests are going to ultimately put him to death. This is called mercy and patience. And even Peter, preaching to these chief priests, theoretically, anyway, give them a chance to repent then. Do you see that although God is a just God and He will execute justice ultimately, God gives opportunity after opportunity after opportunity after opportunity. For the nation of Israel to repent. And he gives us opportunity after opportunity after opportunity for us to repent. You know why? Because God is a patient and merciful God. But there is an end. There is a judgment, and we need to realize that What does all this show? It shows that Christ is the only way. I mean, think about it. Think back to the Old Testament. Think about the sacrificial system. Think about the nation of Israel. Think about the fact that they, you know, everybody man did right in their own eyes. And then you know Moses first. They rejected Moses, by the way. And then they have you know Joshua comes, everybody judges all that. Then you think of uh beyond that you've got a king and And all the problems there, and then the different kings kingdoms are divided, and then you've got prophets coming in. All of the different ways in the Old Testament, what does it all lead up to? There is only one way It's only through Christ. It's Christ alone. Neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. And Peter with great boldness says this directly to these builders who rejected the stone. He says, in no uncertain terms, it's only through Christ. And we need to have that kind of boldness as well. So in thinking through all of this, there are four I have four applications for us. Number one Do we crave power or do we fully submit to Christ? Do we crave power or authority or control Or are we willing to simply fully submit to Christ? Completely, fully, totally, we submit everything to Christ. Number two, do we respond to the Lord in self-righteousness or in repentance? When the Lord brings something to our minds, perhaps it's a sin? What God reveals to us, perhaps it's wrongdoing, do we come back at God in defense of ourselves? Do we think to ourselves, well, you know, I that's not really all that bad, or other people are so much better, or uh I'm so much better than other people, and man Do we defend ourselves? Are we so concerned about our own self-image, our own self-concept, that we are unwilling to realize we're wrong? We're unwilling to repent, and God really convicts us. Number three, do we embrace Christ as the only way? There is no other way under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. And if you're here to this morning. You say, well, you know, I think there's all kinds of different ways. The Bible says the way the way of destruction is broad, but the way to eternal life is narrow, and there are few that find it. But he also says he's not willing that any should perish, that all should come to repentance. And he gives opportunity after opportunity after opportunity to repent. And finally, do we lead people to repentance and faith in Christ? I just want us to reflect on this for a few moments When we when it all boils down, when you have a church, for example, that is not emphasizing The need to understand who God is and our self, our sin in relation to God, and the need for us to admit we are sinners. and come to God in humility if that kind of thing is not clearly emphasized. It's not long before a church slides into sort of this wishy washy washy easy believism attach Jesus onto my life kind of Christianity. And you lose the gospel. May we not do that. May we really think in terms of of wanting to be people who call people to repentance. Not in any self-righteous way, far from that. No, it's because we ourselves are repentant. We are the tax collectors and the prostitutes. We are the ones that realize that in my flesh dwells no good thing, that I am to be repentant before God. And so living that way, I can, without self-righteousness, I can call others to repentance as well. Do we have that kind boy s so important in our as our li in our lives as individuals Don't allow self-righteousness to creep into our lives. Be sensitive to the conviction and the work of the Spirit of God. When He convicts us of sin. Boy, just just say the same thing God does. Confess your sin. And He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us. From all unrighteousness. May we be people that are truly doing the will of the Father, not people who are just looking like it If you are here this morning and maybe you say, you know, I don't think I have really ever come to a place of true repentance. Yeah, I had a I you know I accepted Jesus. I prayed a prayer. But you never understood that you are a sinner and that your sin is an offense against a holy God. And that Jesus died to take your sin from you so that you could have your sins forgiven. If you are unsure about these things, let me encourage you I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you will spend eternity with the Lord in repentance and faith toward Christ. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you for your word. We thank you for the truth of it. Father, we thank you. We pray, Lord, that you would help us as a as individuals and as a church. To be authentically and genuinely doing the mission of Christ by living lives of repentance By encouraging others to repentance and faith in Christ. Lord, uh help us with this. Help us to be sensitive to your working in our lives. Help us to identify sin quickly and turn from it quickly. And Lord, if there is someone here that doesn't know you as their as their savior, I pray today they would understand their sin. And their need of a Savior, and they would come to Christ. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming Our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273 or email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.