He wants to clarify some things. So four things we're going to be looking at. But the Bible says that this broad way ends in destruction. You are signing up for a battle between the principality of the air, the rulers of the darkness of this present age, and Christ and his kingdom. For false Christs and false prophets will rise up and show great signs and wonders to deceive, if possible, even the elect. He multiplied wives. And winds blew and beat on that house, and it did not fall, for it was founded on the rock. Uh you know a good carpenter would know you would have to go all the way down to the bedrock. And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat on that house, and it fell, and great was its fall. And the narrow way leads to life. We would not soon ignore it. And is now seated at your right hand, interceding on our behalf this morning, giving us the privilege and the joy to be able to come before your throne this morning For your praise. Some contrasts. And Jesus is going to begin actually, we're going to see here, he's going to contrast several things. 1 Timothy 6, verse 9 says, For those who de desire to be rich fall into temptation and snare, and into many foolish and harmful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition. In 2 Peter 2, verse 1, it says, But there were also false prophets, we're going to get to them, among the people, even as there were false teachers among you. which untaught and unstable people twist to their own destruction, as they do also the rest of Scriptures. And in 2 Corinthians chapter 2 Peter chapter 3 verse 16 it says, as also in all his epistles, speaking to them in these things, in which some things hard to understand. In Matthew 5, verses 10 through 12, it says, Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. In fact, if you hear teachers and you hear preachers saying to you that all you need to do is have more faith and you will have a prosperous life, that is a false teacher. You will be brought before governors and kings for my sake as a testimony to them and to the Gentiles. In verse 22 it says, And you will be hated by all for my name's sake, but he who endures to the end will be saved. And Antioch, strengthening the souls of the disciples, exhorting them to continue in the faith, and saying, We must, through many tribulations, enter the kingdom of God. And you can have this sort of freedom in Christ, which really isn't freedom at all. And by the way, he says, how many find it? and deceive many. who decided to really reword things in such a way that you'd use Christian words, but infuse a entirely different definition to the Christian word, even words like salvation and redemption. And you realize, no, that's not a grape. Now, I went and was hiking with my family uh up in western Maryland and they had they have raspberries up there, wild raspberries. But there we were hiking and it was a five mile hike and I was and they were I was so glad they had raspberries because we were actually able to get through the hike because they were just looking for more raspberries as we go. Disputes and arguments over words from which come envy, strife, reviling, evil suspicions, useless wranglings of men in corrupt minds, and destitute Colossians 1. extreme is excellent. There's an entire description there of what true godly repentance looks like. It's not that we're going to live perfect lives, and by those perfect lives, we are going that we're somehow then that is our authenticity, our certificate of authenticity. of repentance. In 21 of chapter 7, it says, Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of my Father in heaven In Matthew 12, verse 50, it says, For whoever does the will of my Father in heaven is my brother and sister and mother. In Matthew 6. And in Matthew 26, 42, it says, again, a second time, he went away and prayed, saying, O my Father, if this cup cannot pass away from me. You perfectly follow the will of the Father. that Jesus would have been aware of from a practical perspective. They're both experiencing the same turbulence and uh uh possibility of being their having their house destroyed. And he never accepts the righteousness of Christ on himself by faith. to life. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. that you would prepare our hearts and our minds. Those Lord who can be obviously observed and to bring forth good fruit that glorifies your great name. Heart in Jesus' name. confusion that happens in our in our understanding of Jesus and truth and what his call is to follow him, I think it'd be very, very helpful for us. The false way, we're going to begin by looking at the contrast and approach, and then we're going to move to a warning about messengers, a caution about claims, and then a contrast in foundations and results. and results. And there are many who go in by it, because narrow is the gate, and difficult is the way that lead which leads to life, and there are few who find it. We have a narrow way and a wide way, and we have a uh uh we have two very clear destinations that are completely different as well. He says to enter into the narrow gate. The Y Gate is a all-inclusive gate. It is easy. Philippians chapter 3 verse 19 says, Whose end is destruction, whose God is their belly, whose glory is their shame, whose set their mind on earthly things. Who will secretly bring in destructive heresies, even denying the Lord who brought them, and bring themselves swift destruction. And we know, folks, biblically, that that way is Jesus Christ alone. Neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby you must be saved. The Bible says in this text is difficult. Blessed are you when they revile and persecute you and say all kinds of evil against you falsely for my sake. For so they persecuted the prophets who were before you. The following Christ is a difficult journey. But I think sometimes in our day and age, we fail to maybe sometimes communicate that what the gospel is not promising is an easy, prosperous life. Now there is a sense in which life is so much better. When you become a Christian, you are signing up for a battle between the truth of the Word of God and the truth of the world. And that battle will ultimately be won by Christ. and Sadducees, and what they promoted was a self-righteousness that made you feel good about yourself. It is a false religion. warn us about false prophets. Is even death for those who would claim to be a prophet and ultimately would be a false prophet. God took this very seriously, and he takes it very seriously now. In fact, many years ago now, there was a a whole uh a whole movement called modernism. And the m and the and the movement began when there was uh a a particular uh Presbyterian preacher up in New York City and justification, meaning something entirely different than what we know to be true of the Bible. and be aware of false prophets. wolves. edible raspberry. You're going to know a false a false prophet by their fruit. It says, who have strayed concerning the truth, saying the resurrection is already past, and they overthrow the faith of some. Others promote divisiveness and bitterness. of the truth, who suppose that godliness is a means of gain. Philippians chapter 1 verse 11 says this, being filled with the fruits of righteousness which are by Jesus Christ to the glory and praise of God. When Saul was confronted with his sin, he hardened his heart and he blamed God. But you have become very carnal in your life where you have submitted yourself to your own will so frequently that the voice of God in your life that desires to follow after the will of God has is so faint, it's a whisper, it's almost gone. Christ. I will liken him to a wise man who built his house on the rock. And whether or not it would have it would have been stable and been the foundation would have gone all the way down to the bedrock. In fact, uh there are there was in the nineteen seventies there was some ex archaeological excavations done that demonstrated that that was that was done where there were foundations that these two. I have laid the foundation, and another builds on it, but let each one take heed how he builds on it. Thank you for streaming our service. I will not forget your word. Our hearts are full with your goodness to us, Lord. Your word have I hidden in my heart, that I might not sin against you. morning. in you, no matter what life brings our way. Christ and also Father, you teach us that we shall know them by their fruits, those who proclaim you. And beware of the false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravenous wolves. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, shall enter the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of my Father in heaven. Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in your name, cast out demons in your name, and done many wonders in your name And when the rain descended and the floods came, the winds blew and beat on that house, and it did not fall, for it was founded on the rock. What does the gospel demand? The clarity about these things can really encourage us and motivate us and can take deal with some of the You can go into this wide gate, into this broad way, and you can be comfortable in being in this gate with this broad in this wide gate with this broad way. It's easy. The narrow way is an entrance that is exclusive. in the United States that preach, the majority, not all of them, but the majority of them preach a prosperity gospel. Love your enemies, bless those who curse you, do good to those who hate you, and pray for those who spitefully use you and persecute you. In Matthew chapter 10, later on, Jesus is going to be talking to the disciples. When they persecute you in this city, flee to another. We hear all of the good things, and there are. Now there are battles going on. that the gospel brings battles to your life. That their end game is to make you feel good about who you are and what you have done. That maybe in the short term, maybe they might it might happen. for a faith that is all-inclusive that most that the majority of people will find it's not the faith of Christ It prophesies that we need to be careful, again, about false teaching and those who will deceive. For many will come in my name, saying, I am the Christ, and will deceive many. And we find certainly in this life and it in the life that we live, the society that we live in, the culture that we have, there are many, many false prophets. There are many people that look like Christians and many teachings that even use the same kind of wording, the same kind of phrasing, but they mean something very different. Doesn't mean it is right. Think about a sheep, it says the sheep. Did you know, by the way, did you know that there are two qualities that you have to really be careful of because people will follow someone Be good Bereans. uh that may have some sort of uh fruit that's not edible or a true fig or a grape. that a false teacher will will bear are list are really mentioned throughout the New Testament. For example, in 2 Timothy 2, verse 18, the false prophet will tear down someone's faith. the fundamental doctrines of Scripture, the resurrection, for example, and it promotes all kinds of ungodliness. But if we're really thinking about it, it talks about here again, it's emphasized, you will know them twice, it says the passage, you will know them by their fruits. Our lives should bear out fruits of repentance. But when we do sin, a genuine Christian, when confronted with his sin, will repent of his sin. who are not true followers of Christ. Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in your name, cast out demons in your name, and done many wonders in your name? Depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. Jesus came and he submitted himself to the will of the Father. But do you genuinely have a desire within you to do God's will? And if you do not have that spirit, the Bible says you are not his. There's two possibilities. that went all the way down past the sand, which was the first layer, into the bedrock that would that would s make a stable foundation for a house to be built. I think this is hearkening back to the whole idea of life versus destruction in the very beginning that we talked about. But the difference is one goes down through the sand and stops. In 1 Corinthians 3, verse 10, it says this, according to the grace of God which was given to me as a wise master builder. Jesus is the foundation. All kinds of inclement weather. It is you are experiencing Christ. You stand firm in the bedrock of Christ because you have been experiencing him all along. Those trials come, those difficulties come, and you are sinking sand. life that those are true genuinely genuine options the wide easy way that leads to destruction when you have no desire to do the will of the Father. Are you drilling your foundation deeply into the bedrock of Christ by applying Scripture, or are you content to only know it? And we listen to our flesh and we listen to uh the cares of this world and we we are taken and beat on that house, and it fell. our series, our mini-series on the Sermon on the Mount within our larger series in Matthew. It's very clear when you when you say one thing and then you contrast it with something that it's not. The Christian, the true follower of Christ, the true disciple of Christ, should expect difficulty in this life. In the midst of wolves. speak, for it will be given to you in the hour that you shall shut should speak. Do you, when you came to the gospel, did you understand it to be easy? The winds will come, the tribulation will come, the difficulties of life will come. We find this in verses 15 through 22 of this passage. They're very they look like us. dangerous. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. And then various, they promote various kinds of ungodliness. Or the fruit of a false uh a false claimer of the gospel versus one who is true, what would you look for? Okay, that's my ring, so I was a little worried. Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in your name, cast out demons in your name, and done many work wonders in your name I don't really know if I do or not. The difference between building your house on sand and building your house into the bedrock is application. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. or email us at info at bbcofmd. not just being a hearer of the word, but also a doer of the word. And Lord, when he died on that cross, he satisfied your just demand. Bears good fruit. Every tree that does not bear fruit, good fruit, is cut down and thrown into the fire. And then I will declare to them, I never knew you. the life of a Christian, and they say, well, what the gospel is promising is not true in what that life, what that Christian life that I'm seeing looks like. Or I should say the wide way, the wide gate that leads to the wide way has lots of space. Christianity has always been in the minority. Jesus is teaching here in such a way that leaves no room for the prosperity gospel to be true. And the way is difficult. But there is going to be a battle. And we must learn to apply the truth of the scriptures, which we're going to see more here in a few moments, in order to stand strong when the weather comes, when the inclement weather comes. False and empty religions will attract us. Don't fall into the traps of those wide gates that promise something. They would be they would understand the difference between something like a thorn bush. Well, I'd like to suggest to you that if you go back to Matthew chapter 3, the word fruit is mentioned there. Therefore, bear fruits, plural, bear for fruits worthy of repentance. Right? I have literally heard Christians make arguments like this that go like this. It is only the person who does the will of the Father in heaven. And when I will declare them and never uh knew you, depart from me, you practice lawlessness. Then very likely you, maybe I should even say it stronger, you are not a true Christian. Truly desired to do the will of God, you are not truly a follower of Christ. Now, this is another another uh illustration that Jesus gives that the disciples would have been very, very familiar with. But he is building his house on the sand rather than applying truth to his life, digging into the bedrock. That's the question. your lives. The let me have my fun way that leads to destruction, or the narrow, difficult path that leads Or the one who tells you the truth. As the Spirit of God fills your life and gives you the desire to follow His will. But we really would love to meet you in person. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. We see here, Lord, that cleansing our way does not happen by accident. But it happens by taking heed according to your word. As we live in this life. You will know them by their fruits. And does not do them will be like the foolish man who built his house on the sand, and the rain descended, and floods came, and the winds blew about what the gospel promises and what the gospel demands, and also in the life of a believer about what the gospel promises and what the gospel demands. But in both cases, whether a person is unsaved or whether a person is saved, whether a person is a Christian or whether a person is not a Christian. Well, after clarifying through this contrast, Jesus then moves to helping us, to warning us about false prophets And there are many teachers out there, many preachers out there, who seem confident and who seem sincere, but they are preaching a false gospel and they are inwardly ravenous. What is the fruit of the false prophet? Yesterday I had with a some friends I had uh the opportunity, Elizabeth and I had the opportunity to go up to Sight and Sound to see uh the life of David. Unless I drink it, your will be done. Probably it was very well known that you if you were to build a house off the coast, uh then you would need to make sure to your lives. And Jesus offers him his righteousness if he'll accept it by faith. But I think there is a second application, and that is to the Christian. And the Christian who falters in the midst of them, what is the difference? Who has who has who you've genuinely trusted Christ, but you have not been applying the truth of Scripture to your life on a daily basis. And there are many Christians who, at least for a time, they stray away from the faith. The teacher who tells you what you want to hear that will tickle your your ears, that will the Bible says that uh in the last days there will be many teachers that, uh, because listeners will have itching ears If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. Drill your foundation deep into the bedrock of Christ by doing by being not only a hearer of the word, but a doer of the word. And of righteousness and of judgment, help them to accept you as their Lord and Savior. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. I have rejoice in the way of your testimonies, as much as in all riches. And Lord, I pray that we would be mindful that you would help us to give proper attention and value to your truth. Aside, and we are taken off the path that you would have us on. Therefore, whoever hears these sayings of mine and does them, I will liken him to a wise man who built his house on the rock. For he taught them as one having authority and not as the scribes. What does it look like to be an authentic follower of Christ? That unbelievers that look at the claims of Christ and look at the gospel and they are confused by what the gospel is promising. The truth is the gospel does promise certain things, and the gospel also requires certain things. We pick up in chapter 7, verse 13, and it says, Enter by the narrow gate, for wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leads to destruction. We have here two gates, two ways, and two destinations. But it obviously ends in destruction, and many go by it. Now, let me ask you a question. There are religions and there are faiths and denominations out there that will cause you to think that you are free to do whatever you want, wherever you want, however you want But ultimately, the end of that is destruction because that is the wide gate and the wide way that leads to destruction. We need to get used to that, by the way. clothing, but inwardly they are ravenous wolves. Test the scriptures, test the spirits, test what is being said. But I told them, I said, you've got to be really careful because some things look like raspberries and are not. The quality of the fruit, the character of good fruit, is going to be fruit of repentance. No, it is by our repentant lives. One that would be a natural outflow of talking about the concept of false prophets, and that is, he is declaring here that there are some people who will name the name of Christ. This text tells us not everyone that claims Jesus as Lord is truly a follower of Jesus. Do you desire to follow after Christ? Do you genuinely desire to do the will of the Father? That is the distinctive difference between a true follower of Christ and one who is not. The Bible says that if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. God gives, puts within us his spirit, and we have a new spirit within us, and from that spirit we desire to do the will of the Father. What's the difference? The foolish man hears the sayings, but he does not do them. If you are a wise Christian, you are applying the truth day by day, you are living out the truth Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. And truly desire to do the will of Christ, and so truly be a follower of Christ. The fact that he suffered and died for all sin, Lord. 29. Sometimes they are almost tripped up by that. A contrast about claims. It is he is preaching a false gospel. The promise of eternal life, the promise of a relationship with God. It's not like one built in brick and the other in you know straw or something. But understand the value and the importance of not just knowing the truth, we must apply the truth of Christ in our lives as Christians. Verse 9, Psalm 119 for real. And Father, I do pray that you would give them the ability by your Spirit and through your word to be able to withstand. In other cases, someone comes to Christ and they are sorely disappointed. As they have been listening to this sermon and it comes to a close, he wants this to be extremely clear. Destruction. And we need to understand that that has always been the case of true believers throughout church history. And because of that, but the Bible says then inwardly they are ravenous wolves. What is a what is it really how can we if if there's one one area to really look for in a in the fruit of a false prophet, So there were very many, there were actually several similarities between Saul and David. the a house that would been would have been built off the the Sea of Galilee. In verse 26 it says this, but everyone who hears the sayings of mine and does not do them will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand. So in concluding all of this, we have four applications. And Father, I pray that if there is anybody here that is not genuinely a follower of Christ, that today they would realize that. all the things that come our way as we go on this path of life as you direct us. And Father, as we are going to learn this morning, there is but one way only to come to you. In 1 Corinthians chapter 7, sorry, 2 Corinthians chapter 7, you have a description of godly sorrow that leads to repentance. Just because someone says they're a Christian doesn't mean they're a Christian. They would accept it. We thank you that you've made these contrasts, you've clarified things at the end of the Sermon on the Mount, so that we can truly know whether or not we are genuinely a follower of Christ. I pray, Lord, that we would be people of the Word, that we would live by the Word, and that you would change us through your Word May you use this service to grow us more and more like the image of your Son. We come, Lord, to praise you for who you are and what you have done. And there are many who go in by it. Even though they are even though they are uh they could be totally wrong, but they will be followed if they have two qualities. If someone has confidence and someone has sincerity, you have to be careful about following them blindly. He had the thing with Bathsheba. There are people who say they are Christians, they are not Christians. This passage tells us that there is a contrast, it brings up another contrast between the wise man and the foolish man. Now, there are a couple of things that are the same between this wise man and the foolish man. We're thankful for those who are visiting and uh Lord those who are returning and uh just uh enjoy fellowshiping with each other. We pray, Lord, now that you would use your word to impact our hearts today, as we just read about. And Father, we are thankful for without the resurrection, we have no hope. This is such a helpful and important for important contrast. Come the truth about that. waiting and anticipating and expecting how you will speak to us through the pages of your word today They look sincere. And a Christian, and a person who is not a Christian will not repent. 10 it says, Your kingdom come is in praying, the Lord's Prayer, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Are you a good listener, but not a good doer of the world? We often ignore it. We're going to work through this, and I hope it'll be very helpful for us in clarifying what an authentic follower of Christ really looks like. And this passage teaches us that the reason essentially is because the Broadway is inviting and promises something prosperous in this life. And later on in verse 23 of the same chapter it says, Then if anyone says to you, look, here is Christ, or there, do not believe it. 10 says, that you may walk worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing him, being fruitful in every good work, increasing in the knowledge of God. I pray for peace that passes all understanding. It is comfortable. There are different kinds of wide gates. How do you know truth? So what kind of fruit are we looking for? And I think this has two applications. He can know the gospel, but he's never applied it to his life. And Father, we're thankful this morning for all that you have brought here this morning. He wants us to really see what it looks like. You have to look close. That is a defining characteristic between how you know a true follower of Christ from one who is not. It says in the passage, you will know them by their fruits. Let me pause and just mention this. The wide, easy way that leads to destruction, or the narrow, difficult path that leads to life. Jesus then after clarifying the difference between following Christ through the narrow gate and the narrow way that leads to life. And indeed in the Old Testament you find that to be the case as well. So you have to be very, very careful uh with with by examining fruit. It wasn't as though Saul uh really just disobeyed all the time and David didn't do anything wrong. There is so much, Lord, that you have for us in the pages of this book. So follow along if you have your Bibles. Do you claim the name of Christ? Which way will you choose? Amen. Contrasts have a way of clarifying things. It is not enough to know. One is you're not a Christian. Would you bow your heads with me as we go to the Lord in prayer? That is a, that really is for you, should be sort of a certificate of authenticity in your own We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. But a bad tree bears bad fruit. A contrast and approach. Did you know that? Is it true? And the gospel does not promise that you won't have those things. And the travesty is that the passage says that many go thereby. Therefore be wise as serpents and harmless as doves. I mean, there were all kinds of things that he did wrong. In this passage, you've got the wise man building his house upon a rock versus a foolish man who builds his house on sand. What is the bedrock? Well, what what does he call the disciples? They look like just one of us. The difference is, did you catch it in the text? Not just do you know about him, but you are you applying truth to him, applying the truth of him to We must know the truth from the Word of God, and we must understand the doctrines of Scripture. We have this uh we have the same thing um even even here. There are clear passages of Scripture that indicate that that's not this side of heaven going to happen. Two questions. There's plenty of space. At this, uh, one of the things that is so clear as it contrasted Saul with David is clearly in scripture. He is the bedrock. Deal bountifully. Now that should not surprise the disciples, and it shouldn't surprise us. There are other kinds of fruit that look very similar to raspberries but they're poisonous. And so now he is going to have a caution about claims. And even this morning, as we go and we worship in song and we worship through the preaching of the word, Lord, that we would end up And Father, we thank you for Jesus Christ and his sacrifice at the cross on our behalf Alright, I apologize. You are knowing Christ, not just with your head, but with your heart and with your life. Some will promise prosperity, as we have already mentioned. Father, help us to set aside all those things from this week. They look confident. And what does the gospel promise? Have you viewed the gospel this way? And what he's going to say here is that they have outward appearance of sheep. Father, we come to you and we thank you for the clarity of the truth of this passage. Some empty religions are self-righteous religions. We are going to be looking at Matthew chapter 7 this morning, and we are looking at verses 13 through Do men gather grapes from thorn bushes or figs from thistles? What are the claims of those who say they know Christ? When you come become a Christian, you are signing up for a battle between your flesh and the Spirit of God. We need to be willing to say in our own minds and our own hearts, it's okay that I'm in the minority. Because it's very easy to follow someone who's confident and someone who appears to be sincere. It promises prosperity in the way. In fact, in Acts chapter 14, verse 21 it says, and when they had preached the gospel to the city and made many disciples, they returned to Lystria One, if you do not really if you do not really desire the will of the Father now There are many folks, there are many people that know the gospel, but have never applied the gospel to their lives. And Father, I'd like to lift up those this morning who are struggling and suffering through different things in their life this morning. Few. 1 Timothy 6, verses 4 through 5. And by the way, who was Jesus' earthly father? How great was its fall! And so on it goes in that passage. And that you would in your in your own way, in your own spirit, would bring them to a place of conviction of sin How can a young man cleanse his way by taking heed according to your word? It's not easy. Do you claim to be a Christian? You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Admit you're not a Christian if you need to. And we're going to learn what that sense is at the end of this passage when we talk about those houses that stand firm and the ones that don't. Christian, if you're struggling in this life because you are wondering why there is so many battles, understand. He calls the disciples sheep. It's bitterness and divisiveness. Do you desire to do the will of the Father? We often substitute it. They look like just a normal person. 2 Timothy 2, verse 16. You have to go down to where the foundation is secure. One application is to the non-Christian. Well, that's all. And there's plenty of room for all. Or the other possibilities is you did desire the will of the Father at some point. And then he contrasts it and he says, here's why, because the wide gate is a certain way. And I am sad to say that I would suggest that probably the majority of television preachers and radio preachers It is going to be difficult. Number three, which claim will you make? Be real with yourself about it. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. It's narrow. Verse 13 says, Enter by the narrow gate, for wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leads to destruction. Could you prosper if you go through that gate? God wants all of us as Christians to have ongoing fruit in our lives. How do you know the fruits of a false prophet versus someone who is true? Um the day of the Lord, uh so in verse twenty-two it says this. The bedrock, I think, is Jesus Christ. What was the difference between Saul and David? The question is, are you applying truth, the truth of Jesus to your lives? org. Blessed are you, O Lord, teach me your statutes, which my with my lips I have declared all the judgments of your mouth. Because narrow is the gate and difficult is the way which leads to life. If you look at history, true Christianity, I should say. They look like people to be followed, and yet they are in error. Number one, which path will you take? There is an emphasis in Scripture, in Jesus' life and ministry, on doing the will of the Father. We don't see uh uh much difference at all. What are these contrasts? Two very, very different approaches. Are we a doer of the word or only a hearer of the word? Depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. In him is life, and that more abundantly. It leads, it's where it leads. Matthew 5. In the Old Testament you have many, many um uh warnings about false prophets and there was grave severe consequence And he says, Jesus says to these disciples, beware of false prophets. Uh all is that my phone But Lord, your way is perfect. Few find it. That is a possibility. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. Now and read our call to worship, Psalm 119, 9 through 16. And he says to the disciples in verse 16 of that chapter, Behold, I send you out as sheep There are many wonderful things I mean, they you know that it wasn't as though Saul was sinful and David was perfect. Now, of course, if we continue in sin that grace may abound, God forbid that we would do that. And frankly, what kind of fruit are we bearing? May the Lord richly bless you. Let us pray together. And I pray, Lord, that you would use this in our lives for your glory and What does being a true follower of Christ really look like? It is inclusive of everyone. It's not comfortable. It's continuing in bondage to sin. When David was confronted with his sin, he softened his heart and repented. He said, I have come to do the will of the Father. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. He is the only way. For it is not you who speak, but the Spirit of the Father that gives that speaks to you. A good tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a bad tree bear good fruit. You know, there are many people that are unsaved. The promise of victory is sure. From such withdraw yourself. And the rain descended, and floods came You must apply truth But he never acknowledges that Jesus died for me, for my sin. There is nothing. He says, many will say to me, in the last You can only get through it one way Did you understand it to fit did you think when you came to the gospel and accepted the gospel that life would just be so much better afterwards Jesus in other places in the book of Matthew is going to Is it match what Scripture says? And whether or not it would have, and perhaps even the Mediterranean Sea as well. Lord, we know and recognize and confess that we often do not take heed to your word And Jesus wants to really make some things very, very clear. Verse eleven of that same chapter it says, Then many false prophets will rise up So he's saying that these false prophets are very relatable. Now this is could be surprising to some The fact is, you and I experience all kinds of turbulence in our lives. Number two, which messenger will you listen to? We because of time didn't look at James. And we must learn to fight them. In verse 15 it says, Beware of false prophets who come to you in sheep In verse 4 of 24, it says, And Jesus answered and said to them, Take heed that no one deceives you. There are people that are Christians and struggle with whether or not they are truly Christians I will meditate on your precepts and contemplate your ways. And the reality is in our lives as Christians, because we will continue to sin. And just because someone struggles with whether or not they're a Christian doesn't mean they are a non-Christian. And we are thankful for being able to come together freely and worship. 44, later on in the Sermon on the Mount, we we learned And that rings true throughout the book of Acts. Well, he's first going to uh he's going to show clear differences between true, the true way and the It is all inclusive. Be aware of men, for they will deliver you up to counsels and scourge you in their synagogues And what I told them was, I said, you point to a raspberry, let me look at it closely, let me test it, and then I'll let you have it if it's actually a He says in verse 18, a good tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a bad tree bear good fruit. If you think of uh black not white He's already talked about persecution. But shun profane and idle babblings, for they will increase to more ungodliness. Old things are passed away. In verse 24, we pick up and it says, Therefore, whoever hears these sayings of mine and does them We don't see any building material differences between Counting our blessings, Lord, we lose count It contrasts this in verse 14 with the narrow way. He never applies the truth that he knows. Jesus tells the disciples that the journey that you are on Now this would be very familiar to these disciples who lived in an agrarian farmer society. Now the kinds of fruit He does not produce fruits. Finally, Jesus ends by contrasting foundations and reasons. And in that he was buried in the tomb. In fact, that was primarily what Jesus was dealing with in this context. Possibly. And I pray for comfort for those, Lord, who are having illness. It promises a better life. The gospel does not promise a prosperous, comfortable life. Rejoice and being exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven. But when they deliver you up, do not worry about how or what you should And he says here in this passage If somebody says they're a Christian, then they are a Christian. The other drills through the sound into bedrock. Father, we come to you this morning, thanking you. They're incredibly It's uh tearing down of faith and the He was a carpenter. Help us to concentrate upon your word. They're disappointed because they think that the gospel is promising certain things that the gospel never promises. It is broad. They even deny the faith for a time. And so it was when Jesus had ended these sayings that the people were astonished at his teaching. Jesus wants us to see this as being and wants us to make this very clear to his disciples We have a narrow gate and a wide gate Just because it sounds right. Talking about a false teacher, a false prophet, he is proud, knowing nothing, but is obsessed with dis But I will say again, if you have never The wise man hears the sayings of Jesus, and what does he do? The non-Christian He can know the fact that he has sinned and Jesus died to pay the punishment for his sin. We hope to see you soon. We often use our own intellect and Nothing else. He is the way, the truth, and the life, and no one comes to the Father except through Jesus If you are looking They're relatable. A caution about claims. Which claim are you making? It does not happen by happenstance Okay, great. And so we are grateful and thankful that we can hope A warning about messengers. And the time that it's mentioned there, it actually says in verse 8 Number three, or uh finally, number four, what are you building? In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. In other words, folks, it's not Don't keep living a lie saying that you're a Christian. And a contrast in foundations Some will cause us to be able to justify extreme pleasure. They would have understood living off of the Sea of Galilee, the He hears the sayings, he may even know the sayings. And when those trials come I pray, Lord, that we would not be soon forgetful of them. For no other foundation can any one lay than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ But if you are a Christian We're coming to our last message on That broad gate, as you walk through it, will make you feel better about yourself. Now you might say, well, you know, I've struggled with that. True Christianity, true followers of Christ have always been in the minority. And at distance there be certain fruits that wouldn't be edible. And Father, we are grateful this morning that it's by your great love that we have hope. It leads ultimately to destruction. Could you have feel better about yourself for a while? Now I just want to pause for a minute and really have you think about that question. Even so, every good tree And there are many religions This is something that They promote divisiveness and bitterness Repentance. Now, I did not say that you perfectly do the will of the Father. If you do not, if you never have Because when someone is a true Christian, You can't just stay in the sand. But the Christian who stands strong in the midst of them. I mean he The Y Gate is inclusive. Or accept Christ genuinely. So help us to be one of the Therefore, by their fruits you will know them. The majority go into this path. Unfortunately, so often when we hear the presentation of the gospel. Remember the broad way leads to destruction? They're easy to receive and to accept and They're the ones I value. So uh so the question then is this. And I think that this this passage, if the if there is confusion in the life of an unbeliever, He says it's a narrow way, it is a exclusive entrance The promise of life is true. We see that they're both experiencing the same inclement weather. Who has been applying the truth? The implication is that it is comfortable. We pick up But for all sin. And the fact of the matter is, when you become a Christian, the battle begins. It's defining it and it's clarifying it. Behold, all things are become new. They're both they're both knowledgeable. Do you claim to know the Lord, but have no desire to do his will? Heavenly Father, we come this morning with grateful and thankful hearts. You will falter, you will fall. And may today, for the first time, may they claim the name of Christ. With my whole heart I have sought you, oh let me not wander from your commandments. There's a great passage in James about being a Your way is right, your way is truth. And on the third day he arose from the grave. It is an exclusive way. Here's the next question Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. In Christ's likeness we pray in Jesus' name. I had a friend who ate one one time when I was growing up and it and he said that it felt like there was fire in his mouth. We pray all of these things in Christ's name. This broad way, this comfortable path, this easy road leads to They are going to, they're relatable. You were hiking up my that's actually the only thing my kids liked about the hike. This leads us to another saying of Christ here. And Father, we are thankful for Jesus Christ. I'd like to take a minute to And then he will declare, then I will declare to them, I never knew you. Of course, if they are truly Christians, they will be brought back to, God will bring them back to Himself. They're very believable because you can relate to them. And he he said and he I would highly recommend it. And Father, we ask these things with a grateful and thankful It's confidence and sincerity That was the difference. That is not what I'm talking about at all. Well, is that person willing to repent of sin? And I pray this morning as your word is proclaimed. You are signing up for a battle. And what Jesus does in this text is he's going to give us And there are few who find it. Maybe, you know. That is sin. Let's pray together. I will delight myself in your statutes. It is In Matthew 24, which is a prophetic passage, Jesus says not necessarily. The Y Gate has lots of space. He was dealing with Pharisees. They know something about God. You get up close and you look at those same fruits And that way But every one who hears these sayings of mine Possibly. Read along with me if you will. But let me ask this question. Amen. It is called the Exchange I pray, Lord, that Amen. He does them.