In you, O Lord, I put my trust. Let me never be ashamed. Deliver me in your righteousness. Bow down your ear to me, deliver me speedily, be my rock of refuge, a fortress of defense to save me. For you are my rock and my fortress, therefore, for your name's sake, lead me and guide me. Pull me out of the net which they shut they have secretly laid for me. For you are my strength. Into your hand I commit my spirit. You have redeemed me, O Lord God of truth. I have hated those who regard useless idols, but I trust in the Lord. I will be glad and rejoice in your mercy, for you have considered my trouble. You have known my soul in adversity and have not shut me up into the hand of the enemy. You have set my feet in a wide place. Have mercy on me, O Lord, for I am in trouble. My eye wastes away with grief, yes, my soul and my body. For my life is spent with grief and my years with sighing, my strength fails because of my iniquities, and my bones waste away. I am a reproach among all my enemies, but especially among my neighbors, and I am repulsive to my acquaintances. Those who see me outside flee from me. I am forgotten like a dead man out of mind. I am like a broken vessel, for I hear the slander of many Fear is on every side, while they take counsel together against me. They scheme to take away my life. But as for me, I trust in you, O Lord. I say, You are my God My times are in your hand. Deliver me from the hand of my enemies, and from those who persecute me. Make your face shine upon your servant. Save me from your mercies Do not let me be ashamed, O Lord, for I have called upon you. Let the wicked be ashamed, let them be silent in the grave. Let the lying lips be put to silence, which speak insolent things profoundly or proudly and contemptuously against the righteous. Oh, how great is your goodness which you have laid up for those who fear you, which you have prepared for those who trust in you, in the presence of the sons of men. You shall hide them in the secret place of your presence from the plots of man. You shall keep them secretly in a pavilion. from the strife of tongues. Blessed be the Lord, for he has shown me his marvelous kindness in a strong city. For I said in my haste, I am cut off from before your eyes. Nevertheless, you heard the voice of my supplications when I cried out to you O love the Lord, all you his saints, for the Lord preserves the faithful, and fully repays the proud person. Be of good courage, and he shall strengthen your heart, all you who hope in the Lord. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and praise you today because you are our hope. And we praise you that that you do preserve the faithful, as you say in your word. You are our fortress. And the reason that you are our fortress Is because you are both a wise God and a caring God. And we see that in the book of Exodus. As we look at it today, we will see that your incredible wisdom, as you lay out your plan for your people And the fact that you genuinely care for those who are for those who are um in a position that they're vulnerable, uh you care for them. And you tell us in your word that we ought to care as well. And Lord, as we explore your heart and your ways today, I pray that you would help us to worship you. We confess before you, Father, that often we do not have the same kind of heart you do toward those who are uh who are more vulnerable and sometimes we are contentious and we don't understand your ways and the way that you want us to worship you. Lord, we're impressed with the fact that as we look at the book of Exodus, you go to great lengths to bring about a congregation of people that desire to worship you corporately and you see how important that is. Father, I pray, Lord, that you would be pleased to that you would you would just help us to understand how important it is to worship together corporately as a body of believers this morning. And we praise you in all these things. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Let us pray together. Father, we thank you today. for your wisdom and your care. And we thank you that uh we have you to rely on in these aspects of your your attributes, your perfections. Thank you that we can see Your care in our lives on a regular basis, if we have eyes to see it, it's not hard. We certainly recognize your care through This last year, this last month, and certainly this last week and even today Your hand of goodness is is truly upon us. Even when we go through struggles and even when there are tests and Decisions to be made, your care is still evident. And Lord, we we also recognize your wisdom and thank you for it. And When we look at the pages of Scripture, when we look at your truth and how you interact with your people, we see that you are truly an all-wise God. And we look in our own lives and see how you order our steps and watch after us, provide, guide, and protect. We see your wisdom in it. Well we we also thank you for the blessings that we even see with us t today. We we recognize your your care for us in in multiple ways. And we thank you, Lord, that uh Dave and Nancy could be here with us today. It is a joy to see them back with us. We thank you that uh you are providing and and guiding in in each of our individual and families' lives. We pray that uh in all this that you would uh show yourself strongly. But also Lord we ask for your help because as we see your care and and your wisdom we we recognize that We are often not as caring as you would want us to be. Help us, Lord, to mimic your care. Help us, Lord, to imitate you in that way. We often uh we neglect um areas of care that that we could in fact uh per pursue and we ask Lord that you would teach us about that today and continue to teach that throughout our lives. Lord, I do want to lift before you uh um our missionaries, those that we support through prayer and finances, we we ask that you would uh watch over them today. And And m some are are dealing with uh freedom again, not having to deal with uh the uh the restrictions of a pandemic. Others are well pretty much at a halt. And we ask Lord that that you would provide and work in each of their ministries I pray, Lord, that you would protect them. The enemy would desire to see their work stopped. See their families divided. We ask, Lord, that you would protect them from these things. Ask that you would encourage them Watch over them. Pray that you would give them fruit for their labors and remind them of your presence, Lord. That you would show the care that you have for them in their midst. Pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Reading from today's passage will be in Exodus 21, and I'll read the whole text, verses one through twenty-seven. Now these are the judgments which you shall set before them. If you buy a Hebrew servant, he shall serve six years, and the seventh he shall go out free and pay nothing. If he comes in by himself, he shall go out by himself. If he comes in married, then his wife shall go out with him. If his master has given him a wife, and he she has borne him sons or daughters, the wife and her children shall be her masters, and he shall go out by himself. But if the servant plainly says, I love my master, my wife, and my children I will not go out free. Oh, it says twenty-one in the uh in the bulletin. I apologize, everyone. Alright. Chapter 22. Verses 1 through 27. Small recap. You needed to just get your bearings. Alright. Let's talk about some oxen sheep. Here we go. If a man steals an ox or a sheep and slaughters it or sells it, he shall restore five oxen for an ox and four sheep for a sheep. If the thief thief is found breaking in and he s is struck so that he dies, there shall be no guilt for his bloodshed. If the sun is risen on him, there shall be guilt for his bloodshed. He shall make full restitution. If he has nothing, he shall be sold for his theft. If the theft is certainly found alive in his hand, whether it is an ox or donkey or sheep, he shall restore double. If a man causes a field or vineyard to be grazed and lets loose his animal, and it feeds in another man's field, he shall make restitution from the best of his own field and the best of his own vineyard If fire breaks out and catches in thorns, uh so that stacks grain, standing grain, or the field is consumed, he who kindled the fire shall surely make restitution. If a man delivers to his neighbor money or articles to keep, and it is stolen out of the man's house, if the thief is found, he shall pay double. If the thief is not found, then the master of the house shall be brought to the judges to see whether he has put his hand into his neighbor's goods. For any kind of trespass, whether it concerns an ox or donkey, a sheep or clothing, or for any kind of lost thing which another claims to be his The calls of both parties shall come before the judges, and whomever the judge judges condemn shall pay double to his neighbor. If a man delivers to his neighbor a donkey, an ox, a sheep, or any animal to keep, if it dies, is hurt, or driven away, no one seeing it, then an oath of the Lord shall be between them both. that he uh that he has not put his hand into his neighbor's goods, and the owner of it shall accept that, and shall not make it good. But if in fact it is stolen from him, he shall make restitution to the owner of it. For if it is torn in pieces by a beast, then he shall bring it as evidence, and he shall not make good what it was torn. And if a man borrows anything from his neighbor and it becomes injured or dies, the owner of it not being with it, he shall surely make it good. If its owner was with it, he shall not make it good, and if it was hired, it came for its hire. If a man entices a virgin who is not betrothed and lies with her, he shall surely pay the bride price for her to be his wife. If her father utterly refuses to give her to him, he shall pay money according to the bride price of virgins. You shall not permit a sorceress to live. Whoever lies with an animal shall surely be put to death. He who sacrifices to any God except to the Lord only, he shall be utterly destroyed You shall neither mistreat a stranger nor oppress him, for you were strangers in the land of Egypt. You shall not afflict any widow or fatherless child. If you afflict them in any way, and they cry at all to me, I will surely hear their cry, and my wrath will become hot, and I will kill you with the sword, your wives your shall be widowless, and your children fatherless. If you lend money to any of my people who are poor among you, you shall not be like a moneylender to him. You shall not charge him interest. If you ever take your neighbor's garment as a pledge, you shall return it to him before the sun goes down. For that is only his cup is his only covering. It is his garment for his skin. What will he sleep in? And it will be that when he cries to me, I will hear, for I am gracious. So this is a passage that is again similar to our passage last week. Where God is setting up for the nation of Israel a way for them to be able to exist and thrive and really most importantly to be able to worship Him. uh in the midst of all of it. I will say just at the very outset of this as we go through this that we're not going to hit every single detail. Uh hopefully uh you'll underst have an understanding of the passage. Some of the details are actually f so obvious and straightforward there's really no reason to But hopefully you'll have a good grasp of the passage and understand it. um by the time we're finished. I think what we need to do with this passage is to remember a couple of things. We need to understand and remember that the book of Exodus is here For God's people to be able to know how to worship Him. For example, it says in Exodus chapter 9 Verse 9, Thus says the Lord God of Hebrews, Let my people go that they may serve me. The word serve is to worship. Again in Exodus 9, 13, let my people go that they may serve me. And again in Exodus 10, 3 And you see that over and over and over again in the book of Exodus, God's intention is for this to be a book that God sets up for his people how to worship him. I mentioned last time that this is obviously going to be different for his New Testament church than than for the nation of Israel, because although we are a congregation of people that are called to worship him, we are not a nation this in the same way. So we have to We have to learn the things that we can learn from this, but keep that in mind as well. Now, as you're going through this, You may find, as you if you just read through the book of Exodus in this section, there are many, many verses, chapter after chapter. of details on how, let me put it this way very simply, how the people of Israel are supposed to be able to get along. These are social interactions. Why would you need that in a book on worship? Why would that be important? Well, it is because worship is such a communal corporate thing in the mind of God. See, you and I, we think we are we are in this Western world, we think very individualistic. Think cowboy. That's how we think. Even when it comes to our worship, we think of ourselves primarily as individual worshipers worshiping God. But that is not the Bible. The Bible is very different. God's heart is not that we primarily worship God individually and then on the side corporately. You really can't put a priority on what is more important, individual worship or corporate worship. But if you had to, by the multiplicity of verses in the Bible on this, you probably would have to go with corporate being more important than individual. potentially. Now that changes that that helps us to understand how important this is. I I have to admit to you That during the the pandemic where we were locked down, there was a part of me that kind of liked not having to interact with people I I you know, it there was a kind of part of me that liked just staying in my home. I could, you know, preach to people and after I got used to talking to a screen or talking to a a thing, after that point I'm like, you know, this is kinda nice. And I don't have to like interact with people and they don't have to interact with me and and I mean I I I it's not that I didn't love you all, but there was a side of me that was like, this is pretty comfortable. But that we have to we have to fight that. We have to fight the inclination toward comfort. And when you get into your 40s, I get I think that happens more. I'm forty now and I just you know and my wife is almost forty. And we like to be comfortable. You know, you know, it's funny. Over Christmas time, we were supposed to We were supposed to uh you know get gifts for each other and I I tanked this year. I did really well last Christmas. This year, I I I think I forgot every hint that my wife sent me. Like I ev like on Christmas Day I thought I had gotten plenty, but not compared to what she got me and I don't think I hinted that often. But anyway, so it was definitely disproportionate and I was very I you know, I felt bad about that and She said, D did you remember like I really wanted pajamas? And and uh I said, uh oh yeah, I do remember that now. Men, you with me on this anyway And uh I so we have been looking all over the place for pajamas. I decided Valentine's Day I wasn't gonna tank. Like I wasn't gonna be bad. So Valentine's Day, I went on that pajamagram website. Do like 80 bucks for pajamas? That is insane. Like people would actually pay that much for pajamas? I was like, I cannot believe this. I was like willing to pay, you know, I was willing to go out and pay like 30. You know, but but but I was I was like, what in the world is this? People must really love comfort. And we do, don't we? We love comfort. And we'll pay apparently and that's the low end by the way. Like they had $150, you're sleeping in it for goodness sake. $150 for I was really uh taken back by that. So I was like, that's not happening So so we actually found some pajamas yesterday uh we were at the store for you know a much more reasonable price like twenty bucks. And I was like, buy them, like several pair. Apparently this is like a four for one deal or something, you know, anyway. So all that to say that that we really love comfort. And I think the older we get, the more we like it. At least that's my experience. You know when I'm y when you're young you want to go out and you want to see friends and you want to do all kinds of stuff and you get you get a certain age and you're just like I just want to stay in and be at home But God says that is not his way when it comes to worship. It is not his way for us to stay in and be at home. That's why you have one chapter after another chapter after another chapter throughout the old whole Bible. that that talks about the importance of being together. And there's actually a reason for this. Because God is not individualistic. There is only one God, but there are three persons. And they worship together. They fellowship together. Christ said this in John 17, verse 11: that they may be one as we are. Jesus was talking to his father. There is even within the Godhead not there is a desire to glorify each other within the Godhead. So God is corporate in the way he exists and how he functions, even though there is only one God, and don't try to understand that beyond that. And God wants us to be corporate in the way that we function in it as we worship Him. And that is why, even though not every single one of these laws are going to be Absolutely applicable to us. That is why when we see the heart of God, when we see what God desires, He wants us to be able to function in a way as His people that we are able to worship him collectively together because the Bible says that is a sweet smell to his nostrils. That is something that is of great value to God. And so it's important for us to understand that as we go through this text. I will remind us before we jump into the text that this is more case law from last week. You have the same kind of thing where you have these if statements and then these then statements And so and so not every if is saying is condoning it. It's just saying if this happens, in fact there are violence violations to the Ten Commandments in this passage and it basically says if there's a violation, this is what you need to do to make restitution. In fact, I will say this as well. Somebody mentioned to me last week that there was other case law during this time that was actually similar to this that wasn't in sc wasn't in the Bible and from other nations. And that's true These kind of laws were not exclusive to Israel at this point. You had other nations outside of Israel that had these same kinds of laws, and some of them are just common sense on how to get along But there is one distinctive difference. The distinctive difference is that all of these laws find their basis in a moral code called the Ten Commandments. And while the these case laws, there are other nations that have different ideas, there are different similar kinds of laws, and even our our country has similar kinds of laws When it comes to the moral code that backed these, that's unique. God uh set it up that from his own finger He he in stone put these moral laws that we've already gone over that back all of these other case laws. And so that's I think important for us to understand that there in that way these are different. Remember this, Romans chapter 15, verse 4 says, For whatsoever things were written before time were written for our learning, that we through patience and comfort of the scriptures might have hope. So as we go through these things, we are trying to ask the question, what can we learn? Well, what we see in this passage as we go through it is this, that God desires to protect his people through personal responsibility. And I'm doing a lot of introduction here with a lot of different things to help us acclimate, but this is a passage that really kind of needs this. But I'll just mention this: that in our society, we often have two extreme positions One position is no responsibility and we need to socially protect everybody, or responsibility, and there's really not a lot of concern about social protection. Well, God says actually that the way that you do this is you put there's social protection through personal responsibility. Never anywhere in the Bible do you find the idea that we shouldn't take personal responsibility for our own actions. It's over and over and over again that mankind is responsible. We are responsible. And that's important for us to understand as we get into this. So, how does this all work? Well, number one, we need to take responsibility for personal property. We find that in verses 1 through 15. And in the first four verses, we have laws on restitution. And it's interesting, and I'll just mention this as well as we get into these laws a little bit What we find in these laws are examples for the judges of these different tribes to be able to make right determinations When there is a breaking of the law, when there is a theft, when there is a uh uh harm done or um something done wrongly to each other, these are examples. They're not They're not intended to be absolutely to deal with every situation. And you find that in this passage, one of the things that it that it deals with is this is restitution for an ox versus sheep. And it says that there's supposed to be five, you're supposed to restore fivefold if you steal an ox and fourfoldfold if you steal a sheep. And you say, well, why in the world would there be a difference? What's the difference between an ox and a sheep? Well back then there was. There was more an ox and had more value than a sheep than a than a than a lamb. And the reason it had more value is it actually had the ability to make money. Sheep don't have any ability to make anything. Sheep were dumb. That's why God says we're sheep, not ox. Anyway. And and and so and so oxen though they have this value of this money-making ability, so they're actually v higher value. And so so God says restitution actually needed to be higher for those things that are in h value. And it set it set this this the scenario up for Israel to understand this So so we see that restitution needed to be made. This idea of personal responsibility The other thing that you see in the passage is a use of deadly force. It says that if somebody breaks in your house at night, then you could shoot them. Well not shoot them. Sorry, I just I just brought it today. Didn't have guns back then. You could you could manslaughter them. You could kill them, okay? Alright? But only at night. And it changes it is if uh if there's a theft during the day. In each case they had in the second case, they had to make restitution for their theft. In some cases it actually was going to have to be to give of their own life. If they had no no ability to make restitution for their for their actions and for their theft, then they actually would give themselves over, have to give themselves over as a slave. They didn't have prisons back then God didn't set up a prison system at all. But there was a way to make restitution. There was a way always to take personal responsibility for your actions, and you see that in the text. In verse 4, you have this blanket theft law basically that it says if there's no, if at least you need to restore double whatever you've you've stolen. So any kind of theft at all, there was a uh uh need to to at least restore double and in many cases more than that And in verses 5 through 6, it's actually dealing with the restitution of damages. What happens if you damage something Verse five says, If a man causes a field or vineyard to be grazed and let loose and lets loose his animal, and it feeds in another man's field, he shall make restitution from the best of his own field and bet the best of his own vineyard. If a fire breaks out and caches its thorns, so the stacked grain, stacking grain or field is consumed, he who cons cont kindles the fire shall surely make restitution. And it's and it says that he needs to restore from his best quality. Now, that's different than theft, right? That's different different than intentional theft. That's something happens. It's still important to take personal responsibility. This is something, actually, folks, that we need to be teaching our families, our kids, to take personal responsibility. We should not our temptation is to do what Adam and Eve did, to blame somebody. But God says, no, you're going to take personal responsibility for your actions. I remember um years ago, um I was up in Pennsylvania, we were we had uh we had just Um I just resigned from the church that was on that I was at up there and um we were in the process of selling our house and we had a yard sale and I borrowed one of those canopy things And uh when I borrowed the canopy thing uh from from somebody in the church, I I set it up and we hung all kinds of clothes on it and it broke, like on one side of it. Well I was it it was usable but I still broke. Well, you know, I had a ch you know, I I I had a I I I knew I was gonna replace it. I mean there was no I couldn't fix it to where it was going to be restored to the same condition or better I couldn't do that with that. I I I could do it where it's usable, so I kept it. I bought him the exact same thing and brought it to him and I said hey this is a different one Um but well it it was a different color, but it was that there's no other difference. I said this is the the only color I could find but um and he was like you should have done that you I thought it didn't matter. But it's it I was taught that you you if you borrow something, you're gonna restore it to the same to the same quality that you you got it. There is a personal responsibility. And we ought to be teaching our families this. We ought to be teaching our kids this to take root personal responsibility. for their uh for the things that we do. Whether it's wrongdoing or accidental, we still need to take responsibility for it In verses seventeen, seven through fifteen, you have a long uh passage on settling disputes. What happens if you can't If you can't it's not really deter w you can't determine who's at fault and who's not and how that all is all supposed to work. And these passages give details for the judges to be able to make those decisions based upon uh what is going on. If borrowed goods were clearly stolen Um then you did one thing. If you couldn't tell whether they were stolen or not, then they would go and they would take a oath of innocence. In verses 10 through 13 it says this I'm just going to move through this kind of quickly. You can look at it later a little bit to understand it better. But uh there's an oath of innocence they would take before the judges. They would say, no, this I uh this is what actually happened And ultimately, the judges would have to make decisions, the judges of the different tribes would have to make decisions on all of this. So you have these laws on regarding borrowing that are in the passage as well The word neighbor there is play is you find actually in several other places of the book of Exodus, and it's really talking about a fellow Israelite that's you're bound together by this covenant These things don't necessarily apply to s to foreigners and strangers, which we're going to get to in a moment. Now with all of that in mind, what are the lessons that we need to learn? I think there are two lessons that we can learn. Number one God expects people to take responsibility for their own actions. Lessons to learn. God expects people to take responsibility for their own actions. Number two, God sets forth clear consequences. for sinful behavior. We see this over and over and over again. God sets forth clear consequences for sinful behavior. And number three God desires to deal with disputes so people can worship in peace and in unity. Psalm 133, verse 1 says, This, Behold, how good and how pleasant it is. for brethren to dwell together in unity. God absolutely desires for his people to dwell together in unity. And what you see in this passage is that all of these things that are here demonstrate the heart of God God desires that in the in the in in a in a world where it's fallen and there's accidents, or in a world where there's deliberate sin and there's theft. In all of these kinds of situations, God wants his people to be able to deal with these situations and to continue to be able to stay focused on worshiping him. And that's why you have these in here. We are not, brothers and sisters in Christ, to be pre-occupied with the things of the world. We are to We are to live in this world and function in this world, but our goal is to be able to individually worship God, but just as important, if not more important, to corporately worship God And God wants us to have that in our minds as we go through this life and to live this way. And you see this personal responsibility as well. I'll just say this. A person and I'm going to mention this later, but a person who who is growing up, who doesn't um understand as a child and as a teenager personal responsibility He is very likely not going to come to Christ. You have to understand you're responsible in order to understand sin. You have to understand that you deserve to pay the price for your sin. In order to be able to understand that Christ is the one who made the payment. Parents, if I could say it this way, we're doing our kids a disservice if we don't c if we don't help them to understand that they are responsible for their actions, even accidental. In my family I forgot doesn't mean, okay, well, I'll just look the way ever the other way every single time. Now you may have less of a punishment if you forgot. Kid, you ever say that? I forgot. I know I was guilty as a kid. I'm probably still guilty of that. I forgot. I forgot. And yes, the consequence may be less if you forgot rather if you were than if you were did it deliberately, and the consequence is going to be even worse if you lie about it But understand that there's still personal responsibility that has to be taken. There's still that responsibility that is absolutely necessary. And so we need to understand that, we need to teach that to our children. Well, what else do we need to take responsibility for? Well, even perhaps more important, responsibility for morality and worship. And we pick up here in verse 20, in chapter 22, verses 16 and 17. In verse 16 it says this, if a man entices a virgin who is not betrothed and lies with her, he shall surely pay the bride price for her to be his wife. If her father utterly refuses to give her to him, he shall pay money according to the bride price of virgins So what's going on here? Well in this passage, and there are some other things as well that we'll get to as well, and I'm going to be rather coded about them, but let me just start this way with this one. What God is really doing here is He is, you know, people read this passage. Unsafe people read this passage. Non-Christians will read this passage. And they will think to themselves, see, that demeans women. See see that that actually that's not, you know, they're the bride price. Like what's up with that? How can you put a pri price on on a person And they're not reading this right. No, actually this protects women. This is actually intended to protect them. And to protect also something else, even more e also importantly, is to protect the covenant of marriage. Now here is what this is for. What it's saying is this, that this is a consensual transaction, by the way, here. This is consensual. This is not, you know, this is not uh uh non-consensual Okay, that's going on. Now he entices her apparently, but it's not it's not non-consensual. Now the reason that a man might choose to do this is to try to avoid what's called the buy the bride price, which was a very common thing in that day. And God says, no, you're not going to avoid it by doing this. And in fact, what's interesting, it says it still gives the father that he still has to pay the bride price. Even if the father says, I'm not giving her away to you. You can understand why a father wouldn't wouldn't necessarily want to do that, right? So wasn't saying this passage was not saying, okay, well if you ha if there is if there is this uh this this intercourse if this happens and intercourse was the was the was the um the seal of marriage Okay, that's what it is scripturally. If there is this, it was it it was saying that you have to be very uh that that you don't necessarily have to get married. By the way, that was that was in in the day Back in the day, years ago, that was kind of the the way it was thought of. Well if you did, especially if you have a kid, you should automatically get married. Uh there was sort of a cultural idea about that. And let me just say this is kind of for free, but that is not necessarily the best option. Um uh that's just my opinion and I can explain to that to you if you're curious about why I say that in the future uh you know, but I think that there are many you know you have such a high divorce rate because people are getting married uh under those circumstances. Um there are other options uh in in those situations. Now I'll just leave it there and if you have questions please talk to me. And I'm not dogmatic about it by the way. That's not Direct scripture. But you do see in this passage, the father has the prerogative of not giving his daughter away in a situation like that. But either way, they've got to pay the bride price. Now understand what's going on here. In 1 Corinthians verse 16, it says, Or do you not know that he who joined to a harlot is one body with her? The joining in this situation is it's like they are acting as married, but they're not married. And by the way, folks, is that not what's happening all over our country today? Our nation today, our world today. They're acting as though they're married in physical relations and they're not married. And this is something that God set in place to keep from happening, to preserve the covenant of marriage. Now what you have next in verses 18 through 20 are And I'm going to use fairly complex wording on purpose. So if you don't understand the wording I'm using, it's okay. It's deviant worship These are all three of these items that we're going to talk about and one I'm going to be very coded about is deviant worship. These are these are wrong ways to worship. uh to worship. And the one, the first one, is sorcery. In verse 18 you find this, and it says, a person who is involved in sorcery, it actually says that they get the death penalty. All of these deviant worship uh practices receive capital punishment, which really seems severe, but God there's a reason for that. It's because God was very clear that you must worship me And you cannot worship other things, and there can't be these otherworldly ways of worshiping. And in this situation, I'm not saying this should always be the case, this should be the case in every nation, but for the nation of Israel, he was very clear about this. And he said, number one, sorcery. Now sorcery encompasses the idea of occult practices and spiritism and those kinds of things that are outside the Word of God and God says very carefully, God says that you should not be practicing those things. The next kind of deviant worship there, I'm not even going to be clear on what we're talking about here. It's it's copulation with an animal. And what it's talking here about is that I'll just make this connection that actually what's taking place is it it was ha it happened with these fertility worship practices among the Canaanites. And God said for obvious reasons and many times he says, don't do this, don't have anything to do that to do with this whatsoever Leviticus 18, 23 says it, 2016, Deuteronomy 27, 21. And it was so egregious that they would need to be put to death if they do this. And that is something that was an but the the relationship was not just sexual, it was also religious. And God said this is a deviant uh sinful, gross uh behavior that no no one who names the name of the Lord should be doing. And that the death penalty was a result of that as well, capital punishment. And then finally sacrificing to false gods was also uh received capital punishment as well. And it says, whoever sacrifices to any God other than the Lord must be destroyed. Now we say, well, sacrifices. Well all worship back then uh as far as from I'm reading, all worship back then had something to do with sacrifices, including including you know biblical worship. And they said if you sacrifice to a false God, if somebody does that, they are to be put to death. Now what's interesting is that later on throughout throughout uh the Israel's history Did they follow the capital punishment in these areas? Well, certainly not the first, and certainly not the last one. The first one, you even find, do you remember who got involved in sorcery? Saul, King Saul, you remember that? Toward the end of his life, he go he he reaches out to uh uh to a witch. And you also have sacrifices to false gods that become actually extremely You've got, you know, yeah, Balaam, you've got Jezebel, you've got all these different people that are false that they're they're worshiping false gods. And God says all of in all these situations They are absolutely prohibited by God's people. Now, if you think of what the New Testament says about this, it brings it into focus for us. In Romans chapter 1, verse 25, it says this. Who exchanged the truth of God for a lie and worshiped and served the creature rather than the creator who is blessed forever? And in each one of these situations, that's actually what you're doing. They're worshiping the creature rather than the creator. And I want to make this application. Do we do this today? We absolutely do. We actually have deviant sexual practices as well, don't we? Do you know in our history, in our country, right now what we're dealing with, you know what we're really dealing with mostly? It's the worship of self. That is our biggest problem. You say, well, you know, we're not sacrificing animals and we're not doing these other behaviors and all this kind of stuff. But sorcery's out there. It's masked by all kinds of things that seem to be palatable, but it it's or it's out there. But folks, we are dealing our Make no mistake about it. Our culture in our world today, certainly in our nation as well. has this this idea that goes back to the sexual revolution that s says this and we need to understand this. that your your sexual desires are actually a part of your identity and you can't even change them Folks, it and then so you need to be able to explore all of that because what you're doing when you're doing that is you're creating yourself and defining yourself and you're finding yourself. This is everywhere by the way. We were we were shopping, which is not it it was good. And I have I have a like a threshold of of I have like anyway I can I can handle a little a little while. So we were walking through TJ Maxx yesterday and I I was shocked at one of the things that that one of the f you know, like you know they have these like how you know they're all uh uh my family likes you know, I'm living in a rather gender unbalanced uh family. And and so there They're in the they're doing these family uh they're they're doing these kind of ho household trink things that they you know, like things they post on the on the on on the walls and put different places and all that. And they have different sayings and one of the sayings was, uh, I don't need to find myself, I need to create myself. I read that and went, man, the philosophy is getting into these household housing thing things that you put up on your walls It's everywhere. And don't make no mistake about it, that's what we're dealing with here. We are dealing with a worship of self And we've got to be really, really aware of this, and we've got to train our children, our families, our church differently. What are the lessons we can learn? Number one, when God went to great lengths to protect the covenant of marriage, this is the highest and greatest cut human covenant. In the Bible, the covenant of marriage. God went to great lengths to protect the covenant of marriage. Number two, God did not tolerate worldly practices of any kind. Their worship was to be holy. And folks, we need to remember that in our our culture. Our worship needs to be holy. It needs to be separate. It needs to be distinct. Well, how do we know how to worship? Look at the Bible. How did the first century church worship? How are we s what what are the examples of worship that we find in the Bible that are true, pure kinds of worship? God Christ said you we are to worship him in spirit and in truth. And it says it over and over and over again in the New Testament. And we've got to be very careful that we don't allow worldly practices into our worship that would be deviant worship. I'll give you an example. I might get in trouble with this. I was one church, I won't say the church, but there was one church that I went to years ago And they were doing, and they did interpretive dancing that gave me the willies. I mean, it was weird There's this girl up there, she wasn't immodest, but the way that she moved was not appropriate. And it was supposed to be a worship experience. And it was in a church that if I told you You would be like, what? I mean, the doctrine of that church probably would not be that different from the doctrine of our church. And yet this was happening. I watched it happen. I was like, what is going on? We need we need to be really careful about that kind of thing that we don't have deviant worship in our in our church. I think that's a that's a perfectly applicable thing to understand. We are to be distinct from the world even now. The Bible says we are a peculiar people. We are a holy nation, Scripture says in 1 Peter as a church. And the Bible actually says in somewhere elsewhere in 1 Corinthians chapter 6 that what what fellowship has light with darkness? So we're not going to take the darkness of the world and use it for our worship practices in the church. And it's something that we have to be very careful about. Well, we're finally supposed to be responsible for the treatment of the vulnerable. The treatment of the vulnerable. And we find this in Exodus 22, verses 21 through 27. And it says in this passage, you shall neither mistreat a stranger nor oppress him, for you were strangers in the land of Egypt. You shall not afflict any w widow or fatherless child. If you afflict them in any way, and they cry at all to me, I will surely hear their cry, and my wrath will become hot and I will kill you with the sword, your wives shall be widows, and your children fatherless. So he now introduces the concept of the f sojourner or the stranger, the person who is not going to be a Jewish person, a citizen. And I want you to notice something about this. It isn't as though God says you need to reject them He actually says you need to treat them in the right way. Don't mistreat someone who is a foreigner. Don't mistreat someone or oppress them just because they are not an Israel. They're not an Israelite. And he actually says, because you know what it's like to be a stranger in a foreign land. It happened to you for 430 years. They were the foreigners in Egypt. And he's sort of saying, realize what that's like, and don't treat people the way that you were treated. Hopefully this would have resonated with Israel as they heard these words and understood the importance of this. But for us to understand this, that you know God's intention was never to isolate Israel from everybody else He wanted them to be holy and distinct. He wanted them to be insulated from the problems of a fallen world and know how to deal with those problems, but not isolated from everybody. And so he actually makes laws that help them to understand how they are to interact with foreigners, with sojourners, and with strangers. That's, by the way, something that non-Christians need to understand. A lot of non-Christians think that the God of the Old Testament is one who put Israel on a pedestal in such a way that everybody else was was uh you know was like they God didn't care about them. But that is actually not what you find in Scripture. Israel was to be a city on a hill Why? So that others could come and be a part of it, to be a light to the nations. And so God sets these up, understanding that The human heart wants to exclude people. The human heart wants to lift up people, lift up self and denigrate others. And by the way, we see that all over the place in our world The best way to make yourself feel like you're a higher status is to put somebody else down. And God said, don't do that. Don't oppress them. Don't be, don't, uh, don't mistreat them And then he moves to people, the widow, widows, and the fatherless. He says, don't mistreat widows and fatherless as well. These are people that would not have had, they would have been at a disadvantage in their society The widow would was not, you know, the way that it was worked, and this is not right or wrong, it's just the way it was, is that the fat the the man of the household was the one that owned land They were the ones that had the legal representation for the family. And if you were a widow, you didn't have the same kind of re representation. God makes this provision for them. And the same kind of thing for an orphan. He says uh he says that one who doesn't have a father, doesn't have a family anymore He he wants them to treat them well, to to to and don't don't use them in a way that is wrong. Don't treat them in a way that's inappropriate. And he says, don't take advantage of them. The real thing he wants to make sure that they understand is you are not to take advantage of these people It's very easy in a culture where there is the potential for profit, and there certainly was, is that you sort of take advantage of people And God did not want the nation of Israel to have that mind of mentality, either toward foreigners or for orphans and poor people and the like. In fact, in verse 25 it says this, if you lend money to any of my people who are poor among you, you shall not be like a moneylender to him. You shall not charge him interest If you ever take a neighbor's garment as a pledge, you shall return it before the sun goes down For that is his only covering. It is his garment for his skin. He actually said, you cannot hold a debt as a collateral, something that they really need was actually the point. You've got to give it by the time they need it, you've got to give it back. So he he prohibited among the people, he prohibited any kind of taking advantage of them. And we need to have the same kind of heart as well. And he said there was not they were not actually among Israel, they were not allowed to charge interest at all. There was to be no usury whatsoever. Um and that is not necessarily the exactly the way that you should we we should all do this, but the point, the overall principle that we can glean from this is that we are not to be the kind of people that win at the expense of somebody else losing. We should not have that desire, we should not have that heart, really toward the outside, and certainly not toward the other people of God. We shouldn't think in that way. And we have, and so lessons to learn here. Number one, God insulates his people to keep them holy But he doesn't isolate him his people from the outside world. He insulates, but he doesn't isolate. I was up in the attic yesterday, up here, climbing up through here. I had my GoPro so I took all kinds of video because we're trying to do some stuff up there. Um do some stuff. What does that mean? We're running wires up there. Um don't worry, we're not gonna like a Second service up there or anything. Believe believe me. Anyway. And so I'm climbing I'm I'm climbing through the attic yesterday looking at things and what do you have up there? Well not enough insulation. I'll let you know. Uh this side has plenty, this side does not have enough. What does insulation do? Well it doesn't it it insulates you it keeps you from feeling the effects of the cold weather or the warm weather or whatever it is. It keeps you from feeling those effects And God set these up so that they would not feel all of the effects of living in a fallen world and know how to deal with them and manage the effects of living in a fallen world. But he didn't isolate them from living in a fallen world. Number two, God punishes those who mistreat and oppress the vulnerable. He punished them. He said, I will go after you. Here's what he says. He says, my he said, I'll go after you with a sword. The implication is he was going to let other people, other nations, other enemies take advantage of them. He was going to let them go to war, and they would lose if they oppressed these people. Major serious consequences. And here's why he says this, he says, because I'm a gracious God. I am a compassionate God. The God of the Old Testament is not a mean God. And and Understand this, non-Christian needs to under Christians need to understand this. You read the Old Testament as long as you understand that He's not trying to isolate people from the world, that He's trying to help them manage the uh management in the world. And there are certain things you still aren't going to completely understand, but much of it you see the heart of God and his he and the heart of God is protection. The heart of God is is fair play, is justice is is n that's God's heart. And it is our heart. It ought to be our heart as well. Number three, God's people should not profit from someone else's harm. Look, let me just encourage you to have that in your mind as you do it, as you do business, as you're interacting with people You should not profit at the ex at the harm of another. What you ought to be looking for, what we ought to be looking for as God's people is a win-win situation. If I'm going to have to do a business transaction and the other person is actually going to lose, like it's going to be harmful to him, I should not be a part of that That is the way the people of God should be. And we see that kind of thing in this passage. The Bible says in James 1, verse 27: Pure and undefiled religion before God and the Father is this. To visit orphans and widows in their trouble and to keep oneself unspotted from the world. So we see that God's heart carries over, of course it does, he's unchanging, carries over into the New Testament. And God says that if you really want to please him, that we ought to be visiting, that means caring for the fatherless and the widows and their affliction. Those kinds of things we should continue as people of God. As we wrap all of these things up, I want to just conclude with three principles. Number one, a person who thinks he is not responsible depend on Christ for salvation A person who thinks he's not responsible will not depend upon Christ for salvation. One of the things that a parent ought to look for Or as you're interacting with other people in society, or you're witnessing to other people, a person that says, I'm not responsible for anything. is not a person that is going to come to Christ. Why? Because you've got to understand that you are responsible. I in in looking at the development of my own kids, I'm I'm measuring, do they realize that they are responsible for their own actions And that certainly does not mean that they will come to Christ, but it's a step in the right direction. Why? Because we are, God has set it up that way that we must pay the payment for our own sin unless there's a substitute. And aren't you glad, brothers and sisters of Christ, that there is a substitute? Christ is the substitute. And that guilt is necessary for us to understand that Christ is the substitute and then we get to place our dependency on Christ. Number two, deviant worship. Deviant spiritual, physical, and religious behavior will draw us away from the Lord. Be careful of that. Be careful of things that are against Scripture, that are going against him. And then number three, Christ-likeness cares for the poor and vulnerable and refuses to take advantage of them. Christ's likeness cares for the poor and vulnerable and refuses to take advantage of them. Folks, that should be our heart Our heart should should be to do what James said to visit the fatherless and the widow in our affliction. You say, well that's not politically, that's not what I believe politically. This has nothing to do with politics This has to do with the heart of God and what God wants us to do. And if my if my political persuasion, if it doesn't match this, then I gotta change it. I'm not saying it does, by the way. I'm just saying that if my mentality politically doesn't isn't isn't right with Scripture, then I've got to change my mentality But how we do all this, that's a different matter. I'm not getting all of that. But the point is our heart ought to be to reach out to, provide for, to minister to those who are poor and vulnerable and to protect them and to never take advantage of them. These are principles that we see clearly are in the heart of God and clearly that we can that we can have in our lives as well. And let me just finally say this. All of this personal responsibility, you see all of this passage, is clear. It's so clear. You are responsible for your sin. And so am I. And if you're listening today and you're aware of this today and you understand that, that the wages of sin, the Bible says, ultimately is death. That we are separated from God for all of eternity as we deserve to be separated from God for all of eternity. But Jesus Christ died in our place so that we could accept what He did for us. That he offers it to all, that we could accept what he did for us, so that we could have our sins forgiven, not overlooked God doesn't overlook sin, but he does forgive sin. And he forgave our sin. Why? Because Christ died for us. And that while we were sinners, Christ died for us, he rose from the grave three days later victorious over sin and death. And we ought to be thankful for that. And if you don't know for sure that you are a child of God, let me s let me just encourage you to come and come and talk to me, contact me. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you have your sins forgiven according to what Christ did for you. Let's let's pray together. Father, we come to you today and we thank you for who you are. We praise you because you are a great God And we praise you that you are wise and you are caring and we see your wisdom and your care in this passage. And I pray, Lord That you would help us to have the same heart that you do, and to just recognize and be able to worship you because of your heart Lord, there are certain things in this passage we don't understand. We think maybe our minds are too severe, or you know, the capital punishment things. Lord, we we we don't pretend to know your mind on everything. We accept what you say to be true. And we know some of these things are specific to Israel, the nation of Israel, the actual nation of Israel. But Father, I pray, Lord, that you would help us to just see how wise and how caring you are and to live with the same kind of heart that you have toward others. And may we, because we are doing that, may we be able to worship you, not just individually, but corporately in the body of Christ as well. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. All right, let's sing together. We're going to be singing, I believe, 268, The King of Love, My Shepherd is. And I think this will really go, uh Enrique and I were talking about this, I think this will really go well in summarizing uh all of what we talked about Uh in the message. Two sixty-eight, the king of love and shepherd is let's all stand together. The king of love my shepherd is whose wood never I not is In fact, if I am his and he is my forever where she's got. My mind sounds going to pass his road. And those are all as far as the And from his shoulders, and all great joys. Let me thy daughter sight, my daughter's still, thy cause be more through God with me. Yeah, I don't know. Dave and Nancy, it is really good to have you back. We have very, very much missed you and uh I'm very thankful that uh you are able to you've recovered enough to be able to to be with us again and Um I I you know I told you you need to fill a visitor card, you know, 'cause it's been so long, but but I I s so so So Pat I'm gonna tell on Pat. So Pat came with me and said, Who's who's closing in prayer? And I said, uh I'm looking around and I didn't want to choose Dave when this is his first time back and and uh he said, How about how about how about my father in law? I'm like Okay, it's your idea. So you can thank Pat for uh for uh his volunteering you to close in prayer. And uh Come back tonight. We're going to be in Daniel chapter 8. Kevin is going to be preaching tonight, and there's some really good truth in there, a lot, and we'll have some prayer time as well together. So come back tonight And um I think we have a music uh rehearsal thing for a couple of us, just a reminder a reminder about that. I thought that might be helpful. We're not used to that for those of you who are involved in that. And it's not everybody, by the way. Let me just say this right up front. Please don't come up here if you haven't gotten a text because we have to be socially distant and this is just the way life is right now. So like there's specific people that are in families like my I can sit I can stand next to Caitlin and sing. And anyway, that's why you have these extreme selection of people. We're not trying to um you know be like that. Uh but we don't know how it's either that or nothing uh for Easter. And so anyway, I don't know if I need to get al explanation But in case anybody was wondering, that's why you have selected people with certain groups with family members and that way we can all have the expand this whole stage and like Ed and Jan are gonna sit on Joy's lap, I think, since they're the and presentation of it. Help us be mindful of our responsibilities directly and indirectly. Thank you again for this church, for your church. Help us Just keep mindful of it for we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Bethel Baptist Church is a family made up of people from very different backgrounds and from every age group. But we all have one thing in common. We have found a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. When a person discovers how to have a genuine relationship with God, they are given a sense of purpose and meaning in life. When that same person belongs to a loving community where God's word is taught, they will grow in their relationship with the Lord, and their life grows in purpose and meaning. Our focus is on making and building disciples for God's glory. We accomplish this through corporate worship on Sunday mornings. Through adult Bible studies where we learn God's Word and how to effectively apply it to our lives, and through our discipleship home groups that meet in various locations throughout the region. Additionally, there are one-on-one and couple-to-couple counseling and discipleship opportunities. We genuinely desire to help you grow spiritually any way you possibly can. Our children's ministries are extremely important to us. We have a lot of young families with children, and we believe in the importance of teaching truth to the next generation. Teachers and nursery workers will be available to introduce themselves and assist you in signing your children in and out of their classrooms. Bethel Baptist Church is a growing, loving family community. We hope that we've been able to show you a small glimpse of what Bethel is like. But we'd love to meet you personally. Join us for a worship service, a small group for Bible study. Let us be a blessing to you and your family.