Let's pray together. Father, we are grateful today and thankful that you are our God and that we are your people. We thank you for the fact that As was mentioned by Pastor Jim, that that you are a jealous God. You are jealous of your people. That you, in fact, call us your own. That we belong to you. And that we have promises in your word that state the fact that those that are given to your Son, he keeps. And he loses none of his sheep. We're grateful, Father, that on top of that, you also protect us You watch over us and you guide our steps. You keep us from harm. You deliver us from places of danger We thank you that we have you to rely on, and that you have this type of disposition towards us. Lord, as we we see the things that you are doing in this world and in our midst, we we pray and come to you for help. Uh we we pray for the results of uh from Harry's tests that he had this last week. We pray that those would be favorable. We ask that you'd work in in his life. We also thank Lord of the events of this past week in our country It's just further evidence, Lord, of of of what happens to a society as it becomes more and more godless. We ask, Lord, that you would intervene. We know it's within your capabilities and within your power. And so if it is in your will, Lord, we pray that you would rise up, would raise up people who love you to offices in our government. Or perhaps that you would move in the hearts of some of that are already there to recognize their need of a Savior and turn to you in repentance and ask for forgiveness. And seek to call Christ their Savior, that make Him their own. We pray, Lord, that you would help us as we interact with others and perceive all of the things that are going on in We pray that you'd give us wisdom as we talk with others. Pray that you'd help us as we consider our own thoughts and and how we are viewing things. We continue to look at the surrounding events with the lens of the scriptures, not the lens of emotions, not the lens of lens of even our own fallible reasoning, but that we would focus on your truth and view the world that way. And Lord, as there are still many cases of of COVID-19, we we we also ask for protection. For our people, that you would keep us healthy and keep us away from this virus. And also, Lord, our neighboring churches, our fellow churches that are around here that you would keep them safe as well and from uh away from harm from this virus. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Reading today from today's text, which is Exodus twenty, verses one through seven. And God spoke all these words, saying, I am the Lord your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. You shall have no other gods before me. You shall not make for yourself a carved image, any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the the water under the earth. You shall not bow down to them nor serve them, for I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God Visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children to the third and fourth generations of those who hate me, but showing mercy to thousands, to those who love me, and keep my commandments. You shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain, for the Lord will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain. So we have come to in our study in Exodus, we've come to uh very likely the most familiar passage of scripture in all of the Bible. Perhaps Psalm 23 is is more. This is it. The Ten Commandments are extremely well known. In fact, they are so well known That if we're not careful, we will look at these and go, oh yeah, the Ten Commandments, I know what they are, and just kind of move on But what we really, really need to do is to look at the Ten Commandments as we go through this passage, and we're only going to go through the first three commandments today, with a first-time mentality. As though this is the first time we're reading these. And the first time that we're really looking at these. Because so many people really, really could not tell you. The primary purpose of the Ten Commandments. Some people sort of see it as a set of moral laws that God set up, and it is, but it's not primarily that actually. And then there are others that would say, well, this is sort of a obsolete rules, obsolete Old Testament rules that really don't apply to today. I mean then you have controversies even in our nation's history of whether or not they should be in schools or taken down and uh uh should they be in public places or not, and all of that kind of thing. But Very rarely do you ever hear it really stated what exactly these are, what was the primary intention of God as He laid these out for His people Let me ask this question as we begin into this. How would you describe your relationship with God? If somebody were to come to you and say, can you describe for me your relationship with God, what would you say? And I would suspect that many of us might have sort of trouble describing what that is. Maybe you would say, well He ob I obey and he blesses and I don't obey and he punishes or maybe you'd say I you know it's it's It's kind of hard to know what exactly to say to a a question like that. What is your relationship with God like? He loves me and I love him. But ultimately, what is this relationship all about? If I asked you, let's do it an easier one, if I asked you what's your relationship with your mom like? Everybody's got a mom, either they're maybe you know in some cases they're passed away, my mom's passed away, but everybody had a mom. What was your relationship like with With mom with your mom like, or what is your relationship with your mom like? Well, that's easy. I'm close, she's close, very nurturing, or uh adversarial, or whatever. You can kind of explain that, but when you think of your relationship with God, like there's no comparison. Our relationship with God is actually entirely unique. There isn't anything else like it, because God is entirely unique. And actually, what this passage is here for, primarily, is to describe the essentials of what our relationship with God What is his relationship with his people? What does it have to include? That is absolutely foundational. Extremely important. And what you're going to find in these is that it teaches you about who God is and how we are to relate to Him. This is foundationally important. Let me illustrate it this way. Suppose you have a profile on social media that is absolutely nothing about what you really like. Like you have you say on your social media prop uh profile that you're you have blonde hair when you have brown hair, and you're thin when you're really not so thin. And you're and you're you're uh you ha you have lots of money when you really are on a very limited budget. And you get into a relationship with somebody, it's ro and it becomes a romantic real relationship with somebody. And you're in this romantic relationship with somebody and and and they have these ideas that you're this blonde-headed person that's thin and has lots of money. And then there's this time where they say on the other side, hey, um can we meet up and see each other face to face? And you go, oh no. So you dye your hair blonde, you go on a quick weight loss b diet, and you cash in your 401k so you can act like you have a lot of money. And you go and you meet this person. And what's going to happen? Well, you might be able to keep that up for a while But eventually the money from the 401k is going to run out. Eventually it's going to be obvious that you bleach your hair. And eventually you're not going to be able to keep that figure. Well, maybe you will, but Depends. But it's all going to break down eventually. See, any relationship has got to, its foundation has got to be truth Truth about who the person is. The relationship has to be built on the truth of each individual. And what God wants to do as He starts out in this covenant relationship with His people. He's delivered them from Egypt, as you'll recall, from weeks and weeks ago. And now he is set up and he's in their presence and he's set up this relationship with them and he wants to lay the essential foundation for this relationship. This is so important. You see, in the New Testament, you have different kinds of analogies to describe the relationship with God. You have the master slave analogy, for example. Or you've got uh the friend analogy, there's the father's child analogy. You have different analogies in the New Testament that that describe a person's relationship with the Lord that is that has been born again, that knows Christ But it's all foundational to this. It all is based upon this foundation, and that's why this is so important. It is essential. Now I'm going to say at the very outset of this that it's so essential that we're going to actually take our time introducing the context of this and the purposes of this. So this is going to be an extended introduction. I'm telling you this Because it's going to be a little while before I get to my actual first point and I don't want you to go, oh no. He's been here for 15 minutes and now he's on his first point. How long is this thing going to be? The the the three points I'm going to go through are going to be fair like we're going to move f fairly quickly in them, Lord willing. hopefully to get you in time for the Ravens game at one o'clock. I know. Anyway, I wore a purple tie today, see. Anyway. Um So all that to say, that was total foolishness. Let's go get back to the passage. So what is going on here in this passage? Why is it here? Well, first we need to notice the setting. When did this occur? If would you look back at Exodus 19 for a moment and look at verse 17? There's actually some debate as to when these this first was was given, these ten commandments are given. I'm just going to give you what I believe the setting is likely And in verse 17 it'll pick up and it says, And Moses brought the people out of the camp to meet with God, and they stood at the foot of the mountain. Now Mount Sinai was completely in smoke, because the Lord descended upon it in fire. Its smoke ascended like the smoke of the furnace, and the whole mountain quaked greatly And when the blast of the trumpet sounded long and became louder and louder, Moses spoke, and God answered him by voice. Then the Lord came down upon Mount Sinai on the top of the mountain, and the Lord called Moses to the top of the mountain, and the mountain went up. Okay, if you look at the passage Verse 19 is likely where this happened. So if you get to chapter 20, it's gonna it's a further explanation of what happened between verses 19 and 20. Likely. Moses spoke and God answered him by voice, and then you have the Ten Commandments. At least that's uh there are a couple other possibilities, but that's likely the possibility. And here's the main point I want to make here. It is in the presence of God that this occurs. And it's in anticipation of the presence of God. What is God doing here? Well, God is setting things up so that he can be with his people. He can be in the midst of his people. He can be present with his people. If you remember the picture that we talked about before of the Shekinah glory of God in the tabernacle and later on in the temple and all of the 12 tribes of Israel that surround the tabernacle. And the center, the presence of God is there, and all of these defilement rituals and all of these things that have to occur, the sacrifice and everything, is really to preserve the presence of God and the worship of God among his people. Now, with that in mind, I want to give us three purposes, three purposes to the Ten Commandments. And for I don't even like alliteration, but I'm using it. And I'm using it because sometimes it is helpful. These all begin with the letter R. I want you to remember them. That's really why. Remember also starts with a layer bar. So the first one is this, reflection. And here's what I mean by that. If you go back to Genesis chapter 1, just go back to when God created man. God created man in what? In his image. In other words, God created mankind to reflect his character. Very, very foundational. The reason that you and I are created, we're created different from the animals, we're created different from the rest of creation. They declare the glory of God, but they can't reflect the glory of God in that they can they cannot emulate the character of God In other words, they can't be holy as he is holy, and loving as he is loving, and kind as he is kind, and merciful as he is merciful, and just as he is just. They can't be those things. Animals can't, the creation can't, but we can. We are made in the image of God to reflect His glory. And of course, you know what happened. Well, we messed it up with sin. Okay, and now you have a distorted image. It's like a cracked mirror that doesn't work right anymore. You have a distorted image of God because we're images of God and we are still made in the image of God. That hasn't changed, but it's distorted because of sin. And what God desires for his people to do is to again come into a covenant relationship with him where now he is, we are reflecting again His glory, his character. So that's very important for us to understand. And so it actually is going to show us, this passage is going to show us the character of God. We're going to see the character of God, the virtue of God, the perfections of God, the attributes of God by these commandments. And then we're going to understand how to get into a relationship with God in such a way that we can then reflect Him. And that brings me to the second the second one. Number two, and this is really the main one, the Ten Commandments show how show us how to enter into a relationship with God. Now, uh let me let me preface that. How we maintain a relationship with God, what it is. Now, in other words, we come to God by faith, by his grace. That was even the case in the Old Testament. Okay, Abraham what? Believed God and it was counted to him for righteousness. So he came to faith the same way we do Through the provision that Christ would make in the future, and we look back at. So it's it's by faith that we come to Christ. But it's it's by faith that we enter into a relationship with Him, but What is the nature of the relationship? Like what is it that we're is it just fire insurance? Is it just um I'm saved and I can do what I want. I mean, what is the nature of this relationship? And Exodus chapter 20 is going to really help us with the essence of the nature of this relationship. What is it that we are entering into? And notice this, look at the text, chapter 20, verse 1. It says, And God spoke all these words, saying, and look at verse 2. How do we know the purpose of the text? Well, the text tells us the purpose. Verse 2: I am the Lord. So he's going to declare who he is. And what else? Your God. I am the Lord, your God. I'm giving you this these Ten Commandments. Why? Because I am the Lord, and you know who I am. And I am your God. I'm entering into a relationship with you. Now you say, well, that was an Old Testament covenant. That was an Israel, you know, a covenant with Israel. That doesn't apply to us. And it is true, and we're going to get into this more probably next week, but it is true that it doesn't directly apply to us, except this. Would you take your Bibles for a minute and turn to Exodus 19, just a chapter back And look at verse 5. Now this is all in the context now where we're really trying to understand what this is saying. Verse 5 says, Now therefore, if you will indeed obey my voice and keep my commandment, uh my covenant, keep my covenant Then you shall be a special treasure to me above all people. For all the earth is mine, and you shall be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. These are the words which you shall speak to the children of Israel. You see, that's Israel. He says, if you'll enter enter a covenant, you'll be my special treasure. You'll be my people. Is that true of us? It absolutely is. In 1 Peter 2, verse 9, it says, You are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, his own special people. That you may proclaim the praises of Him who called you out of darkness into His marvelous light. So there may be some things, or actually only one thing, that one command that doesn't apply to us. We'll get into that later. And it may apply in principle, you'll have to come next week for that. That's commandment number four. But all of these commandments have actually been reiterated in the New Testament, except for one. And so these do apply to us, and we are God's covenant people now. Does that mean that we are Israel? No, we're not a nation. We don't have land. There are things that are very different. But there are similarities as well. And one of the similarities is that we do enter into covenant with God. So what is that covenant include? And that's what's gonna happen that's what this passage is gonna help us with. Then it is very then something else about this passage that we need to understand, along with this whole relationship idea is to understand that you basically have this is broken up into two parts, this, this, uh, the Ten Commandments. You've got the first four commandments that have to do with your vertical relationship. Right? Your relationship with God. Name of the Lord my God God in vain. Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Those are the first four You have the six, the net the next six are relationship-oriented too, but they're they're their relationship with with other people. It's corporate relationship. It's the horizontal relationship. And that corresponds with the two commandments that Jesus said fulfill these commandments. Do you remember what they are? You love God, and then what? You love your neighbor as yourself. And he says that's what fulfills these commandments. In fact, if you look at Exodus, it'll actually say that. Look down in there a little bit and you'll find that it says Verse 5, you shall not now not bow down for them nor serve them, for I am the Lord your God. I am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of them on the fathers that Oh, verse 6. But showing mercy to thousands to those who love me and keep my commandments. So it's it's actually says in the text that this is how we love God. How do you love God? You keep these four commandments. Commandments in the way that God intends for us today. How do you love people? You keep these other six commandments in the way that God intends for us today So with that in mind, let's move then to it's also intended to be a response. It's a reflect, it gives us the ability to be a true reflection of the image of God It allows us to be in a relation it in fact it tells us what the relationship with God is, and then it also Is how we respond to God. Look at what it says scripturally here. Verse 2: I am the Lord your God, who did what? Who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. In other words, this is, God is saying, Israel, I delivered you already. Now, here is how you respond to that deliverance. So, reflection, relationship, and response. All of those are key to understanding. what this is all about. So so then we need to understand this. When we think about when we think about relationship reflection and being a reflection and responding, do you know what you would you there's one word you could actually summarize all of that. It's the word worship. Worship is reflecting the character of God. Worship is being in a relationship with God And worship is responding to who God is and what He has done. That's worship What is our if if you had to use one word to describe our relationship with God, maybe a good word would be worship. And so God wants us to understand the essentials of our relationship with Him What do these essentials include? They're going to include three things starting off here as we go through the Ten Commandments. They're going to start off with an exclusive relationship. A undistorted relationship and a devoted relationship. Exclusive relationship, a undistorted relationship, and a devoted relationship. So let's then move to an exclusive relationship. And you'll notice what it says in verse 3 You shall have no other gods before me. You shall have no other gods before me. And we're going to take our time and really understand what these mean And I want to begin by pointing out what they don't mean. Here is what this is not saying. It is not saying, it is not implying that there are other true gods. It's not saying that. It's also not saying that you need to make me first, like before everybody else, but there are other gods you can worship. It's not saying that either. We'll learn what it says before, what the word before means there. But it actually isn't also teaching that there is only one God. And you say, oh, that's surprising. Now the Bible teaches that, don't get me wrong, in Isaiah 40, verses 18 through 20, and 44, 9 through 22, and many other places of the Bible, we find that there is only one God. But that actually isn't what this is teaching. God realizes that the people, that his people, and actually all people, are prone to idolatry, and there are many options for them. And he says, you shall worship no other gods before me. Now, what does he mean by before? What is it saying? Number one, no false God must be worshipped in his presence. When it says you shall worship no other God before me, it's saying, in my presence no one else is to be worshipped. Well, where is God? God's everywhere. And particularly, God is going to be in the midst of them in His presence. His presence is to reside. And He says, You can't worship other gods while I'm in your presence. Do not do that. This is to be an exclusive relationship. In Exodus chapter 34, verse 14, it says For you shall worship no other God. For the Lord whose name is jealous is a jealous God. And that really actually brings me to this point. What does it mean that God is a jealous God? You see, in the passage, actually, you have this idea, verse 5, it says, For I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God. And that concept of God being a jealous God really applies to all three of the first three of the Ten Commandments. But certainly the first two it's applying to. These reflect, these first two commandments reflect that God is a jealous God. And so it's very important for us to understand what that means. What does it mean When it says that God is a jealous God. And a lot of people are confused by this because they don't really understand the biblical term jealousy. What does the word jealousy mean? Well we when we use the word jealousy We usually think of uh you know you you see somebody that has a nice car and you're jealous of their car. Or you see somebody that has nice clothes and you're jealous of their clothes, or you see somebody that has a nice, they look nice and you're jealous of how they look or something You're looking at somebody else and you're seeing what they have and you're jealous. That's not this term at all. The Old Testament would use the term envy for that. That's envy. Okay. So envy is when you look at something that somebody else has and you are sort of upset that they have it and you want it for yourself, you're envious of them God is never envious, because he owns it all. But God is jealous of his people. The word has to do with zealous for personal property. It's used that way. Zealous for personal property. Now I'll illustrate it this way. We now decided that we were going to take our stimulus money that we got and stimulate the economy. Apparently. Um we didn't put well we saved some of it. We actually saved a lot of it. But but my we we just we are proud owners of of re of of two recliners in our house. New new recliners. Now my wife is very particular about these requires. They they are I shouldn't I didn't get her permission for this, but we're one flesh, so it's okay. So uh hopefully we you know We don't have problems later. But so she's very particular about these recliners. Now they're nice recliners. They're they're they're they we've got a really good deal on them. Um And and uh and so you know I can count on one hand the amount of new furniture we've bought in our marriage. We've bought very very few new pieces new pieces of furniture, you know, it's usually Craigslist or something like that. And uh this is these were these were brand new. Like I said, we really wanted to do our part to stimulate the economy. Anyway, I'm totally joking about that. Anyway And so uh and so my wife said she has all these rules about how you sit on these recliners. These are our special recliners. My kids are not allowed to sit on the recliners without permission. Unless they're if they're reading a book, then they can. I'm not sure about that. But anyway. And they can't push and recline hard because we want these things to last. This is This is the recliner. So that is what it's talking about. Now not recliners, but we own them and we are protective. of these recliners. We are we are the we could say it this way, we're jealous of the recliners. We own them. That's this word. This word, you know, in a much shallower way. This is the idea that we are God's possession or his people, Israel, later on us. His people are his possession. And he's going to protect them. In fact, the very reason it's stated in Scripture that he delivered them from Egypt was because he's a jealous God. They're his possession. He's going to take them back. You find in Psalm 79, for example, it says, How long, Lord, will you be angry forever? Will you Will your jealousy burn like f fire? Pour out your wrath on the nations that do not know you, and on the kingdoms that do not call on your name, for they have devoured Jacob and laid waste to his dwelling place God protects his people because he is a jealous God. He is jealous of this relationship. In fact, this had the illustration, really, the perfect illustration is the covenant of marriage. Where it's an exclusive relationship, and you're going to be protective of your spouse, and you're going to be jealous in the right sense of the word. I don't mean possessive in a weird, creepy way. I just mean in a in a c uh in a in an appropriate way. I am I she is mine, my I am hers, we are we are we are we are in an ownership covenantal relationship with each other And that is the way our relationship is with God. What does it mean to be saved? What does it mean to be a child of God? You are owned by Him. And you know what? That's a wonderful thing. Because we are protected by him. We are preserved by him. We are delivered by him. There are all kinds of things that we can be thankful for. We are shepherded by him. All why? Because we are in this covenant relationship with God, he is a jealous God. We ought to be really, really grateful for God's jealousy. We are his and he is ours too. It's incredible that he is ours. I am his and he is mine. The song got it right This is something that is absolutely incredible. This is the kind of relationship that God That God wants us to enter into with him because of what Christ has done for us. And that's why it's so exclusive. In Exodus chapter 22, verse 20, it says, He who sacrifices to any God except to the Lord only, he shall be utterly destroyed. God is a jealous God. In Deuteronomy chapter six verse thirteen it says, You shall fear the Lord your God and serve him and shall take oaths to him You shall not go after other gods, the gods of the peoples that are around you, for the Lord your God is a jealous God among you, lest the anger of the Lord your God be aroused against you and destroy you from the face of the earth. Because when you enter into a covenant relationship with God, it will make you or break you. And we find the same kind of things said in the New Testament. In Acts chapter 14, verse 14, Barnabas and Paul cry out to the multitude that are actually worshiping them. And they say to them, Men, why are you doing these things? We also are men of the same nature as you, and preach to to you that you should turn from these unless thing Turn from these useless things to the living God who made the earth the heaven and the earth, the sea, and all the things that are in them So we are in this exclusive relation. Now how uh what does this mean for us? This has direct application for us as Christians. Your relationship with God and my relationship with God cannot be a side hustle. It can't be something on the side, you know, it's sort of that church thing. I think I'll do the church thing. I think I'll do the religious thing. I got my my job and I've got my hobbies, I've got my family, I got all these different parts, and I'll throw a church in there. I'll do the God thing. That is not a covenant relationship with God. It's not compartmentalized religious exercise. It is all-encompassing, all-inclusive, and all-consuming. That's the relationship that God has with us as His children. Everything is subsumed under that relationship. And so when I do my hobbies, I'm enjoying God in my hobbies. And if I can't, I shouldn't be doing them. And when I'm working and vo my in my vocation, I'm being a good steward of what God has given me, and if I can't, I shouldn't be doing it. That is the kind of relationship with God that we are entering into when we become a child of God. This is the very essence, the very core of a covenant relationship with God. Number two, not only is it exclusive, it's also to be undistorted. Undistorted worship. And that we find in verses 4 and 4 through 6. Verse 4 says, And you shall not make of yourselves a carved image, any likeness of anything that is that is in the heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. You shall not bow down to them, nor serve them, for I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers uh upon the children, to the third and fourth generation of those who hate me, but showing mercy to the thousands to those who love me and keep my commandments. He says, don't make a graven image. Now, what is he saying when he says this? Well, number one Negatively, what is he not saying? Number one, he is not primarily saying that you cannot have graven images of other gods. Why is he not primarily saying that? That's true you shouldn't, but it's not primarily saying that. Why is he not primarily saying that? Because that was already covered in the first commandment. You can't have graven images of other gods if you're going to follow the first commandment, don't worship any God in my presence. Right? So there actually has to be something else here that's involved, and it is. Something else it's not, before we get to what it is, it is not totally prohibiting religious art. Okay? That's not the point. Now, in church history, has there been religious art that actually got to the place where it was an image? That was distorting who God was. The answer is yes. You've got to be careful with religious art. You actually do have to be careful. There's a reason why we don't have in our church a lot of pictures of Jesus. It's not like you can't do a storybook with a picture of Jesus. That's okay. It's not prohibiting that here. But we don't want you what it is saying is that we must represent God in the appropriate way, and you cannot do that with a graven image. You can't be by something from the skies or the earth or the water. You cannot represent God that way. Why? Because God is infinite? He's invisible. He is spiritual. That's why Jesus would later on say, God is spirit, and we must worship him in spirit and in truth. You cannot use an image. To worship him. That actually is what they end up violating when they do the golden calf thing They are actually trying to create, they're violating exactly what this passage is saying not to do. They're creating an image of God to focus their attention, they say Why can't we do this? Because God desires for his character to be undistorted, and God did not intend to some to for creation to be image bearers. By the way, who did he intend to do that? Us. He intended us to be image bearers of him. And to reflect him. So don't make any graven image Leviticus nineteen four actually says this, do not turn to idols, nor make yourselves molded gods. I am the Lord your God. So clearly it includes Clearly, you shouldn't make images of other gods, but this is actually saying don't make an image of Jehovah God. Now, what are the results? There is actually some consequences here in this passage that are interesting. The consequences in the passage you'll see here It says, the results are, it says, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children of the third and fourth generations of those who hate me. And God sets up this hate-love scenario. God does not have, by the way, God doesn't have anything in between. Well, I don't really hate him, I don't really love him, I just, you know, we're okay. We're like some pedico. It doesn't work that way. Okay. You either love him or you hate him. Now hate hate doesn't necessarily mean animosity, but yeah, it actually does in this case. Why? Because the Bible says we're actually born at enmity against God. And so God says that those who do these things, those who worship other gods, you're actually in a hostility. And he says he's going to visit them Now that's an interesting term. He's going to visit them among the and and and and it's interesting because on other places in scripture that idea of visit means exactly what it says. For example In Exodus chapter 3, verse 16, it says this, Go and gather the elders of Israel together and say to them, The Lord God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob, appear to me saying, I have surely visited you and seen what you what is done. It's the same word. And in Exodus chapter 13, verse 19, and Moses took the bones of Joseph with him, for he had placed The children of Israel under Solomon, saying, God will surely visit you, and you shall carry up my bones from here with you. So the word visit there doesn't it means to come and be with. And God says he's going to come and be with them. What is it saying? Here's what it isn't saying. It isn't saying that he is going to punish The children, grandchildren, great grandchildren of the people that sin. And we know that because Deuteronomy 24, verse 16 says this: fathers shall not be put to death for their children. Nor shall children be put to death for their fathers. A person shall not be put to death for his own sin. Ezekiel 18, 3 says As I alive, says the Lord, you shall no longer use this proverb in Israel. Behold, all souls are mine, the soul of the Father, as well as the soul of the Son, is mine. So he separates the soul of the Father, the soul of the Son. He says, You're not gonna I'm not Going to put to death the son for the son the father's sin. That's not what's going on here. Here's what's going on, I think. My best understanding, there's a lot of debate about this, but my best understanding of what's going on here is this. That if you look at the Old Testament And you read through the Old Testament, what you're going to find is that sin is passed down from one generation to another, to another. It is all sin. You have original sin and it's passed down. And it's insidious, actually. And what God says is if you'll enter into covenant with me, Then you will have, look at what it says. It says, I'll give you mercy. You see the opposite? I'm going to give you mercy from that But if you don't, then what naturally happens to sin is going to happen. It's going to be visited upon Future generations. And the truth is, so what he's saying here is that every individual is responsible for his own sin and will have consequences of his own sin, but that sin will continue to be passed on Now we'll get into more of what that's talking about in the future here, but understand this, that the point is that there are consequences for for sin and God seriously desires for us to be in a relight uh in a right relationship with him. And then we move now to the third The third aspect of this relationship is undistorted. Well, we've looked at undistorted worship, and now we're going to realize this devoted worship. Devoted worship. We find in verse 7, the final commandment that we'll look at today, in verse 7, it says, you shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain. For the Lord will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain. What does this mean? Really, what God is talking about here is a misuse of his name. The word name is the word the word the name here is the word Yahweh. If you look where it says, I am the Lord, verse 2, it's the word Yahweh. The word Yahweh is used 6,828 times in the Old Testament. That is a lot. The word Elohim is used 2,600 times in the Old Testament. The name of God is the very identity of God, the very nature of God, the very glory of God. It is the name of God. And he says, do not misuse it. And if you misuse the identity of God, if you misuse the glory of God, you will not be held harmless. You will not be held guiltless. Now, there's a lot of things that we could say about this, but I'm just going to rattle off a few things that this could include. This would include misleading or misrepresenting God's name. A false use of God's name, evoking God's name for personal gain, saying his name in an empty manner, all of those things when we sing, do we and we sing God's name on a Sunday morning, you could be saying the Lord's name in vain. If you're not really saying it in the right, respectful, reverent way. There are so there really are actually a lot of applications to this. Somebody who says, well the Lord has led me to do this, but really they have a motive inside that they just want to do what they want to do, that is using the not using God's name. It's using it in vain And God says, this is very severe, and I have zero tolerance for this. God will not hold him guiltless. Now I want you to notice about all three of these commandments. All three of them, there's zero tolerance and tolerance and severity. Is that not true? You know why that is Because God wants us to understand some things. And so as we wrap all of this up, I want us to understand three things about this passage. Number one, I want to ask three questions. Number one, do we understand That this is the f essence of the covenantal relationship with God that God is calling us to. Do we understand that? Do we understand that this is the relationship that God is calling us to? If you know Christ is your Savior, this is the relationship. Now, I'm going to prove that more to you in the future. But it is. It's the foundation for everything else that comes after it. We we are it is a new covenant, but it's all been reiterated except for one. Do you understand that? That the idea that you You were saved and you get some sort of fire insurance and do whatever you want afterwards. That is not the relationship that God describes in Scripture. It's a different kind of relationship. Number two, can we fulfill God's expectations here perfectly? Do you see the severity here and the zero tolerance here that's in this passage? And if you do, then you're on the right track because that's exactly what God wants you to see. And God actually says that his law, in addition to helping us to understand his relationship, it's also when we read this, we go through through and say I can't do this. Right? I can't do this 100%. I can't do this completely in of my own strength and my own flesh. And you can't. And God wants all of us to realize that it's actually a schoolmaster, the Bible says, to bring us to Christ. James 2. 10 says, And whosoever shall keep the whole law and yet offend in one point, he is guilty of all. We haven't even gotten to the hard ones yet. Matthew 5, 17 says, Do not think, Jesus said, Do not think that I have come to destroy the law of the prophets. I've come to fulfill them. Now, listen carefully here. If you're looking at the law and you're saying I can't follow them and I violate them over and over and over again and I don't know what to do about that, Well, if you are not looking to Jesus to fulfill what you couldn't, what you can't do, and you don't know the Lord, this is intended to bring you to a place where you understand that I can't do this in my life. own flesh. I can't do this in my own humanity that I need Jesus Christ, who was able to fulfill all of this perfectly for me. So that when Jesus came, took on human flesh, he lived a perfect life that's actually really important. Don't skip over that in the gospel. That Jesus, yes, he died, but before he died, he fulfilled the demands of the law. Doing this perfectly for us and setting the perfect example for us in how to do this. He did it perfectly with his father when he was on earth. And then he died, took our sin on himself, and died for us, so that we could be brought into a right relationship with him, and that we could have this relationship with him. We must trust in Jesus to do what we cannot do for ourselves. To his own self bear our sin in his own body on the tree. And he rose from the grave victorious over sin and death. The Bible says, but as many as received him, to them gave him the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. If you're listening here today and you do not know Jesus as your Lord and Savior, maybe you've prayed a prayer at some point, maybe you did something that sort of seemed sort of religious, maybe you're a good person But you have never placed your faith and trust in Jesus, who was the only one who could fulfill all of the demands of the law. And then has the power to bring us into right relationship with God, then you need to be saved. Number three, can you describe your relationship with God as exclusive, undistorted, and devoted? Christian, would you describe your relationship that way? Exclusive, undistorted And devoted. Now, here is the thing about this. When Jesus came, He gave us a way to enter into this relationship. And then he equipped us to keep this relationship. He equipped us. You know why? We have the whole Word of God here. We have the Spirit of God that indwells in us. We have the grace of God. We have the intercessory work of Christ. There is so much in the New Testament that Fleshes out for us all of what God, He's our advocates. There's all, there's so much that Jesus has done for us That now we, as we go through these, if we genuinely know Christ as our Savior, we get to enter into this. Into this covenant relationship with God. And understanding more of what that is, we need to begin to say, okay, Lord, that's an exclusive relationship. There are no other, I'm not going to worship anything else. I'm not going to I'm going to stop worshiping myself. My wants, my desires. When I get up in the morning, it it's not about me and what I want, what I gotta do. My relationship needs to be exclusive, undistorted, and devoted. And it's all dependent for us on the gospel of Jesus Christ. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you for your word. We thank you for your law. Lord, as we go through the Ten Commandments I pray, Lord, that you would teach us in a way perhaps that we haven't really understood before or bring to mind things that we haven't learned in a long time. So that we can be in this covenant worship relationship that you want us to be in with you. Lord, help us to understand what that means, what that looks like. Help us to grow in that. And Lord, if there is anybody here today, Or listening today that doesn't know you, that does not have this kind of relationship, I pray today That they would understand their sin. They cannot do this. They cannot follow these commandments on their own. Instead, they need to look to Jesus, who already fulfilled all of them, and look to Him to be their Savior. I pray, Lord, that you would work in people's lives that way. And I pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen.