And Father, we come and we thank you. For the truth of your grace that we just sung about, the reality that you have an unending supply of strength and grace that you give to us. And it is true when we run out of our own resources, you have not even tapped into a a measurable amount of the grace that you offer to us And Lord, as we uh look forward to the preaching of your word, we we pray that you would work through Harry, give him the clarity of thought and words to express your truth clearly to us. May your truth come forth powerfully as a result. And may we be ready to hear. Give us hearts that uh Ready to receive the word and help us, Lord, to uh not be in a position where we would be ignoring or rejecting, but may we be hearers and doers as well. We pray all this in Christ's name. Amen. Text this morning is Philippians chapter one, verses one through eleven. Encourage you to read along with me. Chapter 1 says, Paul and Timothy, bondservants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus who were in Philippi with the bishops and the deacons. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. I thank my God upon every remembrance of you, always in every prayer of mine, making requests for you all with joy. For your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now, being confident of this very thing, that he who has begun a good work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ. Just as it is right for me to think this of you all, because I have you in my heart, inasmuch as both in my change and in my defense and confirmation of the gospel, you all are partakers with me of grace. For God is my witness how greatly I long for you all with the affection of Jesus Christ. And this I pray that your love may abound still more and more in knowledge and in all discernment. That you may approve the things which are excellent, that you may be sincere and without offense to the day of Christ, being filled with the fruits of righteousness which are by Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God. When people say to you that you are a joyful person. Hmm. Didn't sound too joyful there. Would the people who know you best define you as a joyful person? Are you joyful this morning? Did you come with joy in your heart this morning? Joy is the focus this morning, in case you didn't catch that. But according to the scriptures Joy is a fruit of the Spirit And according to the scriptures, the church, us believers, should be the most joyful people In the world. Should we not? We're going to find out. Paul is writing a letter to the Philippian church, and we think of joy. We want to be careful not to get it mixed up with happiness. I could have said this morning, are you happy to be here? You would have probably shook your head, yes. But I noticed not too many said they were joyful this morning. And there are things in life that will steal that joy. But I want to start this morning just to get us thinking about joy and what that actually is is like. I had Brother Pat put up some pictures. This is the ruins of the city of Philippi. uh in Greece. And uh I thought it would be nice just to kind of get you focused. I mean that at one time was a uh quite a city, but uh here we find that it it has been ruined. Um it's in ruins. But anyway, thinking about joy, we don't want to mix it up with happiness. There is a difference between joy and happiness. Happiness is an outward feeling. It's not an inward feeling. It is a there is something that makes you happy. You buy a car, a new car, you're happy with that car until it gets ten years old Then you need to have another card to make you happy again. This happiness can be up and it can be down. Happiness is exterior, but joy in a believer is interior. It is something that God has placed in each one of us. And it is one of the fruits of the Spirit. So we know that joy Love, peace, and all those things, but joy in particular should be something that comes out of us that reflects Christ and our gratefulness and thankfulness And though we have a lot to be thankful for, don't we? God has provided richly for us. We have a lot to be thankful for. for our families and even when we're going through trials we have times of thankfulness when God brings us through them But the pace of life and the pressures of life often squeeze this joy out of us. Don't we find that true? Things that happen, things that come up, and we'll walk around and our shoulders are slumped and our heads are down, and we're not joyful. And some days, or months even, it's very difficult to get through what we're going through. And a lot of times we become desperate. And we start often searching for joy in all kinds of ways. We acquire possessions and things to make us joyful. And again, I think when we're thinking this way and we're desperate and we're going to other places, we are not actually referring to joy here. We're referring to our happiness, what makes us happy. Then here we find that even visiting, we'll go visit, take vacations and all that, to try to get that joy. But none of these things can provide life Everlasting joy. Happiness is not everlasting. Joy is everlasting. Where do you find joy? In the midst of your circumstances or your trial when you're going through it. Paul here in Philippians, as did the Philippian church, they knew that True joy comes only through humble faith in the saving work of Jesus Christ They joined together. They had fellowship together. They were in harmony with fellow believers and serving others in the name of Jesus Christ. This was the life experienced by the Philippian believers. And it is a light that's available to you and I today. When we think about Paul's letter here to the Philippians, Today we're only going to look at verses 1 through 11. And if the Lord is willing, and Pastor Jim has asked me and Brother Enrique and uh brother Pa Matt to fill in for him from time to time. And so in August I have two dates and I want to get through this whole book because you can't really get the gist of this joy that we should have just from these first 11 verses but they do give us a good start and uh we want to go through the whole book because it is important for you and I to be joyful in spite of all that's going around us, all the chaos we see going on around us. And here, Paul's letter to the Philippians we're going to be able to learn how all of this comes together in life that we may learn to apply these principles. And I was thinking about how God has worked. uh this morning already. Uh Brother Enrique and I didn't know what each other was talking about this morning, but almost everything that he was talking about this morning really comes alongside of what we're going to be looking learning in Philippians. And one of the things that we did not speak about this morning that we're going to speak about today is joy. Joy should be a fruit of our relationship with Jesus Christ. Let me tell you something. The book of Philippians is four chapters long. 16 times joy and rejoicing is referred to in this book. Do you think the book is about joy? I think it has a lot to do with joy. And when you get commentaries, a lot of the commentaries, the title has joy in it somewhere for the book of Philippians. And I want to share some scriptures with you to kind of get us focused on joy. And I want us to Look at our lives and see why joy might not be coming out in our lives. Listen to what it says in Psalm chapter 5, verse 11. It says, but let all of those rejoice who put their trust in Jesus Christ, or in you, it says, referring to God And what does that say again? Let all those rejoice who put their trust in Jesus Christ. Now that's not the end of that passage. It goes further to say, let them shout for joy because you defend them. And then it goes even further, let those who love you. And love your name, be joyful in you. God has designed it. He wants us to be joyful because of him. This joy can be found nowhere in this world but in Christ alone. And we're going to learn that through this. But I like this point here where he says, let those who love your name be joyful in you. This is something that you don't, it's not something that's going to come natural to you, but it does come because God is working in you. So sooner in life the more, and we're going to see how this all plays out when we get further into the verse, uh into the verses of Philip Philippians. But here I want to also remind you, here is Isaiah 35, 10 The Israelites are becoming out from under the Babylonian captivity, and this is what Isaiah prophesied to them. This is what was going to happen. He says, and the ransomed of the Lord shall return. and come to Zion with singing, with everlasting joy on their heads. You remember when they sinned or something, they would dress in black cloth and sackcloth and throw dust on their head Here they have everlasting joy on their heads. They're coming back. God is bringing them back. And here it says, they shall obtain joy They shall obtain joy and gladness, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away. Another passage. uh in the New Testament. And this passage is coming from 1 Peter 1, 3 through 9. I love this passage. because it's so appropriate and so relevant to us today as a church. Follow along. It says in 1 Peter 1, 3 through 9, Blessed be the God of our Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ, who according to his abundant mercy, has begotten us again to a living hope. A living hope. Through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead to an inheritance and undefiled and that does not fade away, reserved in heaven for you and I. We have this. And he says here, as he goes on, it's reserved for you who are kept by the power of God. We are kept by the power of God. This is leading us to uh a point here that is going to bring out uh A real truth about having this joy. And it says that we are kept by the power of God through faith for salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. In this What? You greatly rejoice. Are you rejoicing in your salvation? Are you rejoicing that there is a heavenly place prepared for you that Jesus is It's not going to be nothing like here on earth. Are we rejoicing about this? And though for a little while, if need be. Many of us can relate here. You have been grieved by various trials. That the genuineness of your faith being much more precious than gold, That perishes, though it is tested by fire, may be found to praise and honor and glory at the revelation of Jesus Christ, whom having not seen None of us here that I'm aware of, including myself, have ever seen Jesus Christ. It says, in whom having not seen, you love. We love Jesus Christ I love Jesus Christ. You love you. That's our life, right? It says here that not seeing you love, though now you do not see him. Yet believing you rejoice with joy inexpressible and full of glory, receiving the end of your faith and salvation of your soul. souls. Let me ask you, are we rejoicing with joy, inexpressible? Full of glory, receiving this faith? Luke 2. 10, if you remember, when the shepherds were out in the field and the angels came and said to them, Do not be afraid, for behold, I bring you good tidings of what? great joy, which will be to all people. So we got a a little handle on joy this morning and how it is something that is supposed to be In each one of us. And by these scriptures that we read already, we should be the most joyful people in the world. We should be the most joyful people joyful. How are we going to make let me let me let me just demonstrate this a little bit. How are we going to make a difference in anyone's life? If we are not joyful, if we are always a sour pus, if we're always going around complaining and grumbling about everything going on in the world, how are we going to be A witness to them that Christ actually did something in my life. And I am happy and joyful and thankful for that. It affects our testimony. Let's turn to the book of Philippians. We're going to talk about Philippi. It was a very beautiful city. Not too beautiful there, but it was. Philippi was named after Philip II of Macedonia. He was the father of Alexander the Great. And Philippi was a Roman colony And in the 14th century, it was abandoned by the people because of the Turkish conquest and invasion. And over the years, several earthquakes destroyed the city completely. And in the present day There is a village right close to this same uh archaeological fine here that we see of the old Philippi. It is also called Philippi, but it's spelt with an F And it is located near the ruins of the ancient city, as part of the region of eastern Macedonia, Thrace, and it's in Catala, Greece. So we find that the the church of Philippi It's actually today now in modern day Greece. The Church of Philippi was founded by Paul on his second missionary journey. You can find that whole story in Acts chapter 16. 6240. What about this church? It was a very generous, a very supporting, a very loving church, and it's the only church. At a point that supplied needs and gave to Paul's ministry. And so, what is the purpose of the letter now that Paul is writing to the Philippines? I had several reasons that uh purposes, and I know there's probably more, but I just gonna uh do three of them that uh really come uh out in my my study of this, Paul wrote this letter to thank the Philippian church for their support and fellowship in his ministry. Paul's heart and ministry was the defense and confirmation of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And he was encouraging The second part here is that he was encouraging and exhorting them to stand firm in unity and humility, working together to defend and confirm the faith of the gospel. The third purpose of his letter here. His letter showed them by centering their lives on Christ, they too might live in true joy. This was a point that came out in Brother Henrique's Sunday school class this morning. A focus is to center our lives On Jesus Christ. That's not easy to do in this day and age. We're so busy with everything else. But the time of this writing that Paul wrote was sixty-one years after the death of Christ. We're going to go with the middle, 61. He was writing from Rome in prison. Now, it's important that we remember that Paul is in prison. when he's writing this letter. So we're going to begin in chapter 1, verse 1. Paul and Timothy are bondservants of Jesus. A bond servant is one who is fully surrendered for life, willingly giving their life over to Jesus. Jesus Christ. And the example comes out of Exodus 21, 5 and 6, when a slave wanted to voluntarily stay with his master. He made this commitment, his family and all, and they would get it uh put in their ear and they belong to that and he would serve that master all his life. And this is Paul here and Timothy. They are serving the Lord and they are surrendered completely. to him. Paul is a slave to do God's will and fulfill God's purposes for his life. Are we this way? Do we think we don't like thinking and using the word slave, do we? It has a different meaning in our nation, in our time. But here we see it's just the fact that he's fully surrendered and without reservation. He is fully devoted to God. And not just, here I think about this, he's a slave to do God's will and fulfill God's purposes in his life. He's not just playing He's not just playing, serving. You know, a lot of times when the notion strikes, we'll do something and we'll serve for a little bit. Or when it's convenient, we'll serve That wasn't Paul. And this is something we can learn here from Paul. He was completely surrendered to Jesus Christ. Christ. And he was not one of many complaints. He finds his joy in doing God's will. Do you find joy in doing God's will God's will. One of the genuine forms of showing that we are genuine. Genuine love for God is The key to joy in service. If we have a genuine love, if he is the center of our life, it is the key to be joyful in serving him. 1b says he's writing this letter to the saints in Christ Jesus who are in Philippi with the bishops and the deacons. And I want to stop here for a second on this thing that he's writing to the saints. Saints. We all are saints. It's not like Catholicism, but this is a saint that God makes us. Believers being dedicated and consecrated to the service of God by God. We didn't come to Christ on our own. God chose to save us. He puts it out there for us. And also, we are consecrated to the service of God by God. We are set apart for the service of God. And we are now his sacred property, and we are off limits to profane use. 1 Corinthians 6, 1920 tells us this Do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you, whom you have received from who? From God. And you are not your own, you were bought at a price, and therefore, because of, honor God with your body. No matter how rough hewn your spiritual life might seem this morning. If you have received Christ, you belong to God. You belong to God. And we're all in different places in our life, aren't we? We I'm not saying we're living a perfect life here. But what I like about this that he's talking about uh as believers, that we are chosen by God and the work that's going to be done Done in us is done by God. We have responsibilities, which we're going to touch on. But one of the things that brings joy to our soul, we're going to find out in this passage, is the fact that it is God who is working in you. For his good pleasure. Let's look here now. The overseers are the bishops, uh, elders, they're shepherds of the flock, they're the spiritual leaders. He's writing to them also. And I think it's kind of unique here that Paul doesn't put them first. He puts them second. He puts the church first. puts the leaders second. But the deacons, uh, they are servants to the church for physical needs and so on, just like we do today. And then he goes to verse two and he says, Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. This is a customary greeting of Paul. And Paul here is pointing out specifically to the grace of God. We are saved by grace. faith. And he also says, to the peace with God. This is kind of what he's saying. You're in God's grace. You are living in God's grace. You are saved by God's grace. And now you have peace with God. That's kind of what this thing, which is the blessing of a right relationship with God, does that not bring joy to your heart that you are living in grace? And that you are at peace with God. The world is not at peace with God, but we are, because of what Jesus Christ has done. In verses 3 to 5, in reading these verses, you get the feeling that Paul's love for the Philippians is sincere, continuing, and overflowing Listen to what he says in verse three. I thank my God. I better put my glasses on here. I'll be reading the wrong verse. Sorry. Seventy-five, that's my excuse. I thank my God upon every remembrance of you Always in every prayer of mind making requests for you with joy. For your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now. Let's stop there. Every time he thinks of them, he thanks God. What about us? You thank me, you thank God? I don't think so. You're probably praying for me. I hope. Anyway, and Paul was too, by the way. But he not only does he think, but he thanks God for them. And Paul says I always pray with joy. Now, you know, we started a few weeks back doing a corporate prayer. We had it this morning. And what a wonderful, wonderful I I I was so encouraged for Enrique and I talked about this a couple of times, and we're so encouraged for those who have been coming out willingly and praying together. Do we pray with joy when we pray. When we're praying for others, do we pray with joy? You know, there are we're in fellowship here. Of course when we're praying for unsaved, uh we definitely want to see that happen. And uh but I'm thinking here about praying with joy. I think when we pray about our missionaries and all that, do we pray with joy because they are serving and we have a part in that service? We're going to talk about that here. It's coming But Paul says that he prays with joy. And this is the first time that Paul alludes to the experience of joy in this letter in verse 4. But it will continue throughout the whole letter. So, what brought joy to Paul in his prayer? Here we go again. Because of your fellowship in the gospel from the first day you were saved until now. The gospel is the source of all joy. In case We haven't caught that yet. He's we see here that this was a true partnership. It was a mutual sharing between Paul and the Philippian church. It was a two-way street of giving and receiving. In the case of the Philippians, it was giving money and supplies and love and personnel. to Paul to help him in his mystery uh ministry. Uh he they sent Epherotius. And remember Epherotius got sick almost to death, and so Paul sends him back. That's also in this letter. Shows this love and this uh sincerity that Paul has. But they were doing this to support Paul's ministry. Can you imagine being in another country or in prison, chained to a guard? And nobody, nobody comes around. Nobody. And here you have a church who is sending support to him. And what happens in this support? Our churches are similar in supporting our missionaries. Do we enjoy praying for them? I was so touched the other evening. when uh brother enrique and uh pastor jim and i had the uh joy of uh hooking up with um uh mr keller uh or um vitelli vitelli kell And uh what a joy. Uh he was there wherever he was, and he had a family waiting that they were visiting together with I think they were from India, was it? And he asked us to pray for them because they I think they were sharing the gospel with they wanted to see these people come to Christ. This is in the middle. And we were very encouraged by what we heard from him. And in that he asked us to pray for him during that time that he as he's uh witnessing to these uh people from India. And he's also praying about what's going to be taking place in the future and uh in the country they're gonna go to. And so we're very grateful we have the same privilege and opportunity. I know it could be very encouraging to him to have letters or have emails or have support uh coming from our church and uh from other churches. This has got to be encouraging. And um I think it it really struck me. Now I'm I'm gonna mention this here. Joy is not something that uh has been completely evident in my own life. So I'm I'm appreciating And I was so convicted when I was reading some of the things that were going on between the church and Paul. And so I I thought about do I enjoy praying? for other people? Do I enjoy praying for brothers and sisters in Christ? Do I enjoy praying for the missionaries who are in a foreign land? Sharing the gospel. We have a part in that. When we give uh our money to them and pray for them, we are in partnership with them. And we should keep them in partnership. in prayer. It should be a joy that God is working there. Our church uh again is similar to what we're talking about here. Paul in return shared God's truth and prayers. for them and was able to minister in the prison because of their kind generosity. You know, he was in a uh house prison and uh you had to supply your own food and everything else and you were chain to a guard. So here they are they're bringing food and and supplies and money to help him and uh they even sent uh a um of Herodias. Now, Paul's confidence. Here we come to verse six. Verse six is one of the main uh important verses in Philippians. Also Um I think that this uh verse right here, as he was talking to in his letter, he was writing a letter to the Philippians Philippians. He was telling them how much he was uh enjoying their fellowship in the gospel until this day. Now he comes on here now and he he is he's very competent and he's based here on God's faithfulness And so listen to what he says. He says, being confident of this very thing, speaking to the church, that he who begun a good work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ. Now, we're going to stop here for a moment. I want you to turn in your Bibles to Ephesians chapter 2, verse 1, right next door. If you have your Bibles, please uh you can follow along if you like. But what is it that God has begun? He's reminding the Philippian church that God has begun this in you now. He's not going to let you down halfway through it. He is going to carry it on to completion. And here's what it says in chapter 2, verse 1 of Ephesians. And you, he made alive, who were dead in trespasses and sin, in which you once walked according to the course of this world, According to the prince of the power of the air, and the spirit of who now works in the sons of disobedient, among also whom also we all once conducted ourselves in the lust of the flesh. and fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, just as others. Here's where Jesus Christ, this this really, when I was a younger Christian, when I was coming to Christ, this this was not the only place in Romans also, but When I learned the fact that I was dead in my trespassings and sin. No one seeketh after God. And it says that here that we are dead in our trespass and sin. It made sense to me when I learned that you cannot get to God by good works. and your own merit. You can't come to God thinking that you'll get up one morning and I'm gonna go and believe in God now. We're gonna find out here that no one, none of us, came to God on our own own. We came because the Holy Spirit was working and the Father was drawing us to his Son. And I like it here that he says he made us alive. Now I want to read on When we think about this here now, this when he's talking about the um according to the prince and power of the air, the spirit of who now works in the sons of This is the world's realm. This is Satan's playground. That's the world. Now, when he made us alive in Christ, we are taken from that realm into the heavenly realm. And we are now in a spiritual realm with God. We are made right with God. We no longer are dead in our trespasses and sin, but He made us alive. And uh we want to read on here. It says, But God, who is rich in mercy, because of his great love, wherewith he loved us, even when we were dead in trespasses and sin. Made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved and raised us up together and made us to sit in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. that in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace in his kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. For by grace you have been saved through faith, that not of yourselves. It is a gift of God. Not of works, lest any man should boast, for we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus, for good works, which God prepared beforehand. that we should walk in them. I like the fact that we are God's workmanship. God is working in and through us, and He is going to take this work on to completion. until with the day of Christ Jesus. So when we think here, you, he made alive, who were dead in trespassing sin, Save solely by his grace, unmerited favor, through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is a gift of God. It's not of works. And why would it not be of works? Because then we can boast that we did something Something to cause God to turn to us and love us and save us. It would be our own good works. And this is a work of God, not of us. For his workmanship is created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand. Now, how about the completion? He's going to take this on to completion. And I want to share a couple verses with you that show this to be true. how this is. In John 6, 39, it says, This is the will of God. So now we know that it's the will of God. We know that He is the one who has taken us from dead in our trespasses and sin. He has made us alive, gave us His Holy Spirit. Now here it says, this is the will of God, the Father, who sent me, that of all He has given me, I should lose nothing, but should raise it up on the last day. Jesus repeats this several times in the scriptures, even in this chapter. Verse 44 says, no one, listen to this now. It's important. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him, and I will raise him up in the last day. Day. John 10, 27, 30. This really brings out the personal relationship we have with Jesus Christ. My sheep, he says, hear my voice. We hear God's word. He says, I know them. Do you know he knows each one of us who belong to him? This is so personal here. He says, I know them. And what does he say? And they follow me, and I give them eternal life, and they shall never perish. Neither shall anyone snatch them out. of my hands. Then he goes on to say in verse 29, My Father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of my Father's hand. And I and my father are one. Does this not bring joy to our hearts? Should we not be joyful in our hearts We were dead in our trespasses and sin. And even now we are under his grace. When we sin, we can go and repent. And uh God says that uh if you confess your sins, he is faithful and just To forgive you our sins. So this should be a joy to us that we are no longer under His wrath, but we are now a part of His kingdom. And this is where we should have this joy because of what God has done. Our confidence in the gospel of Jesus Christ is based solely on God's faithfulness, not our good works. In verses seven and eight, Paul again reiterates why it is that he has this joy to pray for the Philippians. He says, I have you in my heart. This is such a sincere love. He says, and again, you are partakers with me in the defense of the gospel and confirmation of the gospel. of Jesus Christ while he's in prison. Now we're going to come to the last three verses, 9 through 11. And here is kind of what we were, I think, alluding to this morning in Sunday school. And I really like how this is all coming together with the class. Sunday school. That was a great lesson this morning that Brother Enrique uh had taught us. Verses nine through eleven. I'm going to read it first and then we'll break it down. He's now here praying in Philippians chapter 1. This is part of his prayer. He says, and this I pray, that your love may abound still more and more in knowledge. and an old discernment, that you may approve that, which is excellent, that you may be sincere and without offense till the day of Christ, being filled with the fruit of righteousness, which are by Jesus Christ to the glory and praise of God. There are five points in this prayer. Number one, that, this is the prayer, that your love may abound in knowledge and depth of insight. Number two, so that you may be able to discern the good from the best. Number three, therefore may be pure and blameless until the day of Christ Number four, and be filled with the fruits of righteousness that comes through Jesus Christ. And number five, in order that you bring glory and praise. This is a wonderful prayer. And uh as I was uh reading this and and And uh going through the prayer, I was so taken by what I was learning here about this point of he wanting them to um Progress. Paul's prayer becomes a specific request here that their love of the gospel, their love for God, may abound more and more in knowledge and all discernment. You know, marriage is like that sometimes. Should be. We first meet our loved one. We kinda are in it for ourselves. It's what we want when we're looking after this person. It's not that we are looking for their what they like. Then you get stronger, you start growing more and more because you get to know each other better and you know what they like and what they don't like. And then you get married. And hopefully, when you get married, you continue to grow and learn your spouse's likes and dislikes. What makes them happy, what's best for them that will lift them up. And so this is kind of the way it is with Christ. The more we learn about Christ, the more we learn about God, the more that we take this in, the more discerning we will be when we are making our choices and decisions. decisions, we were becoming more and more mature. And so here, um this kind of love is a discerning love that he's talking about. And not only what is good, but what is excellent, what's most important, what's most significant, what's most worthy, what's most valuable. The good is the enemy of the best. Let me explain what I'm talking about. We can be so preoccupied being stuck in good or the good things that we don't have time for the best and excellent things. We were talking about that this morning, of being mediocre or being completely evil, or being excellent for God And I really liked the input that we had gotten back and forth in there. But one of the things that I think most people really actually desire is the excellent. But sometimes we get caught up in only the good, the mediocre. And here I want to share with you Hebrews chapter 5, verse 13, through chapter 15. 6 verse 1. For everyone who partakes only of milk, good. Milk is good, right? Milk is good. This is your salvation. It's good. And was unskilled in the work of righteousness because he only partakes of the milk. He stays at the good, for he's a babe. But solid food, the best, the excellent, belongs to the who full of age, not necessarily 75 years old age, but growing spiritually. And it says that is those who by reason of use, in other words, study in God's Word, applying it, putting the priority on Christ first in our lives in everything we do. But here when we are studying and applying, studying and applying Here, we are going to come into situations and be able to handle them. And that's what it means that they have their exercise their senses exercised And in other words, we are persistent and to discern both good and evil. Therefore, we are warned and told by the writer of Hebrews. That therefore, because of that, leave the discussion of the elementary privileges or principles of Christ and let us go on to perfection This is the more and mere more and more that Paul is talking about here. Get to know God better and keep growing in Him and discerning the truth and what's good and what's best. Ephesians 4. 13 also talks about that to we come to a perfect man. We become Christ's like. We are establishing right priorities Now Paul's prayer here is that we are able to determine the critical examination which things are the greatest and most important, most valuable. And put our efforts into those things, those things that lift up Christ, those things that are more and more valuable, they are pure and they are right and they are true. True, and that these are the greatest worth. When we start learning about God, we're learning more and more about what He likes, what He wants. What he desires, what is best. We learn it because we are working along with God as He's working in us. And that's going to be another lesson uh later on Later on. But uh what's the response? What will be the response if you and I continue More and more growing and learning and putting Christ first. Now, Christ is a sinner, as we talked about in Sunday school this morning. What would be the reason for that? To be pure and blameless when Christ returns. That's the first one. The second one is to be filled with the fruit of Christ's righteousness. Be Christ's like. If you want to know whether or not how you stand right now, go to Galatians 5, 22 and 23. And read the fruits of the Spirit. See if they are very evident in your life. Remember, the second one is joy. This is not about us, by the way. This is about God. Paul ends in verse 11, which is our final and ultimate goal in life and purpose To the glory and praise of God. My conclusion this morning, there's two things, three actually. Number one, if we take nothing else away this morning, let us take this. Our confidence and our joy in the gospel of Jesus Christ is based on God's faith. You can't work yourself into joy. You can't work yourself and try to please and cause God uh to cause God to love you more. God already loves you, already did everything, and it says that we are to work out our salvation with fear and We're gonna we'll sit there on one of our Next sermons. But uh when I think about that, what am I working out? What we should be working out is what God is showing us when we are learning something from His Word. We should take what we got there, and I think it was uh brother brad talked about meditate upon it. We should feed upon it and meditate upon it. That is what we're talking about here. And it's God's faithfulness. It is his working in us. So if we want to be working out our salvation, there is a responsibility we have to apply. what God is putting into us. He is working. He's molding us and making us more and more like Christ. Second thing I would find here Abounding love in the knowledge of God produces discernment for the excellent will of God. Abounding love in the knowledge of God. Have a love for God and His Word, and that will produce discernment for the excellent will of God. Third thing is the ultimate goal and purpose of us is life is to bring glory and praise to God. We are not doing it to make impress anybody in here. We're not doing it to make a name for ourselves. We are lifting up the name of Jesus. Jesus Christ. Why is our country in such a mess? Why is there so much chaos? Our nation as a whole has turned its back away from God, and the church has become kinda weak and kind of mediocre as uh brother. Brother Enrique was talking about. I'm not talking about our church, I'm talking about church as a whole. It's become a lot more worldly also. So here we see three things. That can help us to have this joy. And I like the first one in particular. My confidence and my joy is in the gospel of Jesus Christ. What he has done. It's based on God's faithfulness to me, not my works. We get so caught up in trying to do everything that we think And abounding in love and the knowledge of God produces discernment for the excellent will of God. Our ultimate goal is to bring glory and praise to God. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you this morning. Thank you for the joy we have of being together as your church. Father, I thank you for each one. Each one who has come out this morning, not out of sense of duty, but they will Wanted to be here to learn and grow and be in fellowship. Father, help us to learn this joy. Help us, Lord, enable us. Enable us to Reprioritize our lives. We seem to put everything in different boxes and it never works that way, Lord. May we keep you in the center of our Our lives. For we know that joy can only come from our relationship to you and your working in and through us as we are growing and abounding in our love and of the knowledge of view and being able to discern what is best, not just good. Thank you for each one, Lord, and I pray as we go through our week that we would consciously remind ourselves And think about joy. What is robbing me from this joy? What has come into my life that I am not allowing uh joy to reign over it? And I think of Paul being in prison. Chained to a guard, still had that joy. And Father, he was beaten, spit upon, just like Jesus. And Father, Jesus is going to be our perfect example as we continue in this book if you're willing, Father. I thank you so much for your goodness and your kindness. Please bless our pastor and his family as they are away. Give them a good time. And uh Caitlin's gonna be leaving and going to school soon and I think they just wanted to have some time that they could just get together around her. And I pray it would be a sweet time, Lord, of fellowship. Give them rest. And I pray also, Lord, that you will guide and direct us for your glory and for your praise. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.