Apparently our uh song leader thinks it's Fourth of July or something. something here. And uh isn't it, you know, when the country is just a mess and when Isn't it wonderful to know that we can come all together and worship God? Amen. And uh what the things that are most important don't change. Like don't have Crazy interceptions and things like that. And we can come and celebrate that today day rather than other things. Psalm ninety five is where we're going to open our worship time together today. ninety five says, O come let us sing to the Lord. Let us shout joyfully to the rock of our salvation. Let us come before His presence with thanksgiving. Let us show shout joyfully to him with song Psalms for the Lord is the great God, and the great king above all gods. In his hand are the deep places of the earth, the heights of the hills are his Also. Rebellion, as in the day of trial in the wilderness. When your fathers tested me, they tried me, though they saw my work. For forty years I was grieved with that generation, and said It is a people who go astray in their hearts, and they do not know my ways, so I swore in my wrath they shall not enter my rest. Let's pray together. Father, we praise you this morning because you are a holy God. You are separate from your creation You are distinct and unique entirely. And Lord, you say in your word that you are calling out a holy people. We praise you, Father, for how you work. And you we know, we confess before you, as did Israel, we fail you. We confess that we are not holy the way you are holy. And just as Israel failed to be able to meet up to the standards of the law, so we fail to meet up to the standards of the law of the law. And we confess that to you. We are grateful that because of Christ And his fulfillment of all of the demands of the law, we are grateful, Father, that you can command us be holy as you are holy. And expect that of us and equip us to do that. And yet we still fail you, and we admit that before you this morning. Lord, as we look at your word later on today, I pray that you would teach us more about your holiness and also about how we might set aside times to worship you in a separated way. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. So as we start here, it looks like there was maybe somebody had a pick six here Oh no no, sorry, that's last night's game, pick six. We'll start with number three seventeen. Again, that's the score of last night's game, three to seventeen Sorry about that. We're really no no more foul jokes. Let's go ahead and get going here. Hopefully you caught the pun on the foul. Let's go to the Lord and Father, we we echo some of the words that we just heard uh played that we We do ask you to haste the day when faith will be sight, when this old will pass away And all things will become new. When this corruptible vessel will be made incorruptible, when We will be like the Savior we so love. We'll be made and fashioned like into His glorious body. What a day that will be. We thank you, Lord, for the fact that that's what we have to look forward to. We recognize right now is struggle, is is difficulty. But that is a part of your plan for us. You do not promise an immediate escape, but rather you would have us to be here to know you, to seek you, to look for you, to be guided by you, to depend on you We thank you that we have your aid in all of these aspects. That we are not alone. That we can rely on you. We thank you, Lord, that you are holy, and that you do call us to holiness, and that you aid us in our pursuit of holiness. Lord, we pray that you would help us to continue to live the Christian life as you would have us to live it. We would be a separate people, that we would be a people that strives for holiness and to be like your son. There are so many things, Lord, that that we have on our minds today that we bring with us. many many trials and struggles that that we are going through as individuals and and as a body and Lord we bring before you uh Harry and the continual uh waiting gain that this is. We we we ask that uh you would provide those results soon for him from the test that he had last week. We We ask that that those results would be favorable, but uh whatever the outcome is, we we ask that uh that that you would be working in the lives of Harry and Joey and any that that they come in contact with, that there would be such a a uh A piece about them through this whole process that it would go noticed by other people. We pray for Dave and Nancy and their family, their their children, their grandchildren, uh all that are that are bearing this this burden Lord, we we see you have in your sovereignty allowed all these things to take place in their lives physically at once, and while it seems like too much on human plane, we know that you can give strength and grace for for these struggles and these concerns. We pray for uh Dave's surgery Coming up we we ask that um that you would work in a mighty way uh that it would be effective that it would have been a desired results. Lord, we ask that you would move and guide the surgeons' hands that they would come out of this safely And that we would be praising your name for that. We pray for uh the the continued recovery and the the physical ailments that Nancy is dealing with dealing with help her um help her to to deal with all of that and and Rely on you for each day, for for each hour of each day. We praise you that you don't leave us alone in these circumstances. Circumstances. We pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Today is a scripture reading comes from uh the two primary passages that Pastor Jim will be preaching from. The first will be in Exodus 20 and then I'll move over to Hebrews Chapter four Beginning chapter twenty verse eight Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy. Six days you shall labor and do all your work, but the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord your God. In it you shall do no work, you nor your son, nor your daughter, nor your male servant, nor your female servant, nor your cattle, nor your nor your stranger who is within your gate For in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested the seventh seventh day Therefore, the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it. And then over in Hebrews chapter 4. Verses one through thirteen. Therefore, since a promise remains of entering his rest, let us fear lest any of you seem to have come short of it. For indeed the gospel was preached to us well as well as to them, but the word which they heard did not profit them, not being mixed with faith in those who heard it. For we who have believed do enter that rest, as he said, So I swore in my wrath, they shall not enter my rest, although the works were finished from the foundation of the world. For he has spoken in a certain place of the seventh day in this way, and God rested on the seventh day from all his works. And again in this place they shall not enter my rest Since therefore it remains that some must enter it, and those to whom it is first preached did not enter because of disobedience, again he designates a certain day, saying in David Today, after such a long time as it has been said, today, if you will hear his voice, do not harden your hearts. For if Joshua had given them rest, then he would not afterward have spoken of another day. There remains, therefore, a rest for the people of God For he who has entered his rest has himself also ceased from his works as God did from his. Example of disobedience. For the word of God is living and powerful and sharper than any two edged sword Piercing even to the division of soul and spirit, and of joints and marrow, and is the discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. And there is no creature hidden from his sight, but all things are naked and open to the eyes of him to whom we must give an account. So we're going through the Ten Commandments in our series on Exodus, and we've come now to the fourth commandment. And without question, the fourth commandment when I said fourth commandment, you need a little extra. Anyway. Um so the fourth commandment is by far the uh I think I'm on. Yeah, I'm on. Uh is by far the most controversial of all the commandments. And the controversy started almost immediately and uh in i Israel's history uh questions came up about what is work and what is not and who should work and how when are there exceptions And then there would be rabbinical writings that came after that tried to clarify what was, what it meant to keep the Sabbath, and so they started adding to this. By the time you get to Jesus' day, this is definitely the most controversial commandment. And the Pharisees go after Jesus on multiple occasions throughout every gospel he's questioned about his practice of the Sabbath. And in fact, Jesus, if you think in the New Testament, Jesus, he actually did fulfill the Sabbath law, the actual law. But he uh he actually says in those passages, he says, I'm the Lord of the Sabbath. In fact, what he's saying is I know how to apply the Sabbath correctly Well you go you continue into church history and even into the inception of our country. Do you know why we actually have two we have a weekend where we have two days off? That was interesting. Um but uh we have two days off because uh we have Jewish people that still practice the Sabbath and there are actually other Christian groups groups that sometimes or that would call themselves Christians that would uh that practice the Satur Saturday as the Sabbath, and you uh have others that practice Sunday as uh the day of worship and so in our country it's decided let's take both days off So this is a very controversial from beginning to end. This is a very controversial command And the questions are many when it comes to how the Christian is to supply the is to apply this practically. I mean, the Sabbath is not Sunday, the Sabbath is Saturday And yet is should we when we're practicing this sun, like when we do Sunday at church, is that the s are we practicing the Sabbath? How does all this work together Now the reality is what we really need to do when you come to something like this is actually look at the whole mind of God on the matter. When you come to a very controversial kind of subject, you've got to look at multiple passages on this. And we are going to do that today. So this technically is not going to be an exactly expository message It is going to look at just not just the depth of the passage, but we're going to look at the breadth of the subject matter in Scripture so that we can really get a grasp on how do we, as a New Testament Christian apply this, or do we apply it at all? How is that supposed to work when it comes to this fourth commandment? And I want to begin by actually illustrating this with with uh something I think will be helpful. So suppose a man, an American man, loves a particular woman so much That he decides this woman is in Sa is in North Korea, and he decides that he's going to marry her. What he first has to do, though, is rescue her from North Korea. She's actually enslaved in North Korea And so he, because he's a man of means and ability and connections and everything, somehow he's able to deliver this woman from North Korea and bring her to the United States. Not only does he do that, he is committed to eventually marrying her, and so what he does in the initial stages of this is he sets up an apartment for her, he provides for her, gives her a stipend to live on, everything is set up for her. And his desire is to work toward marrying her. But in the process of a little bit of time, it's not long before she though she expresses gratefulness for being delivered from enslavement. the the enslavement of nort North Korea, it's not long before she she exhibits some really str un y strange traits, like she becomes unfaithful to him. Uh she uh she starts seeing other guys and she starts um uh not uh complaining about the provisions that he's making for her She's unfaithful, she's complaining, and and the man, the American man says, you know, um I I I committed to marrying this person I'm actually committed to it, but I really see a problem. And the root problem that I actually see, I I keep talking, you know The the the man talks to the woman about her unfaithfulness and she says, Oh, I'm sorry, and they make up and she does it again and I'm sorry and make up and they she does it again and And then she doesn't even begin to seem to realize the problem and doesn't even admit to the problems and of either and of unfaithfulness and complaining about things and Doesn't even see how bad, how awful what she's doing. And he begins to realize that the root problem is pride. And she he says to her, he says in his mind, I can't marry this woman. Because she has so much pride, she can't see how bad she is. So he comes up with an idea. He says, I want to give of myself as a husband to her But I can't marry her the way that the way that I really want to. And so what I'm going to do first is I'm going to come up with an agreement. And this particular agreement is going to have conditions in the agreement. It's going to set up exactly how our relationship is going to be, how we can have a good relationship. It's going to be a really good agreement that's going to be beneficial for both of us. But it's going to have conditions, and the conditions I'm going to meet is that I'm going to be completely 100% faithful to her, but I'm also going to require in this conditional agreement that she needs to be faithful to me. And it's going to set up these this relationship. Now, he knows, here's what he knows: he knows she will not be able to keep up her end of the bargain. He knows that. In fact, the reason he's doing this is not only to set up what a good relationship looks like, he is also doing this to show her that she cannot meet the condition. If she will realize she can't do it, she'll realize how severe her unfaithfulness is. How awful it is that she's complaining about his provision. If she will realize how bad it is and humble herself and completely depend upon him, then he will be able to marry her. And what I've just described is the Mosaic Covenant. The Mosaic Covenant is a conditional agreement. Whereby God said to the nation of Israel, I cannot enter into an unconditional agreement with you. That's marriage. Marriage is an unconditional covenant where both say No matter what, we're staying together, that's the condition. There's no conditions to this. That's a marriage. And what he says is we're going to have a conditional covenant, and it's going to set up the relationship so you can see exactly what it looks like to have a good relationship with me. It's going to have all kinds of conditions But ultimately I know you're going to fail, and the point is for you to show you you can't meet it. So we have a conditional Covenant. Now, why am I bringing that up? I'm bringing that up because in fact, this conditional covenant had a sign. And we will get to that in a minute. But the sign, the sign of this conditional covenant, not an unconditional covenant, but a conditional covenant, this sign was the Sabbath. It's in fact it says in Exodus chapter thirty-one, verse sixteen, Therefore the children of Israel shall keep the Sabbath to observe the Sabbath through the generations As a perpetual covenant, it is a sign between me and the children of Israel forever, for it is six days the Lord, and the seventh day he rested and was refreshed So the sign of this conditional covenant, the Bible says, is the Sabbath. Now Here's where we here's we need where we need to understand a lot of things in order to understand how we are to apply the Sabbath. We are no longer under this conditional covenant. So we're not going to be applying this Sabbath the same way Israel did. Now, to understand all this, I'm just going to say very directly this: that what God wants us to do with the Sabbath is to follow the heart of the Sabbath, but not the ritual of the Sabbath. And I'm going to show this to you as we go through this and what that exactly means. I mean even that's hard to understand. What does that mean to find follow the heart of the Sabbath, but not the ritual of the Sabbath? We're going to understand this, but first we need to understand three things. We're going to look at the role of the Sabbath. We're going to look at the practice of the Sabbath, and then we'll be able to understand the application of the Sabbath. So, first of all, we'll look at the role of the Sabbath. The role of the Sabbath is the sign of the covenant, this covenant that God made with Israel through Moses up at Mount Sinai. Now, if you go into the New Testament, the Bible is actually going to say in Romans chapter 7, verse 12, that this was a good covenant. It says, therefore the law is holy and the commandment holy and just and good. It is a good commandment. It is a holy commandment. But the law, the Old Testament law, was also clearly, ultimately there to reveal sin. It says this in Romans chapter 3, verse 20. Therefore, by the deeds of the law, no flesh will be justified in his sight, for by the law is the knowledge of sin. God created the Old Testament law Because we couldn't see our sin without it. It shows us our sin. Romans 5. 20 Moreover, the law entered that offence might abound, but where sin abounded grace did much more abound. The law entered where the offence would abound. What purpose does then does the law serve? It was added because of transgressions Now the mediator does not mediate for one only, but but God is one. And that verse actually it says it's it was added because of transgressions until there was a seed that would come, and it brings me to my next point actually, that it that Jesus is the fulfillment of the of this covenant. So Israel could not keep the Ten Commandments along with the other 601 commandments. Could not keep all of them to make a total of 602 commandments. to make the total of 613. Could not keep 603 commandments. Sorry, my math is fuzzy. Alright, anyway. He couldn't keep all of those commandments Israel couldn't do it, and it demonstrated that. Alright. So then what happened? Jesus came, and what Jesus said is this. He said this in Matthew chapter 5, verse 17. Do not think that I am come to destroy the law or the prophets. I did not come to destroy, but Jesus says this: I came to fulfill. For assuredly I say to you, till heaven and earth pass away, one jot or one tittle will by no means pass from the law till all be full Jesus did what Israel could not do. When he came to earth, he lived a perfect life. And he followed the law and kept it completely, fulfilling it. And actually, according to Romans chapter 10, it brought an end to the Mosaic Law. Romans 10, verse 4 says, For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes. In other words, let's Put it this way, you have the completion of that Mosaic covenant. It is Jesus completes it. It's the The end of the law. You are now not operating as a Christian. You're not operating from Mount Sinai. We're operating from Mount Calvary. Does that make sense? Now I know this is a little tedious, but it's absolutely necessary. There is so much confusion about the Sabbath. I want to be very clear about how all this is supposed to work So clearly what the Bible says is that we are no longer under the law of Moses. Now you say, well, the Ten Commandments we are, certainly the Ten Commandments we are. Actually, technically, we're not. In 2 Corinthians 3, verse 7, it says this But if the ministry of death written and engraved on stones was glorious, so that the children of Israel could not look steadily at the face of Moses because And it says in this passage, for if the ministry of condemnation had glory, the ministry of righteousness expl Remains is much more glorious. The point is this. And there's another passage verse twelve that explains this even more, but it based the point is this It's been done away. The law written in stone. Well, the only law written in stone was the Ten Commandment of Israel written in stone was the Ten Commandments So the Ten Commandments technically are all done away with. They are no longer what the Christian should be following at all, except All nine of the ten were reiterated in the what we're going to call what we'll see in a minute is the new covenant. We'll see this in a minute. Nine out of the ten commandments are all mentioned in the New Testament, in the New Covenant, under Mount Calvary. The one exception is the Sabbath. Why? Because the Sabbath is what? The sign of what? It's like the ring of what? It's the ring of the old covenant. It's the ring of the Mosaic Covenant. Well, you don't want to have the ring of the old covenant on when you are actually supposed to have the ring of the new covenant on. Does that make sense? So we do not have in Scripture Christ fulfills it, therefore it the end of the law has come But all of the nine, and I won't take the time to go through all of them in the New Testament, but I can just guarantee you they're all there. All of the nine of the ten commandments, with the exception of the fourth, are in there, and the Christian is supposed to follow the nine of the ten. Now, I know this is a bit tedious, but I but stick with me and you can understand this. Here's the question then. Okay We understand this that we've got this the Ten Commandments or I'm sorry, we're under we're not under the law, the Mosaic Law We're not under the Mosaic Conditional Covenant, but what now? Okay, go back to our illustration. What's our illustration? Well you've got the remember the American the American man? He's taken he's uh delivered this North Korean woman He's uh provided for her, clothed her, fed her, everything like that. And and they've c entered into a a conditional covenant. At the end of the conditional covenant, she realizes, man, I I cannot keep this She confesses that to him. She says, I can't keep this. I I I I I'm I'm unworthy uh to marry you. I'm I'm I'm just unworthy. And now the man says, okay, now because you understand this, now I will open up a And this will be an unconditional covenant where everything will depend upon me now. And you just have to humble yourself and depend on me. That's the new covenant. Will you take your Bibles and turn to Jeremiah 31? I actually want you to see this. Or it's up there. I guess that's okay too. Jeremiah 31. And you're going to see it here. This is quite interesting. Let's pick up here in verse 32. It says, not according to the covenant that I made with our let me c let's let's pick up a thirty one. It says, Behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah. Not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day that I look them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt, my covenant which they broke, though I was a husband to them. Did you catch that? In other words, in the Mosaic covenant, God's end was that he was to be the husband, because he could do that to them. To be a husband to them. He says, But this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days Saying, the Lord, I will put my law in their minds, right in their hearts, and I will be their God, and they will be their people. No more shall every man teach his neighbor, and and it goes on to say this later on in the text finally it says, For I will forgive their iniquity and their sins And I will remember no more. Jeremiah 31 is talking about the fact that God is going to establish a new covenant. We are now, if we know Christ is our Savior, we are under a new covenant. Now That's the role of the Sabbath. The role of the Sabbath is a sign in this old agreement, this old covenant. Now we are under a new covenant. Does that mean then that we entirely, completely throw out the Sabbath? And the answer is actually We are not obligated to fulfill the Sabbath like they were in the Old Testament. We are not under that law, but the answer is Is that there is on some level an application for us as Christians to fulfill the principle of the Sabbath? Now, what does that include? All right. But first, let's then turn to e Exodus chapter 20. Turn to our text, and we're going to look at the practice of the Sabbath. What was God actually doing? commanding them to do. What does the Sabbath mean? How were they supposed to fulfill the Sabbath? Everybody tracking with me so far? I know that this is a this is one that you're going to have to stay with me. You may need to write some things down to stay. If you will, you will hopefully, Lord willing, you will really understand this from now on here on out. How are we to apply the fourth commandment Not saying you'll have no questions, but hopefully the a lot of them will be answered. Okay, are we ready? Alright, so what first of all, let's look at the text, what first of all uh is it Look at verse 8. It says, Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Six days you shall labor and do all your work, but the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord your God. In it you shall do no work. You, nor your son, nor your daughters, nor your male servant, nor your female servant, nor your cattle, nor your stranger who is within the gates. Okay. What is the purpose of the Sabbath? There's two major purposes. Number one Number one is to remember. Well, what to remember what? In Deuteronomy chapter five You have this this mentioned again. It's a reiteration of this fourth commandment. In Deuteronomy chapter 5, it says this Picking up in verse 12. Observe the Sabbath day to keep it holy. As the Lord your God commanded you, six days you will labor and do all your work. But the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord your God. In you shall do no work, you nor your son, nor your daughter, nor your male servant, nor your female servant, nor your ox, nor your donkey nor any of your cattle, nor your stranger, nor uh who is within your gates, that the male servant and your female servant may rest as well as you Why? And remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt, that the Lord your God brought you out from there by the mighty hand and by an outstretched arm, therefore the Lord your God commanded you to go. Keep the Sabbath day. God says you need to set aside time to remember what I did for you. I delivered you. from the enslavement and the bondage and the oppression of Egypt. You need to remember this. You need to set this aside a time to remember this. So number one, it's to remember, number as far as the purpose, there is a second purpose. The second purpose is found in Psalm 95. Now we actually read Psalm 95 at the very beginning. But if you want to turn there I'd encourage that. Psalm 95 and I want you to see something I'm having you turn a lot. This is a bit academic, but I hope that it really will answer questions for you and help you in the long run. In Psalm 95, I want you to see what it says. I'm going to do it this way. I want you to notice that the context of Psalm 95 is actually the Sabbath. And the context is also the fact that that um that the nation of Israel could not enter into the promised land. God's going to make some connections here for Would you notice just pick up first in verse 7? Well, actually pick up in verse um verse 8. Pick up in verse 8. It says this Do not harden your heart as in the rebellion, as in the day of the trial of the wilderness, when your father tested me They tried me, though they saw my work, for forty years I was grieved with the generation and said, It is it is a people who go astray in their hearts and do not know my ways, I swear my what wrath, they shall not enter my what? That word rest is the word Sabbath They will not enter into my Sabbath. They will not enter into my rest. What did God remember this? Remember that God has Calling Israel to go into Canaan land, which he had provided for them. They were to fight the Canaanites and all those were in the land, and they were going to possess the land, and that was going to be their place of rest. Okay, that's the what is it though? What is this rest? Look at the first part of the Psalm. Psalm 1 says this. O come, let us sing to the Lord. Let us shout joyfully to the rock of our salvation. Let us come before his presence with thanksgiving. Let us shout joyfully to him with Psalms. For the Lord is great. And great the great kingdom of all gods, in his hand are the deep places of the earth, and the height of his the hills are also his. He's re-realizing the creation The sea is his, for he made it, and his hands formed the dry land. O come, let us worship and bow down. Let us kneel before the Lord our Maker. For he is our God, and we are the people of his pasture, and the sheep of his hand, today if you will hear his voice. What is David doing in this passage? He's doing what He's worshiping. What does it mean to enter into the rest of God? Well, number one, to remember the deliverance, but also to worship him. To worship him and the beauty of his holiness, to set aside time to worship him, that is God's purpose. So, to remember and to worship. Now let me just pause and ask you this question. Should Christians be doing that? Absolutely. It is absolutely necessary. It is vital, and we're going to see how vital this is in a few moments, that we do both of these things. Things. We're not going to remember the deliverance that God that God delivered us out of out of Egypt. We're going to remember that Christ delivered us from our the enslavement of our sin And we ought to constantly be taking times to remember that. And we ought to worship God. Now it's interesting Interesting that when the Pharisees in the book of Mark came to Jesus and they said to Jesus, You're violating the Sabbath, Jesus actually said something something to them that's really interesting. He said the Sabbath is not made for the uh the the Sabbath man is not made for the Sabbath. The Sabbath is made for man Man's not made for the Sabbath. The Sabbath is made for man. In other words, God created the Sabbath to be a time where man could worship him, not just Because it pleases God, but it's refreshment for man. In fact, that's the point of Exodus 31:17, where it says that it It is a sign between me and the children of Israel. For six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth, and the seventh day he rested, God did, and was refreshed. That is that if you as a child of God want to be refreshed, then you've got to worship God And if you are to worship God, you must remember the deliverance of God. And when you do that, you are practicing the Sabbath Now let's go on. Let's look at the methods. Just real quickly then, okay, how do we practice how do we worship God? How do we remember God? How does the nation of Israel do this? Well, I want you to know this, then there are two ways that God says to do that. God says in 9 and 10, it says to remember the Sabbath and to keep it holy. The word Sabbath is an interesting word. It means to rest, but it actually could be translated to stop. So the rest that it's talking about is not sleep. It's not, okay, let's go to bed. That's not what it's talking about here. It's talking about stopping. Pausing. It's like it the uh maybe a good illustration would be a musical rest. Where a musical rest, what happens when you're going along in music and you find a rest? What happens? You stop, you pause And then you move on. And actually, I think I meant to check with a some musician musician around here. I think the rest is not just there to get let you take Take a breath, although that is helpful. But there's usually interpretive reasons why they put rests there to sort of let you pause and think about what's been said in the phrase in that. There's meaning to it Either way, that's definitely the case with the Sabbath. The Sabbath is for us to pause and stop. To stop. And to and then also it says to keep it holy. To separate it. To stop, and to holy means to separate, to separate it from the other days. Why Because we are to keep it holy. And the reason is this, because God did For in six days, look at what it says in verse 11, for in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth, the sea, and all that is in them. and rested the seventh day. Therefore, the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it. You know who practiced the Sabbath first? God did. Did God need sleep? He didn't need sleep. That wasn't the problem. Point. What God did was he stood back from his creation after he had made all of his creation and he said, Behold, it was very good. And he was able to see his own glory in creation, and he just stopped. But he also invites you and I to see his glory as well. And to stop and to rest and to worship and to be refreshed by our worship. And that sets us up then for the application of the Sabbath. How is it that the Christian is to apply the Sabbath? And the answer is actually going to be found in Hebrews chapter 1. Chapter 4. Would you take your Bibles and turn there? In Hebrews chapter 4, we're now going to get real clarity about: okay, this is written, this is written to Christians Believing Christians, they probably had a Hebrew background, very likely, if not absolutely. Okay, so they were Jewish believers, but they were believers These believers, interestingly, were in extremely troubled times. Can I just pause and say, are we living in troubled times today? I mean, I don't really care what your political opinion is. If you think we're not living in troubled times, you got your head stuck in the sand. Because we are living in extremely troubled times. Times. And frankly, in my opinion, it doesn't seem to be getting any better. And Hebrews was written in a time where they were really living and struggling difficult. times where they looked ahead and they saw that there was going to be a lot of tribulation and turmoil and distress, and there was a temptation on the part of these Jewish believers believers to defect from the faith, to fall away from the faith. It was just too hard. Brothers and sisters in Christ, we've lived in such freedom in this land But there very well, and I'm not saying there is, I'm not a prophet, but there very well may be coming a day where it might be a lot harder to be a Christian How will you do? And Hebrews is actually here to help. Us. And here is what is said in Hebrews chapter 4. Therefore, since a promise, there's actually a promise that remains. To enter his rest, lest any of you seem to have come short of it, for indeed the gospel is preached to us as well as to them But the word which they heard did not profit them, but being mixed, they're talking about Israel when they didn't follow what Christ said and uh what God said and they had to stand in the wilderness for forty years. Not being mixed with faith in those in those who heard it. For we who have believed do enter that rest as he has said. So I swore in my wrath that they should not enter my rest, although the works were finished from the foundation of the world, for he has spoken in in certain place of the seventh day in the this way. God has rested on the seventh day for from all his works. And again Verse six. Since therefore it remains that some must enter it, and those to whom it was first preached did not enter, because it's Okay, what is this rest talking about in this passage? And I'm going to say very care very clearly, it is not talking about heaven primarily. Now you may have heard that before. A very common interpretation of this text is that rest here is speaking of rest Well, if that's the case, why on earth does it tell Christians to enter into it? In fact, it's going to say to be diligent to enter into it. Is it saying commit suicide? That can't be what it's saying. Is it saying that you'd still have something to earn? It can't be what it's saying. The primary thing, now is it true that when we go to heaven we will be at rest with God? Yes. But the primary thing it's saying in this passage, it's pointing out, is not an invitation to go to heaven It's talking to believers here. It's an invitation to do something else, and it's an exhortation to do something else In fact, he points out, the writer of Hebrews says that this is an invitation that was not just given by Moses to Israel, but was also given from Joshua to Israel, and again to David to Israel. This is not talking about heaven. Some believe it's talking about the millennial kingdom. And it's not talking about that either. It's talking about a principle that God wants Christians to understand. Now look at what it says here in the passage. Verse 11. Let us therefore be diligent. To enter that rest lest any one fall according to the same example of disobedience. Against living and powerful and sharper than any two edged sword, piercing even the division of soul and spirit, and the joints of marrow, and is the discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart, and there is no creature hidden from it. site. Do you know what God's talking about here? He is saying this. He is saying that you need to do all diligence and I need to do all diligence. To enter into the rest. What was rest, folks? What was rest? Rest was to stop and to worship God And to remember that God, that Christ has delivered you from the enslavement of sin. That is rest. And you and I, as Christians, need the refreshment of the Word of God every day Where we are worshiping God, we are stopping, we are having a personal Sabbath Where we are stopping and we are nourished by the Word of God, we are worshiping God, we are refreshed by God This is what God is calling us to do. He's saying, due diligence, work at this. It's going to take work to enter rest, which doesn't make sense until you realize what rest is. And there's a warning here, brothers and sisters in Christ. There is a warning that those who who choose not to do this When times get tough, when there is tribulation, when there is distress, when it becomes difficult to be a Christian There are many who will what? Who will fall? You and I need to take heed. We need to be warned. We need to understand how important it is, how absolutely vital it is that we enter into God. God's refreshing worship of Himself. Now, how does the New Testament Christian do that specifically? Now, I've already mentioned some of the application of this. The truth is that the Bible does not, the New Testament is not set up in such a way where it's going to give you a lot of regulations on how to do this. It's not the new covenant's not set up that way. It's not going to say, well, you need to go to church three times a day, or two twice a day, or three times a week, or that you know you need to. It's not going to say that. It's not how it works. It's not going to say, well, you need to have personal devotions every day. Why? Because this isn't an obligation. This is a privilege. This is something we get to do. And it is a there is a warning. If you don't do this, you're gonna fall. But it's not, it's a warning. Why? Because the Sabbath ultimately was made for man. Not man for the Sabbath. If you're going to your devotion, you're going, oh, I've got to do this. I'm obligated. Oh man, I've got to go to church on Sunday night. Oh, I'm obligated. You got the wrong idea. God says that He wants us to be refreshed to worship Him. Do you know the problem, brothers and sisters in Christ? Do you know the problem? The problem is that we it's it's like we have no appetite for this. Or we have we we have a diminished appetite for this. We just don't have the taste We are so crowded with so many other things that it's like we just don't delight in it. We don't enjoy it. We're not refreshed by it. That's the problem. We're not, can I say it this way, we're not keeping it holy. We're not separate, we're not taking separating it as something that is special. And important. I think on a daily basis. Now there is a practical application of this. There was a sign, Sabbath was a sign to the to the old coven. What is the sign in the New Testament, if we could call it that? It's the Lord Supper. Do you remember what it says in Luke 22 and in 1 Corinthians chapter 11? It says, this is the what? The new covenant in my blood. This do you as often as you drink it in what? In remembrance of me. The new covenant has its own its its own origin And that is that we together as a body of believers have to re constantly remember of the deliverance of Christ. And they did this daily just to come together and to remember. Maybe what's God what God is doing in our country can Can I just say it candidly? Maybe what God is doing in our country is He's causing us to depend on where to go for dependence where we ought to. To Him, to His Word, to the body of Christ. That's what the first century church did. They weren't dependent on the government at all. They weren't dependent upon the country. They were dependent upon God through each other. And they came together and they remember what Christ did for them. That's why the Bible says in the book of Hebrews, he says this, not forsaking the together of those uh as some are, but exhorting one another, and so much the more as ye see the day approaching When you see tribulation coming, when you see when it becomes hard to worship, is when you really gotta worship, both personally and And corporately. Now, with all of that in mind, let's let's just make these three applications. Number one. Christians need to, they must set aside times to remember Christ's deliverance, worship Him, and be Refreshed. We must. Not must as in I'm a bad person if I don't, or I'm somehow obligated. Christ has fulfilled the law. Folks, there's a there's a warning here. For us. But there's also, it's a privilege. It's like if you don't do this, you're going to go the wrong way. But if you do this, this is going to be wonderful. Number two, entering into God's rest, both individually and corporately, requires diligence. You've got to work out It's interesting in the New Testament, you don't it's not as though, okay, you don't have a conditional covenant anymore. You have an unconditional covenant. It's all dependent on the Lord. But it's not as though we don't wear not to be diligent It says in 1 Peter, add to your faith virtue, due diligence to add to your faith, virtue, to virtue, knowledge, and all that. And God says in his word here, do be diligent to enter into his rest. Points to the place of rest. It's the Word of God. Number three, those who fail to learn to enter into his rest will likely fall when tough times come. Those who fail to learn to enter into his rest will likely fall when tough times come. And that, brothers and sisters in Christ. That is what it means for the Christian to follow the heart of the Sabbath. Like every, I'd like us to just uh quiet our hearts before the Lord for a moment. And we're gonna pray together in a minute. Just like everybody to bow their heads and let's close our eyes for just a few minutes and I want to just do this. And I'll do this very often often. But I I would suspect and I would hope that there would be Folks here that would be that would have some conviction that they really need to do this. They really need to give diligence to worshiping God personally. And to worshiping God corporately, not just to please the Lord, but because it's refreshing. And we need it. And I just want to give you, in the silence of your own, you know, in the quietness of your own heart, I we're not going to do raised hands or anything like that. I just want to give you a chance to ask God to help you to be diligent in these areas. We do that. We'll just take a few minutes of silence before the Lord and then we will uh we will come Together and sing our final song. Our Father, we do come to you and We have been reminded again of how when we worship you, we are fulfilling the exact reason That we were created. Father, we do ask, Lord, that you would really help us to Be diligent in coming to you to remembering what you've done for us. us to stopping and worshiping daily and certainly weekly as we meet together Lord, I ask that you just help us with this and I pray, Lord, that you, um, as we see the day approaching As we see tribulation and difficulty coming, that you and your sovereignty often allow these kinds of things to purify your church, strengthen us, to do And I pray that you would do that. And I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Let's stand and sing together. And we're going to sing a song that really describes the rest of God. And I think it'll be a help to us as we close. Let's all stand and sing. There is a place of joy and rest, near to the heart of God, on space person can I God will last dear to the heart of God, O Jesus blessed read Sent from the heart of God all cause to wake me for thee, dear to the heart of God. There is a place of calmercy, dear to the heart of God. A place where we are savoring near to the heart of God. Oh Jesus blessed me from the heart of God. Bold us who wake me forthy dear to the heart of God. There is a place of release near to the heart of God. A place where all this joy is peace near to the heart of God. Oh Jesus bless redeemer, send from the heart of God, O'Sto wake me for thee. Near to the heart of God. Rick, if you close us in prayer. Come back tonight here from the book of Daniel. Uh Hisham will be preaching for us. We're going to get into some interesting stuff, really important stuff for us in the days ahead as we get into Bible prophecy. Tonight is going to be a deliver uh we're going to hear it see if God's deliverance and of Daniel and Lyons then and but uh things are gonna heat up here soon. So uh and read come uh pray for us and come come back tonight. Father, we thank you for the reminders today that your word tells us, commands us to diligently Enter into your rest to make it a priority to to show to um be active in taking time to stop, to pause, to remember you, to re worship you, to remember What you've delivered us from and to worship you for it. Pray that we would not soon forget these truths, but implant them into our lives. Now we can walk closer and closer with you each day. Pray in Jesus' name, amen. People from very different backgrounds and from every age group. But we all have one thing in common. We have found a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. When a person discovers how to have a genuine relationship with God, they are given a sense of purpose and meaning in life. When that same person belongs to a loving community where God's word is taught, they will grow in their relationship with the Lord, and their life grows in purpose and meaning. Our focus is on making and building disciples for God's glory. We accomplish this through corporate worship on Sunday mornings. Through adult Bible studies where we learn God's Word and how to effectively apply it to our lives, and through our discipleship home groups that meet in various locations throughout the region. Additionally, there are one-on-one and couple-to-couple counseling and discipleship opportunities. We genuinely desire to help you grow spiritually any way we possibly can. Our children's ministries are extremely important to us. We have a lot of young families with children, and we believe in the importance of teaching truth to the next generation. Teachers and nursery workers will be available to introduce themselves and assist you in signing your children in and out of their classrooms. Bethel Baptist Church is a growing, loving family community. We hope that we've been able to show you a small glimpse of what Bethel is like. But we'd love to meet you personally. Join us for a worship service, a small group for Bible study. Let us be a blessing to you and your family.