Well good morning once again. That was good. Uh it's wonderful to be in the house of the Lord together this morning, isn't it? We are going to pray first, so if you would bow your heads and hearts with me as we go to the Lord Heavenly Father, we are gathered here this morning in awe of who you are. The one true living God who is almighty, all powerful, all-wise, all-knowing. You are sovereign over all of your creation. Us and the grace that you bestow upon us, the many blessings, Father, that you bestow upon us. Help us never, never to take for granted, Father, the goodness that you show Show us, undeserving as we are, Father, forgive us of the times that we trespass against you. Help us to be quick to repent. And turn back to you. And Father, we're grateful this morning just for the joy of being together. And Lord, as we are beginning the time that we celebrate your birth. And the The great joy that that brings that you would send your only begotten Son to be that sacrificial lamb on the cross who went in our place. And Lord, we are so grateful and so thankful for the great sacrifice which you have made at the cross on our behalf. And Father, I do pray this morning. If any are here this morning are not certain About their relationship with you. That Father, through the teaching of your word and by the power of your spirit, I ask, Lord, if you'd work in the hearts of all of us. And Father, remind us of this And Father, I pray as we come to your word this morning that you would cast aside all the cares and concerns of this world today Today, at this time, that we may hear from your word and be led by your spirit, that you would reveal your truth to us and who you are, and Lord, that we would find that great joy and that he hope that we have in you. And it would be encouraging to us this morning. And Father, we do pray for those who are unable to be here this morning. And we ask God your good hand to be upon them and bless them today. And Father, we do want to lift up our friends and brothers and sisters in Ukraine and other places around the world who are being greatly persecuted. Father. And Father, we know that you are sovereign over all things. And we know that, Father, no one, no one escapes your judgment. I pray for those who are being evil and bringing evil upon your people and upon people, period. And God we trust in your judgment. And we trust in your goodness. And we pray for those that are uh trying to serve uh in the middle of in the midst of all that. We ask God that you would put a hedge upon protection around them, that you would bless them with the ability and the strength to share your gospel with those who may not know you. And Father, we thank you this morning again just for your goodness. and your kindness. And we ask that you be with us as we come to your word. And uh, Lord, that we would be attentive, and that Lord, we would worship you in spirit and in truth. In Jesus' name Name. Amen. We are going to be reading this morning from 1 Peter, and we are going to be looking at chapter 1, verses 1 through 9. 1 Peter 1 verses 1 through 9. Peter and apostle of Jesus Christ To the pilgrims of the dispersion in Pointus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithnea, elect according to the foreknowledge of God the Father In sanctification of the Spirit for obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his abundant mercy Has begotten us again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled, and that does not fade away. Reserved in heaven for you, who are kept by the power of God through faith for salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. In this you greatly rejoice, though now for a little while, if need be, you have been grieved by various trials. That the genuineness of your faith, being much more precious than gold, that perishes, though it is tested by fire, may be found to praise, honor, and glory at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Christ, whom having not seen you love, though you do not see him, yet believing, you rejoice with a joy inexpressible and full of glory, receiving the end of your faith, the salvation of your soul It is a joy to be here with you this morning. Uh we really appreciate your choice. Um many times uh when in Ukraine or in Russia or in Switzerland when wherever we were we were just thankful for the Lord uh for what he was doing in our lives and uh many times I was asking Lord, why why are you so good to us? We are not deserving it all. Uh but then We remembered. But I think it's on it's on here. But then we remembered uh you guys are praying for us. And uh that that is what God is was doing in our lives, uh just uh answering your prayers. Uh actually Bethel was one of the first well it was the first church uh that we came to. I came to when I was still single in uh nineteen ninety five I think. Uh uh yeah and uh This church was the first one I visited in that small building. And uh this was the first church that uh took us on support And uh for twenty three years uh the church has been supporting us uh both financially and uh in prayers and we are really thankful for what you have been doing for us. Um for us uh on February twenty fourth of this year, uh the world uh turned upside down. Uh we lived in a peaceful and free country of Ukraine. We loved our country and until the last moment we did not believe that Russia could attack us. But on February twenty-fourth we woke up to the sound of uh Russian missiles exploding. Uh there is an airport called Barispol on our side of the city And if you were to fly to Ukraine you would most likely arrive to this airport. Uh I have been to Barispol airport many times, meeting guests, uh flying uh on business. Uh my family and I we flew uh to St. Petersburg, Russia from this airport to visit my side of the family. So uh this is the airport that uh Russian missiles were directed to uh from the very beginning. So they bombed the airport. They bought uh they also bombed uh a tank factory which is located about two miles uh away from our house. So our windows were shaking from early in the morning and all day that day And uh I woke up my children, I said uh to them, You're not going to school today, I think. And uh we didn't know what to do. We came out outside from uh we live in a big uh sixteen story building. Uh and uh we came outside and people were piling out uh from from the building and they were running as the as the big uh uh Ant's house. Uh people were running everywhere, they were packing into their cars, departing somewhere, we didn't know where Uh we went to the store maybe to buy some food. Uh there were people everywhere in the store just grabbing everything off the shelves, uh trying to s to get some supply for the war uh if they did they didn't didn't know if the uh stores would uh continue working. Uh same was about uh ATM machines, there were huge lines to the ATM machines and everything And uh so we uh didn't know what to do. We went back into our house, into our apartment. Uh the windows kept on shaking from all the bl uh um explosions And uh by the end of the day uh people were re uh from our apartment building they were uh gathering into the basement of the apartment house and uh they were planning to spend the night there and I didn't know what would be uh better uh to spend the night there or drive away from Kyiv We prayed and uh I told my wife and family we just pack your bags, whatever you think uh would be useful. And in one hour we we decided to go, like it was late at night already, we decided to leave. Uh decided to leave Kyiv. And the Lord has already provided a place for us. Uh a a girl from our church Uh half a year before that, uh, she decided God wants her to move back to her village in the west of Ukraine and she didn't know why. And uh I would call her and ask her, like, do you not n well, do you know now uh why you need to be there? And she would say, No, I still don't know. But when the war started, uh her house became like a shelter for many many Ukrainians who traveled from uh from the war zone uh to a safer place And they would stay in her house for some for a few weeks, some for a few days, and then uh they would travel further to the west. So we was one of the first ones to travel to her place. It was like an action movie. It was really really uh something that uh I I I don't want anyone to experience because uh uh we we decided we needed uh we uh suggested one of the families uh also from our church uh if they want to evacuate and uh they said yes. Uh but they lived in Irpen. It's a city that uh Ukrainians oh I mean Russians came into uh within that day and they were already in Urpen Uh but uh there was there was this family there. And so we heard explosions somewhere around us And uh the the child in that family he didn't want to come outside of the building because he was so scared we literally had to grab him and bring him to the car. Uh but uh that also helped us to avoid all the traffic outside of Kyiv because because nobody was going that direction. But uh yeah, but eventually we hit the traffic and then we were driving there were four lanes out of Kiev and they were all stuck and they were moving really, really slow And the the way uh the the trip that usually took about four hours, uh it took them about twenty-four hours uh that day uh to to arrive to the west of Ukraine Uh but we noticed that there were some smart guys they were crossing the uh the central line and going down uh on the lanes of the opposite direction and nobody was going to Kiev anyway And so we decided we'd risk that. Uh we'd risk a couple of tickets, uh uh spinning fines and then go the The opposite direction. So we we crossed and first we were like we're going really fast uh one lane on the very left side uh the opposite direction And then there were two lanes, and then there were three lanes, and then there were four lanes, and we were all going that direction and the speeding cameras were taking pictures of us. Uh but we were not getting tickets because we were going the other direction. So we were actually we were over the speed little bit but with a minus sign, you know. Uh but eventually uh we got uh that place and we stayed there for maybe uh two weeks And then I learned that uh being a Russian citizen I can uh exit the country and I could uh take my uh family outside of the country. And uh the Lord showed us the way to Switzerland and then to the United States also So this was all all of this was about nine months ago and we were not uh back to our home uh for nine months. Uh when we lack something here, uh my children come to me and they say, uh dad, I need this, I need that, and I I can tell them exactly where it lays in our apartment in Kiev, uh, but we are not there Uh and we don't know when we will be able to return home. And will we ever be able to return home as a family because of my Russian citizens uh uh citizenship. So it has been nine months now that we have been living without a home and in complete uncertainty of our future. For the whole nine months we have been praying daily in the name of Jesus. uh forgot to stop Putin and uh Russia from destroying the Ukrainian nation. And uh these are the same nine months now that Putin has been continually bombing. our cities every day, subjecting our captured soldiers and civilians to cruel torture, raping women and children, burying them in massive graves uh uh in every captured city that they had and village. And of course it was not just Putin doing that. Uh it is a Russian people that uh we lived amongst uh that I was born in Russia and and I lived amongst them. Uh so this can really drive you crazy. But uh situations are different. Uh your country is in relative peace now, and we thank God for that. Uh but every person in their personal life uh sooner or later they go through some kind of testing in life Everyone suffers. Uh someone has been betrayed or is going through a divorce Uh your children may have gotten out of control and the situation is just unmanageable. Uh yet another person may have a terminal illness. Or you have lost a very close friend or relative? What happened to you And uh even if you're doing great today, I'm really happy for you. Yes, I am really happy for you, but uh trust me, I know for sure now that the situation can ch change in one moment. So one minute everything is stable and predictable, and the next thing you see everything is going downhill. How can we stand the test in our situation? How can we prepare for such a situation? And you know probably uh you probably know a correct answer. It's Jesus. Uh but in order to hear this answer from God, let's turn together once again to 1 Peter. First Peter chapter 1 verses 1 through 9. And you probably understood that by uh by now that uh today uh this sermon uh will be mostly directed to me and my family Uh but I hope uh it will be useful to you too. So are you suffering? Peter persuades us here in this passage that you will definitely stand the test to the end. And as you stand the test, you will uh be in complete peace, tranquility, and joy. And as you endure and stand firm in peace, tranquility and joy through your tribulations You will eventually enter into eternal glory, praise, and honor from your beloved Jesus Christ. You will definitely endure all the sufferings and trials uh that uh that uh fall uh on your lot. And you m you may lose a couple battles, you may feel that you are losing right now, or maybe uh you felt that you were losing, uh, but there is a promise, there is a promise from God uh that you will stand the test. You will be a winner even in those trials that have not yet fallen on your lot. Your life is not over yet, and there might be still sufferings and trials for you around the corner But he will definitely stand the test. And Apostle Peter gives us uh a many, many uh obvious reasons. I will just list four of you from this passage But you once again you know them, but it's worth repeating. Here they are. God has already chosen you out of this world for Himself. That means that you will stand the test. Uh second one wh while you why you will stand the test is that God has already changed your inner nature Third one is God has already abundantly compensated for all your losses And the last one, your faith is real. It's not a fake. So let's read this text of scripture and try to see these four reasons why you will definitely endure. Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to the pilgrims of the dispersion in Poitius, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia. To the elect, according to the foreknowledge of God, the Father. I have replaced them a little bit In sanctification of the Spirit for the obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ. Grace to you and peace be multiplied. Blessed be God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his abundant mercy has begotten us again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. To an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled, and that does not fade away, reserved in heaven for you For you who are kept by the power of God through faith for salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. In this you greatly rejoice, though now, for a little while, if need be, you have been grieved by various trials. That the genuineness of your faith, being much more precious than gold, that perishes, though it is tested by fire But the the genuineness of your faith may be found to praise, honor, and glory at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ, whom having not seen, you love. Though now you do not see him, yet believing you rejoice with joy inexpressible and full of glory, receiving the end of your faith, the salvation of your souls. So, first, what we see here is that Peter is writing about uh he's saying that he is the writer of this letter. Uh he uh describes himself as Peter Uh so Peter is talking to us here and yes we know Apostle Peter. Peter is familiar to many people. Uh people knew uh Peter in his times, and they did trust him, they would definitely listen to his words. But Peter adds something very important to his name here. He is not just Peter. He is an apostle of Jesus Christ. So it is not Peter who persuades us, who persuades you and me today that we will definitely stand the test. It is Jesus Himself who sent Peter to speak for him. And so Jesus Himself, through the mouth of Apostle Peter, convinces us that we will endure the trials that have befallen us. And the first thing he says, you will stand the test because God has already chosen you out of this world for himself. No, of course we remain in this world, but in this world what he describes us is that we are dispersed pilgrims. So these are the circumstances of our life that they make us dispersed pilgrims. And dispersed pilgrims is it's not good, right? But these are the sufferings and trials that befell the believers of the time of Apostle Peter. The early church was persecuted, and perhaps this was because of the Emperor Nero, who burned Rome and blamed Christians for doing so. Or perhaps for many other different reasons, but believers needed to flee for their lives, and they ran, they became refugees. This is one of the meanings for the word pilgrims, refugees. It's just a Ukrainian it's just like the Ukrainian population now. The war forced about fourteen million Ukrainians to become refugees. People abandoned their homes, their property, and with uh one suit suitcase in their hands they uh ended up in uh some strange land. And you know what I learned uh during this war, your whole life would fit in one suitcase. And you don't even need a suitcase. And uh not only did people uh of Peter's time become refugees due to persecution, they were also scattered. So they were scattered to different parts of the Roman Empire. They were no longer together. Uh they lost their families, they lost their loved ones. Uh they have lost their familial surroundings. They were surrounded by strange some strange people, uh with a strange culture and speaking in a strange language So according to the geographical names that Peter lists here, people were scattered very far from each other. And even after being uh fleeing the persecution in Rome, Christians were still persecuted throughout the Roman Empire. So suffering of awaited believers everywhere. Therefore Peter reminds these people, uh, and he reminds you and me. of our other nature. God wants us to remember that despite suffering and hardships We will definitely endure to the end because we are also not just uh dispersed pilgrims, but we are also the chosen ones, the elect. And this is not the circumstances, this is what God is doing for us. Yes, we are scattered refugees by the circumstances of life. But we are chosen by God to be His, to do His will, to inherit His kingdom, to share the whole eternity with Him. So the circumstances tell you you are running for your life, you are a refugee, you are all alone, but God says you're mine. And I know that the theologians in uh in America uh are arguing uh with each other about how we are chosen, but will will not argue about it Let's just focus on what the text is saying here. And it says here that we are chosen ones. No matter what people say about you, no matter how they treat you Uh in God's eyes you are chosen. Why? Because He Himself chose you. This is the this is your position before God now. Therefore, wherever you are, uh whatever situation you are in, uh you are not forgotten. You may be on the very edge of the earth and uh we have this expression uh to be in a God-forsaken place. Well, the place may be God forsaken, but you are not forsaken. You are not forgotten. You are his And so you can be anywhere, but uh you can uh you can make you may be assured that you are uh in God is in complete control and you are under his control, under his supervision And it says here also that we were chosen according to the foreknowledge of God the Father. It means that God thought about you. Uh even before you were here yet. Think about this thought for a while. You were not born yet, but God was thinking about you. Your parents have not yet met, but God was thinking about you. God was thinking about you while his blood was dripping off the cross. God was thinking of you while he was forming the universe. Yes. And then you were finally born. God has been waiting for this moment for the whole eternity. And we also read here that the Holy Spirit led you through life with His invisible hand He was leading you and he brought you to the point, uh to the moment when you finally opened your heart to God and decided uh to live for him. And it's right here in this text. It says the Holy Spirit was leading you. Therefore, you will endure the trials and you will reach the end of your life in complete faith and trust to the Savior. Because He chose you out of this world and you are His. You belong to Him. And even if you are a lonely refugee in a Godforsaken place of the world, you are His And I'm talking I'm not talking about uh myself in America now, it's not a godforsaken place yet. Uh but I'm talking about uh believers in Peter's times, they were feeling this way But I'm also talking about you. Your circumstances may be really difficult, and God is not taking you out of your trials and tribulations. It's going to be really hard on you. You will not go through your sufferings at ease. But in the end you will come as a victor because you are his. His spirit will lead you to the end. This is the first reason. The second reason why why you will stand the test is that because God has already changed your inner nature And this is in verse 3. Blessed be God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who, according to his abundant mercy, has begotten us again to a living hope through Jesus Christ. Through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. So we read in this passage that according to His abundant mercy, He has begotten us again. This means that We were dead, but we are now alive. We are spiritually alive. He breathed uh new spiritual life in us. We were blind, but now we can see the world with completely different eyes. He has opened our spiritual eyes. We are different now from within. And uh this is our new spiritual Regeneration is a is the supernatural act of God. This is what He is doing to a sinner who repents of his sins. And so you are made differently now from inside. The Holy Spirit dwells inside of you. You now think differently, you act differently than before. And you're different from inside. So when something terrible happens to you, uh when you have problems You now think differently. You look at the situation differently. You consider and discuss the situation with God. First. And you trust God that He knows what He is doing, that He He knows what He is allowing in your life, and this is for good. Yes, our old nature that is also still in us, it can scream the opposite. And so often we hysterically cry, God, where is your abundant mercy that we read about here? We don't see your abundant mercy. How can you let uh me suffer like this? How do you allow such suffering to my nation? I don't see your mercy now. So our Christian friends in Ukraine have uh received their young son from the war in a coffin. And he was very cheerful young man. He was full of energy and strength He wanted to proc protect his homeland from the Russian invaders, but then the bullet came and ended his life. And so you can cry, why God? Why now? Is this for this reason that his parents were investing in this child for so many years trying to raise him in a uh to uh raise him in a godly way so that he is able to live for God his whole life and now his life has ended Is this for this reason his mother uh spent so many sleepless nights uh with the baby so that now she can Say goodbye to him and she's still alive and he is dead already. So our own sinful nature, old sinful nature, it doubts God and his mercy. And we need God to come now to this earth and to protect this guy, to shield him from the bullet And we we want him to come and raise him from the dead so that the mother could receive uh her son back. But God has already given Jesus to die for each one of us. He has already given the most valuable He could give. And so our new reborn nature inside of us, uh, it knows it. We know that God still loves us. We know that God knows what he is doing and we trust him. Why? Well my inner nature, my new inner nature convicts me of this, uh convinces me of this. So that's that is the second reason why we will stand the tests. Third one, you will stand the test because God has already abundantly compensated for all your losses. These are verses four and five. So blessed be God, the Father and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has begotten us again, and then I skip to verse 4, to an inheritance. incorruptible and undefiled, and that does not fade away, reserved for you in heaven. You who are kept by the power of God through faith for salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. So, yes, when everything around me collapses, it is very scary. It seems like we have lost everything. We have lost the country, mother and father have lost their son, uh, someone lost their husband and father, someone lost their livelihood. Yes One woman uh on her way to evacuation we prayed for her. We were already in Switzerland and uh one lady in our gathering in Switzerland she asked for prayer. She said her mother uh was in a place w which was con constantly bombed outside of Harkiv city, uh was constantly bombed and so she needed to be evacuated and we prayed for her. And two weeks later she was already with us in Switzerland. Uh but as she was on her way out of Switzerland, uh out of Ukraine, uh her neighbor called and he said, As you left, the bomb got into your house. Well praise the Lord, she was saved. But at the same time she lost her house. And it's not like in America where you have uh insurance and and and you you can rebuild but But she worked uh all her life for for for a penny. And uh she was uh she she saved and eventually she was able to buy this house and a and a little garden in front of her house. Uh but now she has nowhere to return to. Even when the work stops, uh she has nowhere to return to And uh even when she returns, she doesn't have enough enough years in her life to save up for another house. And of course we many of us uh some hurricanes in America but uh we we have not felt This uh we have not experienced this situation like this lady, uh but didn't you feel at moments of sufferings, at the moments of sufferings that everything was gone? Everything Uh we you have lost everything. But you will not lose more than God has already prepared for you in His kingdom. That's what Peter says here. Just think, what can you lose here that compares to the inheritance from God? And all our losses here on earth are extremely tiny compared to what God has prepared for us in His kingdom. So the mother will find her son, will receive her son back again because he was a Christian. A cell soldier who stepped on a mine will receive both of his feet back. In the kingdom of God. Everyone will have a house and a garden, and uh the trees in that garden will bear fruit twelve times a year. Great. Those who have lost their health will get back 100% of their health, so much so that you will forget the word sickness forever. So your inheritance is much more. And your inheritance is already waiting for you. It won't be stolen, killed, or destroyed Peter describes our inheritance as indestructible, imperishable, working perfectly like the Swiss watch. Our inheritance won't ever uh fall in value. It will never expire or wear out, it will never grow rust on it. It has no sign on it made in China. It doesn't even have a uh doesn't have a sign uh made in the USA. It will be just completely perfect in everything and forever. And your inheritance will not be stolen. Uh you know why? It's it's impossible to steal it, it's an airment. And uh here they can take away your life, health, and property, but all this is already in abundance. and is stored for you in heaven. And yes, this inheritance has your name on it. So it's not just general inheritance for all the Christians and once we get to heaven we get to decide who gets what No. Your inheritance has your name on it, and once you get there you get your inheritance So God has it for you, and God surely will bring you to the ceremony of transferring your inheritance to you. That is in verse 5. You are kept by the power of God. You are kept for salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. Two of my friends in Russia, uh they disagreed with what Putin was doing in Russia in Ukraine and so they left uh the country forever. One time they just said to their families uh Two different cities, they were from two different cities. But they had the same desire. They said we are not here anymore, we are leaving, just pack everything and we are going. And they bought tickets uh plane tickets uh for their families and they left and their They are still on their way because uh they're in like they're still in transition countries, they they have not reached uh their final destination. Uh but uh they left their homes, they left their relatives, they left their friends, work, where of life, and they left for the unknown because they were not planning to move And uh yes they have lost a lot, but they have so much more to expect God says He will take care of them here and He has huge inheritance for them in heaven as they follow the Lord as they are not in agreement to uh what is being uh to the cruelty that is being done in Ukraine. But you know, it's not only Russia and Ukraine that are at war now. We are all at war now. With the world, the flesh, and uh Satan, the devil And so all three of them are looking for an opportunity to knock us down, to disarm us, to morally destroy us, and to bring us to death. And we have been at war much longer than this war in Ukraine continues. And this war is much more dangerous than the war in Ukraine. Because in uh in a regular war you can lose your limbs, your life, your property, but in a spiritual war you can lose your soul. But God promises here that you and me, anyone who trusts in Him, our inheritance will be definitely handed over to us. This is the third reason. And the last reason I wanted to share with you while you why you will stand the test, it's because your faith is not a faith. This is verses 6 and 7. In this you greatly rejoice. Though now for a little while, if need be, and there is a need, you have been grieved by various trials. That the genuineness of your faith may be found to praise, honor, and glory at the revelation of Jesus Christ. So your faith is much more valuable, as he says here, than gold. But you know the more expensive the item is, uh the more counterfeits may appear or will appear. Um my children they love to draw and uh they draw very beautifully. We in our apartment in Kiev we don't even have any more space on the walls for their drawings. And uh we every time I wake up in well, every time I woke up in Kiev, uh I would open my eyes and there would be all those paintings. And I would look at different uh sunsets and different landscapes and uh cities, uh some Italian cities uh where I have never been and my children have never been to Uh but uh I look at them and I'm like, oh wow and I I notice different details of of the paintings Uh but you know, as I look at uh looked at those paintings, uh I never had uh one one thought never crossed my mind. That somebody came while we were away from the apartment, somebody came in, stole the painting and replaced it with a counterfeit. You know why? They're beautiful paintings, uh but they're not recognized yet. So uh what what paintings do they still? Uh what paintings do they counterfeit? Uh the most expensive ones, the most recognized ones, right Uh same as about gold. Peter says gold has to be tested so it's not a counterfeit. And it has to be tested with fire. So it's like really hot, it's terrible. But what what can you do? It's it you need to know that it is true, genuine. Same about the paintings. The real uh test before every auction, they do a test on a painting so that they know they're not selling a counterfeit. So it has to be tested. Uh but uh what about your faith? Your faith is much more valuable than gold. It says here that gold, even though it's tested by fire, it's perishable. Eventually it will perish. But your soul is eternal, so it's much more important, much more crucial to test your faith and to make absolutely sure that it is not a fake Your faith requires testing. And it's much better to find out that you have a counterfeit faith now than when you stand at the final judgment Later. So why are you here today? Do you know that church attendance doesn't prove the genuineness of your faith What proves then that you are not a fake Christian? Is your faith genuine or are you here for good company? Do you really trust Jesus in everything, or you only are here for his gifts? Are you deceiving yourself or are you a really devoted disciple of Jesus Christ? And you won't know it until you pass all the tests. You need them. You need the tests very much. So true faith, Peter says, will pass temporal trials and be rewarded forever. I remember how I went on a hike to Carpathian Mountains in Ukraine. We were to ascend the tallest mount of Carpathians and it took us about two days to climb. It was my first experience reaching the top of the famous mountain. It was called Mount Faverla. So it should have been fun. It should have been good experience. We gathered with a good group of uh students from a technical school in Kiev Uh they were all non-Christians, n non-believers, and we wanted to strike friendships with them, have good conversations, and uh share the gospel with them and eventually continue our friendships after the strike. So it was supposed to be fun. Well, the first day we started our climb, our ascension, it trained cats and dogs. And we were walking up the hill the whole day, uh up and up and up, and you know those guys when uh when you say, Oh I'm so tired, he says, Oh, it's just a little bit more uh uh behind that uh uh behind that turn and then you you reach that turn and you'll see and it's still up and uh and then they say well it's just a little bit more just keep going and And so we were going and I was really tired, I was wet, my feet were cold, uh there were my feet were wet also, and so and then we also had like the whole night in front of us, uh spending in a tent And then another day going up and up and up and up and up and up. I w I was like I was ready to give up but uh we had those students with us and we w w wanted to be a good testimony to them So we had to go up, still go up. And and so uh the second day uh we were high enough that the rain turned into snow. And so it was snowing so hard that I could r uh barely see the person walking in front of me And so there was snow everywhere, like in the air, uh under us and I didn't know like I I think there was like a steep uh um I don't know what what they call it. A gap uh cliff here. Uh but we I was just following the the the the spine that I saw in front of me. And and so uh eventually we got to the top. And there was nothing to see there. It was just snow. Uh but then our guide came up to us and said, It's not at all. It's just one of the peaks of the mountain and then you go down and up again. And I was like, can't we just imagine we're at the top? Because like once you get there there is nothing there either. There is the same snow, uh the same snow in the air. What what can you see there? Let's just say let's go down and say we have been to the top. That's that that's so But he said, no, no, it's just a little bit more. So eventually when we reached the top of the mountain, uh we were really rewarded Uh because there was a big metal cross on the top of the mountain. And uh uh I as I looked at this cross I understood that Jesus went all the way. for our salvation. And Jesus is the victor. And I belong to him and I can go all the way up. And I can go all the way through my life. And uh it was a reward. And as I as I think about this uh mountain today, it was just two days You know? At that time it looked like it was eternity. It was just a little bit more and a little bit more and it never ends Uh but now I have pictures in the rain, I have pictures in the snow, I have pictures with the cross. And as I look back, these were just two days. And this is what Peter says here, it's just for a little while. Your suffering is just for a little while, even if it's your whole life. Because compared to eternity, it's just for a little while And you will stand the test, the the trials in your lives Because your faith is not a fake. Because you have the real Savior and He will lead you through. This is what Peter says here about our earthly trials and our eternal glories. We will get to the eternal glories. And in verse 8 we read Jesus Christ, whom having not seen, you love, though now you do not see him, yet believing you rejoice with joy. Inexpressible and full of glory, receiving the end of your faith, the salvation of your souls. So we have considered uh the reasons why we will stand the tests. Do you remember them all? Just four. We are chosen. We have completely new nature inside of us. God has already supplied everything we could lose in this life, in the life to come, and your faith is not a fake. What do you do now as you go through different trials? There are a few things that uh Peter says here, I will just mention them. In uh verse two What can you do? You receive your timely grace and peace because of your position in God. Because at the end of verse 2, he says, Grace to you and peace be multiplied. So God has enough grace for us to go through the trials and He gives it to us. Just keep on receiving it. Keep on receiving this supernatural peace as you go through different trials. In verse 3, we read, Blessed be God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. So keep on praising God even as you go through the trials. Because you are completely different. You are you trust him. You know that he he knows what he is doing and you trust him. And in verse six, it says, rejoice, so rejoice greatly in your trials. Because they produce eternal praise and glory. And then eventually in verses 8 and 9, you keep on loving Jesus, trusting Him, enjoying your relationship with Him And one day you will enter the eternal kingdom of God, and the sufferings will be over. Thank you. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, I thank you so very much that you have gone all the way and that you have proven your love for us, eternal love for us. and that you have given us plenty of reasons that we we are yours and we will stand our tests to the end in complete peace and joy And that uh it's not because of us, it's because of who you are and what you are doing in our lives. And we just need to trust you and continue trusting you. And we trust you, Lord. We thank you. In Jesus' name Thank you very much for the color. That was a wonderful message. And uh it's there's just something very uh special and um helpful about seeing it that you all live that out for you know in your life the the seeing the truth of First Peter, which we've gone through actually as a congregation about a year ago, but then you all are living it out so so Um so similarly to to what it was in First Peter. And and of course the folks in Ukraine are even more so being there there now. And um And so isn't it wonderful that we have something, the inheritance of Christ, we have something that cannot be taken away from us. That that's our hope, that's our security. Um there it it's just it's just wonderful. And if we're going through suffering and going through trials and going through difficult things. We are not hopeless. We have the hope of Christ. Hello, my name is Jim Gunam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. To have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. Or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.