Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we are grateful today for the love that you have shown to us through your Son. This day represents the day that Jesus rose up, triumphed over the grave and death and sin. And we come to you, Lord, today, to worship you for that. And we praise your name and thank you for the salvation that you have brought to us that we are so undeserving of. You have withheld from us what we do deserve, and that is punishment and uh everlasting separation from you in hell. But you have given us what we do not deserve, and that is a righteousness that doesn't belong to us But it is from you yourself that you place on our account because of the faith that we have place in Christ alone. And it's through grace alone that we even can sing about all of these things that we've sung about today. Lord, we thank you that you save us, and we thank you that you give us a future hope to be with you once again, how you originally intended it to be. That we can be overcomers, that we can be conquerors, and be given a crown of glory by you We pray, Lord, that you would help us to keep all of these things in mind. Because it is true you have tasked us with many responsibilities. And different things that we must do, some of them exciting, some of them mundane. But all of it can be incredibly rewarding and fulfilling if we do it unto you. And so Lord, we we thank you for those tasks and responsibilities. We thank you for the stewardship and and the the things that you would have us do. We pray, Lord, that you would help us to be a people that depend on you for all of it. We've depended on you for salvation, something that we cannot do on our own. And Lord help us to depend on you for every day, because truly, without the Spirit's help, we can't live the life that you expect us to live. And so we cast our dependence on you for that as well. I pray, Lord, that our hearts would be attentive to your word coming up. that uh that there would be uh great inroads made to our hearts through your truth that uh it would penetrate us And change us and mold us more into the image of your Son. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, reading from uh today's passage that Pastor Jim will be preaching from, it's 1 Peter chapter 3, verses 18 and 22. It says, For Christ also suffered once for sins, the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God. Being put to death in the flesh, but made alive by the Spirit, by whom also he went and preached to the spirits in prison. who formerly were disobedient, when once the divine long suffering waited in the days of Noah, while the Ark was being prepared, in which a few, that is, eight souls, were saved through the water There is also an antitype which now saves us, baptism, not the removal of the filth of the flesh, but the answer of a good conscience toward God. through the resurrection of Jesus Christ, who has gone into heaven and is at the right hand of God, angels and authorities and powers having been made subject to Him. Is have you ever wondered at looked at the world, looked at the problems of the world? Looked at the sin and the evil and the s just just sometimes people are holding up, it's like they're holding their fist in God's face. Why doesn't God do something? Or maybe, maybe you find yourself in an adversarial relationship of some kind. And um And you really feel like you're on the right side of the of the issues, and the other person you're pretty well convinced isn't, and they're really oppressing you for what you're doing. Do you ever feel like why doesn't God do something? I mean if God is really all-powerful, if he's really triumphant, if he's really victorious, why is it that God Doesn't he see that we're struggling? Doesn't he see that we're suffering? It's like Paul said later on earlier in the New Testament that we're troubled on every side. Do you ever feel that way? Like you're troubled on every side Well that is exactly the situation that this passage finds these people in. The churches that Peter writes to are churches that are troubled on every side. They first were persecuted by is by Jewish people. The first century church was. They were, it was actually the Jewish people that first began to persecute them, the Jewish leaders And now the Roman Empire is going after them and they feel that they are really I mean they are, not just feel, but they are being persecuted on uh on various sides. They are troubled on every side. And it's very easy when when you realize that the the bad are seem to be flourishing and the good seem to be suffering. It's very easy for God's people to sort of go, Lord, are you really all that victorious? Is Jesus really the victory? You might not may not say that, but we begin to falter in our faith, especially when we get into situations Where if God would punish evil, it would relieve the suffering of his people. And you find that people get into those situations. The church historically has been in those situations. Israel was in those situations. And even sometimes we get into those situations. It may be a job situation. where the person that's really actually actually causing problems in the company gets promoted. Or it may be a relational thing in a neighborhood where the person that's really causing the problem seems to be the one that's garnering the most support. Whatever it is that the when when we get into the situation as Christians where evil seems to be victorious and we seem to be suffering because the evil is being victorious We can get into the place where we sort of go, Lord, why don't you do something? And Peter is going to answer that question. He is going to really emphasize Really emphasize for these churches that he is victorious, that Jesus, victory is in Jesus, that he is victorious. Now, this is a passage that is, the first verse is very simple, very straightforward, very non-con, shouldn't be controversial among God's people at all. The verses later are going to be very controversial. So you're going to see that in a few moments. But I want us to, I do not want us to lose the forest for the trees here. I want us to see Peter's overall thought in this passage, which really I think everybody should agree on. Peter is going to do this in this passage. And I actually I want us to think through these four questions and then we'll be able to move through this fairly clearly. Peter is going to answer these four questions in this passage. First, he's going to answer the question, what is our faith in Christ's triumph based on? What is our faith in Christ's triumph based on? We're trusting in the triumph and the victory of Jesus. What's that based on? Number two, how far does Christ's triumph extend? I mean, what exact how far does that victory go? Number three, how does this triumph apply to the believer now? How can I experience how can I experience this victory now? And finally What is the final outcome of Christ's triumph? Where's this all going? What's the final outcome? Peter's going to answer these four questions as we go through this. So the first question he's going to answer is what is what is our faith in Christ's triumph based on. And we find that in verse 18, that the nature of Christ's work demonstrates triumph. The nature of Christ's work demonstrates triumph. Verse 18 says this, for all Christ also suffered once for sins. the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but made alive by the Spirit. He begins by saying this: that Christ suffered. He's speaking of the death of Christ, the ultimate suffering. Christ suffered once for sins. And then he explains what that means. In other words, you've got a temporary suffering. Christ is going to die. He was buried. He rose again. He's going to mention that later. And you have this death that occurs. Why? Because Jesus is taking on the punishment for sin on himself. In other words, death Is a result of sin. Death is the pun. This is going to become very important later. Death is the punishment for sin. Jesus takes on the death. The punishment on himself to save people from their sins. Now that's very simple, right? Very straightforward Most of us in this room would understand that. And it's very important for us to grasp that. He says then, the just for the unjust. Well, we're all unjust. We're all born sinners. Jesus is just, and he says that there's going there's an exchange that takes place because of the death of Christ. That he took our sin on himself And that Jesus Christ died for us, and that so that He can give us His righteousness, the just for the unjust. For what purpose? that he might bring us to God. Now, this phrase just for the unjust, why is he bringing this up now in this whole section of Scripture? Why is he bringing this up? Would you just look for just a minute at 1 Peter chapter 3 verse 13? Just go a few verses back. And and I want us to rem I want to remind us of of what is happening here so far. Remember, Peter is giving instruction to these churches on how they should respond to suffering Especially when that suffering involves persecution for righteousness. How should they respond? Verse 13 says, and who is he that will harm you? If you become followers of what is good. But even if you should suffer for righteousness' sake, you are blessed. Do not be afraid of their threats nor be troubled, but sanctify the Lord God in your hearts, and always be ready to give an a give a defense to everyone who asks you a reason for the hope that is in you with meekness and fear, having a good conscience, that when they defame you as evildoers, those who revile your good conduct in Christ may be ashamed. Here's his point. His point there is really simple. You have been saved by Christ, the just for the unjust. You have been cleansed of your sin. That puts you in a position that you can behave with a clear conscience before God and man, so that when men see that you're suffering for righteousness' sake, some of them will turn to Christ. That's the point. And he says, it's very important that you walk circumspectly. It's very important that you walk very, very carefully in this world with a clear conscience before God and before others. So that God can use you in that way. It's extremely important that you do that. That's his point. And the basis of all of this is this. That we are partakers in the suffering of Christ. We're partakers in the death of Christ, which we're going to see later on how this all works out. And we're also partakers in the resurrection. Notice the next phrase. That you must bring us to God what? Look at what it says. Being put to death in the flesh, but made live by the Spirit That's talking there about Jesus Christ. He was put to death in the flesh, but he was made alive. In other words, he was resurrected by the Spirit of God, the Holy Spirit of God. Now What is the point? Why is Peter saying all this in light of suffering and persecution? It's because of this, the very basis of Christ's triumph. And he will triumph one day. He will come and he will triumph. He will be the victor. And the very basis of all of that is what has already taken place. It's the resurrection of Jesus Christ. When Jesus rose from the grave, he rose victorious over sin and death. And what Peter is saying is, because Jesus really rose from the grave, we can have confidence that Jesus will be the victor in the future. He will triumph. Now That we are so used to hearing about the resurrection. We have heard about the resurrection hundreds of times, maybe thousands of times But we've got to go back in our minds to the very first century. This idea of somebody rising from the grave, that was unheard of. That wasn't something that people thought about all the time. This was a few years after Jesus did it, and they are pointing out that Jesus is the Savior. Why is he the Savior? Because he rose from the grave bodily. In fact, if you read through the book of Acts And they're giving the gospel of the book of Acts, the apostles are, and others are giving the gospel of the book of Acts. Do you realize actually if you read through, you're going to find that the resurrection is actually even more emphasized than the death of Christ? Why? Because these, particularly Jewish listeners, they're trying to find the Messiah, they're trying to find the Savior, they're trying to find who really is the real one who saved them. And if they believe in the resurrection, they'll have no problem believing in the death of Christ. Why? Because when somebody rises from the grave, that shows victory over everything. Right? Now That is all very clear in the first verse. And that answers the question: the basis of the victory that we have in Jesus is the resurrection of Christ. But now we're going to have to move to the next to the next question. Before we do that, I want us to understand how important this is. And I want us to just mention Philippians chapter 3 verse 10, which says this. Paul said it this way. Now listen carefully. Paul said it this way. that I may know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being conformed to his death, if by any means I may attain to the resurrection of the dead. He's saying this. I can know the power of the resurrection when I go through the sufferings of Christ. There is a sense in which, folks, when we go through suffering in this life and we experience the victory Through the suffering, then we know in a more experiential way the power of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. It's powerful And what Peter is telling these churches is, hey, you can know the power of the resurrection and experience it because you are going through suffering. Well, the question becomes, okay, how does all that work? What wha why does that work? And how how do we know that Christ is uh that Christ is really how do we know that Christ is really triumphant over my I mean things are really bad You ever said that? You ever looked at things and think, man, things are really bad? They had the same experience in the first century. They looked and they said things are really, really, really bad. Nero is as bad as he is bad to the bone. He's as bad as it gets. He is corrupt. He is uh grossly sinful. He is uh uh a narcissist to the innth degree, this guy and he is ruling everything, and it's it's just as bad as you could possibly think And what Peter is going to say next is actually Christ has already shown the victory over something was even worse. He's going to point to the most the most corrupted difficult evil time in all of history. He's going to point to that time and he's going to he's going to say that Christ show that Christ is the victory even over that. Now let me pause and Make this before we go to the next point, let me make this observation. There is there are is a lot of controversy over the verses that we're going to look at. And not every message is like this, but this message is, and you're going to have to keep your thinking caps on as we go through this, really to follow it. I want us to prep prepare for this by just pointing out what Martin Luther said about this passage. He wrote this. He said A wonderful text is this. And more obscure passage, perhaps, than any other in the New Testament, so that I do not know for certainty just what Peter means. Now, um if Martin Luther said that, then we are going to have to really think about this. Now, I think we can understand it, but it's going to it's we're really going to have to really focus here. If we do, it's going to be really helpful for us in our lives as Christians. But let's begin then number two, the extent of Christ's work. As he demonstrates the triumph over suffering, the extent of Christ's work. Okay, how the victory. How far does this victory go? Okay, let me ask you this question. If you think through the Bible or you think through church history, whatever, when would you say is the most evil time From the very beginning of creation until now. Now some of you would probably say Solomon Gomorrah. And if you did, you'd be close. But no cigar. I don't even know where that phrase comes from, no cigar. It doesn't even make any sense. But anyway, you be close Let me show you what the passage says, and I'm going to argue that this is what he's pointing out here. Look at what it says here He says, chapter 3, end of the passage, he says, verse 20, who formerly were di uh verse 19 rather, but whom also He went and preached to the spirits in prison, who formerly were disobedient when once divine long-suffering waited in the days of Noah. While the ark was being prepared in which a few, that is, eight souls were saved through water. Okay Verses 19 through 20 should then put our minds back to Genesis chapter 6. Do you remember that passage? This is right before the flood. And I'm going to suggest that this is the most evil time ever in the history of civilization. And that's why Peter's using this as an example. If you go back there, I think we need to go back there. I got a lot, we're going to turn to several scriptures, a lot quite a few here, but I want us to look then at Genesis chapter 6. Go ahead and flip over there. Genesis chapter 6 flip over there or click over there or you know whatever it is that you're doing with your phone or whatever. Genesis chapter six Pick up in verse one and notice what it says here. Now it came to pass when men began to multiply on the face of the earth. And daughters were born to them. The sons of God saw the daughter daughters of men, that they were beautiful, and they took wives for themselves of all of all whom they chose. Now, there's got to be a reason that God includes this. Who are the sons of God? We're going to answer that question today. Who are the sons of God, what is this talking about? Verse 3. And the Lord said, My spirit shall not strive with man forever, for he is indeed flesh. Yet his days shall be one hundred and twenty years. There were giants on the earth in those days, and also afterward the sons of God came and the daughters of men And they bore children to them. Those were the mighty men who were of old, men of renown. Then the Lord saw that though look at what it says here. That the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every intent of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually, and the Son, and the Lord was so was sorry that he had made man on the earth, and he was grieved in his heart. This is, I think, this is the most evil time in history. And God says, Noah, God says he's going to destroy the earth by water, by flood. But there is grace to Noah and his family, of course, in the passage as well. Now, keep that in your mind, and we're going to have to answer this question now. Who are these Who is are the sons of God in this passage? What is it talking about here? Well, would you take your Bibles now and turn to 2 Peter 2? 2 Peter chapter 2. And we find in the same context, if Noah's mentioned in 2 Peter 2, the situation of Noah is mentioned in 2 Peter 2. And it seems to be really quite clear now who these sons of God are in 2 Peter 2, verse 4. For if God did not spare the what? What does it say there? If God did not spare the angels who sinned. But cast them down to hell and delivered them into the chains. Notice that word chains. Remember that our passage, 1 Peter says prison Cast them down in the chains of darkness to be reserved for judgment, and did not spare the ancient world, but saved, you see it, Noah. One of eight people and preachers of righteousness bring into the flood the world of the ungodly and turn the cities there's your second most uh second most serious uh most evil time, and turned the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah into ashes, condemned them to destruction, making them an e example to those who afterward would live ungodly, and delivered righteous lot, and who were oppressed by the filthy conduct of the wicked, uh for the righteous man dwelling among them tormented his righteous soul for from day by to day by seeing and hearing their lawless deeds. Then the Lord knows how to deliver the godly out of temptation and to reserve the unjust under punishment to the day of judgment. The point of that passage in 2 Peter is God knows what he's doing. And God knows how to reserve these people, these entities, these angels for judgment. And he knows how to do it in Solomon Gomorrah's case, and he knows how to preserve his people. God knows how to do all of this. That's the point of 2 Peter. And what we find is that the sons of God in Genesis, according to 2 Peter, are angels. We see the same kind of thing mentioned in Jude chapter 5, or Jude 5, rather, Jude verse 5. Only one chapter. But I want to remind you, through though you once knew this, the Lord having saved the people out of the land of Egypt afterward destroying those who did believe, and the angels who did not keep their proper domain. Who did not keep their proper domain, but left their own abode, he has served in everlasting chains under darkness for the judgment of the great day. Same as Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities around them, in similar manner as these, having given themselves over to sexual immorality and gone after strange flesh are set forth as an example, suffering the vengeance of eternal fire. I don't really think that there is much doubt at all between these two verses that we're talking about fallen angels They've left their domain. They've come down to earth. They have married women. And they have uh uh has had sexual immorality with women. Now, the idea of angels being in prison, well, actually in Revelation chapter 20, verses 7 through 8 says Satan was in prison for a time. So all of this would lead me to conclude that what we're talking about in 1 Peter, the most obvious choice when it comes to these sons of when it comes to these spirits in prison in the context of Noah, which is clearly in the passage, the most obvious choice is that these are talking about angels. that have been that are that are being preserved for judgment. Now, immediately somebody says this. Well, doesn't it say somewhere That Jesus said that angels can't marry. Doesn't it say that somewhere? And it does. It says this in Mark 12, 18 through 27, and also Luke 20, 27 through 40. I'm just curious, how many of you had that question? In your mind when I when I said it's angels. Okay, we're going to answer that question. I won't take the time to turn there. You might want to write these passages down. Mark 12, 18 through 27, and Luke 20, 27 through 40. But the answer is this. It says very clearly in that passage, verse 30, it says, For the resurrection they they may they neither marry nor give into marriage, but like angels of God in heaven Now rememb the context of those passages are somebody comes to them, comes to Jesus rather, the Sadducees who don't believe in the resurrection at all, and comes to Jesus and says, Hey, how does marriage work with people in heaven. If somebody's married multiple people and they've died and then married again and they died, then married okay, who they're married to in heaven. And Jesus says No one's married in heaven, basically. He said there's not marriage in heaven. They become like the angels who are in heaven. And the angels who are in heaven aren't married, and so neither will people be married when they are in heaven. But there's no reason, folks, to sit to think that angels on some level can't be married when they come down to earth. And that's what they've left their domain, Jude says. They've come down to earth, Genesis says. And so they've come down to earth, and they have intermarried with women. Now These angels are fallen, they're sinful, but remember who they married. They married people, they married women, they married human people who were also sinful. All right, does that make sense? In other words, this is how seriously sinful things got. It was a perversion what happened there. It was an absolute uh it was absolutely sinful and evil. It was the height of evil that could possibly be imagined at that point. And it says here that these are the sons of uh the spirits in prison. Okay, now let me a answer this question. Here's another question that's probably going to come up in your mind. Well, isn't this talking about when Jesus, between the death and the resurrection of Christ Didn't he go down to hell and preach to people? Isn't that what this passage is talking about? And my answer is no That's not what this passage is talking about. It's mentioned a couple of different times in the book of Acts, for example, chapter two. We won't take the time to turn there either, but in Acts chapter 2 It says it the word Hades is used, okay, and it means the grave. So the word the Greek word Hades can be translated hell, it can also be translated the grave. And in the context, it's very clear that what's going on is that Jesus died and did not see corruption in the grave. Why? Because he rose from the grave. He rose victorious. That's the point of Acts chapter 2. It's not that he actually went down to hell. Now, some people are going to disagree with this, and that's fine. The Apostles' Creed back in the fifth century actually says that Jesus went down to hell. But remember, the fifth century you have the influence, the church by that point, the influence of the of the what now would be what then would be the Roman Catholic Church has really kind of mystified things even in the Apostles' Creed. And what I'm suggesting, I'm suggesting it. I'm not saying if you disagree that I'm right and everybody else is wrong. I'm really not saying that with this. What I'm suggesting is that more likely than not, that's not what what what took place. You don't find any clear evidence in Scripture of that Jesus went to the grave. In Ephesians chapter 4, it says the lower parts, that is the earth. The lower parts is the earth in that passage, not below the earth in that passage. So I would take this to be that it's talking about that Jesus was victorious in his resurrection over even, and he's going to have victory over even the worst possible sinful people, sinful situation in all of history. Now look at the passage again. By whom also he went and preached to the spirits in prison, who formerly were disobedient. Obviously, when once the divine long-suffering waited in the days of Noah, while the Ark was being prepared in uh uh in which a few that is eight souls were saved through water. Now we it it's it's gonna get even more difficult, more complex. Ready? Alright. I don't know that I'm going to get through my whole message today. I'll just say that. I wanted to, but we'll see. So so we have this next point verse our next point is simply this. We're just going to move to the next point. The symbol of Christ's work demonstrates triumph. Okay, so what do we got? Actually, I'm sorry, that's not I'm on second the second point. Okay. Let's do this. Let's look at this here. And we see verse 20, we've got the disobedient when once divine long-suffering weighed in the days of Noah. So what's going on there? What we have going on here is the scenario. Alright. Remember what's going on. These people are struggling with God not doing something And wondering about this, and understand what happened back in the days of Noah. There was great sin, and then this passage explains that there was also divine long suffering. So while Noah was building the ark for years took him to build the ark, while he's building the ark and he's preaching to the people, As bad as things were, as evil as things were, as terrible as things were, God was patient. That's incredible. So you wonder why you're in a situation in life and you wonder why God isn't doing something? You wonder why, you look at this world and how evil it is, and you wonder why God doesn't seem to be doing something and judging You know why? Because God is divinely patient. He is extremely patient. The people that don't see this, that think that God is some kind of ogre up there ready to pounce and punish somebody as soon as they sin, Do not understand both the justice of God, because he is, and the patience of God. God gave opportunity after opportunity after opportunity to repent throughout Scripture in many, many different situations. And this, the most evil situation, is absolutely no exception at all. And I would just say this by way of application. Maybe you're living today and you are in sin. And you are, maybe you don't know Christ at all. Maybe the real problem is you've never actually come to a place where you know Jesus as your Lord and Savior. Maybe that's the problem. Or maybe you're harboring sin in your heart. You're not confessing it to the Lord. You don't have a clear conscience before God. In either case, God is still giving you an opportunity to repent. Take the opportunity. Take the opportunity and repent And come back into compliance with God. God is there, He is just, He will execute judgment, it will happen, but God is very, very patient. But there is an end to that. Don't wait till it's too late. There is a warning in this for those who are who are living in sin and not living for the Lord, and and they're not serving the Lord. They don't have a clear conscience before God. There is a warning here, folks. There is judgment And we need to apply the gospel in the way that God intends. So, what is how does this all work then? How does this all work in our lives? Look at verse 21. There is also an anti-type which now saves us. Baptism, not the removal of the filth of the flesh, but the answer of good conscience toward God through the resurrection of Jesus Christ. So now he's going to say, okay, well how the question is, okay, yes, I know God is Christ is victorious in the future, and I know that the victory is based on the resurrection. And I know that the resurrection victory that Christ has even includes it even includes the most evil situation imaginable. That he's victory victorious victories over even that. Okay. What about how do I experience that? How do I personally experience that victory now? And that's what the next portion of this is talking about. It says verse 21, there is also an antitype, which now saves us baptism. Not the removal of the fles filth of the flesh, but the answer of good conscience toward God through the resurrection of Jesus Christ. So what is this talking about? It won't take the time to really develop this, but anti-type is the idea of a copy. It is a the type is in the Old Testament, the antitype is in the New Testament, and it's picturing something The tabernacle is an example of a type in the Old Testament that pictures the blood of Christ and what he did. There are types in the Old Testament, there are antitypes in the New Testament. And what it's saying here is that there is a particular symbol, a particular illustration that God wants us to grasp that pictures what happens to us when we truly come to Christ, when it really actually takes place, when it really, actually happens. And it is that word baptism. Now, notice what it says. It actually says that the baptism now saves us. Now that's confusing, isn't it? Right? You read that, and if and if you have a if you if you have a a normal understanding of baptism, you're going to say, well, uh, wait a minute, I thought we're not Catholic. Right? Did some of you think that? How does baptism save? Save us. How does that work? Well, I'm also going to answer that question. You have to answer that question, actually, by going to Christ's own words. When he referred to baptism. Now understand this that Christ was baptized. He was baptized by John the Baptist. You recall that But after he was baptized by John the Baptist, he talked to his disciples and he said, there is a baptism that I still need to go through. In Mark chapter 10, go ahead and take your Bible and turn there. Mark chapter 10, verses 38 through 39. Look at Mark chapter 10. It says this: But Jesus said to them, You do not know what you ask. Are you able to drink the cup that I drink and be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with? They said to him, We are able. This is the disciples. So Jesus said to them, You will indeed drink the cup that I will drink And with the baptism I am baptized with, you will be baptized. Folks, what is that baptism talking about? It's talking about the death of Christ. When Christ speaks of baptism in John chapter, Mark chapter 10 and Luke chapter 12, he is speaking about his own death. There is a baptism that's coming. There is a death that's coming. And he is actually saying to them, are you willing to go through that death yourself? He's asking his disciples that. And they are saying we you are able. They're saying we are able. And Jesus is saying, yes, you will indeed do that. Now you say, well, what does that mean for me? What is the application for me? This is what Colossians 2, verse 12 says. Buried with him in baptism, in which you also were raised with him through faith in the work of God, who raised him up from the dead. Now, take your Bibles and turn to Romans chapter 6. Romans chapter 6. This is all going to come together in a few moments. Romans chapter 6, and we'll pick up in verses 3 through 6. In Romans chapter 6, verses 3 through 6, remember that Christ has referred to a baptism as his own death. And notice what Romans chapter 6, verse 3 says. Or do you not know that as many of us as were baptized into Christ, who is that? Every Christian, everyone who is truly born again, everyone who is truly a believer. Is baptized into Christ. This is talking, folks, about spiritual baptism. What does that mean? Look at what it says: unto Christ Jesus, who were baptized into his death. Do you see that? See the connection? In other words, when we come to Christ, the Bible actually says that we are joining to his death. We are uniting to his death. Therefore, verse 4, therefore, we were buried with him through baptism into death. That just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life. For if we have been united together in the likeness of his death. Certainly we also shall be in the likeness of his resurrection. Knowing this, that our old man was crucified with him, that the body of sin might be destroy be done away with that we should no longer serve sin. Now here's what all of this is saying in a nutshell. When someone genuinely comes to Christ, they are joining in with the death of Christ. They are, they, the bot, in other words, they are dying the self. That happens positionally. It happens as a position. In other words, Christ, Paul said this, I die daily, but he also said this, I am dead with Christ and alive unto Christ. There is a positional truth and there is a practical truth. And here's the positional truth. The positional truth is this, and this is all going to be very important in a minute, but the positional truth is this, that Christ Died, and when we truly come to Christ, not prayer prayer, frankly. Not say a couple of fun a couple of things, go down an aisle, all that. No, no, no, not that. But when we truly place our dependence on the death of Christ to pay the punishment for our sin, when that truly happens, The Bible says that we are baptized into Christ. It says it's said this way, 1 Corinthians 12, verse 13 For by one spirit we are all baptized into one body. Whether Jews or Greeks, whether slaves are free, we have all been made to drink into one spirit. So what does he say here? Go back to the passage. Look at verse thir verse Peter chapter three. Let's go back to the passage. And it says this It says, but the answer of a good conscience. Notice what it says before that. What he's not talking about is mechanical water baptism here. Notice what it says. Not the removal of the filth of the flesh. This is not talking about physical baptism here. He's talking about spiritual baptism, but the answer of a good conscience toward God. Now, it sometimes says sometimes translated pledge or question, but I think answer is a good translation here. An answer of a good conscience toward God Why does he say it that way? Why does Peter, this is really confusing. Why does Peter say now that we have an answer of a good conscience toward God? Well he just said that we'd be ready to give an answer of the reason and hope that is in us previously. Do you remember that He said, be ready to give an answer, and here's your answer. Your answer is that you have been cleansed by God. Now, here's what's going on here. He's saying Your whole self, your conscience, every part of you've been cleansed by God because of what Christ has done for you. And when you live like it, When you live with a clear conscience, so there's an experiential side of this. When you experience a clear conscience, in other words, there's a way to live with a clear conscience, but not to experience it. You, if you know Christ as your Savior, you are cleansed by the blood of Christ. But you very well may be not experiencing it in your conscience. You know that? And here's the key. If that's the case, there are two problems. If you are cleansed by the blood of Christ, but you're not experiencing it in your life. Because you're harboring sin in your heart, because you're not living in purity and holiness, because if that's happening, you have two problems. One problem is your testimony of the world is going to be a problem. You're not going to be able to give them an answer of the reason of the hope that is in you. That's problem number one. Number two, you're not going to experience victory in Christ. In other words, when the suffering comes, when the trials come, when the problems come, you're going to feel defeated. Why? Because you're not experiencing victory over your sin. See, let's put it this way: In the future, Christ is victorious. In the future, he will be victorious over everything. We'll see it. He'll conquer everything. Everything will be made right. But right now, the experience of the victory is in my own heart. That's how I experience victory. And when a Christian says, I'm going to experience victory in my own heart. by living a pure life before God and holy before God and right before others when I'm when I when they say I'm going to experience what I know to be true in my life by Christ, by what Christ has done. When I experience that, then they're experiencing the very victory that Christ bought for them. Does that make sense? But the reverse is true as well. You're not experiencing the victory that Christ bought for you when you're living in impurity and your conscience is not clear. before the Lord. The final verse here is verse 22, and it's very simple. It says, Who has gone into heaven and is the right hand of God, angels and authorities and powers having been made subject unto him. The results of Christ's work exemplifies the trump. Christ is victorious over all. He is triumphant over all. He is the victory. So finally, three concluding applications. Actually four. We'll go through them quickly though. Number one, when God doesn't seem to be proactive in dealing with others, we must remember his patience. Don't doubt the victory of Christ. Don't doubt what God is doing. I mean, doubts are understandable, but don't lose faith, folks. Because God is victorious. Christ is the victor, but he is very patient with people, and he gives many, many, many opportunities for people to repent. Number two, our union with Christ's death guarantees our union in his resurrection. Because we are united in the death of Christ at salvation We also will experience the victory of the resurrection someday. Number three, suffering with Christ gives us the opportunity to experience the resurrection. Suffering with Christ and living in purity as you're suffering with Christ gives you the opportunity to actually experience the power of the resurrection and look forward to the victory of Jesus Christ. He is our hope. And number four, very simply, Jesus is the total victory. There is total victory in Jesus. Let's pray. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you for your For your work in our lives. We thank you for this passage, which has a lot of detail to it and has a lot of confusing things, but I pray, Lord, that we would not lose the point. That Christ is the victory over everything. And no matter how difficult, no matter how convoluted, no matter how complicated the situations we find in our lives, You are in control. You are just, you are patient, you do save us. All of that is true And we pray, dear Father, that you'd help us to understand that, that we have the victory in Jesus. And we pray all of these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.