Well good morning. What a beautiful day to be in the house of the Lord together, huh? We're going to open with a word of prayer before we go to the Word. Please bow your heads with me. Heavenly Father, we come this morning with grateful and thankful. Hearts for who you are, your greatness, your holiness, your sovereignty. You are the creator and so Sustainer of all life. And Father, we are grateful and thankful this morning for the mercy that you have shown us, the forgiveness of our sins, through your Son Jesus. And Lord, the price that was paid on our behalf. Father, help us to remember these truths that we would be quick to forgive and forget. And I ask Father for this morning that you would Please be with us as we get ready to hear your word. May our hearts and our minds be open and focused toward you. And Father, may we uh just remove all other thoughts and cares from our mind this morning. morning and listen to your word and father might you help us to understand your word as brother Jim brings it to us Father and I pray that we will meditate upon it during the week and remember Remember it, Lord, and plant it deep in our hearts that we may honor and glorify and lift up your great name. And Father, I want to lift up those who are unable to be here this morning. morning and particular uh some friends that are in the hospital and all. I just pray God for your good hand to be upon them this morning and I pray Father as they hear your word that you will be working mightily in their hearts also. And we pray for those who are ministering to them there at the hospital that you will give them wisdom. and abilities far above their own to rightly uh uh minister to them and give them uh uh the uh just the ability, Lord, and the wisdom to um make right decisions and show love toward my friend there. And Father, we do thank you this morning for your word and ask that you will guide us and direct us now as we come to your word in Jesus' name. Amen. We will be reading this morning from Matthew chapter 18, and we are going to be looking at verses 21 to 35. Matthew 18, 21 to 35. Then Peter came to him and said, Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? Up to seven times? And Jesus said to him, I do not say to you up to seven times But up to seventy times seven. Therefore the kingdom of heaven is like a certain king who wanted to settle accounts with his servants And when he had begun to settle accounts, one of them brought to him, who owed him ten thousand talents. But as he was not able to pay, his master commanded that he be sold with his wife and children and all that he had, and that the payment be made. But the servant, therefore, fell down before him, saying, Master, have patience with me, and I will repay you all. Then the master of that servant was moved with compassion Released him and forgave him his debt. But that servant went out and found one of his fellow servants who owed him a hundred denarios. And he laid hands on him and took him by the throat, saying, Pay me what you owe me. So his fellow servant fell down at his feet and begged him, saying, Have patience with me, and I will repay you all. And he would not. But he went and threw him into prison till he should pay the debt. So when his fellow servants saw what had been done, They were very grieved, and came and told their master all that had been done. Then his master, after he had called him, said to him, You wicked servant, I forgave you all that debt because you begged me. Should you not have had compassion on your fellow servant, just as I had pity on you And his master was angry and delivered him to the tortures until he should pay all that was due him. So my heavenly father also will do to you, if each of you From his heart does not forgive his brother trespassed. This is a very important passage really dealing with the subject of forgiveness. The entire passage that Jesus is going through is teaching these disciples is on the subject really of the church and community within the church. There's a Gallup poll that came out somewhat a little bit of time ago that said that Americans are among the loneliest people on earth. And it attributed that reality based upon Western individualism in isolation. It suggested in the report that it was exacerbated by urbanization and technology and consumerism. And I don't know w I don't remember exactly when that report came out, but if it was pre-COVID, you can imagine that everything is worse now. as far as the isolation that we feel and the uh the individualization uh individualization and all of that. We in our Western world do not place as a whole a high priority on community, and yet God has created us to live in community. In fact, did you know that God lives in community? His very the Trinity, the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, are a tri-unity together. And they fellowship with each other and they make decisions together. And of course that we can't entirely understand the Trinity because it's one in three, one in essence, three in persons, but there is a kind of unity and community together. And that is intended to be reflected in the church, that kind of community. We know that from Ephesians chapter 4, where it tells us in that passage. to endeavor to forsake uh to endeavor to keep the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace, for there is one God and one baptism and one Lord and the Remember that passage. So the based upon the fact that there is a tri-unity, a community in unity, we as a church are to be in community. Really, we see this in creation. You think of ecosystems that are all interdependent on each other. God has created glory through his creation to show to demonstrate who he is. And you see this in in biology, in ecosystems, in things that must be dependent upon each other this past week or maybe last week. before we had a black snake in our yard. And um uh I I I like black snakes. I think black snakes are really helpful because if you have a black snake, you don't you know what you have less of? Mice and I hate mice. So if I see a black snake around our house, I'm usually saying, let it let it be. Well now we don't let them inside the house. But but uh we we like that kind of thing around our house. Black snakes are fairly harmless to our in uh uh human beings Um and uh because there is a if you if you got rid of all of the black snakes in the area and all the gar snakes that eat little rodents and things like that then you're going to have a an infestation of rodents. There is an ecosystem. There is a com an interdependent community, if you will. of the way God has created things. And if you mess with that, you have real problems. Some of you are fishermen out there. There are in some invasive species in Maryland of fish that have been introduced that were not part of this ecosystem. that have actually created a lot of problems in the fishing industry, different kinds of fish. It's just in general, God has made things in such a way that there is a there is an interdependency, a cohesion uh need for each other and in biology for example, you know you have that kind of community when a when something catastrophic can happen. For example, you know, a hurricane can blow through a forest or something like that, or tur uh a uh uh some sort of event can and it can rebuild itself. That's the nature of community. The problem is, folks, is that sin creates great problems with community. Sin is it it can even destroy community in the church. And actually what you find in this passage is there are three general issues that Jesus is addressing. One writer put it this way, one problem of sin in community is that it creates competition. Now not all competition is bad, but when we're trying to figure out who is greater than the other, like the disciples were doing in the beginning of this passage, that is a kind of prideful competition that is that is going to harm community. And so Jesus says to these disciples, you need to be humble. Come as a child. And later on in the passage, we learned last week there is a problem, even in our own spirits, of independence. We want to be independent. It's embedded in us as Americans to be independent. We celebrate independence. And we we are, by nature, we tend to be our culture is very wanting to be very independent. We really even equate independence with freedom. And yet God desires for us to hold each other accountable in this life as Christians one with another. And that's why you have what we looked at last week in Matthew 18, 15 through through 20 there. And today, another major problem is the problem of a desire of retribution. The desire to try when you someone has wronged you to try to get back at them. You see, Jesus has just explained how to deal with problems. If someone, if a Christian, a brother or sister in Christ has wronged you, has trespassed against you Then Matthew 18 explains that you need to go to him and get it right between you and him alone if possible. If not possible, take witnesses. But it explains all of that which we looked at last week. But that brought Peter to, and the disciples, and Peter as the is the de facto spokesperson for the disciples, that brought Peter to a conclusion, man, I'm going to have to do a lot of forgiving. I can't I can't just you know somebody does something to me I do it back to them and I can't I can't e execute my own justice I have to restore And Peter says to Jesus, how often do we have to do this? How often do we have to forgive? Now, when Peter was saying, we're going to see several things in this passage when it comes to forgiveness, we're going to see the importance of forgiveness. And in verses 21 through 22, we're going to see that God calls us to unlimited forgiveness. Unlimited forgiveness. It says verse 21. Then Peter came to him and said, Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him up to seven times? Now just pause there for a minute. Why was Peter saying seven times? We're going to learn that in a minute. Verse 22 says, Jesus said to him, I do not say a few seven times, but seventy times seven. But before we get into what Peter is talking about here and why he suggested seven times, I want us to ask the question, what is forgiveness? I think we have to start there Because I think there's quite a bit of confusion about what forgiveness really is. A couple of things of what forgiveness is not. Number one, forgiveness is not a therapeutic method to make us feel better. It's not just a therapeutic method to make us feel better. Now I'm not saying that forgiveness won't make us feel better, but it's because it actually the lack of forgiveness will destroy you. But the idea that you can just forgive whatever is around you, even though it's not pointed at you or done to you, that your job is just sort of to subliminally forgive everybody is not the point of this passage. For example, uh during the Oklahoma City bombing where 168 people uh uh uh died and 600 people were injured, there was a pastor of a mainline denominational church in New England who said, I forgive, I have forgiven Timothy McVeigh, and I invite you to do the same. Well why did that pastor need to forgive him? Was there a child at that he killed? Was there a relationship that he had? Did Timothy McVeigh wrong him? Was that the answer? Was that the issue? Was that how to solve The problem was it just we just all need to forgive Timothy McVeigh? Or nationally speaking, and and as far as the country is concerned, Timothy McDay needed to be brought to justice So understand at the beginning of this that it's not just some sort of therapeutic method that whatever I ails the world or whatever sins I'm seeing in the world, I just need to some sort of somehow sort of No, this is talking about when someone has wronged you, when you have been wronged, when somebody has done something against you. It's also not necessarily forgetting. Some people might say, well, I can't forget what they did. Well, of course you can't forget what they did. You don't have amnesia. But there is a way of forgiving, and we're going to learn about what that is in a few moments, that you may have in the back of your mind, you know that was done, but there but you have forgiven him. So it's not, just because you can't forget doesn't mean you can't forgive. Number three It's not necessarily restoration. And what I mean by that is you are commanded to forgive regardless of whether or not you're going to be able to restore. The Bible says, as much as lies within you, live peaceably with all men. That means that as much as I can do, I will live peaceably and I will restore. But it takes more than one party to restore, right? And in certain cases, you can't restore because the other party won't restore, but in that case, you are still commanded to forgive if they have wronged you. And it's not the same thing, this is important as well, it's not the same thing as trust. And I've said this on several of many occasions, many of you probably have heard me say this before, but it's worth repeating because I think it's such an important thing. It is not the same thing as trust. Trust and forgiveness are two different things. And folks, the reality is we are for we are commanded to forgive, but we are not commanded to trust. Trust is earned. And sometimes we mix these two up so that we say to ourselves, I can't forgive, because in our mind to forgive is to trust and to trust is to forgive. No, you're commanded to forgive. But trust is something that has going to have to be earned over time. If I have a couple in my office for counseling, And one has offended the other in some way, one has hurt uh done something against the other in some way. I will say, for example, to the wife, look, you are commanded to forgive. And I will I will explain how it is important for you to understand that you must biblically forgive. And usually by that point the husband is going, yeah, yeah, you need to forgive me. And it then I turn to the husband and I say, but you have to earn her trust. Trust is earned. And he usually stops at that point and pauses. See, you have to forgive. You're actually only hurting yourself if you don't forgive. But trust is something that is earned. Now, somebody might say, well, I forgive, but I'll never trust him again. or her again. Now that is not true forgiveness either. If your truly true forgiveness allows for the potential for trust. So it might not be that you trust them. Maybe they've broken your trust or you've diminished, they've caused your trust to diminish. But you haven't forgiven if you say, I'll never trust them again. It allows at least for the potential for earned trust. So what is forgiveness? The word means to leave behind or to let go of. to leave behind or to let go of. You're clenching on to something, a wrong per something someone has wronged you in some way And you are letting it go. You're leaving it behind. The same word is actually used in Matthew 4. 20, where it says, They left their nets and followed Jesus. That's kind of a concrete illustration to help us what this word means. They got up, they left their nets where they were and they followed Jesus. That's what it means to forgive is to leave it behind. To let it go. Now, did do you think the disciples forgot that they had nets? Oh, I totally forgot they had nets. No, they knew they had nets, but they are deliberately choosing to leave the nets behind the follow Jesus. And that's what forgiveness is. Forgiveness is when I leave it behind A good illustration of this, in fact I think this word was used in the classical period of the Greek, right before the Koineg period, of uh uh the the a snake losing its skin I don't know why I'm talking about snakes so much today, but anyway, a snake losing its skin. You ever seen that before? A snake will molt and it will leave the old skin behind and go on And that's that's the concept of forgiveness. Folks, the reality is there are things in our lives that if you are holding on to someone, particularly if it's a brother or sister in Christ and you're holding on to it and you're not forgiving, you're not leaving it behind, you're not following Scripture. You're not pleasing the Lord. So Peter says, How often do I need to forgive? He says, How about seven times? Now, when Peter said this, He thought he was being very generous. He thought he was being quite magnanimous. Peter saying to Jesus, should I go seven times? Now, back in the Old Testament, it seems, it seems to be, that three times was enough. In Amos chapter 1, verse 3, it says Thus saith the Lord, for three transgressions of Damascus and four I will not turn away its punishment, because they have threshed Gilead with its implements of iron. So on the fourth time, you do it the fourth time And it's now God's gonna exact exact his judgment. In Job thirty-three, twenty-nine, we have the same kind of idea. Behold, God works all these things twice, in fact, three times with a man. And in the rabbinical writings, that seems to be uh the same kind of thing that they said in the in the Mishnah. Um Actually I'm sorry, the Mishnah was more s was less strict. But the Rabbinical Judaism uh it says If a man commits a trent uh transgression the first, second, or third time, he is forgiven, the fourth time he is not. So three times. The Mishnah was even less forgiving. It said this, if a man said, I will sin and repent, and sin again and repeat, repent. he will be he will uh be given no chance to repent. So clearly when Peter says, you know, whether it's three times uh or two times. When Peter says seven times, he's doubling the times of anything that he had ever heard and adding one. So he was being extremely generous, and yet in Jesus' mind, what did Jesus say to him? No. You need 770 times seven. Jesus had explained previously that we need to be really concerned with our brothers and sisters in Christ. He had says, he had already said in Matthew 18, 6, whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin, it would be better for him to be if a millstone were hung about around his neck and were drowned in the depths of the sea. He said later on, take heed and do not despise one of these little ones. We ought to be more concerned about the well-being of others than the well-being of ourselves. And a forgiving heart realizes that I need to forgive for the well-being of the brother or sister in Christ who has offended me. So 70 times 7 is 490. Does that mean we count hash marks? Alright, I finally got to 490 times, and now I don't have to forgive anymore. No, that's not the point. The point is it is it is unlimited forgiveness And aren't you glad about that? That God's standard is unlimited forgiveness. And do you know why you ought to be glad about that and why I ought to be glad about that? Because that's what he gives to his children. We never have to go to God and confess our sins before Him and wonder whether He's going to forgive us or not. He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. The example that we have of forgiveness is Christ Himself. He forgives every time. Isn't this wonderful? And in fact, that is actually what Jesus is going to begin to look at. He's going to begin to explain in verses 23 through 27 of this passage. Where we see that Jesus, that God's uh the value of God's forgiveness is virtually infinite It is virtually infinite. We pick up here, and he's going to give an illustration. Verse 23, he says, therefore the kingdom of heaven is like. In other words, he's explaining what the kingdom of heaven is like. It's a certain king who wanted to settle accounts with his servants. When he had begun to settle accounts, one was brought to him who owed him 10,000 talents. But as he was not able to pay, his master commanded that he be sold with his wife and children and all that he had, and that payment be made. The servant therefore fell down before him, saying, Master, have patience with me, I will pay you all. And the master of the servant was moved with compassion, released him, and forgave him his debt. So the Bible then tells us here, we see an illustration, and the king, of course, is God. That's it's illustrating God. And it is explaining that God is an incredibly forgiving God. We see in Exodus chapter 34, verse 7, keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin. by no means clearing the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children of uh the children and children's children to the third and fourth generation. He he cannot just overlook our sin, but at the same time he is one who desires to forgive. Colossians 2. 13. And you being dead in your trespasses and uncircumcision of your flesh. He is made live together with him, having forgiven all your trespasses. Psalm 133, if you, Lord, should mark our iniquities, O Lord, who can stand The psalmist there is saying, you you we you don't mark our iniquities. There is a forgiveness. Yes, there is a justice. But there is a desire for forgiveness, and of course that comes through Christ. So this man wanted to reckon this king wanted to reckon accounts with his servants, and one of his servants It says record accounts. Very likely the idea is that he had these different servants that were probably magistrates or people that were collecting taxes for him. And they were collecting taxes for him, and so he was settling accounts with them. And this particular man owed him 10,000 talents, and this man could not repay. Now that is a pretty significant number, 10,000 talents. It's hard to tell to know how much that really is, but to give you an idea, it is uh one talent Usually to sell uh to buy a slave at the at the highest price was one talent. So ten thousand talents was an almost infinite amount. It was it was an extreme I mean for for practical purposes it was. It was like a billion dollars or more. Jesus is saying that the king is owed in in im unin inestimable amount of debt by this servant And so he calls it he calls them to pay it. Of course he can't pay it. So what does he do? He says, well, sell your family. This happened. This is a lot of time how indentured servitude occurred where families would because of indebtedness would actually sell family members. Now in Jewish law, uh that was actually they that still happened in Jewish law. It was still allowed in Jewish law, but every 50 years during the year of Jubilee, everything had to be set right. So you couldn't have unlimited indenture indentured servitude. And usually indentured servitude was was for a certain time until the debt was paid back. But with this amount of debt it would bit it would have been Forever. And this king has compassion. The Bible says he was moved with compassion. And he forgave the debt. This word compassion is the same word which we have mentioned many times before that's all over the New Testament. Particularly the gospels, Jesus was constantly moved with compassion. For example, in Luke chapter 7, verses 11 through 14, there's this mother who has lost her son. And she is grieved over it. And Jesus comes to her and says, woman, do not cry. And he and actually brings that son to life. Because it says he was moved with compassion. That's the kind of compassion that undergirds forgiveness of God. God has, and the connection is obvious here, folks. That is the kind of forgiveness, compassionate forgiveness that God has toward us. Now, let me just pause and ask you the question. Do we really view God's forgiveness of us in this light? Do we really view it in this light? The reason I I want to say that is simply because It is so easy for us to forget how valuable the forgiveness of God is in our lives because it's so easy for us to forget the weight of our sin. We owed God an infinite debt that we could not pay Our sin is like 10,000 talents. It's like a billion dollars. We can't pay it back. There's no way we can pay it back. We will never be able to pay it back. And the forgiveness that God gives us through Christ, that if we know Christ as our Savior, we have accepted that, is a forgiveness that every day of our lives We should be grateful and thankful for the forgiveness of God in our lives, realizing that we are deserving of nothing. I love those the instrumental day. Lest I forget Gethsemane. Lest I forget Calvary. Lest I forget His love for me, lead me to Calvary. That song points out how easy it uh is for you and I to forget And the tragedy is that if we forget the forgiveness of God in our lives, if we diminish it, if we devalue it, The tragedy is, brothers and sisters in Christ, that sometimes that causes sin to surface more. There's this thing that happens to us when we when we forsake the forgiveness of God, when we neglect so great salvation, when we just sort of set it aside and it's not something that we are valuing. Sin becomes more prominent in our lives. We sin more. It surfaces more. We're more susceptible to sin. And we to the point of which we get so much guilt as a Christian that we finally confess that sin to God, realize his forgiveness again, and now we're appreciating the forgiveness of God. One of the greatest ways that you can resist temptation to sin is to be aware constantly of your own sinful sin. debt that Christ repaid for you, that He has forgiven you. Do we really view God's forgiveness in this light? Deserving of nothing. Because the reality, folks, is that if we keep this in mind, any little sin, any offense, anything that someone does against us is minuscule compared to the great debt that we owed Christ. And that's exactly the point of this passage as we move to verses 28 through 30. We see there the failure to forgive is an inequitable response to God's forgiveness. Look at verse 28. But that servant went out and found one of his fellow servants who owed him a hundred denarii. And he laid hands on him and took him by the throat, saying, Pay me what you owe. So his fellow servant fell down at his feet and begged him, saying, Have patience with me, and I will pay you all. And he would not, but went and threw him into prison till he should pay the debt. This man comes and he owes, this fellow servant owes him a hundred denari. Now that is no small amount. It hasn't is minuscule in compared to in compar compared to the ten thousand pounds that he was he owed. But a denari is a day's wage And so a hundred denarii is a hundred days wages. That's about a third of a year's salary. That's a fairly significant amount So this is not some petty debt that is owed. This is not some slight bit of indiscrepancy or a few bucks or whatever. No, this is pretty substantial. And yet it's not compared to what he owed the king. It's proportionately extremely small And this is exactly how God wants us to view those who sin against us, those who wrong us. This is how God wants us to view those things. If we view them in light of our own lives and what in our light of our own selves and all of that and and what he's done to me and I don't deserve this and all of this, then suddenly those offenses, those hard things, those Wrong sinfulness sin sins against me are massive and they're large. But if I change my perspective and I move my perspective to seeing the Lord's forgiveness in my life and the the Massive amount of debt that I owe the Lord, but he forgave me, then suddenly that sin against me becomes extremely small. And so it puts me in a place where I am ready to forgive. I am I'm absolutely It's not even hardly difficult for me to forgive because of the perspective that I have. Now This man, of course, he threw him in a debtor's prison. He did not do what the man actually said the exact same words that he said to the king, but this fellow servant would not accept his f would not forgive him, even though he had forgiven been forgiven a huge debt, throws him into a a debtor's prison, which is not something they do anymore. It used uh it's not been that long in history that they had debtors prison. They had him in uh in Great Britain years ago, they found that economically they don't work out very well. Because you put somebody in prison who owes you a debt and now they can't pay, so it doesn't So you don't see debtors' prisons anymore. Um but uh but certainly that was that's something that for many, many years uh occurred and apparently that was the case in the first century as well. And that's what this servant does and ex executes uh just his his sense of justice on this person. Then of course the other fellow servants who saw that what was done, they were grieved, it says in verse 31 of the passage. And came and told their master all that had been done. Then his master, after he had called him, said to him, You wicked servant, I forgave you all the debt because you begged me. Should you not also have compassion on your fellow servant, just as I had pity on you? And his master was angry and delivered him to the tortures until he should pay all that was due him And pause there for a minute. Turn him into the torturers until all that was due to him. When was that going to be? Never. So my heavenly Father will do to you if each of you from his heart does not forgive his brother his trespasses. So the question, you read this and you say, okay, Jesus is saying that if you don't forgive your brother or sister their trespasses against you, then he's not going to forgive you. What does that mean? You're a Christian. You're a brother or sister in Christ. You're a son, a child of God. We just learned that the forgiveness of God is unlimited. The forgiveness of God is abounding toward us. And yet here it seems to be conditioned upon to forgive our forgiveness of others. How do we reconcile this? How do we deal with this? Well, let's go through a few things to understand this. Number one It is not saying here that we will lose our salvation. That if we don't forgive a brother or sister in Christ, we'll lose our salvation. We know that Because there are very, very clear passages that tell us that once we know Christ is our Savior, that is, we are in a secure position with Christ. The Bible says, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me, and I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. My father which gave them me is greater than all, neither shall any man pluck them out of my father's hand. John chapter ten Hebrews 13, I will never leave you nor forsake you. So we know that that can't be what it's talking about. It's also unlikely that he's that he's saying that this person that was never actually, it's more likely than the other, but uh that he was never a Christian. that he never actually was a child of God. He never was a fellow servant. And so therefore that's why he was never forgiven. And although that's a greater better possibility than the first, that is unlikely because number one, he's talking to his disciples, and number two, it's clear that the servants are positionally with the king. So what kind of forgiveness could God possibly be withholding from us? Do you remember back in Matthew chapter 6? In what we know as the Lord's Prayer is probably better titled the disciples' prayer. In Matthew chapter 6, verse 12, it says this, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, for yours is the kingdom and power and glory forever. Amen And then it says in that passage, for if you forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will forgive you. If you do not forgive men their trespasses, neither will your father forgive you your trespasses Now, I think that the answer to this is actually found in the book of Hebrews. Would you take your Bibles and turn there? Hebrews chapter 12. We'll pick up in verses, we'll look at verses 6 through 15 of Hebrews chapter 12. But while you're turning there, I want to note this. That there is a sense in which we are in fact it not even a sense in which we are we are positionally secure in Christ. We are forgiven. But when it comes to our fellowship with the Lord, we are not entirely restored to him, or we're not restored in fellowship with the Lord when we continue to have sin in our lives. This is something that we need to remember from time to time. That if the if we fail to agree with God about our sin, 1 John 1 9, if we fail to confess our sins then we are not restored in fellowship to God. In fact, if we hold a grudge against a brother or sister in Christ, If we do not identify that as sin and confess that before the Lord, then there is a sense in which we will not we are positionally forgiven, but we will not experience the forgiveness of God in our lives. And furthermore, there is a sense in which when we sin and we hold a grudge and we have bitterness in our lives and we will not let it go. Then God will deal with us because we are His children. When we have unconfessed sin in our lives, unrepentant sin in our lives. The Bible says that God will actually chasten us. In Hebrews chapter 12, verse 6 it says, For whom the Lord loves he chastens and scourges every son whom he receives. For if you endure chastening, God deals with you as with sons. For what son is there whom the a father does not chasten? But if you without cha are without chastening, of which all of all have become partakers, then you are illegitimate and not sons. Furthermore We have had human fathers who corrected us and we paid them respect. Shall we not much more readily be in subjection of the Father, the Father of Spirits, and live? In other words, we have a spiritual father, and that spiritual father, when we have sinned against him and we refuse to recognize that sin, that spiritual father will chasten us. And we find this, verse 11. Now no chastening seems to be joyful for the present, but painful. Nevertheless, afterward, it yields a peaceable fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it. Did you catch that? In other words, when God chastens us, it turns out that we are going to be more peaceable. are peaceable fruit of righteousness. Therefore, verse 12, strengthen the hands which hang down and the feeble knees and make straight paths for your feet, so that what is lame may not be dislocated, but rather be healed. Then catch what it says. In the same context as he has just been talking about God's chastening, we see this. Verse 14, pursue what? Pursue peace with all people. And holiness without which no one will see the Lord. Looking carefully lest anyone fall short of the grace of God Lest what? Any root of bitterness spring up, cause trouble, and by this many become defiled. Brothers and sisters in Christ, do you realize that if you will if you continue to hold a grudge toward another brothers and sister in Christ, if you choose not to forgive If that occurs in your life, then what will happen is that it will become a root of bitterness in your life that will eventually Spring out and defile many, frankly, including yourself. And so that's why it is so imperative that we forgive. It is absolutely necessary that we do so. And somebody says Well, uh so-and-so hasn't asked me for forgiveness. It doesn't matter. You say, well, you sure it doesn't matter? No, it doesn't matter. We need to be ready the example is Christ Christ has offered forgiveness to the world. Now, people aren't restored to him until they accept that forgiveness. But the offer of forgiveness is to everyone. And so we need to be ready to restore with any brother and sister in Christ, which means we have already forgiven, regardless of whether they ask or not. And so it is absolutely important for us to forgive. In fact, it is the key to for a community to remain a community, because here's the reality, this is true. The more a community gets to know each other, the more you're going to find each other's faults as sin. This is just the nature of it This happened in a family. The first year or two of marriage, maybe you think that person is perfect. Get pat much beyond that and you realize that person is far from perfect. get into a decade of marriage and you realize boy he's a dirty, rotten, filthy, stinking sinner. And it doesn't get any better. And if you accumulate all of those sins in your mind against that person, you ain't gonna stay married Very frankly, regardless of what Matthew 19 is going to say, which we will get there. He said this in his book on forgiveness. Whenever two fallen people come in close contact for an extended time, they will have complaints against one another. Some trivial and others significant. Whether we are taking talking about families, friendships, or churches, the fact is that sinners comprise these relationships. And so the only way that we're going to be able to be the body of Christ, the only way that your family is going to really be able to reflect Christ, the only way your marriage is going to be able to reflect Christ. Is that you must be ready to forgive. And you can forgive. You know why you can forgive? Because God has forgiven you. Now, I want to just give you several truths that I think will be really helpful for you, helpful for all of us in applying forgiveness. It's about six statements here, and I think they'll be helpful. Ready? Number one. How do we forgive? How do we learn to forgive? Number one, focus on your own faults rather than the faults of others. Focus on your own faults rather than the faults of others. That's Matthew chapter 7, verses 1 through 6. If you think you are faultless And somebody does you wrong, you are not going to be ready to forgive. But if you realize that you are full of faults then you are going to be ready to give or forgive. Matthew chapter seven is the you know that you know it well, we've I've preached on it, you know it well. It's the key taking the beam out of your own eye before you try to take a speck out of somebody else's eye. C. S. Lewis said it this way, may God's grace give you the necessary humility. Try not to think much less speak of their sins. One's own are a much more profitable theme. And if on consideration one can find no faults on one's own end, then cry for mercy, for this must be a dangerous delusion. Wise words. Number two, be mindful of your own undeservedness. Be mindful of your own undeservedness and God's compassionate forgiveness. Ephesians 4:31 32 says this, and be kind to one another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God in Christ forgave you. The key to your forgiving others. It is to be mindful of how undeserving you are, and how compassionate and forgiving God is. Number three, remember you are required to forgive, but you are not required to trust. This is a long statement. However, you can't forgive without the potential to trust. I'm putting all of that into a f into you know a statement because I think we need to really, it has to be all that together. There's some people that Make an excuse for not forgiving because they can't trust. There's some people that think that they must trust in order to forgive. Bottom line is you do not have to trust, but you must forgive And true forgiveness allows for the potential for future trust. Remember You're required to forgive, but you are not required to trust. However, you can't forgive without the potential for trust. Number four, realize that forgiveness is often a repeated process rather than merely a one-time decision. Now I think this is very important. I I have seen this in personal experience and in counseling and other other things. Where somebody says, Well I've forgiven him, as though it's a one-time decision. I've forgiven him. And then they go and bring it up 5,000 times afterwards. I forgive them, but they did this to me. I've forgiven them, but this and no no no. If you've forgiven them and you keep bringing it up, you have you need to forgive them again. I mean it's entirely possible possible that the day you said you forgave them, you actually did. But when you bring it up again and when you hold it against someone again, it demonstrates that you really haven't forgiven them. And so and so understand that sometimes when you you have you know when somebody's really wronged us, we have to continue to forgive. We have to the next day, you know, um we have to we we forgive and it comes up in our mind a week later and we need to forgive again, it comes up in our mind late later, and we need to forgive again, we need to keep letting it go. This is something that it requires a mental discipline for us to do until it stops coming up again in our minds. That is important for us to understand. Number five, rest, this I think is so critical. Rest in God's justice. You know why sometimes we have a hard time forgiv forgiving Because we have this sense of justice in us and we want to see justice done. And there's a sense in which that's there's a good side of that and a bad side. A sense of justice is is innate, it's God given. But when we believe that we have the ability to execute justice when a person has wronged me, we are fooling ourselves because there is no way you're objective on that. And that's exactly why Paul tells us in Romans 12, verse 19, Beloved, do not avenge yourselves, but rather give place to wrath. For it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, say the Lord. Do not avenge yourselves. Do not execute justice on yourself. Do not do that, he says. It is sin. Instead, you know what you have to do? You have to trust the Lord. You have to trust God. You have to let God be God. And trust him that in his time, in his way, justice will be done. That's where we got we come to number six. Trust the Lord. Really, folks, at the root of an unforgiving spirit, at the very root of it, is unbelief. That is the root problem. You are either not believing that God has forgiven you the way He has You're not believing how sinful you are, or you're not believing that God will take care of the person and deal with him or her the way that um the way that that he should Proverbs 3 5 says this, trust in the Lord with all of your heart, and lean not on your own understanding. In all of your ways, acknowledge him, and he will direct your paths. We need to forgive. Why? Because Christ has forgiven us. And if you're here today this morning and you're saying, well, I don't know that I've really ever truly experienced the forgiveness of God. I mean that's the root problem You cannot earn God's forgiveness. God does not automatically forgive you. You're not born, and then God just overlooks your sin and automatically forgives you. You have to understand your sin. Understand God's judgment on you, and then understand that God sent his son to take that judgment from you, and you need to accept the punishment that Christ gave on the cross for you. And trust in that. The Bible says, but as many as received him, to them gave you the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. If you're here this morning and you have never placed your trust in Christ to save you so that you can have the forgiveness of God in your life. Please come and talk with me afterwards. I'll be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you have God's forgiveness. Let's go to the Lord in prayer Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you for your truth about forgiveness. And I pray, Lord, that you, it is it is very hard in our flesh. To forgive those who have wronged us. Lord, I pray that you would help us to have a truly forgiving spirit But anytime we're tempted to hold a grudge against particularly a brother or sister in Christ, that we would remember the amazing forgiveness that you had given to us. And we would realize that in comparison, our forgiving them is so small and so insignificant, we just need to do it. We just need to let it go. In times where we feel that justice has not been done, I pray, Lord, that you would cause us to just trust in you, that you You can execute justice in your time. And so we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.