Romans looking at, beginning at verse 14. For we know that the law is spiritual, but I am carnal. Sold under the law. For what I am doing, I do not understand. For what I will to do, that I do not practice But what I hate, that I do. If I then I do what I will not to do I agree with the law that it is good. But now it is no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells in me. For I know that in me, that is in my flesh, nothing good dwells. For to will is present with me, but how to perform what is good I do not find. For the good that I will to do, I do not do. But the evil I will not do that I practice. Now, if I do what I will not to do, it is no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells in me. I find then a law that evil is present with me, the one who wills to do good. For I delight in the law of God according to the inward man. But I see another law in my members, warring against the law of my mind. and bringing me into captivity to the law of sin, which is in my members. O wretched man that I am. Who would deliver me from this body of death? I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord. So then the mind in myself serve the law of God, but with the flesh the law of sin. And we can see by the way that he writes this that there is great uh It is helpful if I'm on. We can see by the way that he writes this that there is great confusion, even frustration, and certainly a sense of defeat. The fact is that Christians often feel quite defeated in the Christian life as they go to try to battle sin. Imagine somebody coming to Christ and they're genuinely coming to Christ and they are elated because their sins have been forgiven, the burden of sin is off of them. They know that they have eternal life, and they think that everything is going to be better from here on out But when they go to serve the Lord, when they go to do right, when they try to be obedient, they find themselves falling flat on their face over and over and over again. To the point that they feel like maybe sometimes Christians feel like, I just can't do this Christian life thing. I'll just kind of do the best I can and And, you know, uh I I know I'm going to heaven and I'll just die going to heaven, but but you know, this Christian life, I really I'm not very good at it. You ever felt that way before? Have you ever felt have you ever experienced that that sense of defeat and frustration and confusion? On one hand, you want to do what's right. On the other hand, you feel as though you keep messing up. You begin to even think whether or not you're a Christian, because How could you mess up so often and sin so often and actually be forgiven and be a child of God at the same time? The Apostle Paul here expresses his own sense of defeat. When looking at the law. See, what we find in the text is a text that in Romans 7 we have The law. The word law is mentioned 31 times in Romans 7. And the word spirit is mentioned 21 times in Romans chapter 8. And the word spirit is never mentioned in Romans. chapter 7 mentioned it's one one time mentioned in Romans 7 referring to it another time but uh not mentioned much at all in Romans chapter 7. Paul is trying to help us to understand that that just interacting with the law, our relationship with the law, will not get us to a place where we're actually able to consistently Do right, to consistently be able to be obedient. See, there is a kind of Christianity that is very law-oriented, performance-driven. And it is a real problem. Those ministries, those leaders, those churches that are law-oriented and performance driven often are full of people that feel defeated and rejected and feel like giving up all of the time There is a connection between the performance mentality of the Christian life on one hand and never matching up on the other. And if you have ever been in that kind of ministry, or under that kind of preaching, or under that kind of leadership That kind of hard thumb where you feel like you're never able to do enough. You're never able to perform the way that You feel like you're performed. There's this defeat over you. You may be in a law-oriented situation. Sometimes families are like this. Where there is just this heavy-handed law, this oppressive law And this feeling that we can never match up. We can never do it. We feel defeated. And I think that all of us from time one time or another, as Christians, feel this way. We want to do what's right, but we keep blowing it. Well, there is one- there is truth here for us. Paul, in fact, can identify with us in this passage. I'd like you to notice what it says in chapter 7, verse 6. Would you notice what it says? But now we have been delivered from the law having died to what we were held by, so that we should serve in the newness of the Spirit, and not in the oldness of the letter. What Paul is going to describe in verses 14 through 25 is the oldness of the letter. What does it look like to try to serve God in the oldness of the letter? Romans 8, we're going to get my favorite chapter in the entire Bible, is what it looks like to serve God in the newness of the Spirit. But Paul, before we get there, is going to explain what it looks like, even what it feels like. To try to serve God, to live for God, to do right, to follow the law in the oldness of the letter. Remember, Paul's talking to a lot of Jewish people, a lot of Jewish Christians, and a lot of people that have been influenced by Jewish people and the law. And the Old Testament is full of the enjoyment of the law, the delight of the law. David said, how I delight in the law of God. Is it wrong to delight in the law of God? And Paul is actually going to say in this passage, no, it's not wrong to delight in the law of God. And yet the same people who look to the law of God and delight in the law of God Feel utterly and completely confused and defeated and frustrated. And so did Paul Paul is going to explain in this text exactly what it is that is at the root of the problem. We find it twice in the passage in verse 17 and 20. Would you notice it with me? Romans 7, verse 17 says, But now it is no longer I who do it, but what? Sin that dwells in me. And he says here again Romans chapter 7 verse 20. Now if I do it, what I will do not do, it is no longer I who do it, but what? But sin that dwells in me. So the problem, according to this passage, is the problem of indwelling sin. The desire to follow the law, the follow to do what's right, to delight in the law, and yet to have this problem of indwelling sin which brings about internal conflict And throughout the passage, as you read the passage, there may be no more personal, vivid description of what it's like to have inner conflict than this passage right here You can almost identify with Paul as he says, what I want to do, I don't do, and what I don't want to do, that I do. You ever felt that way? I think probably every Christian at some time or another has had that same kind of feelings from the same kind of experience. So we see in this passage that the knowledge of the law And the reality of indwelling sin brings internal conflict. Deep personal internal conflict. And we're going to see this in three ways. One, we're going to see the conflict between the law and self, law versus self. Then we're going to see the conflict between Desire and ability. Desire versus ability. And then we're going to see the eternal conflict between God's law versus the law of sin. The law of God versus the law of sin. Law versus self, desire versus ability. God's law versus the law of sin. And there is a progression here. Actually, I had it with three all at the same time, which is kind of the way I wanted it. But anyway, where you could see the progression. The law versus self leads us then to understanding the desire versus our ability, then leads us then to understanding God's law versus the law of sin. And so we'll begin with the conflict of the law versus self. He says, verse 14, for we know that the law is spiritual, but I am carnal, sold under sin. For what I am doing, I do not understand. For what I will to do, that I do not practice. But what I hate, that I do If then I do what I will not do, I agree with the law that it is good. But now sin, it is no longer But now it is no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells in me First he says, for we know. That's interesting. Every other time he's using I, I, I, I, but then he says, for we know. He's going to say again in verse 18, for we know. And I think he is by saying we know there is an identification with his audience who are Jewish, Jewish, probably Jewish Christians, and there were Gentile Christians in Rome as well. But they were aware of something. They were aware that the law is spiritual. We know the law is spiritual. He has already said, the law is not bad, the law is good, the law is not sin, the law is righteous, the law is spiritual, and we know this to be true But he says there's something else I am really aware of as well, that I am not spiritual. I'm carnal. I'm fleshly. I'm not spiritual. The law is spiritual, and I am not. And then he says this phrase, which has caused great great controversy over the over 2,000 years. He says, sold, look at what it says. He says, sold under. Sin. Now, this has caused great problems because when you read this phrase, sold under sin, after reading in Romans chapter 6, that we are freed from the demand of the law. Is Paul talking here about when he's a Christian? Or is it possible he's talking about when he's a non-Christian? And actually, there has been debate over time. See, in Romans chapter 6, verse 18, it says, and having been set free from sin, You became slaves of righteousness. And Romans chapter 6, verse 22. But now having been set free from sin, the very man who said, We have been set free from sin is now saying, I am sold under sin. And for that reason, there are a couple of different views of this passage. Some view this passage is it's not actually talking about Paul at all. It's actually a reference somehow to personifying Adam. Or some say think that it's actually personifying Israel. But that is not, neither one of those views is very compelling because of this is extremely personal. He is going to say at one point, oh wretched man that I am, who should deliver me from the body of this death? So he's not representing Adam here or Israel here. He's representing himself. He is saying, I am this way. But in the early church, it's interesting, before Augustine, Augustine was born around 350 A. D. , before that time The general understanding was that he was referring to himself as an unsaved person here. You say, well, it's in the present tense. There's something called a dramatic present. We use it actually in literature today, and you'll hear it in books sometimes where somebody is talking about the past, but they'll say it in the present form to make it more vivid. And so many believe that that's actually what he's doing here. He's saying in a in the present form, even though it's talking about his past unsaved self, he's he's it's in the present form, and so he's talking about it uh uh in a in a more vivid way. He's using what's called the dramatic presence. But by but Augustine, who was a uh quite uh uh theologian in his time, uh Adopted that view, but later on in his life he read the passage again and studied it again, and he came up with the view that, no, this is actually talking about Paul as a Christian, as regenerate. So he switched his view in the middle of his life. He went from it believing he was unsaved to believing saved. He was saved. And actually from the Middle Ages on up to the Revelation, that became uh up to the Reformation rather, that became the primary m idea that it was that Paul is actually referring to himself as someone who is saved. But then the Reformation came up all kinds of discussion, and there were guys like Erasmus who believed he was unsaved and guys like Calvin and um and uh Luther who believed he was saved when he read when he was passage. You you see there's not a lot of consensus here. In fact, in my commentaries, I did quite a bit of study this past week, and you have guys like uh Lloyd Martin Lloyd Jones who believes in this passage he is unsaved, and John MacArthur who believes he is saved in this passage. Douglas Mu who says no, he's definitely unsaved in this passage, and um Leon Morris and F. F. Bruce who said no, he's really referring to himself as saved in this passage. So there's a lot, there's not a consensus on this John Stodd, who is a very established, uh excellent um uh theologian, he came up With three points that he made, and I think that these are very, very helpful in clarifying the situation in this passage. He says, number one, Paul is regenerate, or he is a Christian in this passage. And he points to chapter 8, verse 7. Would you look there for a minute? Chapter 8, verse 7, he says, it says, Because the carnal mind is enmity against God. For it is not subject to the law of God, nor it can be. Well, in this passage, he actually says he serves the law of God with his mind. And verse and chapter 8, verse 7 says, if you were non-Christian, you can't do that. The carnal mind cannot be subject to the law of God And so he says, based upon that, we have to establish it says he delights, for example, another place. He says he delights in the law of God in this same passage. How can a non-Christian delight in the law of God? And the answer is I personally don't think he can. So actually, he is probably a Christian in this passage. But, John Stadt secondly says, this is not a normal, healthy, mature believer. Paul is not describing himself in this passage as a normal, healthy, mature believer. This is Romans 8, yes. Normal, healthy, mature believer. There is therefore now no condemnation to them who are in Christ Jesus. That's normal, healthy, mature believer. Romans 7, he is describing himself as in a personal sense using a dramatic present as a unhealthy, immature believer Yes, he's a believer. But see, he there's something there's something in this passage that's really important. He is not describing himself as understanding the work of the Holy Spirit of God. You don't see that in this in these verses at all. Void is the text of the Holy Spirit. The law is there, the demands of the law are there, even the lighting of the law are there, the goodness of the law is there, but the Spirit is not there in this passage. And so Paul is describing what it would be like as a Christian to live without The work of the Spirit of God, the filling, the empowering of the Spirit of God, and just being interacting and relating to the law And that's what you see here. Lloyd Jones also and that was that I mean I'm sorry, that was Scott's f uh third point. The man appears to know nothing either in understanding or in experience of the Holy Spirit. So understand what's going on here. Very important. Paul, who is he speaking to? He's speaking to Jewish people who very likely have come to Christ, but at this point, perhaps they know nothing of the Spirit's work in their life. John Stopp believes that perhaps they haven't even received the indwelling Spirit of God, since in the Old Testament you didn't have the permanent dwelling of the Spirit of God. But whether or not they did, they did not understand how to be influenced by the Spirit of God in their life. So they are trying to live the Christian life by the law alone. And in doing so, they, Paul says, that is a very frustrating existence. And that's what we see here in this passage. So there's a sense in which he stands in solidarity with his Jewish-Christian friends. who have not understood the power of the Spirit of God in their lives. And he understands what that would that is like. And so he gives this personal autobiography of the the angst and the frustration and the and the s struggle of what it is To live in a law-oriented way without the work of the Spirit of God And being under the influence of the Spirit of God. And we see in verse fifteen the issue of confusion. He's confused. He says, For what I'm doing, I do not understand. If you He wants to do what's right, but he says, what I'm doing, I don't get it. I want to do right and I'm not So he's confused. We also see in verse 15 the issue of volition, the issue of the will. He says, For what I will to do, that I do not practice, but what I hate, that I do. He's like, I want to do one thing and I'm doing another. What I want to do, I'm not doing. What I don't want to do, I'm doing that. There's this conflict between what he's actually doing and what he says he wants to do. And he says in verse 16, we find the root problem, verses 16 and 17. The root problem, he says, number one, isn't the law. That's not the problem. He says, in fact, the very fact that I desire to follow after the law, even though I'm not, the fact that I want to follow after God's law shows That there is a moral beauty, or the word good can be translated beautiful. There is a moral beauty in the law. There is a goodness to the law. That's why David could say, Oh, how I love thy law. God's law is not reprehensible or corrupt or it's the law's not the problem. He says what the problem is. The problem is indwelling sin, verse 17. There is sin that is indwelling me, so that no longer it's I who do it, but this indwelling sin in me who does it. Uh I try to think of an illustration to help us understand the best I could come up with is like dieting. How many of you ever have decided that you're gonna you know you're gonna lose weight and you're gonna plan a diet and you're gonna sick stick to it whether it's the keto diet or Uh you're gonna uh just count your calories or you've got this whole plan and you're gonna stick to the plan and you're gonna do everything right and you've got it all figured out. You've got a strategy, maybe you've even bought the right kinds of food for it, you got rid of the rot the wrong kinds of foods and everything is good and then you see that chocolate peanut butter pie in front of you and your body just says, I'm going for it Your mind goes, I got this plan. You forget all about it. Like what plan? Oh, there's a plan, there's no plan. I forgot about the plan. And your wife says to you, didn't you have a plan? I'm I'm speaking in a dramatic present. Anyway. Or the steak that you have an opportunity, this nice juicy steak, and you go, I don't know about that plan Or you're celebrating with your family. Oh, I'm celebrating with my family. I have to kick the plan to the curb because I'm celebrating my family. This is a family event and I'm a family man and And so, you know, I want to be uh you know this is a family time and I want to make good memories with my family, so you know, who that that that plan goes to the side. It could be that way with our walk with with doing right and doing pleasing the Lord and those kinds of things where we have this plan, I'm gonna And there's some besetting sins that happen in in the lives of Christians, whether it's jealousy or resentment or sexual sins or all kinds of things. I'm going to do, I'm going to, I'm going to I'm promising myself, or I'm going to promise God, or I'm going to vow to God that I'm going to do the right thing. That is The worst thing you can do candidly. Set up a vow in your vow to do the wrong vow to do the right thing and vow to do not the wrong thing. You have just set up a law in your in your members. And you can't do it. And there is unfortunately many Christians that struggle with this over the years. And maybe you feel that. You feel utterly defeated. You feel confused about doing right and the struggle of wanting to do right, but your tendency to do wrong. Do you ever feel so defeated that you feel utterly enslaved to sin? I think that's really what he's talking about here. When Christ said when Paul says, I'm sold under sin, he's not really speaking positionally. I think he's speaking in a in the sense of what it feels like. He feels like he is really enslaved That later on in the passage, he's going to say that the law and his members, we'll get to it, is in the process of enslaving me. And I think that's what he's referring to here. So what's the problem? Well, we move next to verses 18 through 20, which have this conflict between desire and ability. Desire and ability. Romans chapter 7, verse 18 says, For I know that in me, that is in my flesh, nothing good dwells. He realizes, in my flesh, in myself, nothing good dwells. For to will is present with me, but how to perform it, what I what is good, I do not find. For the good that I will to do, I do not do, but the evil I will not. to do, that I practice. Now, if I do what I will not to do, it is no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells in me. So we have here the desire. He says, I know. That word no, I'm aware. First he said, we know the law is good. But now he's talking about himself. He moves from we know the law is true. is righteous to, I know that in me, because of this issue, in me, that is in my flesh dwells no good thing. Now, he is not saying here that there is no possibility that he could do anything good. But what he is saying that in his flesh, there's a source within him, he realizes there's a source within him with which nothing good comes. In my flesh dwells no good thing. And he says, for to will is present with me. I want to, I desire to do right. But how to perform, it's ability, how to perform what is good, I do not find. So he wants to, but he doesn't have the ability to, is what he com is what he concludes. See, it is possible to possess a tool, but not know how to use it, or not even know it's there. Several couple years ago, of course you know that my most of you know that my dad passed away and he left me a ton of tools. Lots of tools. So many tools I didn't even know everything that he had. I think he was hiding some of it from me. But anyway. Um I mean these tools I'm like pulling out and like, wow, I didn't know he had this, I didn't know he had this. And then I'm thinking to myself, I didn't know I had this and I don't know I have this now. And then I'm looking up on YouTube how to use this tool, what's the name of the tool, how do I use the tool. Occasionally I'm taking pictures and putting them off on Facebook saying, does anybody know what this tool is? I mean I possess the tools. I own them now. They're mine. But I have no clue. I don't even know everything I've got. And I don't even know how to use everything. I'm still learning how to use everything I have. And it could be the same way with the Spirit of God. Somebody comes to Christ, they know they should do right, and yet they do not know how to be under the influence of the Spirit of God. They do not know how, they they they possess, but don't know how to use the tools that they have. And so he says, I don't have the ability. I want to, but I don't have the ability. Verse 19, there is a he says, I fail to do good, and instead I practice evil. And then he says, verse 20, it is no longer I who do it. And he realizes again, he realizes the root problem. It is sin that dwells in me. Martin Luther uses this example. We wouldn't think of this example, but he did. I would never think of this example, but he did. He said, it is as with a rider. When his horse does not trot exactly as he wishes, it is he, and yet not he that causes it to trot as it does. For the horse is not without him, nor he without his horse. So he is not saying that he's not saying that he has no no bearing on what happens, but there's this disconnect between what is actually happening and what he actually wants to happen, just like a rider at his horse And the rider is doing, is wanting the horse to do one thing, and the horse is a little bit off in what he is doing. You could illustrate it this way. I often speak to people that are approaching middle age from the other side. That's the way my grandfather describes old age. He says approaching middle age from the other side. They'll say, my mind can do it, but my body won't. Some of you are going, yeah, that's him. I'm at the stage where my mind will do it and my body will and then I pay for it later. So that's when you're young, you don't pay for anything. You do it, your body does it. You're like, what's the big deal? I'm at the stage where I do it, my body will do it, and I'm like, oh man. What did I do? But uh y th that's kind of what he's saying here. Your mind his mind wants to, he wants to, but but his body's doing something different. And what we actually see is he's going to get down to the to the core to the root of this. He's literally going to look inside himself. and do s and parse this out in verses 21 through 25. So we're going to see then that the personal conflict here is between God's law and the law of sin. God's law and the law of sin. In Romans chapter 7, verse 21, it says, I find in a law that evil is present with me. the one who wills to do good. He says, I'm the one who wants to do good. I find there's a different law. He's using law in an interesting way here. It's not quite the same as a written law that we think of. He's saying, I'm finding within myself another source of authority. Ultimately, that's what law is. Law is authority, right? You can have written law, but you could have verbal law and it still carries authority. But in this case, he's saying there is an unwritten nonverbal law in myself, a source of authority within me that is pre-evil that is present in me. He says this, for I delight in the law of God according to the inward man. So we see first his condition in verse 21. There is evil present with him, despite the fact that he desires to do good. And then he gives this explanation. And essentially, if you look at the passage, you're going to see two different sources here. The first source is in verse 22. It says, I delight in the law of God after the inward man. So I want us to see this. When he says, in the law of God, verse 22, for I delight in the law of God according to the inward man. That law of God we're going to see described as well later on in the passage. So several times he's going to say law of God here. And he's and this word delight, he says, I joyfully concur, is what he's saying. And he uses the word inward man. This is this is why it is very compelling to see him as Paul as a Christian here. Because a non-Christian cannot joyfully concur with the law of God. This word inward man is never used in scripture of a non-Christian. And uh it's only used in Scripture as a Christian. In Second Corinthians chapter four, verse nine verse sixteen it says, Therefore we do not lose heart, even though our outward man is perishing, yet our inward man is being renewed day by day. In Ephesians chapter 3, verse 16, that he would grant you according to his riches, his glory, to be strengthened with might through his spirit in the inner man. So he's saying that There is a principle with him, an authority within him that desires to do evil and another authority within him that desires to do good And in verse 23, we see that the location of this. It's interesting what he says. He's really kind of self- Getting in there and like doing spiritual self-surgery here a little bit, like examining everything. Look at verse 23. But I see another law in my members. warring against the law and notice what it says of my mind. Now we're going to get to the to the sinful law in a minute. But he says the law of my mind. The law of my mind goes with the law of the of God. So you have the law of God and its location is in the and is in the mind. Now this becomes very, very important for Paul. Paul, the key to the Christian life is in the mind. And the and the delighting in the law of God is something that we do in our minds. We're going to see, remember in Romans chapter 12, verse 2, much later than Romans 7, he's going to say what? Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of what? Of your mind. Ephesians 4. 17 says this, this I say therefore, and testify in the Lord, that you should not no longer walk in the as the rest of the Gentiles walk in the futility of their mind. Ephesians 423, and be renewed in the spirit of your mind. 1 Corinthians 2, 16. For who has known the mind of the Lord that he may instruct him? But we have the mind of Christ. So there is this law, this authority, the law of God, authority within us that desires to do right, and it's and it is seated in our minds as Christians. But unfortunately, that's not the only authority. There is this law of sin. And verse 23 tells us this. But I see another law. But notice the location of this law. Where is this law? It says it's in our members. Literally, it's in our body parts. Now, that is not to say that physically you could literally cut open your body parts and find, you know, the law of sin. He's not saying that. What he is saying is that the influence of this law of sin, the influence of it is Is influencing our members, our body parts, influencing things like our tongue, our arms, our hands, where we walk. are sexual organs. All of that is included in this members. That is, he is saying that there is a law of sin that influences the members. So on one side you have the law of God that influences the mind. And on the other hand, you've got the law of sin that influences the members. Now, do you see why Paul then would say, with my mind, I want to do the right thing, but my body's doing something else. Now that is not to say that he's not taking permanent personal responsibility for what he does. He is simply saying there is an authority in my mind that God has given me But there is another authority there that's very real, that law of sin, that influences my members. So that he says, and and we see, by the way, that Paul is going to say in Romans, remember remember he said he talked about members before, Romans chapter 6 verse 13. And do not present your members as instruments of unrighteousness to sin, but present yourselves to God as being alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness to God. God if he's very concerned about our members doing the right thing. But Paul explains why this isn't happening. It's because there is this there is this law of sin that influences our bodies Romans 7, 5. Remember this? Back in verse 5? And when we were in the flesh, the sinful passions which were aroused by the law were at the At work where? It was at work in our members to bear fruit to death And 1 Corinthians 6, verse 15 says this, do you not know that your bodies are members of Christ? Shall I then take the members of Christ and make them members of a harlot? Certainly not. So what we see from this passage is that there are two authorities, one that influences the mind, the other that influences the body, the one that influences the mind is the law of God, the other influences the law the the the the the body and that's the law of sin and guess what he's miserable What's the end? He says, Oh wretched man that I am. He f understands the conflict within himself at this point. He's struggling with it. There is this conflict about what I want to do that's right and what I'm actually going to do. There's this conflict within him And he says, Oh wretched man that I am, who will deliver me from the body of this death? You ever been there? But this is not just this is not just a question with no answer. Aren't you glad about that? Notice the next phrase. The answer, he says, is, I thank God through who? Jesus Christ our Lord. So this is a question with an answer. The question is, who will deliver me from the body of this death? And what's the answer? Jesus Christ will. And there is a sense, folks, that you can look forward to one day where our faith will become sight, where we'll be free from the presence of sin, where we will not be dealing with this any longer. But I also want us to, I want to hasten to say that it is not then that we start living out the victory that God has for us. It is as we understand the influence of the Spirit of God in our lives, which we're going to see clearly in Romans chapter 8. Unfortunately, we're not there yet. But I will just tell you this. If you look at 8. 11 for a minute here, Romans 8. 11 says, But if the spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead will dwell in you, Dwells in you, he who has raised Christ from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through the Spirit who dwells in you So how do we apply all of this? And by the way, the summary here, look at the summary before we apply it. It says, so then, with the mind, I myself serve the law of God. With the mind. This is summary of the whole thing. I myself, with the mind, serve the law of God, but with the flesh. the law of sin. And he leaves it there. There is nothing, look, without the Spirit of God, which we're going to see in Romans 8, there's no more he can say. The best he could say is, okay, Christ is going to deliver me from this when I get to heaven. And folks, the terrible thing about this is that there are some Christians that live this way. They live in defeat. They live in frustration and confusion and struggle and pr and and and we're all gonna always have struggle, but there's this extreme defeat. because they have because they are living under a law-oriented, performance-oriented mentality. So how do we apply this? I'll tell you this. The wrong way to apply this passage, I'll just let you know, is to regard it, as John Stott says, to regard it as a pattern of normal Christian experience. I've actually heard Christians say this. Boy, I'm glad this is in the text because this is me all the time. Look, live in Romans 8, not Romans 7. This is not to be a pattern of the normal Christian life, of normal Christian experience. So looking at this and saying, well, I can really identify with this and and then just leaving it there and moving on and saying, okay, well, I guess this is just the way my life is going to be until heav heaven and I'm delivered from it. That is not the point of this passage. The point of this passage is to is to leave us wanting more. And that's why we come to Romans chapter 8 verse 1, where it says, there is therefore now no condemnation to them where they're in Christ Jesus. And we need to want more. John Stott says this He says the right way of applying Romans 7 and 8 is to recognize that some churchgoers today might be termed Old Testament Christians. The contradiction implied is this expression and as this expression indicates that an anomaly they are They show signs of new birth in their love for the church and the Bible, yet their religion is law, not gospel, flesh, not spirit. The oldness of slavery to rules and regulations, not the newness of freedom through Jesus Christ. And sadly, there are many Christians that that is where they live. In fact, there are churches close close to us in our circles. that really are not even willing to speak of the work of the Spirit of God. They're too afraid of that those other groups, you know, that take it too far or take it in a different direction. And instead, they are resigned that the answer to living this life as a Christian is to perform, perform, perform, perform. And you will never match up and you can always do more. And it's a very sta sad state to be in. So how do we apply this today? I think, as a matter of application That we really need to understand this process that Paul has gone through. And there's a sense in which we need to go through this process in our own lives to be ready for Romans 8. So I have five things here. Number one, realize the confusion and frustration of keeping God's law in my own strength. I put these in in first person. See, I need to realize that there is confusion and frustration of keeping God's law in my own strength. I I need to realize that. Have you experienced that? See, you you need to realize it. There are some that say, well, I just can't, or I just won't, or I just, you know, they're just sort of passed off and They they they don't want to live out the struggle, so they're just sort of trying to ignore the struggle. That isn't the answer Realize that there is confusion and frustration in keeping God's law. The problem is trying to do it in my own strength. And that's what I think you see here. Number two, accept personal inability to consistently keep God's law. Realize you're not able. That's what Paul realized. He says, I'm not able. I want to, but I can't. And I think sometimes what we need to do before we come to Romans 8 is realize, I cannot Number three, identify the eternal the internal battle between the law of God in my mind and the law of sin in my body. I need to identify it. I need to realize it's there and identify it. Okay, there is a source of desire within me that wants to follow after God. That wants to please him. It's in my mind. I mentally know it's there. I know it's there. But there is this law of sin in my body that wants to follow after the things of the flesh. And the things that I want that would displease God. And I need to identify the struggle. I need to know there's a battle, believe there's a battle. I need to identify it, as Paul did Number four, I need to go ahead and thank God that there is deliverance in Christ. That's what he says here. Who will deliver me from the body of this death? Thank God that there is deliverance in Christ. And I think there's a sense in which you need to believe that there is deliverance in Christ. before you're able to apply the work of the Spirit in your life. Thank God there is deliverance in Christ. And number five, hang on until we get to chapter 8. Hang on. Because chapter eight or if you want to read ahead, that's really fine. I won't stop you. And study it ahead of time, that'd be okay too. But chapter 8 is going to really help us because we're going to turn the page, we're going to see, it's like almost an entirely different Paul. as he thinks through things from the perspective of being indwelt by the Spirit of God And being under the influence of the Spirit of God and thinking under the influence of the Spirit of God. So hang on until chapter 8. Now, there might be somebody in here this morning that you you you're actually living in a state of sin And you've never actually even received the deliverance that Christ offers. See, all of us, the Bible says, are born in sin. And because we are born in sin, we are born separated from God. Because God is holy. But Jesus Christ came, who is God, he came, lived a perfect life that we couldn't live. Died on the cross, took our sin on himself, so that he can place his righteousness on us The Bible says, but as many as received him, to them gave you the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. If you've never received the deliverance of the work of Christ on your behalf, if you've never placed your trust in Christ and the fact that he has taken your sin on himself and paid the punishment for your sin and desires to give you his righteousness. so that you can be in right relationship with God. If that's never been something that you've done before, let me encourage you, please come and talk with me after the service. I would be thrilled to talk with you and help you and go over some things in the Bible that will help you know how you can have eternity, how how you can spend eternity with the Lord, how you can experience his deliverance and be in right relationship with him. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you this morning and we praise you for who you are. We thank you for the wonderful truth of your word this morning. And the just the authenticity, the genuineness in Paul's life and um how he used his own life example to be able to appeal to Christians who uh who probably didn't know anything about the work of the Spirit of God and were and was live they're and were living in a law oriented um performance driven mentality. And Lord, I confess before you that any of us can get into that kind of mentality that is frustrating and confusing. But I pray, Lord, that you would help all of us to realize that we cannot apart from you. That's exactly where you want us. And then, Lord, we look ahead to the day in the coming days and weeks where we can go through Romans 8 and we can experience the tools that are there for us. So that we can live a consistently obedient Christian life as you desire. And as we desire. So we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Let's all stand Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. To have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon. Hello, my name is Jim Gunam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet. or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes. and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God. according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone. or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, Or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.