If you're joining us by way of streaming, we're just really glad that you're here. And thrilled that you're with us today and hope that you will be able to hear more about how to have a close relationship with the Lord through what the Bible says. Let's go, Lord, in prayer as we open up our service. Father, we praise you and thank you for who you are. We thank you that we do serve a risen Savior. He is Lord and God, and He again Christ has proven that by the fact that He that death could not hold him, the grave could not keep him, and so he rose victorious over sin and death, ascended up to you, and now sits on your right hand. And Father, we praise you and thank you for that this day. We thank you that we have a faith that is not empty, it's not meaningless, it connects directly from the spiritual to the physical because We serve a physically risen Savior. And we praise you for that, Lord. And today, as we lift our voices and praise to you, as we hear your word preached, Lord, as we think about the resurrection, I pray, Father, that you would help us to put away the many distractions that that face us even this day, the things that would just cause us to be deterred from celebrating the resurrection of our Savior. And may we be able in a focused way to worship Christ, to worship you, to may Christ really have the preeminence in our service this morning. May He be high and lifted up And Father, I do pray that if there is anybody here that is listening, or maybe listening by way of the streaming, or will be listening by the recording afterwards, and don't know for sure that they have they will be spending eternity with you. They don't know for sure that if they have that whether or not they have a relationship with you. Lord, I pray today that they would be able to hear from your word The gospel would be clear and they would be able to be saved from their sin and saved in order to be able to serve you. And Father, I pray, Lord, for that. I pray that all of us would be encouraged and blessed by the service, but more importantly, most importantly, I pray that you would be honored and glorified. And we pray all of these things in Jesus' name. Amen. For our next portion of Scripture, we'll read from the book of John, chapter 20. Now on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene went to the tomb early while it was still dark, and saw that the stone had been taken away from the tomb. Then she ran and came to Simon Peter and to the other disciple whom Jesus loved and said to them, They have taken away the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid him. Peter therefore went out and the other disciple and were going to the tomb. So they both ran together, and the other disciple outran Peter and came to the tomb first. And he, stooping down and looking in, saw the linen clothes lying there. Yet he did not go in. Then Simon Peter came, following him, and went into the tomb, and he saw the linen clothes lying there And the handkerchief that had been around his head, not lying with the linen clothes, but folded together in a place by itself. Then the other disciple who came to the tomb first went in Also, and he saw and believed, for as yet they did not know the scripture that he must rise again from the dead Then the disciple went away again to their own homes. But Mary stood outside by the tomb weeping, and as she wept, she stooped down and looked into the tomb. And she saw two angels in white sitting, one at the head of, and the other at the feet where the body of Jesus had lain. Then they said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? She said to them, Because they have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have laid him. Now when she had said this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing there, and did not know that it was Jesus. Jesus said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? Whom are you seeking? She, supposing him to be the gardener, said to him, Sir, if you have carried him away, tell me where you have laid him. I will take him away. Jesus said to her, Mary. She turned and said to him, Raboni, which is to say, teacher Jesus said to her, Do not cling to me, for I have not yet ascended to my Father, but go to my brethren. And say to them, I am ascending to my Father and your Father, and to my God and your God. Mary Magdalene came and told the disciples that she had seen the Lord, and that he had spoken these things to her. Then the same day at evening, being the first day of the week, when the doors were shut, where the disciples were assembled, for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in the midst and said to them, Peace be with you When he had said this, he showed them his hands in his side. Then the disciples were glad when they saw the Lord. So Jesus said to them again, Peace to you, as the Father has sent me, I also send you. And skipping down to verse 24. Now Thomas called the twin, one of the twelve, was not with them when Jesus came. The other disciples therefore said to him, We have seen the Lord. So he said to them, Unless I see his hands, the print of his nails, and put my finger into the print of his nails, and put my sorry and put my hand into his side, I will not believe And after eight days his disciples were again inside, and Thomas was with them. Jesus came, doors being shut, and stood in the midst, and said, Peace to you. Then he said to Thomas, Reach your finger here and look at my hand and reach your hand here and put it into my side. Do not be unbelieving, but believing. And Thomas answered and said to him, My Lord and my God. Jesus said to him, Thomas, because you have seen me, you have believed. Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed. Sorry, that uh that got to me a little bit. I'm not a crying preacher usually, but I guess every once in a while it comes out. Take your Bibles and turn to John chapter twenty. This passage is written, the human author is a man who was closest to Jesus. He was known as his own title for himself was The Disciple Whom Jesus Loved. It was he was one of the three closest, Peter, James, and John. John really being the closest. He understood the love of Jesus. More perhaps than anybody else. And he writes this chapter to help us to understand how how what what it really looks like to for it for for Christ to be Savior and for it to be real. That God would die for us. God It is incredible and it's amazing. But the truth is that there are many people in this world that um it's not a reality for them. There are many of the people in this world Christians look at it and they say they understand their own sin, they understand that Jesus is perfect, they understand that Jesus is God, that God that Jesus voluntarily came to die. And rise from the grave. They understand that, but for many people in our world, maybe now even a majority of people in our world, they don't even believe in God at all The very God who loved them so much that He died for them, they don't are they they doubt His even very existence. They just don't even know Why is that? And this is something that is actually an increasing problem. I mean the very basic idea of God is being threatened in our world. In the United States alone, fifty-eight percent of people believed that God they believed in God in order to have a moral and uh a moral life and good values as a uh in comparison to now and two things well not now two thousand nineteen Uh forty-four percent, that's a fourteen percent change. And it's probably worse now. Particularly among young people, this is a problem. Among young people between b below the age of thirty, twenty-five percent consider themselves completely unaffiliated and they consider themselves either ag atheist, agnostic, or nothing in particular. And the question I would have for us is why? Why is it? Why is that the case? Well, I'm going to take a stab at it. I think that particularly among young people and frankly old people too, I'm not sure this is This is really an old versus young thing. I think that people are not connecting God to real life. They're looking at what they know of or heard of of God and they're looking at their lives and they're not seeing a connection. They're not seeing a connection between the physical and the spiritual. And the truth of the matter is, really, this is a connection that's not been made for many, many years. If you go back 50, 60, 70 years, why did many people even go to church Often, unfortunately, what they did at church was so different than what they did on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday that no wonder their kids are going, I don't see a connection. No wonder. If you really think about it Many times people go to church. Why is church attendance is also draw going down? And even this is even prior to COVID this was happening. If you think about it, well what was what is causing this uh to occur? Well, unfortunately You know, fifty, sixty years ago, some people went to church just really to pacify their own guilt. They lived like they wanted to throughout the week. They come to church once a week to so they felt better about themselves and they go out and live like they wanted to after that And no wonder people, if the church if true, if if a church does not show who true God really is in real life, how is it that people are going to see it? Now here's the thing. The resurrection does that. It makes the connection. The bodily literal resurrection of Christ makes the connection between the spiritual and the physical. It connects God with real life because Jesus literally, actually, bodily rose from the grave. You know that there are some preachers, believe it or not, some people that call themselves pastors that don't preach that There are some that actually would say that, no, it wasn't really a physical resurrection, it was a spiritual resurrection, that Jesus didn't really bodily rise from the grave, it's a spiritual resurrection. And here's what the Apostle Paul would say to that. Now if Christ is preached uh that he has been risen from the dead, how do some among you say that there is no resurrection of the dead? But if there is no resurrection of the dead, then Christ is not risen And if Christ is not risen, then our preaching is empty. Your faith is also empty. I mean, think about it. Of course it's empty. There's no connection between the spiritual and the physical. There's no connection between God and what's real life and what happens as a result of that is that people are sort of left with God as a nice idea. Rather than something that actually impacts our lives, someone who actually impacts our life and actually is in charge of everything. Our faith is empty, it's in vain if it's not for Jesus Christ And what he did on the cross, but also what he did three days later when he rose from the grave. And this passage What it's going to do is it's going to show us what genuinely what genuine belief what true belief really looks like. And we're going to we're going to see four different things it looks like in this passage We're going to see that it connects the Bible to real life. Then we're going to see that it's the spiritual it makes the spiritual personal We're next going to see that it connects the spiritual and the physical, and finally we're going to see it is born out of struggle. So we'll pick up here then and understand that genuine belief connects the Bible to real life. And we pick up in verses 1 through 9 and we see this. And as we see this, we begin in a place of darkness. Jesus has died The people that have been closer to him, Mary and John and Peter and others as well, they are going, they're headed to the tomb, and Mary gets there first. Mary Magdalene, she gets to the tune before anyone else. She gets up earlier than anybody else. She has the courage to get there before anybody else. Women have a lot of courage, by the way. If you wonder whether men, if you wonder whether they have more courage than you, just you know, I mean ex you know, they give birth. They got they give they have way more courageous than we are. And and that you see that in this passage. She's she's a courageous person, and she witnesses the resurrection And and and she but she also when she gets there notice what it says we'll pick up here it says now on the first day of the week Mary Magdalene when They have taken away the s the Lord out of the tomb, and we did not know where they have laid. Now the ironic thing about this is Mary saying, they've taken him and we don't know where he went, and we don't know where he The ironic thing is that Jesus said where he was going to be. Jesus actually predicted, he told them on multiple occasions, I'm going to rise in three days. In Matthew chapter 16, verse 21, it says, from the time Jesus began to show to his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and scribes and be killed and be raised the third day. He told them he was going to rise from the grave. But Mary, what did she not do? She didn't make the connection. She came to the tomb and she's thinking physical, the body's gone. I'm seeing grave clothes there, and there's and she doesn't make the connection between the Bible and real life. Next disciple that we find in verses three through six the disciples approach. Peter and John. John doesn't mention his name here, but that's who it is. He says the disciples who whom Jesus loved the disciple whom Jesus loved, he's talking about himself. Peter and John, they go to the tomb and it says that John was a faster runner than Peter. He outran him. It's funny. I I I read that and I've read that many, many times before, and I think to myself With John like bragging that he's just a fast runner? I I don't think so. I don't really think that's what he was doing there. I'm not sure why he put put it the way he put it, that he outran Peter. Maybe he was just so anxious to see what's going on there. Maybe, even possibly, John was kind of wondering. about the resurrection. He would have been the only one, but maybe he was wondering about that. Either way, they come to the tomb. John gets there first. John sees the empty tomb, but he doesn't go in. Peter then on the other hand, he goes, gets to John, and you know, Peter, the kind of personality he is, he's a pretty impetuous kind of guy, and he goes right in and sees the sees the grave clothes and sees that they're empty. And then John goes in after that. Now, here's what it says in Luke 24, 12 about Peter's response. In that passage, it actually says that Peter did not believe In the resurrection at that point. He did not recognize what was going on. He didn't put that together. But on the other hand, in verses 7 through 9, we actually find that John does. So picking up in verse seven it says, and the hand hand handkerchief that had been around his head, not lying with a lot of linen clothes, but folded together in the place by itself, then the other disciple who came to the tomb first That's John, went in also and saw, and what did he do? He believed. For as yet they did not know the scripture that he must rise from the dead. Then the disciples went away again to their own homes. John was saying, at before that point they hadn't made the connection, but John, when he saw the grave closed there He made the connection. He made the connection between what the Bible says and real life, and the Bible calls that true belief. John actually believed. Peter at that point didn't, but John did Now, it's interesting that John believed Christ is later on going to appear to them. He's going to show who he is, and we're going to see that in a few moments. But at this point, he doesn't appear to them at this point, and John still believes without seeing. And that's really what faith is. It's belief without seeing. Hebrews chapter 11, verse 1 says, now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. The Bible says this about faith in Romans chapter ten, verse fourteen. How then shall they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how shall they believe in him and whom they have not heard? And how shall they hear without a preacher? And how shall they preach unless they are sent? As it is written, how beautiful the feet of them that preach the gospel of peace, who bring glad tidings of good things. Verse 17 of that passage says, so then faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of God. It's the connection So John believed, and he made it personal. And that's really the whole book of John is a very personal book, and 1 John also. is a very personal book on what it looks like to make a relationship with God not just something that this just sort of religious experience But a true personal relationship with God. That's what true faith does, true belief does. It's not something, oh yeah, I believe in God, and he's out here and I'm here and he's somewhere and I don't really know. No, it is a personal faith. Secondly, the disciples leave the scene, and Mary had returned, and we're going to find in verses 11 through 18 that genuine belief makes the spiritual personal. Uh it makes the sp the first the first thing is it it makes it connects the Bible to real life, and now we're going to see that it makes the spiritual personal Now Mary is distraught by this, by what she's seen. Remember, John's the only one that really made the connection at this point, and Mary's distraught by what she's seen. She's crying, she's very, very emotional, and an angel An angel in white apparently appears to her, and uh picking up in verse eleven, it tells us here picking up in eleven here It says, But Mary stood outside by the tomb weeping, and as she wept, she stood, stooped down and looked into the tomb, and she saw two angels in whites sitting one at the head and the other at the feet where the body of Jesus had lain. Then she said to her, weeping, Why are you weeping? Then they said they were weeping, Why are you weeping? She said to them, Because they have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have laid him. Now when she had said this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing there and did not know That it was Jesus. This is incredible. You got two angels there, and they say, Why are you crying? And she says, They've taken him, and I don't know where he's been. I don't know where he is And then Jesus himself is before her and she still doesn't recognize him. What's going on there? Do you know what's happened here? Mary is letting her emotions overtake her. She is going, she is operating, she is functioning by some by her emotions, by what she feels, and it's distorting her reality. Does that ever happen to us? I got a call yesterday from somebody, not in our church, but totally outside our church. And they said they were convinced that they felt they they were convinced they were in hell. They felt like they were in hell right there And I had to, I I told them, I said, look, that's your feelings. You're not in hell. You wouldn't be talking to me right now. But they were absolutely convinced their emotions were telling them that they were actually in hell. I was able to give them the gospel and try to help them biblically and all that. See, see Emotions can often can often distort our reality so that we don't make the connection. Something happens in our lives, it's not what we expect. And we say to ourselves something like, God, how can you do this? How could there really be a God in such a situation? I'm over I'm I'm distraught by this. This is Mary. And I want you to notice How Jesus deals with Mary on this. He doesn't condemn Mary. Look at what he does, verse 15. Jesus said to her, woman, why are you weeping? Whom are you seeking? She supposing him to be the gardener said, sir, I mean I I assume that what's what's going on here, it's possible that he didn't reveal who he was like on the on on uh on the road to Emmaus he ha he he kept who he was. It's possible that's the that's the case here. But finally, in verse 16, he says, Jesus said to her, Mary, just one word, Mary. And she turned and said to him, Raboni, which is to say, teacher. She finally, he said her name. And it's like earlier in John where it says, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me, and I give unto them eternal life. And then Jesus says, Do not cling to me. She's probably grabbing a hold of him. Don't go anywhere and all that. For I have not yet ascended to my father, but go to my to my brethren and say to them. He says, I'm not going anywhere, I'm not going to ascend yet, but go to my brethren and say to them, I am ascending to my father and your father and to my God and your God. He now, for the first time, actually he said he calls them friend earlier, but now he calls them brother. He calls the disciples, brother, go tell my brethren. And he says, my father and your father and to my God and your God. This is incredible that Jesus would say these words. This was something that was, Jesus, what does Jesus want? He wants a personal relationship with us. And he died for it. What amazing love is this that he would die For us. Go and tell, he says, tell my brethren. And he points this out that our we have the same Father, God. Now in many places in Scripture it tells us the same thing. Do you know the Bible tells us that if if we know Christ as our Lord and Savior, if this has genuinely happened to us, the Bible says that we are heirs with God, joint heirs with Christ. We are his brethren. Which is just incredible. Now, in order for this to occur, there has to be really true belief. This cannot be an intellectual ascent. This can't be just I I In fact it's interesting. In the book of John, it it talks about belief earlier in in John. And it says in chapter 2 In verse 2, verse 23 it says, Now when he was in Jerusalem at the Passover, the feast of many believed on him when they saw the miracles which he did. When they When they were fed by him, they started believing on him. And it says in that passage that he did not commit himself to their belief, because he knew it was not genuine faith, the kind of personal faith that we're talking about here. And that's why he says in John 6, verse 26, Verily I say unto you, ye seek me not because ye saw the miracles, but because ye did eat of the loaves and were filled. So what happens? Well, verse 18 tells us that Mary obeys. And then we see next, okay, what is genuine belief number three? Genuine belief connects the physic the spiritual to the physical. It not only makes the spiritual personal, but it also connects it connects the spiritual to the physical. And we're going to see this in this chapter. What's going to happen here is Jesus is actually going to go and he's going to appear to them. Look at verse 19. Then it's in the same day at the evening, being the first day of the week, when the doors were shut where the w where the disciples were assembled For fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in the midst and said to them, Now I just want you to notice what he says to them. Peace be with you. And when he had said that, said this, he showed them his hand and his side. Then the disciples were glad when they saw the Lord. So Jesus said to them, and he says it again, same thing. What is this reading? Peace to you. As the Father has sent me, I also send you. In fact, he keeps saying this over and over. In Luke, he says it again. Peace to you. Later on to Thomas, he's going to say, peace to you. He keeps saying peace to you. Peace to you. Peace to you. That's his greeting now. The resurrected Jesus, his greeting is peace to you. What is he saying? What he's doing is he's connecting the spiritual to the physical. And here's what I mean by that. First of all, we need to understand something. There is a wrong way. There is a counterfeit way to connect the physical to the spiritual And you know how some people do it? Some people do it by saying, you know, if I believe in Jesus, then I'm going to have great health and great wealth. I'm not gonna have any problems, I'm gonna get a big bank account, God's gonna provide for me, I'm gonna come become rich. And they are believing and they hear preachers on television that tell them, if you just believe then you can have a wonderful life and everything's going to be fine and all everything's going to be great. What are they trying to do? They're trying to connect God to the physical. They're trying to connect the spiritual to the physical. But you know what? The Bible never says, it never promises that kind of thing. It never says to the one who trusts Jesus as their Savior that you're going to have a life that is full of wealth and health. It never says that. That's a counterfeit way Of connecting the spiritual to the physical. But I do want to show you a biblical way of connecting the spiritual to the physical. And we find this in Romans chapter 5. In Romans chapter 5, we are actually going to find God's way of making this connection. In other words, let me put it this way: if somebody comes to Jesus and they say, Lord, I'm coming to you and put my faith in you because I'm going through a whole lot of really bad stuff and I'm hoping you'll help me clean it up. They're not connecting the spiritual to the physical in the right way God never promises that. But here is what he does say. Romans chapter 5 says this. Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have what? Did you catch that? Being justified, being declared righteous by faith, what do we have? We have peace with God. Through who? Our Lord Jesus Christ. Now here's what that means. It means that our standing with God goes from being separated because of our sin. To being open access to him and being at peace with him. We go from being enemy to being friend. We go from being foe to being brethren. And we are at peace with God, and because we are at peace with God, I want you to notice the practical results of this. Paul gets very practical here, he says this, through whom also we have access access by what By faith into this grace which we stand and rejoice in the what? In the hope of the glory of God. And not only that, but we glory in tribulation. This peace with God, this right standing with God, the fact that He is our friend, the fact that He is our brethren, the fact that we have this relationship with Him connects the spiritual and the physical by saying that as you as a Christian goes through trials and tribulations and struggles and problems, they can do it at peace with God. You know how somebody who doesn't isn't at peace with God goes through a difficult trial? If someone is not at peace with God and they're going through a difficult trial, you know what they're thinking the whole time? Oh no, what have I done? Oh my, what am I done? I feel guilty. I'm I'm really going through bad trial. What's it's my fault. I've done something wrong. I don't know what it is. I can't figure it out. Or maybe I do. Oh, oh that must be because I was a bad kid when I was five years old. Or I all kinds of guilt flood in their souls and they feel guilty because of the trials and the tribulations that they're going through. They're not at peace. They are in torment. This happens in the world, doesn't it? But when a Christian goes through trem trials, when a Christian goes through tribulations, when a Christian goes through hard times, they can go through and say, there's no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus. I am at peace with God. That's the connection. This is very important for us to understand as Christians. Then finally, I want us to understand this: that genuine belief is born out of struggle. Genuine belief is born out of struggle. So Jesus has appeared before the disciples. He said, he's physically appeared before them. He's made the connection between the spiritual and the physical for them. And he's taught us by saying peace to you, and we've seen from Scripture that that's the connection, that we can be at peace with God through the trials. But is it not a struggle? Do you ever struggle trusting God? Do you ever have doubts? Do you ever in your mind just have a hard time reconciling what's going on in life So did Thomas. We call them him doubting Thomas I I will pick up here in verse 24 and we'll see what Tom we'll see the how this works with Thomas. Verse 24. Now Thomas called the twin. One of the twelve was not with them when Jesus came. The other disciples therefore said to him, We have seen the Lord. So he said to them, Until I see his hands and his prince of the nails, and put my finger in the prince of the nails, and put my hand into his side, I will not believe He says, until I can make the spiritual physical, until I can make this connection, I will not believe. You know, there's a lot of people out there that are saying that. Until I can make this connection, until I can see how this works out in real life, I can't believe. I will not believe. I want you to notice how Jesus handles this. This is someone who's struggling with doubt of a resurrection. I want you to notice this, verse 26. And after eight days his disciples were again inside, and Thomas with them, and Jesus came, the doors being shut, and stood in the midst of and said, same greeting again, peace to you Then he said to Thomas, reach your finger here and look at my hands, and reach your hand here and put it into my side. Do not be unbelieving, he says this, but believing. You know what Jesus didn't do? Jesus didn't say, what is wrong with you? Why don't you believe? Didn't you hear me say this a thousand times? This is going to happen? I've got to be rise from the grave. What's your problem? He didn't do that. He didn't say, Thomas, you are a horrible, good for nothing person. He didn't strike Thomas dead. You know, I think that there are some people, it's like they're afraid to even admit that they have doubts. And actually what they really need to do is just admit they're doubting. They just need to sort of say, I'm struggling. And I'm doubting, and I have issues, and I'm st I I'm I I'm just I I've got some doubts. I've had people come to me, and I'll just tell you this in the ministry over the years, and I am more comfortable with the people that come to me and say, I'm struggling, I've got doubts. than the people who live like the devil and they're just convinced they're saved. Who really live the way they want. They just do what they want. But they think because they prayed a prayer or something, they're saved. Because doubts struggle indicates your thinking, you're contemplating, you're wanting to know. Struggle's okay, folks. Assuming that you know the Lord when you don't is not okay. And what we need to do sometimes, folks, is what we need to just do is admit, well, I've got some doubts here. Cry out to God as the man who came to Jesus who came to Jesus said, Lord, I believe, but help my unbelief. And what did Jesus do? He made the connection. He said, do not be unbelieving, but believe. And how did Thomas answer? He says, my Lord and my God. Now with all of this I have, we're going to wrap all this up, and I have a very important question for you. Have you made the connection between God and reality? Have you made that connection? Is God just a nice idea, or maybe God is a repulsive idea to you? Maybe you look at the world and it's such so messed up and it's so crazy that you say to yourself, I know I just can't believe that there is a God. Well, that's the problem. Let me put it this way to you. If we the Bible says this, that the God of this world has blinded our eyes. Actually, the Bible says that everyone is born in darkness and they are blind to God. Did you know that? There is none that seeks after God. There is none that's good. There's none that seeks after God. You're born and you are blinded to God. To him being a reality. Now, uh uh you know it's fine if you just think that God's some idea out here, but the idea that God is personal That you are accountable to him, that your sin separates you from God, those kinds of things you're blinded to, and I am too, when you were born. And the Bible says that what actually has to happen is we have to have light shed into our darkness. And the light is Christ through his word. The light is the Bible. And the Bible makes the connection, and Jesus, who is the Word, and Jesus the resurrected Savior. These are the connections that are made between God, the true and living and holy God, and our life. Do you know why we're disconnected? Do you know why we're born disconnected? We're born disconnected because of our sin. Started with Adam and Eve, passed down to everybody else afterwards. We were born disconnected because of our sin. Wherefore the Bible says, as one man sinned entered the world, and death by sin, therefore death passed upon all men, for all have sinned. And all of us are born in sin, and that's not hard to hard to believe, is it? Just look at your life. Every single one of us, if we look at our lives, what you know what we're going to find? We're going to find sin. If we're honest with ourselves, every one of us are going to find sin. Sin are the things in God's word that are a breaking of God's law that separate us from God. We've been through the Ten Commandments. There are all kinds of different sins: lying, cheating, stealing, all kinds of different sins. And God says that that sin, he can't look on it. But Jesus died. See, this is now where we're making the connection between God and real life. Jesus, who is God, became man. He lived a perfect life so that he could actually take on our punishment of sin. Sin separates us from God. The Bible says the ways of sin are is death. Jesus went to the cross, took our sin on himself. And died in our place so that we could have our sins removed And then to prove that that death really works to take care of our sin, he rose from the grave three days later. And the only the only thing you and I can't work to be good enough. We can't do anything. We can't go to church. We can't be none of that works. The only thing that we do, it's it's through believing in what Jesus did and depending on it, trusting in it completely. And if we will do that, then we'll be saved. You know, Thomas asked another really important question back in John chapter 14. Jesus was talking to his disciples before he died, and he said, let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. He says this. Then Thomas, later on in that passage, he asks a question. This is the same Thomas. He says, Lord, we don't know where you are going, and how can we know the way? Good question. What is the way to God? You believe in God, believe also in me? Well, what is the way? And Jesus answered this way: I'm the way. The truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. If you had known me, you would have known the Father also. Now on, you know him and have seen him. Jesus makes the connection. And we have a choice to make. Either we we look at the world and we we live in the world and we try to think in on uh just in re an and and we take reality and we think that way about life and we try to take the world and look at it look at scripture through the world's eyes Or we reverse it. And we start reading Scripture and knowing what God says and then looking at the world through the eyes of the Bible. When you do it that way, when you look at the world through the eyes of the Bible, instead of looking at the Bible through the eyes of the world, when you do it that way. Then you will come to understand that God is exactly who he said he is. The world is exactly what the Bible says it is. Things are going exactly how God intended them to go. And Jesus is exactly the Savior that he said he was and still is. And if you do not know today for sure that you have a personal relationship with God. Can I I just want to encourage you that you could come and talk to me afterwards or talk to somebody you're comfortable with. Or if you're if you're by way of streaming and you're you're happening to click on this or whatever and you're watching it, contact us. There will be a number afterwards and a phone number and you can contact our us by email, whatever. Just get a hold of us. I'll be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you will spend eternity with the Lord. You'll make that connection. And And then we truly, it truly will be a day that you understand that Jesus truly is risen from the grave. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and praise you for who you are. We thank you for Christ. The incredible love that He has for us, that He came to die. And shed his blood on that tree 3,000 years ago. Because it was the only way that we could truly have a personal relationship with you. It's the only way that we could have open access. It's the only way that we could have peace with you. It was through our Lord Jesus Christ. We praise you today, Father. We praise him today. We lift him up. May Jesus have all of the preeminence and all the focus in our lives. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Bempel Baptist Church is a family made up of people from very different backgrounds and from every age group. But we all have one thing in common. We have found a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. When a person discovers how to have a genuine relationship with God, they are given a sense of purpose and meaning in life. When that same person belongs to a loving community where God's word is taught, they will grow in their relationship with the Lord, and their life grows in purpose and meaning our focus is on making and building disciples for God's glory. We accomplish this through corporate worship on Sunday morning. Through adult Bible studies where we learn God's Word and how to effectively apply it to our lives, and through our discipleship home groups that meet in various locations throughout the region. Additionally, there are one-on-one and couple-to-couple counseling and discipleship opportunities. We genuinely desire to help you grow spiritually any way we possibly can. Our children's ministries are extremely important to us. We have a lot of young families with children, and we believe in the importance of teaching truth to the next generation. Teachers and nursery workers will be available to introduce themselves and assist you in signing your children in and out of their classrooms. Bethel Baptist Church is a growing, loving family community. We hope that we've been able to show you a small glimpse of what Bethel is like. But we'd love to meet you personally. Join us for a worship service, a small group for Bible study. Let us be a blessing to you and your family.