Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Lord, thank you so much that you do speak to us through your word. Thank you, Lord, that you have chosen to reveal yourself to us. You made the world, and we can see your hand in creation But you also gave us your word to show us who you are, what you're like, and to show us how we can know you. This morning I pray you'd have Help us to better know you, to better understand who you are. You are not only our God, but you are the one who sent our Savior, Jesus Christ. Christ, who died in our place and rose again. This morning, open our hearts, open our eyes to see what your word says to us. In Jesus' name. Amen Amen. Turn your Bibles to Matthew chapter sixteen. We're going to be reading Matthew chapter sixteen, verses thirteen to twenty. Matthew 16, 13-20. When Jesus came into the region of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying, Who do men say that I, the Son of Man, am? So they said, some say John the Baptist, some say Elijah, and others Jeremiah, or one of the prophets. He said to them, But who do you say that I am? Simon Peter answered and said, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. Jesus answered and said to him, Blessed are you, Simon, Barjonh, for flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. And I also say to you that you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of Hades shall not prevail against it. And I'll give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatsoever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven. Then he commanded his his disciples that they should tell no one that he was Jesus the Christ. This passage represents and reveals a pivotal time in the life and ministry of the Christ. of both of Jesus and his disciples. We've seen a lot of various uh statements that Christ has made. But now he turns to the disciples and he is questioning them as to who Who they see he really is. And what we see in this passage is of great um It it's a very, very pivotal time. It is arguably m the most pivotal time outside of the climax of Matthew, which is the death and resurrection of Christ. This may be the most pivotal time in the entire book teaching and they in their minds ha very likely in their minds they've been thinking how can we prepare and help Jesus to bring in the kingdom, to liberate Israel, to make Israel a great nation again, and to to uh reduce uh or or deal with the problem of the Roman tyranny and how can we get behind Jesus in this way and support Jesus and what role will we play in the new administration of Jesus and all of that. Their mindset very likely up to this point has been very much uh a national mindset, you could say a political mindset. Of course they've seen Jesus teach in a very different way. We've seen if you go through the Sermon on the Mount, you don't see that kind of a mindset at all, and you see the emphasis of internal righteousness and relationship with the Lord and the importance of all of that. And the disciples are seeing all of that, but they are they are pretty preoccupied w with this and with this idea and they continue to be even after this point with this idea of who will be the greatest in the kingdom of heaven and And those kinds of things. But Jesus has been working with them. He's been teaching them. He's been setting an example for them in his relationship with them. with his father and he has been giving uh performing miracles in front of them and he comes to the place now where he wants to ask them Who do you say that I am? And what Jesus then explains in this passage is going to is going to signal a change in priority. I mean verse 21, which we didn't read today, but the very next verse which is within this passage says from now on he is then going to be explaining to the disciples how he is going to have to suffer and die. and uh and all of that. So this is a very, very uh this is a turn of change and Jesus is now going to set new priorities. He's really going to set forth in a nutshell his his program for the age. A lot's going on here in these f few verses. It's very important to set right priorities in life. Our priorities will determine our decisions. If we're trying to determine God's will about something, we're trying to figure out how the Lord wants us to live. Many of the decisions that we make will be based upon the prior decisions we make will be based on the priorities we have. And it's incredibly important that we have the right priorities. Of course, I've been thinking a lot about this lately. Think about the fact that time is short. I've been reminded of this with my dad's passing and it's been on my mind all the time, it feels like. This time is short. We don't life is short. Um and frankly, whether or not you've had a parent that has passed away at a feels like an early time Um or not, we know that life is short. We could go any of us could go out today, get hit by a car, get in a car accident, uh any of that could happen anytime, and life is short. And I think it's healthy and helpful to ask the question, what are we doing with our lives? Well, what we do with our lives is determined by what priorities we have And the priorities that we're going to see in this passage are very central to Christ's program. What does this include? Well, it's going to include the person of Christ. And the priority of Christ in verse 18, and then we're going to see the plan of Christ. First, let's then look at the person of Christ. And it's been already read here, Jesus comes to this region of Caesarea Philippi. That is a region That's um about twenty-five miles north of the Sea of Galilee, so this is a j very likely a Gentile region. It's a largely a pa pagan ter territory during this time. Caesarea Philippi was uh a place where it was originally given to Herod the Great. When he died, it was given to Philip Tetrarch, and then this particular city was developed into a city that honored both Caesar and Philip, so it was called Caesarea Philippi. And Jesus is here with his disciples and reflecting on all kinds of ministry and all kinds of what has happened. And he says, Whom do people say that I, the Son of Man, am? The Son of Man is a term that Jesus uses more often than any other term. It's used in the New Testament 80 times. And actually in the Gospels, 80 times, and all but I believe about four of those times, Jesus is actually the one that uses this term. He likes this term, son of man, and uses it more than any other term. And Leon Morris suggests several different reasons why he He uses this term. Um this term did not have any nationalistic associations with it. So Jesus in describing who he is, it was sort of a safe term for him to use without asserting some idea that he was going to take over the nation or something or or um or do something that he wasn't really intending to do at that point. overtones of divinity and undertones, he says, of humanity, and it repl and it implies that there is uh that he is going to redeem his In Daniel chapter seven verse thirteen this term is used. It says, I was watching in the night visions, and behold, one like the Son of Man coming with clouds of heaven. He came to the ancient of days, and they brought him near before him. So the Son of Man is one who is exalted and prophesied in Daniel chapter 7. And so he asks, using that term, who do people say the Son of Man is? And of course The disciples, this is a general question to all the disciples, and I think that's actually actually important to note. He's asking the disciples. He's asking questions of the disciples. Peter answers in just a minute. Peter's answering answering on behalf of the disciples. That's going to become important in a few minutes. But they say various things. John the Baptist, and of course we know from a previous passage, that's what Herod thought he was. He was uh reincarnation, I guess, of John the Baptist or and in or Elijah or Jeremiah or some other prophet. There were all kinds of theories as to who Jesus was. He was a figure that nobody really grasped grasped. He was doing all of these miracles and All these things were being said about him. He was not he was no normal mortal man. They knew that. There had to be something different about him and great about him. But the disciples had the most exposure to Jesus, and so then he asks this very pointed question, who do you say that I am? And of course, then we have this confession of Peter, this declaration of who Jesus is. You are the Christ the son of the living God. In saying the combination of those statements he He was affirming that Jesus was going to fulfill that role of anointed Messiah prophesied in the Old Testament and also the Son of the Living God. He is deity. He is God. He is both God and And the Savior and the Messiah, the one who is anointed, the one who was going to save Israel, Peter was beginning to put some, and the disciples were beginning to put some things together. About who Jesus really was. In Psalm 2, 2, which Harry read, you have the Lord uses this term anointed, and it's a reference to Jesus Christ Himself. And throughout, we've already seen in Matthew this term son of God being used. In fact, you'll remember from Matthew chapter 3, verse 17, we Jesus was baptized, they said, This is my beloved Son. The Father says, This is my son in whom I am well pleased. And Matthew chapter 11, verse 27, all things have been delivered to me by my Father, and no one knows the Son except the Father, nor does anyone know the Father except the Son, and one in whom He uh the Son wills to reveal. So the Son is one and and and and then Matthew fourteen, thirteen When Jesus walks on the water, the disciples say, truly, you are the Son of God. So this is not the first time they have even declared that he is the Son of God. But putting all of this together The anointed one, the Christ, the anointed one, and the Son of God, this statement that is collective and unified among the disciples, that Peter declares, Jesus says, Blessed are you, Peter. He pronounces blessing on Peter. Now, when he pronounces blessing on Peter, don't get the idea here that Peter is somehow going to be lifted lofty and high above all the other disciples to have some sort of hierarchy or some sort of papal an original papal kind of position. No, he actually says, you are blessed. Do you know what blessed means? You are happy. God has given you. God has bestowed upon you blessing. He says, Simon Bar Jonah. And then he says this, very, very important, he says, flesh and blood, verse 17, has not revealed this to you. He says, this is, he says, Peter, this isn't, you didn't come up with this on your own. And the disciples didn't come up with this on their own This was revealed by the my Father, he says, who is in heaven. It's very interesting that there are some that want to elevate people So high in this passage, and yet the very first thing that Jesus does is first says, Well, God has really blessed you by giving you this information, by revealing this to you and to the disciples But realize you didn't come up with this. Flesh and blood didn't come up with this. This was revealed by the Father. And this is what Jesus said was going to happen, actually, in Matthew chapter 11, verse 25. He thanks his father in that passage and says Lord of heaven and earth, you have hidden these things from wise and prudent and revealed them to babes. Even so, Father, for so I see it seem good in your sight. All things have been delivered to m me by my father, and no one knows the son except the father, which we've already read before. But we've seen we see there in Matthew 11, 25, you've re it's it's been revealed to babes. It's almost like this isn't really a compliment. I mean, oh God has revealed great things to you, baby. Not not exactly what he's saying there But my I'm over-emphasizing the point that this is not intended to exalt Peter above all measure to be the first Pope So what it is doing though is showing that the disciples were beginning to realize, and Peter was beginning to realize who Jesus really was. You really could say here that perhaps this is the place of their conversion. Savior. And this is the place that we all need to come to. Where we understand that Jesus is more than a nice person. That Jesus is more than a good teacher. That Jesus claimed to be very God, and either he is a liar. He is a lunatic or he is Lord. And the disciples realize that he is Lord. And they affirm this and confessed this here. And this statement is so foundational So absolutely essential that when the disciples put this together and when Peter announces this on behalf of the disciples to Jesus, He is now going to set forth a very important priority. And we pick up here in verse 18 and we see the priority. He says this: I say to you that you, Peter, so you are Peter. And on this rock I will establish Israel and free you from Roman tyranny. Is that what it says here? It doesn't say that here. Understand that the very next thing that Jesus says after they affirm his He is the Christ, the Son of the Living God. He sets forth a new priority for them. He says, on this rock, I will build my church. And the gates of hell will not prevail against it. Folks, he sets in his program the church at the highest of priorities Now, there is great debate and controversy over how this statement works. It says, you are Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church. And the question is, that's often debated, is, what is this rock referring to? What is this rock? Well, there are three primary views that I know of. One view is that it refers to the person of Peter. Upon this rock, your Peter. And upon this rock I will build my church. Now, at first observance, that is what it looks like, doesn't it? Peter actually means rock. And he says, you are Peter. And upon this rock I will build my church. And this is would be the the the um how the Roman Catholics would take this and so from that they would then move way beyond that to an application that would say that he is the first pope and that there is, you know uh uh papal succession and all of that after that. But that's one view. The second view is Exactly the opposite. But this doesn't refer to people Peter at all. It's completely opposite. It says, you are Peter And this rock doesn't refer to Peter at all. And this is a very popular view. This is the view that I was kind of taught and uh pretty much accepted. It argues from the point that this word, the word rock there is in the feminine. And Peter, of course, is going to be a masculine word there, and so it doesn't necessarily have to refer to him. And they those who are who like this view point out that in Matthew 7, 24 through 25 W he already mentions building your house upon the rock, and the rock is Christ, and the fountain we we find other times in Scripture where the rock is Christ verse Corinthians 10 verse 4, it says there that the rock is Christ, actually referencing to Exodus as a type of Christ. And Peter himself in 1 Peter 2, verse 6 through 8, says that the stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone, talking about Jesus Christ. He is the chief cornerstone. We know from 1 Corinthians 3 verse 11 that it says, for no other foundation can anyone lay than that which is laid, which is is Jesus Christ. And in 2 Timothy 2 verse 19, the solid foundation of God stands. And in 1 Corinthians, and in Ephesians chapter 2, verse 19 through 20, in that passage it actually says that it was built on the foundation of the church is built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets. Jesus Christ being the chief cornerstone. So those who say that this has nothing to do with Christ Simply say that this has to be talking, nothing to do with Peter. This has to be talking instead about Christ. The stone here is Christ Now the biggest difficulty with that is that it's so connected to Peter here. In fact, it's you'll recall that Jesus gave Peter's name to him. In John chapter 1, verse 42, it says, and he brought him to Jesus. Now when Jesus looked at him, he said, You are Simon, the son of Jonah. You shall be called Cephas. It's kind of hard to say that there is absolutely no association with Peter whatsoever. So let me ask you this question. Is it possible that it could actually be referencing Peter, but that the application has been taken way too far? Is it possible that there could be some play on words here between stone and Peter, which means stone, and yet what's happened is it's just been blown out of proportion by the Roman Catholic Church. And I would suggest to you that it is that it is entirely possible that that's the case. It is worded a little bit differently than you would think. If if Jesus was talking and you would think that it was directly Peter, you would usually think that he would say, You are Peter, and you are the stone that will build the church. That would be a more direct way of saying it. Instead it says, and upon this rock I will build my church. So it is a little bit It's worded a little bit not very clearly here. I'd like to suggest to you that there is another possibility here that relates it to Peter but is not actually talking about the person of Peter. The emphasis, I don't think, here is on the person of Peter. I think I think the emphasis is on what Peter said. What did Peter just say? He said, You are the Christ, the Son of the Living God. That, I think, here is the rock. The rock, the foundation, is the person of Christ spoken by Peter. But the emphasis is not on this person of Peter. The emphasis is on what Peter said, the message that Peter. declared. And we're actually going to find that this becomes the key to understanding all of this. And I'm not alone, by the way, in my thinking on this. In fact, John Chrysostom Uh church father, fourth century, said that is uh upon this rock I will build my church. He says, that is on the faith of his confession. And Barclay says Jesus did not mean that the church depended on Peter as it depended on himself and on God the rock alone. He did mean that chur the church began with Peter. In that sense, Peter is the foundation of the church. So we need to understand this correctly. That the bait that what he's really talking about here is the statement, this confession of Peter. I uh you are the Christ. You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. Now just remind us folks that Peter had many limitations. I mean we're actually seeing him all over, you know. I mean he jumps out into the water which is great to walk on, then he falls flat on his face. Later on he's going to deny Christ three times. He's going to he was actually sent out by other disciples in Acts chapter 8, verse 14. And he was rebuked sharply by the Apostle Paul in Galatians 2, verses 11 through 14. This doesn't look like a Pope. But on the other hand, Peter was greatly used of God. Peter was the one who preached the sermon where 3,000 people came to Christ. Peter was the one who began the church in the first the the in Jerusalem. He was the one that was greatly used by God, even in in um, even though he was kicking his screaming as he did it a little bit in in including the Gentiles in uh uh with uh in in in Acts chapter ten. He was greatly used by God. We don't want to get the idea that something that that Peter was some you know go too far in any direction with this. We want to make sure we're balanced and understand the biblical text and what it says. Now, he says this upon this rock, upon the fact that Jesus Christ Is the Son of the Living God, I, Jesus says, I will build my church. The gates of hell will not, the gates of Hades will not prevail against it. What is he saying there when he says, I will build my church? Jesus is speaking here. And what he is not saying is he will build a nation, a lineage, a legacy, an ethnic group, or even a family. He's not saying that. Now, this is very important for us to understand because in those days, in the Jewish mind and in the disciples' mind, life was about building Israel for the glory of God. And how did you build Israel for the glory of God? By having families. getting married and having big families and lots of kids and you would grow the nation by having families that would have a large that would end up have being a powerful nation I mean the focus, I'm emphasizing that a little bit uh interestingly, but that is essentially the focus of people at that time. In fact, the truth is You were really not considered to be very very useful if you weren't married, as a woman, particularly, if you weren't married and having kids. Jesus is going to change that paradigm. He's going to turn that a bit on its head, actually. What does he mean here? Well, first let's understand what the word church means. Very simply put, the church means assembly. Jesus says, I will build my assembly. In contrast to Israel, he says, I will build my assembly. He is essentially saying, I'm going to build a new assembly. I'm going to inaugurate a new entity. My program in this age is going to be building my church. Now, he doesn't say a lot about that. Of course, we have all kinds of information now about what that church includes, but understand in the very beginning This he was telling the disciples, and I'm not sure they really got it in the very beginning here, but he was telling the disciples that I have a new entity that I am establ I that I'm going to be building, I'm going to be establishing it. And notice he says, I will build it. It's his. He's the author of it. He's the builder of it. He is the foundation of it. And it will be his. Then he says this, the gates of Hades will not prevail against it. What does this word Hades mean? Well, it's translated a couple different ways in Scripture. It's primarily translated either hell or the grave. Which way should we take it here? The grave or hell here? Well, I'll tell you what it's not saying here. It's not talking about Satan. Some people take this, they look at it, and they say the gates of hell will not prevail against it, and they sort of equate, immediately equate hell with Satan. Because in the medieval mind, that's where Satan is. It was he was in he is in hell now. Is Satan in hell now? There's no indication of that in Scripture. Satan is on this earth. In fact, in Ephesians 6, it says Satan is in the heavenlies. But he's not in hell right now. So to immediately associate Hades with Satan and say, okay, well this is saying Satan won't be able to thwart this, that's actually not what it's saying here. Uh not directly what it's saying here. So what is he saying? I'd suggest to you folks that a better a better way uh uh uh appropriate way to say it is is is that it's talking about the grave. The grave. Or we could say death. Now, so that's what that word is. What about the word gates? The gates. Gates are a reference to fortifications or strongholds, or you could say power. We see this in scripture. I won't take the time to look at it, but you can see all kinds of different gates in Scripture. in in the Bible. Uh I'll I'll mention one, Psalm one twenty seven verse five. Happy is the man whose quiver is full of them. Uh they shall be ashamed, but shall speak with their enemies in the gate. This is m the major gate entrance into the city. It is the power. It is the uh so so it's talking about essentially it's talking here then about the power of death. He says, I will build my church, and the power of death, the power of the grave, will not prevail against me. Well, why would Christ tell the disciples that? Why would he promise that the power of the grave would not prevail against it? What is Jesus going to do very soon? He's going to die. And he's promising the disciples that the death, my death, will not prevail against the church. Why? Well, we know why, because, and he's going to say this in verse 21, he's going to rise from the grave, victorious over sin and death. But I think also very likely he's saying the the power of death will not prevail against it because what is going to happen to most of the apostles in the book of Acts? And many others. They're going to do what? They're going to die for their faith and for the establishment of this church. That Christ is building. And He wants at the very outs of this for them to understand as they will all, with the exception perhaps of John, go to their deaths. For the sake of the cr of Christ's church, that the grave will not prevail against it. The power of death will not prevail against it. And folks, can we also clearly be comforted by the reality that And in 2,000 years we still have the church today. The gates, the power of the grave, the power of uh of death has not prevailed against it. In fact, it is well said that the blood of the martyrs is the seed of the church. The more the more they killed uh they put to death uh disciples of Christ in the in in the in the book of Acts, the more there was persecution. the more the gospel spread and the church flourished and grew. Christ promised, I will build my church, and he promises The gates of the grave, the power of death will not prevail against it. Let me ask a question here at this point. Do you see the priority that Jesus places on his church in this age? It is of absolute central priority. Um we often don't give the church that kind of priority. In fact, sometimes it's sort of a side thing, sort of an afterthought, sort of something that we just sort of know we need to do. That really doesn't take central place in our lives. Christians throughout church history have often gotten off track by trying to reform society or uh getting involved in into all kinds of social causes which are not in and of themselves wrong, but they get so f involved in those things that they actually lose their priority as to what is truly important according to Christ's priority. He says, I will build my church, and the gates of the grave will not prevail against it. This is a huge priority for him. One person said this: We work at our play. We worship our work. And we play at our worship. We work at our play. We worship our work. And we play at our worship. Very frankly, that should not be the priority of a Christian. Frankly, the fo the the reality is this world, this world is going to see its end. Do you realize that There's a really interesting passage in 1 Corinthians 7, verse 2 29 through 31. Actually, it's just part of a passage, but he says, Paul says this, but this I say, brethren, the time is short. And then he says, Well what time is he talking about? He says in verse 31, and those who use this world as not misuse Using it, for the form of this world is passing away. Time is short. The form of this world is passing away. There is going to be a new heaven and a new earth. That is why, folks, there is a sense in which we should not think we're going to reform this world Christ will come and redeem this world, but we are not going to be successful at reforming it. Does that mean we shouldn't be light? We absolutely should be light to the world. We should want to influence the world. We should be do good to the world. We should want to see humans flourishing in the world. But when we get when we cross the line from influence to saying that we're going to r somehow reform society, we've gotten off track. Charles Spurgeon understood this. In his writings and his in his preaching, he would often talk about the need to influence the world. But to make sure that we are involved in the building of Christ's church. Because it is in the building of Christ's church that God's ultimate kingdom purposes will be fulfilled in this particular time period. What are we doing? We are making disciples. And that is of eternal importance. Everything on this earth is passing away. But the making of disciples, the bring people to the to Christ and growing them in Christ's likeness, that is essential, central work. So often we work at our play, we worship our work, and we play at our worship. And folks, when we do that, we do not have appropriate and right priorities. Now you say, this is this is pretty this is like almost self-serving. I mean like you're a pastor of a church and of course your whole life is about church. It's like your work is your worship. Like I don't okay, how can you can I can I just say this from a a a very personal um point of view? This is actually sobering. For me. I look at this and I go, the the weight. There's a reason that the Apostle Paul says the weight of all the churches, the care of all the churches. There is a weight to this. Because this the church is the central focus, no pastor should be going, should be having sort of this mindset that they're so they're better or higher or anything. There should be this sort of this. humble realization that I can do nothing apart from Christ. I am mere flesh and blood. So please don't take the emphasis here that I am trying to uh express from the text as somehow self-serving. No, this is Jesus Christ's emphasis. His emphasis is the church and the world. Ryrie said it this way, the church is the principal work in the world today. And if you look at the New Testament, there is no question that that is true. The principal work in the world today. So what is Christ's plan? Well, he's going to unfold his plan, but we're going to see the beginning, the sort of seeds of this unfolding in his plan in verses 19 through 20. He says this, I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven. And whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven. Then he commanded his disciples that they should tell no one that he was Jesus the Christ. So he says, whatsoever shall be uh I'm going to give you the keys of the kingdom. Now, what does he mean when he says, I'll give you the keys of the kingdom? This is another fairly controversial phrase. First of all, one reason it's controversial is that there are some that would suggest that there is absolutely no relationship between the church and the kingdom. Well, how is that possible? How is there no relationship between the church and the kingdom when they are clearly associated with each other in this passage? And he says, in reference to the church, I will give you the keys of the kingdom. Clearly there has to be a relationship. But what is the nature of that relationship? Church certainly isn't a nation, it's made up of all ethnic groups and nations. Kindred and tongues and nations. What is he talking about here when he says the keys of the kingdom? Well, in Luke chapter 11, verse 52, we have some light on this. In Luke 1152, you have there a group of lawyers. And anytime you have a group of lawyers, just be careful. Sorry, Jeff. Even ones, a little trouble sometimes. And in Luke chapter eleven, verse fifty-two, it says this, Woe to you lawyers! For you have taken away the keys of the kingdom. Not him. This is lawyers in this passage. For you have taken away the key, uh taken away the key of knowledge. You did not enter in yourself, and those who are entering in you hindered. What is it talking about? The key of knowledge. So These lawyers were were lawyers of the Mosaic Law. They were analyzing the Mosaic Law and trying to figure out what to apply and how it all applies and everything. And they were so preoccupied with the law, the Mosaic law, and the various rabbinical writings and how they related to the oral law and all this kind of thing that Jesus finally says to them, Whoa You are actually taking away the key of knowledge that people need and in the context to come to me. What he is saying here is that there is a certain kind of knowledge that people need To truly come to the kingdom, to truly be saved, I'll say it that way. To be under the rule of God. That knowledge is the knowledge of Christ So when Jesus says, I will give you the keys of the kingdom, he is saying, I will give you the responsibility Of giving people the knowledge that they need in order to be able to be under the rule of Christ. Really, I think he's referencing the gospel here. He's saying that you will be given the gospel to take to people, and they will then be able to use it. to come to a saving knowledge of Christ. And exact that's exactly, by the way, what happens, right? I mean Peter and the disciples After the resurrection in the ascension, they go and they're filled with the Spirit of God and they the the church is established and people come to Christ and Many, many, many people come to Christ, and they church, and all of that happens by means of the gospel. It is the gospel that is the key that unlocks the door that gives access to God And the responsibility is given to Peter and the disciples. But is it only given to Peter and the disciples? I would say surely not. Because we see sort of this pattern of Jesus giving responsibility as we go through the book of Matthew. He says in Matthew chapter 4, verse 19, follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. In 5. 13, he says, You are the salt of the earth. And then verse 14, he says, you're the light of the world. And then in Matthew 28, which is going to come in several chapters from now, it says, All authority is given to me in heaven and earth. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. And clearly, baptism is clearly associated with the church in the book of Acts. And so really this starts with the disciples, but is a responsibility given to all of us as people of Christ's church. Now there's one thing I should note at this point as well, that when he says, I will build my church, he is at this point talking about the one church. The church, the body of Christ. Now later on in the Gospels, or later on in the epistles particularly, we're going to see that there are local churches. But here he is focused on the church. In fact, in Matthew 18, it's going to have to be talking about primary referencing primarily the the local church. That will be an interesting passage when we get to that. But for now, he is emphasizing the reality that the keys to being under the rule of Christ Is, and to being part of the church is the gospel. And then he says this. He says, another very interesting phrase. He says, whatsoever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven. Whatsoever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven. What is he talking about there? Is he giving Peter and the disciples this ability to be able to to say certain things to certain people and it will bind it will be binding in heaven and then loose other people from certain things and then that will also be loosed in heaven. Is that something that's given to the church later on? What what does this mean? Whatever you bind in earth will be bound in heaven, whatever you loose on earth will be loose in heaven. Well, whatever this means, it does have to include the responsibility of the church. This is going to extend to the church. We know that from Matthew 18. And we're not going to execute that passage, but I'll just notice in that passage we have the same phrase again where it says, Assuredly I say to you, whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven. So what is he talking about here? Let me just say at the outset that he is not saying that we some have with the church or the disciples. or anybody, has some somehow has authority over decrees in heaven. That is not what he's saying here. And the reason we can say that is because this could be translated another way. It could be translated, for those of you grimmarians out there, it's in the perfect tense and it For those of you Greek grammarians out there, you could understand this to be a paraphrastic perfect. If you don't know what that means, don't worry about it. Don't Google it. Anyway. Don't worry about that. But here's how it could be translated. And whatever you bind on earth will have been bound in heaven. And whatever you loose on earth will have been loosed in heaven. Okay. All right. So what does that mean? It means this that the responsibility of Peter and the disciples, and then the church ultimately is to recognize those who are those who are truly free. From sin those who have been loosed and those who are bound, the binding and the loosing. You see that clear clearly in Matthew 18. It's not that there is actual a decree that we decree these things, the church decree these things, or leaders decree these things, or the disciples decree these things. No. It's a recognition of what has already been decreed. Well, how do they do that fleshed out in the first century? How did they do that? How did they recognize people as being saved in the first century? And the answer to that was baptism. There's no question about it. They would say, be saved and be baptized. That was the way that the church in the first century Recognized people as being saved. That was their profession of faith. And that's why it says they were saved and baptized and then they were added to the church, indicating church membership there. In the book of Acts. And that's also why you have in Matthew chapter 18 the responsibility of the church in entrance of membership, but uh in a sense, but also in exit of membership. If someone is an unrepentant sin, we'll get to the uh I'll get to this later. So kind of put a pen in it. But if somebody is an unrepentant sin At some point you re you treat them as though they're not really saved. Now you don't know the heart, but you have to treat them that way. And it's a decision that a church makes together about a particular uh situation. We'll we'll get to that later and flesh that out. That will be fun. Not really. But anyway, um but for now understand this That it is the church's job to center itself on the gospel, to present the gospel, to make disciples, to recognize who has accepted the gospel. Not to recognize in the sense that not to recognize in the sense that we are we are somebody could certainly come to Christ without the church recognizing it. We're just identifying that reality. We're affirming that as we Think of baptism and church membership and communion, those kinds of things, the ordinances. Now, with all of that in mind, we need to then understand then that what Jesus says here Is um he says in verse twenty, he warns them. He says, then he commanded his disciples that they should tell no one that he has He was Jesus the Christ. He warns his disciples. Why would Jesus do that? Why would he say to his disciples, I'm warning you, please do not tell other people, don't tell anyone that I am truly the the anointed one, that I am the Christ. Because folks, clearly from everything he has said, Jesus' focus now, Jesus' focus is going to be to the cross. He's going to say that, verse 21, that he's suffered, he's going to suffer and die and rise from the grave. Jesus understands that that what is going to transpire needs to move toward him, not taking over in some sort of political way But going to the cross and dying for the sins of the world. And so he says, he warns them about that, to be careful about that. So what can we learn from all this? Number one, life's most critical question is the one Jesus asked. Whom do you say that Jesus is? It is a critical question. Do you see Jesus as just a nice person? A good teacher? A good person? Or do you see Jesus as he claimed to be the Son of the Living God? Jesus says in John 14, I am the way, the truth. Truth and a life. No one comes to the Father except through me. It is only through Jesus that we come to the Father. The Bible tells us this That Jesus is perfect and is God. He lived a perfect life. And then he went to the cross and he died. Why did he die? The Bible says he died for our sins. Every one of us are born into sin. We inherit it. No one ever had to teach us how to sin. We didn't have to nobody ever had to sit down and say, uh this is how you lie or this is how you steal. We didn't have to learn any of that We didn't have to learn that because it was in us already when we were born. We are born sinners, and we are born separated from God because God is holy and he cannot overlook our sin. So when Jesus came, he came and lived a perfect life. He lived a perfect life, and then he died, and the Bible says he took our sin on himself. Only the Son of God could do this. He took our sin on himself, and he paid the punishment, was separated from his own father. Died to pay the punishment for our sin so that we could be rightly connected to God. And that if we'll accept that by faith alone, We will be rescued from our sin and we will have a relationship with God. The Bible says, but as many as received Him, Jesus To them gave he the power, the ability to become the children of God, even to them that believe on his name. And the very first most important question I could ask of you is, who do you say that Jesus is? Some of you are very young. Who do you say Jesus is? Some of you are not so young. Who do you say Jesus is? That is the most important question that you could ever ask. And what did Jesus do for you? What do you believe about these things? The Bible says neither is there salvation in any other. There is no other way to come to God. It's not by through self-effort, it's not by good works, it's not by your good outweighing your bad, it's only through the merits of Jesus Christ alone that you can Can be saved and have a relationship with God. Number two, are you prioritizing the church as highly as Christ does? I mean, if we're followers of Christ, we ought to have the same kind of priorities that Christ has. And clearly from this passage. The the priority is going to be on his church. I will build my church. And clearly throughout the New Testament, that's what you see. Do we have that kind of priority? This is a great blessing to people that, for example, don't have a lot of family. It's a great blessing to people that didn't that that are single, that aren't married. In 1 Corinthians chapter 7, it's interesting, he says, Paul says all kinds of things, but he says it's good to be married, but it's good not to be married. He said, I would th that you be like me so that I he was a widower at the time, he was freed from the be the ability to be able to uh for you to be able to just serve the Lord and serve the church and the way that and th this is a whole paradigm shift now where it wasn't the only way that I could serve the Lord is by building a big family. No, I can Whatever stage I am in in life, if I'm single, if I'm married, if I'm all of that I can I can focus on the Lord and his church and his work and serve him wholeheartedly and live a life of purposefulness and usefulness. Because the earth, the form of this world is passing away and time is short Is the church central to your thinking? Or is it more of an afterthought? And number three Are you involved in the gospel work of leading people to become kingdom citizens? Are you involved in the gospel work of leading people to become kingdom citizens? citizens. That is our role as the church in God's kingdom. God's not me Christ isn't mediating his king. Kingdom right now on earth. Look around, you can tell that. I don't even need to show you a Bible verse. Just watch turn the news on. If Christ was meeting things, it'd be a whole lot different around here, right? He will one day, he will come again, and he will he will set up his kingdom on earth. But for now, what he is doing is working through the church. for us to be able to, with the, by means of the gospel, bring people to Christ, help them grow in Christ, to build his kingdom In other words, to build citizens of the kingdom, that's his focus. Are we involved in that gospel work? Is that central to our thinking? We are called the same way the disciples were called in Matthew 28 that we ought to go into the world and make disciples. May we Understand our responsibility to do that. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and praise you for who you are and thank you for your word. Thank you for the truth of your word. And the priorities that are set. Lord, may you help, may you help our priorities be your priorities. Lord, Lord, may be may they be the same. And Lord, it is so easy for us to Make something else the priority, something else an idol. Could be even our families, could be our kids, could be our spouse, could be our job. Anything that we set in front of Christ and His Priority becomes something that causes us to not know what to do and when and to go into despair and not make right decisions So Lord, I pray that you would help us even today to have a priority alignment. And Father, I also pray, Lord That you if there is somebody here today that doesn't know Christ as their Savior, they've never caught they don't under they don't know whether or not they would Spend eternity with you. I pray today they would understand their sin and their need of a Savior and they would be saved. And I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Gnam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.