If you'd like to turn to Psalm 50 as we begin, or Psalm 51 rather, as we begin our service together. Psalm 51, picking up in verse 6, it says this: Behold, you desire truth in the inward parts. And in a hidden part you will make me to know wisdom. Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean. Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. Make me hear joy and gladness. The bones you have broken may rejoice. Hide your face from your sins, and blot out all my iniquities Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a steadfast spirit within me. Do not cast me away from your presence, and do not take your Holy Spirit from me Restore to me the joy of your salvation and uphold me by your generous spirit. Then I will teach transgressors your way, and sinners shall be converted to you. Deliver me from the guilt of bloodshed, O God, the God of my salvation, and my tongue shall sing aloud of your righteousness. O Lord, open my lips, and my mouth shall show forth your praise For you do not desire sacrifice, or else I would give it. You do not delight in burnt offerings. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit A broken and contrite heart, these, O God, do you not despise. Let's pray together. Father, we praise you. Because your way your ways are not our ways and your thoughts are not our thoughts. The things that we find are most important are very often the things that you find least important. The things that you find so incredibly important, we confess before you that we minimize. Lord, what you desire is a contrite heart. You desire truth in the inward parts. You desire sincerity and purity of motivation and love and holiness within your people. As we look ahead in a little while to Matthew 6 and what we're going to be learning there. I pray, Lord, that you would teach us, that you would remind us that the praise that you want is not one of offering and sacrifice. but the praise of one that comes from a contrite, humble heart before you. And Father, I pray, Lord, that you would give us that kind of heart. direct our our attention that way. And even as we pray sing our praises to you this morning, may we do so with that kind of sincerity of heart. Help us, Father, to put away the distractions that are in our minds, the all the things that go go on in our lives practically. We pray, Lord, that we'd be able to set them aside for a while and just think thoughts of you Great thoughts of you and what you have done for us in sending your own son to die to pay the punishment for our sin and rising from the grave three days later, Lord. May we focus in on the gospel this morning. And your truth and worship you in a way that pleases you. We pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen. Would you bow your heads with me as we go to the Lord in prayer? Gracious Father, we come this morning with grateful and thankful hearts. Father, we come to worship you and praise you and give you honor and glory. And we are grateful and thankful that you are sovereign over all of your creation. And Father, we thank you this morning for the great love wherewith you have loved us. And send in your only begotten Son to die on the cross to pay the penalty for our sin. And on the third day you arose him up out of that grave, and he is now seated at your right hand. We are grateful and thankful that we can come before your throne this morning by your grace and by your mercy. Thank you, Jesus, for all that you have done on our behalf at the cross. We thank you for your word this morning. We thank you for your Holy Spirit. And Lord, we would ask this morning that you would forgive us of our trespasses and ask God that you would cleanse us of all unrighteousness. And help us this morning to come, Lord, with open hearts and minds. We pray for your Spirit to work in our hearts and in our minds. Father, help us to set aside all the cares and the concerns and the noise in this world today that we might take this time. to sit under your word and I pray for Pastor Jim that you would give him clarity of speech and thought. And Father, may our hearts and our minds be changed from being in your word this morning as we leave here from them when we came in. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. We're going to be reading this morning from Matthew chapter 6, verses 1 through 8, and also 16 and 18. Matthew chapter 6, verse 1. Take heed that you do not do your charitable deeds before men, to be seen by them. Otherwise you have no reward from your Father in heaven. Therefore, when you do a charitable deed, do not sound a trumpet before you as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets that they may have glory from men. Assuredly I say to you, they have their reward. But when you do a charitable deed, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing that your charitable deed may be in secret, and your father who sees in secret will himself reward you openly And when you pray, you shall not be like the hypocrites, for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and on the corners of the streets, that they may be seen by men. Assuredly, I say to you, they have their reward. But you, when you pray, go into your room, and when you have shut your door Pray to your Father, who is in the secret place. And your Father who sees you in secret will reward you openly. And when you pray, do not use vain repetitions, as the heathens do, for they think that they will be heard for their many words. Therefore, do not be like them, for your Father knows the things that you have need before you ask him. In this manner, therefore, pray. Verse sixteen. Moreover, when you fast, do not be like the hypocrites, with a sad countenance For they disfigure their faces, that they may appear to men as being fasting. Assuredly, I say to you they have their reward. But you, when you fast, anoint your head and wash your face, so that you do not appear to men to be fasting. But to your father, who is in the secret place, and your father who sees in the secret will reward you openly. One of the most stimulating entertainments in our culture and actually for many, many years, has been theater. Has been theater. Uh in fact, from box office movies to sitcoms on television to Broadway, acting in theater has captivated nearly everyone for a century. Did you know, I was looking it up, did you know that theater and drama and acting goes all the way back at least 350 years before Christ? It goes back that far. And during that time, there was a particular word that Aristotle used to describe the the function of acting, but then to describe it as part of life. Perhaps you've heard like life is a theater, life is a is a uh uh the world is a theater, the world is a stage, and uh or something, those kind of things. And Aristotle was the first one to to have that kind of an idea That word that he used is the same word that we find in this text, and it's translated hypocrite. Jesus is going to help now help us to understand how what a hypocrite is and how to keep from being a hypocrite. If you think of someone who is acting, who is being something exactly, you know, he's acting up on stage and he's something that he's he's acting or she's acting in a way that It's something totally different than their actual person, their actual character. That's what acting is, and that was the root of this word hypocrite. Sometimes it's it was translated too-faced, had to have an additional face on it. And he, Jesus over and over again in the Gospels, identified the religious leaders as Hypocrites. And when he is talking to his disciples here now, he is saying to his disciples, see that you be not a hypocrite. He does he he desires a different kind of righteousness. In fact Remember that this sermon that we've been going through, the Sermon on the Mount, starting in Matthew 5, going through chapter 7, we're right in the middle of it now, really the entire theme of these chapters are that Kingdom righteousness is different and better than the righteousness of the religious leaders. Self-righteousness. And Jesus is now explaining what that looks like practically. He has said your righteousness has to exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees. He has clarified what the law really intended. And now he is moving to how is it that you and I as followers of Christ can practice righteousness in the right way. In other words, folks, there is a way to practice righteousness in the wrong way. And there's a way to practice righteousness in the right way. And the right way has to do with our internal motives of why we're doing what we're doing. In the Old Testament, you did not see quite this emphasis. I'm sure it was there. And it got great. In fact, we read from Psalm 51, David said You desire truth in the inward parts. God was very concerned, even in the Old Testament, about sincerity and purity of heart and true inward righteousness. But certainly Israel was not emphasizing that. And so when Jesus comes, he really wants his followers, his disciples to be marked. by sincerity of uh and and uh of of motives. And so he's going to help us to understand what that looks like This first word, first phrase here, charitable deeds, in in verse 1 of chapter 6 is actually a different word than in chapter 2 where it says charitable deeds. The first time it's mentioned here, it's really talking about practicing righteousness. And that's mentioned as a very positive thing in the Old Testament many times. In Psalm 106, verse 3, it says, Blessed are those who keep justice, and he who does righteousness at all times. And even in 1 John, if you go into the New Testament, you find verses like this. If you know that he is righteous, and you know that everyone who practices righteousness is born of him. And the same 1 John 3, verse 7 it says, little children, let no one deceive you. He who practices righteousness is righteous, just as In other words, what is supposed to happen for a Christian is that they accept the righteousness of Christ They trust in Christ as their Savior. They accept His righteousness, Him declaring us righteous, and then Christ begins to work in our hearts Work from the inside out to make what is true positionally, that we are declared righteous, to make it a reality over time for the life in the life of a Christian. And Jesus wants us to understand how is it that we are to practice righteousness? And there are three areas that he is very concerned about. These are all three areas that in the first century the religious leaders were very much not just tempted, but they did practice hypocrisy in their practicing of righteousness. And he is going to warn about the danger of this and the problem of hypocrisy. And actually in the text he is going to give some commands for us to follow in order to avoid hypocrisy. Let me ask you a question. Have you ever been accused of being a hypocrite? Are Christians accused of being a hypocrites today? I have heard more times than I really care to acknowledge That there are that crit that unbelievers don't come to church because they say churches are full of hypocrites. And frankly, some of that is true. Now, I don't think that's a reason for you not to come to church, but uh but frankly that is something that is unfortunately the case oftentimes. We are not the same on the inside as we are on the outside. Why is that? Why did the Pharisees do it? Well, Jesus is going to help us with this. as we go through this and help us to avoid it. And there are three areas that we're going to be looking at. We need to avoid hypocrisy in the areas of giving, charitable giving. of prayer and of fasting. Those three areas we're going to look at. Avoiding hypocrisy in charitable giving, in prayer, and in fasting. And we'll begin in verse 2 here then with charitable giving And he says here in this passage, actually we'll pick up in verse 1, take heed that you do not do your charitable deeds before men to be seen by them, otherwise you have no reward from your Father in heaven. He is going to say this over and over again throughout the passage that we're going to see. If you do deeds and pray and fast, if you do, if you practice righteousness before men and to be seen of men, then you have your reward. In other words, you'll have a temporary reward, perhaps it's accolades, perhaps it's attention, those kinds of things, but you will have no future reward. Zero. he says. In other words, those things, those that righteousness which we practice, where we are doing it, in order to be seen of people. That service, we will not see any reward in the future. We have our reward now when we have that kind of motive. Now it's interesting that just a few previous verses, a few verses back, he actually said, let your works, let your lights shine before men, that he may they may see your good works. Remember that? But what's the key there? The key there is the next phrase, that they may see your good works and what? and glorify your Father which is in heaven. So folks, there's nothing wrong with living before people And serving before people. The goal, though, is that they do not credit us, but they credit God. They do not we are not glorified. God is glorified. We are we live before people. We let our light shine. We don't isolate ourselves. from being seen from those who need the light. We live publicly before people, knowing that if they could see the difference in our lives, They will glorify God. But I'll tell you this, you know, you know the truth of the matter is many people, and maybe particularly those who don't know Christ are really good at picking up on hypocrisy. In fact, I would suggest to you that one of the ways that we can really follow what Jesus said, let your life so shine before men they see me see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven. The way that that actually comes about is by following this passage. And we're going to see this as we go through it. This is something that is promoted in Scripture, this practicing of righteousness, but he wants us to do it in the right way. And so he says in verse 2, therefore, when you do a charitable deed, do not sound a trumpet before you as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may have glory from men. Don't sound a trumpet. Assuredly I say to you, they have their war reward. Now, uh it's interesting that there's some debate as to whether Jesus is saying this as a matter of hyperbole. Or is he saying this because that's they were actually proclaiming that they were doing charitable deeds by sounding a trumpet? Were they actually doing that? There's evidence that that's possible that the Pharisees were were doing that, but it's not It's not really clear whether they were or not. You have perhaps heard the phrase, don't toot your own horn. That very likely comes from this idea, and it really does carry the point. uh pretty well. When we when we do good deeds, when we are loving toward other people, when we give sacrificially to people. we ought not be doing it for the p for the applause of people. This is something that should be very, very see the world, folks, the the world does most of what they do for the applause of people. When they do good things, there is sort of a uh not all the time, but there's there is uh a hope that people will identify them as As good and charitable, and there's a desire for that, and we'll get into that a little bit more, a little deeper in a few moments But that is something that's going to be that's supposed to be very different for the Christian. The Christian is to do what he does out of love for God, to glorify him. We want the Lord to get the credit, not ourselves. And so we have this command, this is an interesting command, he says, when you do charitable things, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing. In 2 Corinthians 8, verse 5, it says this, and not only as we had hoped, but they gave themselves to the Lord, and then to us by the will of God. When it says don't let your left hand or your right hand know what your left hand is doing, what is it talking about? Well, that definitely is hyperbole. Because obviously your right hand does not have a different brain than your left hand. Okay. Um what is he pointing out there? He is pointing out that we are not we're going to get into this a little bit more uh more in in depth in just a few moments. We are not We should be careful about telling ourselves that we are good people because of the charitable things we do. Now let that sink in for a minute. Have you ever said to yourself, well, I'm a good person? Have you ever said to yourself, well, I do good things, so therefore I'm a good person? Well the Bible says that all our righteousnesses are as filthy rags. Now there's a way to understand this. See, what we very much intend, what happens to us as Christians, and as unbelievers, actually as human beings, we want to justify ourselves. We want to see ourselves as good. We want to convince ourselves that we are good. There is this in our it it it it is something that actually even even people can prey on. Have you ever had a guilt trip? You ever had somebody give you a guilt trip over something? You know what that really is? They're appealing to that sense in your heart of wanting to make yourself right. I remember one time I was up in Pennsylvania, I was pastoring up there, and somebody came and uh they needed help. And they needed food, so I took them and got them some food. Uh and then after they got some food they said they needed a place to stay. I said, well, I we don't it's not generally our policy to help uh to we it's kind of beyond what we can do, but We decided to go ahead and there was a hotel right next door and we gave him a place to uh we paid to have let him stay there a couple of nights or one one or two nights. And um And I I I re and then he wanted more time and it it became something where it was and he wasn't it wasn't like we offered to get I think we offered to get him a job and we were trying to help him but it wasn't he just really wanted to to continue And so um he said and I said, look, uh we really we're we're kind of done here. We're we're not gonna do it. anymore here. Um other other than food, we probably always feed him. But other than that, we're you know um that was all we would do. He said, well let me I know uh I know another church up in up in Tyrone it was a town up uh He said, can you drive me up there? And um so I thought, well he's right next door. This is my chance. So I drove him up and I s and uh I said, make sure you have everything. And I drove him up to Tyrone and I and he said, hey, wait he he said, hey, wait here. Um wait here because uh I need to see if if this person is available. He wanted to like keep his connection. I said, hey buddy, this is actually a one-way trip And he said to me, God is gonna judge you for this That's what he said to me. He said, how dare you I mean we had fed we had we had fed him several times, we had given him a hotel a couple of times, I mean we had really tried to reach out to him a lot And he says to me, how dare you do that? God's going to judge you for this. And uh I don't know if I should have said this, but this is what I said. I said, I hope so. I said, we fed you? We gave you a place to stay? I hope so. And he did not know what to do with that and he walked and he left. What was he doing? He was appealing to my he thought he could get to me and make me feel as though I wasn't I wasn't right now. Something the people will do that, won't they? What are they appealing to? They are appealing to our innate nature to want to make sure that we are right, that we are good people. And God says, Jesus says, don't do that at all. Do not appeal to yourself all the time and try to convince yourself that you're a good person. by the outward things that you do. That's actually exactly what he's doing there. We're going to get to this in just a minute. But notice what he says here. He says in the text He says, when you do your charitable deed, don't let your left hand know what your right hand is doing. He says that your charitable deed may be in secret. He said, do it in secret, that your father who sees you in secret Will himself reward you openly. Why did he say why is he saying this? He's saying this because he doesn't. . Here's what happens. We we do this. People do this. We do a good deed, and we are still struggling with whether or not we're good, and we're really hoping somebody will tell us we're good. And if we can get the attention or the affirmation from somebody that we're good people by what we do, Then we'll feel we'll finally be confirmed that we're good. And Jesus says, no, do this in the sight of God. Do this with the audience of one in mind, only God, because the God who sees you in secret, because he sees all, will then reward you openly. Hebrews 4. 13 says, And there is no creature hidden from his sight, but all things are naked and open to the eyes of him to whom we must give account. In Psalm 17, 14 it says, with your hand from me, O Lord, from men of the world who have who have their portion in the in this life, and whose belly you fill with your your hidden treasure They are satisfied with children and leave the rest of their possession for babes. Isaiah 58. 2 it says Yet they seek me daily and delight to know my ways, a nation that did righteousness and did not forsake the ordinance. They ask for the ordinance of justice. They take delight in approaching God. This is the way that we are to behave. We are to behave in a way where we are really preoccupied with the audience of God. That He is the one to whom we please. We're not concerned about the affirmations of everybody else. We're concerned about the affirmation of God Himself. Let me ask you a question. What is your source of acceptance? The truth is it is normal and right and appropriate that all of us as human beings want to feel accepted. Do you know that? That's not wrong. To want to have a sense of acceptance, to want to be accepted is human. But how we work toward feeling accepted is something that we must do God's way. We are so inclined to try to make ourselves feel accepted, which by the way will always be temporary, because guilt will always kick back in. Insecurity will always kick back in. But we really like to make sure that we look a certain way and have things that. That's why selfies are so popular. Really, it's true. Because a selfie you can kind of hold up and tuck it in here and have it, you know, make sure you go n night you know no no double chin. Take it just the right way. Somebody take the candid shot. Oh no, no, I'll take a selfie. That's okay. You see a candid shot and you're like, I don't look like that, do I? No, you don't look like that to yourself. You know, you know because every time you look in the mirror you've got it all correct Oh, I do the same thing. Everything's exactly the right way. And then when you actually see somebody take a can of child on you, you'd be like, man, I am fat and old. Thanks, Josh. Anyway. But the reality is, folks, what we need to do. is we need to find our justification by being by accepting the justification of Christ. Christ has declared us righteous if we if we accept that by faith. Now, Jesus in the book of Luke explains what the root problem with the hypocrisy of the Pharisees really is. In Luke chapter 16, verses 14 through 15 it says this. Now the Pharisees were lovers of money, also heard all these things And it derided him and said to them, You are those who justify yourselves before men, but God knows your hearts. For what is highly esteemed among you is an abomination in the sight of God. He says you justify yourselves. Why were the Pharisees hypocrites? They were using the applause of men to justify themselves. And this is a temptation for every single one of us. Christians do this. We accept the justification of God on our behalf of Christ. on our behalf when we come to Christ. And then afterwards it's like we forget about that and we start justifying ourselves. And Jesus said to the Pharisees, see, that is the gateway to hypocrisy. Because now you're not concerned about the inside. You're justifying yourself by the outside. In Luke 18, just a couple chapters later, verses 9 through 14, it says, And also he spoke this parable to some who trusted in themselves, and they were righteous and despised others. Who trusted in themselves, he said about the Pharisees. Two men went up to the temple to pray, one a Pharisee, and the other a tax collector, and the Pharisees stood and prayed thus with himself God, I thank you that I am not like other men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, and even tax lifters. What is he doing? What is the Pharisee doing? He is what? He is justifying himself. I thank you. How is he justifying himself? By comparing himself to somebody else. We do that too, don't we? You ever say, well, I want to feel accepted. I'll compare myself to that other person. You know, I'm not that bad. I'm pretty good. That's what the Pharisee did. What did the what did the the the poor tax collector do here? Well, first of all, he keeps justifying himself in the passage. I fast twice a week. We're going to get to that. I give tithes of all I possess. And the tax collector standing afar off would not so much as raise his eyes to heaven, but beat his breast saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled by God. But he who humbles himself will be exalted. The root problem with those who who tend toward hypocrisy or who are categorically hypocrites is that they are trying to justify themselves and they are not accepting and embracing and living in light of the justification of Jesus Christ. That's the problem. So, who is your audience? We should live before men, but we should live for God alone. To please him. And if we do that, we will avoid this problem of hypocrisy. So we need to avoid uh hypocrisy and charitable giving, but we also need to avoid hypocrisy in praying. You say praying? How can you be a hypocrite and pray? Well, clearly from the passage, this was very, very common. The Pharisees, the religious leaders would pray, but they were praying in a way that they would be seen of men. Notice what the passage says, picking up in chapter 6, verse 5. And when you pray, you shall not be like the hypocrites, for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and on the corners of the streets, that they may be seen by men. Assuredly, I say to you that they have their reward. But you, when you pray, go into your room, and when you have shut your door, pray to your father who is in the secret place. And your father who sees you and sees in secret will reward you openly. And when you pray, do not use vain repetitions as the heathen do, for they think that they will be heard for their many words. Therefore, do not be like them, for the Father knows the things you have need of before you ask. He says again here in verse 5, do not be like the hypocrites. He's talking here then about the issue of public prayer. Now, he is definitely not in this passage saying that you should not pray publicly. In fact, there are many examples of public prayer. Jesus himself, in this passage, is just about to pray publicly with the Lord's Prayer. Jesus has prayed on several occasions publicly. In fact, that's how we know what he prayed, is because he did it publicly and it was inscripturated for us. So Jesus is not at all saying that public prayer is not right. In fact, throughout the New Testament, you have churches gathering together for public prayer. It's actually intended to be a vital part of the worship service, intended to be a vital part of as we gather together, corporate prayer is one of the four major things that we should be emphasizing, and one of the reasons why We really try on Sunday nights to have a concerted time of praying together. It's something that is really essential for a congregation to do together. So he's not all saying don't pray publicly. What he's pointing out, he's dealing, again, these are all dealing with motives. Heart motives. What is your motive when you pray? And he says that is a purpose statement that you may be seen of men. Do not pray So that you, in a way that you are being s seen of men or heard of men. This the reality is we do this, don't we, sometimes We come up with sort of long flowery prayers. And, you know, some people are just sort of naturally eloquent. And we don't want to be careful we don't like, you know, um judge heart motives here. But when we pray, we need to be very careful about trying to being overly concerned about what we sound like, if that makes sense. Have you ever met somebody that they've talked and talked and it feels like they really just like listening to themselves You ever you ever like you you just get the impression that it actually you're not even sure it would matter if you were there at all. They just like listening to themselves. Well that is important particularly important not to do when you pray. When you pray, we uh public prayer particularly We ought to be very, very careful about praying in a way where we're where we're concerned about what we sound like. We ought to be praying in a way our goal is to when we publicly pray, we pray To the Lord. He is the again an audience of one. And what are we doing in public prayer? We are leading others in prayer. That's what we're doing We are all praying together. By the way, that's what we're doing in singing and even in a sense in preaching. There is a response of worship together, as Enrique said earlier. We're responding together in worship. And the guy up here Is just leading in prayer, or down there, whatever, and on Sunday nights that un in home groups and other kind of thing. We are leading others in prayer. And we're all, it allows us to all pray the same thing together, corporately together, which is what God intends. But Jesus says, be very careful about this. He says, do not do what the hypocrites do. Make sure That you don't pray to be seen of men. And he gives, in order to keep this from happening, he gives a very important command. He says this, but when you pray, go into your room. And when you have shut your door, pray to your Father who is in a secret place. Jesus here emphasizes praying in private Praying behind closed doors. You shut your door, you're not seen of anybody, you're in a secret place, and you pray to your God. Now let me just pause and ask you a question, really at the outside of this. How much emphasis are you put do you place on this? I'm actually even not even talking about Bible study. I'm not saying that you should uh Bible study is important. But how much time And attention do you really give to concentrated prayer before God in private? See, it's very, it tells us often a lot about our motives. It tells us about what is really our priority in life. If we begin to sort of think that that's not all that important, by our actions we skip times of prayer. By our actions, we don't make that an emphasis. It's really actually telling something about us, about our hearts. He says, Jesus says, if you want to pray to the Lord, go to your closet in private and pray to him. This is something that God wants us to do. And I would suggest to us that as much as corporate prayer is necessary Private, individual, secret prayer is necessary as well. It's vitally important for the Christian. He says, when you do this, he's actually going to give some even more advice here. He says, don't do it with vain repetitions as the heathen do. Do you remember back in the Old Testament, Baal, when Elijah went up on the mountain? Do you remember that? And They were worshipping Baal and they repeated the same thing over and over again. We won't take the time to turn there, but you could look at it in 1 Kings chapter 18. Over and over again. They repeated the same thing. hopefully gain the attention of a fal uh of a god, lowercase g, of a false god, gain the attention of a god by repeating prayers over and over and over and over again. And maybe if you'll get their attention. Of course, uh the prophets of Baal failed to be able to get the attention of God, of their gods of Baal But this is something that happened. And what Jesus said was, don't take on that pagan practice Don't repeat yourself over and over and over again. Now here's what he's not saying. He's not saying you can't pray the same thing over and over again. In fact, later on, he's saying you should pray consistently and constantly. And he's not saying don't pray long. Like Luke 6. 12, it says, and now he it came to pass in those days that he went out in the mountain to pray and continued all night in prayer to God. And he's not even saying, don't use the same words. In Matthew 28, 44 it says, and he left them, went out again, and prayed the third time, saying the same words. Jesus actually used the same words in prayer. He's not even saying don't do that. But what he is saying, folks, is that when you pray, it ought to be very, very purposeful. And here is then he says this. It's interesting. He says Because your Father in heaven already knows what you have need of. Now, here's the question. If God already knows what you need, why pray? I mean think about it. If you're praying your needs and God already knows what you need, why pray? And the answer is this. Here's what it's not, first of all. Prayer is not to inform or educate God. That's not why you pray. Prayer is not to get God's attention. Prayer is, here's what's prayer, here's what prayer is. Prayer is an expression of utter dependency on God. Particularly when it's secret prayer before God. It's an expression, I am pouring out my heart in dependence on God. I am fully depending on him and I'm expressing that. You know, it's interesting. Really, all three of these righteous practices All three of them are really their fruits of inward kingdom transformation. He begins, remember, blessed are the s is the spirit uh blessed are those who are who are poor in spirit, blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, all of the beatitudes and what is describing what the gospel does and transforming uh the f the person into a follower of Christ. And all of these are really, in a sense, natural things that should spirit spiritual things that should occur as we follow Christ. We should be naturally giving. He says love. Just prior to this, he says, uh love and do good even to your enemies and pray for them who despite the. . Remember that passage? We just learned that. This is a natural thing of love is to be charitable to others. A natural thing of having a relationship with God is to pray to Him. We'll learn about fasting in just a in just a few minutes. The whole point here, folks, though, is this that a natural expression of dependency on God is prayer In fact, I dare say, brothers and sisters in Christ, that sometimes God puts us in places and circumstances to help us realize our utter dependency on Him. That's part of why James could say, count it all joy when you come into diverse trials and temptations. Knowing that the trying of your faith works patience. When we pray, we must realize that God is the audience. Do we and I and and I'll just ask us again, do we pray together? Do we pray in a secret place? How much priority do we place on that? Now I just I really want to get this across. It was something that was very convicting to me, frankly, over the last couple of days. It is so easy for us to place priorities on everything else. We're actually pretty good at doing things. We're pretty good at getting things done. We might be even generous about doing things. But Jesus, there is really more priority in the New Testament on secret prayer and on prayer in general than on doing things. I'm not saying don't do things. We need help with this Easter egg hunting coming up. But if you had to choose between praying at all and doing an Easter egg hunt, you ought to pray. That's a little hard for me to say because I know how much we need help out there. But really, prayer is absolutely necessary and important and vital. And I hope that as we just took a moment at this, and we're going to learn more about prayer next next Sunday. No, the Sunday after next Sunday. I hope that we have taken a few moments to see just how important it is. There really is a sense in which secret private prayer keeps our heart pure because the reality is when you're doing that and nobody sees it, there's just something about that that there's very it's unlikely you're gonna have a mixed motive on that Now it is possible, by the way, especially those who have more of an intr uh introverted personality, they actually, because we are we're so inclined to self-justify, we can think that if we pray in our own heart this sort of that sort of a a monastic m monastery kind of a outlook. Okay, if I go in my closet and I pray and I and I spend time by myself, then I f I feel more spiritual. So it is a possibility that you could do that. But there's a sense in which if your tendency is to want to be affirmed by others, then praying in secret is like the antidote to that. And I would really encourage us to spend more time doing that. The final area that he mentions here in why and in a place we must avoid hypocrisy is fasting. Now I want you to notice that all three of these areas, he has actually not commanded them to do us to do it. He hasn't commanded charitable giving, he hasn't commanded prayer, and he isn't going to command fasting. But the other two, charitable giving and prayer, is commanded in the New Testament on many occasions. I won't take the time to turn there. I think you know that already probably, but you've got plenty of time, very frequently prayer is commanded. And even giving, charitable giving, is commanded in the New Testament on several occasions as well. Fasting is a bit different, and although I don't have the time, nor is the intent of the text to give you everything on fasting today. I do want to give you some points on fasting just for you to think about. Because like I don't think I've ever actually even preached on fasting. Why? Well there's a reason for that. It's not mentioned in any of the epistles except for one time. And it's very infrequently mentioned in the New Testament at all. We only find one time, to my knowledge, that we find Christ doing it. Remember the 40-day fast before before he was tempted. So let's I just want to make some observations about fasting here. And if you don't want to write these down, you can take a picture of the screen at the end, and that'd be fine. Observations about biblical fasting. Number one, the Old Testament only commands Israel to do this one time. And that was during the Day of Atonement. Okay, so that there's not all these commands in the Old Testament to fast. You see fasting happening in the Old Testament quite a bit, but you don't actually ever see it commanded of Israel except for one time. And that's in Leviticus 16, 29 through 31 and several other places as well. Number two Both the Old Testament and New Testament view fasting as a morally good thing. So I'm not here just to say to you, well, fasting, you should never fast, or fasting is horrible, or you know, that's unhealthy, or something like that. Fasting is considered to be a good thing in Scripture. Number three, Scripture indicates that there are both appropriate and inappropriate times to fast. There are appropriate times and inappropriate times. Do you remember when the disciples of John the Baptist came to Jesus and asked why his disciples weren't fasting? Do you remember that? Here's the text. It says this, Luke 5, 33, and 35 through 35, it says, Then they said to him, Why do the disciples of John of John fast often and make prayers And likewise those of the Pharisees, but yours eat and drink. And he said to them, Can you make the friends of the bridegroom fast when the bridegroom is with them? But the days will come when the bridegroom will be taken away from them, then they will fast in those days Jesus says, as long as I'm here, the bridegroom is here, they're not going to fast. But there's going to be a day where I'll be taken away and they will fast. It indicates something to us about Jesus' view of fasting. It seems to be that fasting was not something uh that was regularly done, but something that occurred Almost naturally during times of real hard, difficult times in life when there was a particular need, or possibly even a particular temptation. Like Jesus when he the the time that we see that he fasted. But there are that but it's it's not indicating that you should You know, I mean what it's not saying here and what helps us it's not saying, okay, let's go have a party and during the party let's fast and it'll make it better. I mean that's not that's an extreme example to to to point out that fasting is something that the there does seem to be an association, according to Jesus, of a appropriate time to fast, and it's a time of particular struggle and sadness where we might want to consider fasting. Number four, the New Testament never commands fasting. For the New Testament believer, you never see it commanded. And the epistles mention it sparingly. In fact I think the only time is in 1 Corinthians chapter 7 when it says that a husband and wife can remain separate from each other physically only for prayer and fasting. Number five, Jesus in the Gospels, um I I should clarify that. It doesn't mean remain separating. There's all other there's other reasons as well, but but deliberately separate from each other is actually what it's talking about in the passage. Number five. Jesus in the Gospels and the Apostles in Acts fasted on occasion but not regularly. So you see that on occasion there was an ordination going on and they fasted, but it was not a regular thing. They didn't fast regularly. And number six, the New Testament fasting, along with prayer, should be a fruit, it should be a natural result of dependency on God during a particularly difficult time. It should be a fruit of natural dependency. So, folks, my point is this. Fasting should not make In Christianity, there is a long history of fasting being used in an improper manner. Sometimes fasting is used to make you feel more spiritual. Sometimes fasting is used to make somebody, I mean they could do it for a pharisaical reason. There's different reasons why fasting has been used throughout Christianity and employed throughout Christianity. But it's important to realize that although fasting is something that is considered to be a good thing, with prayer, by the way, that's absolutely necessary. It is something that doesn't seem to be a regular practice in the New Testament of something that a Christian would do on a regular basis. Now if you do that, and as long as you don't have impure motives, I'm not like a It doesn't say you can't do that either, but it doesn't seem to be something that's in the New Testament to do on a regular basis. Now, with all of that in mind. . . We find here then he says, when you fast, when it when you do fast, look at ver verse 16. He says, Moreover, when you fast, do not be like the hypocrites with a sad countenance, for they disfigure their faces that they may appear to men to be fasting. Assuredly I say to you, they have their reward. They're literally coming out and they're disfiguring their faces, they're looking like they're hungry, and they they're not cleaning themselves and they just look like they're miserable, and everybody goes around saying, oh, isn't he He's so spiritual because he he's he must be fasting. And they the the Pharisees did rigor regularly, religiously fast uh as much as two times a day. Now it's reported that they also did something else, by the way. They would fast the entire day and they would say they fast the entire day. Sometimes they'd fast many, many days, and they would claim to everybody that they fasted many, many days, but they'd eat at night. Uh there seems to be indications that that occurred. That is what you call hypocrisy would be another example of that in Scripture. So he says, when you do, what should you do though? Verse 17, anoint your head, wash your feet. What's he saying? In common that common English verb of our day, take a shower. Okay? Don't go around, oh boy, it's so I'm so I'm fasting. I'm spiritual and I'm having such a hard time and this is such a strong. No. You there's a sense in which if you're fasting, nobody really should know that you're fasting. Um unless, you know, it's kind of obvious you you know, your close family members are going to notice if you're not eating. But but other than that, nobody's going to know that you're doing it. And he says, if you're if you do it in secret, then your father will then be able to reward you openly. The point there, of course, is the same as the others. Motive is key. Now here's what I want to do at the very end of this. All of this, folks, has been warning. about the importance of heart attitude. Jesus places absolute primary importance, not on what you do, but on your motive. Now let me just, I'm going to clarify something here. This does not mean that you should only do things where you really feel like you should do them. It's not about feeling here. It's about motive, and there is a difference. Some people get caught up in this and they sort of say, well I don't really feel like doing that, so I won't do it. No. It's not what it's saying here. If the God commands you to do it, you do it. Why do you do it? And you do it with the intention of pleasing Him. That doesn't require a lot of feeling. I'm not saying feeling won't be there, but it doesn't require that. You say in your mind, you tell yourself in your mind, you preach to yourself, I am doing this. And I am doing this to please God. That's why I am choosing to do this. I'm not doing it for other people. I'm not doing it to self-justify. I'm doing it to please God. And you make a determination, a decision to please God by doing it to please God, whether or not you feel like it. In fact, the Bible says, commit your way unto the Lord and your thoughts will be established. So it's not this is not something where you say, okay, well I just don't need to do anything unless I feel like it. That is not what this passage is saying. But on the other hand, I want us to I want to I want to give very Within this passage, I think we can draw three very positive applications that will help us to steer away from Self-justifying through through getting other people's approval, which ends up in hypocrisy Number one, bottom line, stop trying to justify yourself and accept Jesus' justification. Stop trying to justify yourself and accept Jesus' justification. Jesus died, took your sin on himself So that he could give you his righteousness. And if you will accept that by faith, you can trust in the righteousness of Christ, which is perfect and complete and entirely acceptable by God. And you can stop trying to justify yourself. The bottom line is You're like that poor sinner, and I'm like that poor sinner who ought to stand before who ought to kneel before God with his face to the ground and say, Be merciful to me, a sinner. That's the person that's justified So stop trying to commit yourself you're a good person because you're not. And neither am I. Instead, we accept Jesus' justification of us. He declares us righteous by faith in him and what Christ did for us. And when that occurs, the Bible says there's a new life that happens. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things will be passed away. Behold, all things become new. And Jesus begins to change us from the inside out. And we begin to do righteousness as a result. of being declared righteousness as a process of being Christ-like. That's the way God intended. It starts by stopping justifying self and accept Jesus' justification. And this is not just for someone who has never come to Christ. And you may be here and you have never actually come to a saving knowledge of Christ. And if you haven't, you are invited by Christ to do that. He is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. However, If you have come to Christ and you are truly a Christian, you can easily fall into the same trap of trying to continue to self-justify. And as long as you're self-justifying, you are open to the door, you're opening the door to hypocrisy. And those who are really inclined to self-justify, they often see hypocrisy in everyone else except themselves But really what needs to happen is they need to actually stop trying to self-justify and realize, according to Ephesians, if you have come to Christ, you are accepted by God. You're accepted in the beloved. There is no need for self-justification anymore. It's gone. You don't need it anymore. Because you are accepted by Jesus Himself. And if you read through Ephesians chapter 1, which we don't have the we won't do today, but if you read through that, it is very, very clear that you are accepted by no merit of your own. You're just accepted by God. Assuming you have put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Number two, very practical. Begin each day in a prayer closet with the Lord. Begin each day at a pr- You say, well, I like to do my devotions at night. That's when your day starts then. Honestly. Nothing wrong with doing your devotions at night. You're gonna sleep is the first thing you're gonna do after you begin your day, which is okay. The reason I'm suggesting this, folks, is because there is something that is purifying about coming to God in prayer, in secret, quiet prayer before God. where you're expressing your dependence on him and doing it in the way that God intends. And Jesus is very pleased with that. This is how he tells us to pray. And there is an implication here. If we will pray this way, there is a sense in which it will keep us from hypocrisy. And those kinds of dangers that he's talking about. Number three, I haven't mentioned this before, but you'll see how it connects. Live for the coming of Christ each day Live for the coming of Christ each day. So sometimes it is very difficult for us to imagine God as our audience. We've mentioned on many occasions we need to have an audience of one. Sometimes that's difficult, and I think what's easier is to is to imagine that Jesus could come at any moment. Now that's actually also difficult as you go throughout your day, but it's easier than thinking about the the reason that In other words, Jesus is coming for us. And I think that God set it up that way that He would come for us and we don't know when. In fact, Scripture seems to make this clear, that we and we don't know when He's coming to remind us of who we should constantly be pleasing. And Jesus says this in the book of Matthew later on in 24 of Matthew, it says this, verse 25, chapter 24, verse 25, it says, or 45 rather, verse 45, it says, Who then is faithful and a wise servant, whom his master made ruler over his household to give to the food in due season? Blessed is the servant whom his master, when he comes, will find so doing Assuredly I say to you, he will make him ruler over all goods. There's a reward. The reward is actually more responsibility for the cause of Christ. But if that evil servant says to his heart, My master is delaying his coming, and begins to beat his fellow servants and eat and drink with the drunkards. The master of the servant will come on a day when he is not looking for him, and at an at an hour that he that he is not aware of, and will cut him in two and appoint him his portion And this is interesting what he says. He'll appoint him his portion with the hypocrites. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. How do we live in purity before the Lord? Well, number, if we're if we're aware of the presence of God. And we live to please God every day, and we begin our day in the presence of God, praying to Him, expressing our dependence on Him. If we'll do that, And then throughout the day, we'll live for the coming of Jesus that he really could come today. And we want him to find us pleasing him and doing well and living for him. This is the kind of thing that Jesus specifically set up. To keep us from self-righteousness and hypocrisy. May we choose to live to please God by anticipating the coming of Christ. Christ. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you for who you are. And we we praise you that you are a God Who loves us in spite of ourselves, and we confess before you, Father, that we are not righteous. And we'll never be perfectly righteous until we see Christ. And we confess before you also, Father, that we are so intent on trying to find ourselves to be acceptable, to feeling acceptable, to being acceptable, and we will self-justify to get there. I pray, Lord, that you would work in our hearts to help us to accept your justification. By no merit of our own, but by the death of Jesus Christ and his resurrection, he declares us righteous by faith alone. And Father, I pray, Lord, that you would help us to live in light of that, to just be Amazed, maybe even overwhelmed by the fact that we are accepted by you. That will go a long way to keep us from coming to a place of hypocrisy in our lives. I pray, Lord, that you would help us with this. And then, Lord, would you cause us To remind us of how important it is to come to you in prayer, in secret prayer And then as we live throughout our day, Lord, may we live as though you could return at any time, because we know you could return at any time. And doing all of this, Father, keep us from impure motives. Help us purify our hearts and our motives in such a way that they are pleasing to you. And actually end up being a great light before men, so that they may see our lives and glorify not us, but you. I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Bethel Baptist Church is a family made up of people from very different backgrounds and from every age group. But we all have one thing in common. We have found a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. We also understand that looking for a church to attend can be unsettling. Before you even drive into our parking lot, we'd like to give you an idea of what to expect on your first visit to Bethel Baptist Church. After arriving at Bessel, feel free to park at one of our guest parking spaces. Close to the front doors. It is our privilege to have you visit us and we want you to feel at home while you're here. We are ready to assist you in understanding your needs and locating facilities such as the nursery Coffee area and the specific ministries and classes available for you and your family. When a person discovers how to have a genuine relationship with God They are given a sense of purpose and meaning in life. When that same person belongs to a loving community where God's word is taught, they will grow in their relationship with the Lord, and their life grows in purpose and meaning. Since I uh started coming to Bethel, I noticed that my walk with the Lord became more serious. more faithful. The church has impacted my walk with the Lord in terms that my faith became real. I I'd had some some spiritual struggles in my own life that have sort of turned around night and day, just just having come here. The the church family here is just so uh great in terms of their unity and their activeness and involvement in the church. When I first came to Bethel I was a babe of Christ. I was Spiritually immature through hearing God's word preached, studying God's word, and continuing You know, reading in the Bible is helping me to grow spiritually. Bethel is a place for someone If they want to grow spiritually, if they're ready to take the the next steps in their spiritual walk with God in their Christian life Ah, this this is a place for them. We sincerely desire to help people grow in the relationship with the Lord, with their families, and with one another. Our focus is on making and building disciples for God's glory. We accomplish this through corporate worship on Sunday mornings, through adult Bible studies where we learn God's Word and how to effectively apply it to our lives, and through our discipleship home groups that meet in various locations throughout the region. Additionally, there are one-on-one and coupled a couple of counseling and discipleship opportunities. We genuinely desire to help you grow spiritually any way you possibly can. Our children's ministries are extremely important to us. We have a lot of young families with children, and we believe in the importance of teaching truth to the next generation. Teachers and nursery workers will be available to introduce themselves and assist you in signing your children in and out of their classrooms. My family is involved in the church. My children are growing in the church. And the ministry and the love of the people of the church is helping my children and my family to stay faithful to the Lord. As a young mom I have two small kids and so I am very much looking forward to seeing them grow up in this church where I know there are gonna be people who care about them and love them and want what is best for them. It's a body of believers that is striving together to serve the Lord Uh genuinely, we have a real unity in the faith because we believe in that objective truth in the scriptures And um it just draws us together as a family. So being new members here, I'm most looking forward to uh continuing to deepen my walk with Christ and and grow in my relationship with Him and even getting involved in the ministry I'm looking forward to uh being able to help out and And to help build up others in the face the way that they've helped build me up. Bethel Baptist Church is a growing loving family community. We hope that we've been able to show you a small glimpse of what Bethel is like. But we love to meet you personally. Join us for a worship service, a small group for Bible study. Let us be a blessing to you and your family.