Take your rifles this morning? And turn to Matthew chapter 18. Our scripture reading is Matthew 18, verses 15 to 20. Matthew 18, verses 15 to 20. And before we read that, let's go to of the Lord in prayer. Dear Lord, thank you so much for your goodness to us. You are truly always good. Your faithfulness truly is great. And Lord, I pray this morning as we think on your greatness and we think of what you've done for us. Remind us again, Lord, that your work is not finished. You have work that you're continuing to do here In us and through us. Lord, we are your church. We are you during this church age work through believers. like us here today. And Lord, I pray that we would be people that you can use. This morning I pray that you'd give us ears to hear what your Spirit says to us through your word. Be with Pastor Jim as he preaches. And Lord, I pray that we wouldn't just be hearers of your word, but we'll be doers also. In Jesus' name. Amen. Matthew chapter 18, starting in verse 15. Moreover, if your brother sends against you, go and tell him his fault between you and him alone. If he hears you, you've gained your brother. But if you will not hear, take with you one or two more, that by the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be And if he refuses to hear them, tell it to the church. But if he refuses even to hear the church, let him be to you like a heathen in a tax collection. Assuredly I say to you, whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loose Again I say to you that if two of you agree on earth concerning anything that they ask, it will be done for them by my Father. Father in heaven. For where two or three are gathered together in my name, I am there in the midst of them The passage that we are looking at this morning has been traditionally the passage that is dealing with the subject of church discipline. I want to let you know, those of you who are guests out here, that this is not a topic that I've just decided to choose today. We are going, you know, verse by verse through the book of Matthew and we have come to this passage. In fact, I don't know too many preachers that On purpose choose this passage to preach. I don't mean a match Pastor Matt's guest spoke. Have you ever chosen this passage to preach any? Yeah, I didn't think so It's just not a passage you choose to preach on, but it is a passage unless you really need to. A particular thing has come up in the church, which hasn't happened in our church Rather, we are going through Matthew 18, and so this is we're we're this is the next passage here. But at the same time, it is a very, very important subject. And it's one that is extremely, very frequently misunderstood by Christians. And part of that is because it is used the wrong way. When I use when I when you hear the word church discipline, what comes to mind? It's probab it may be or probably some sort of negative uh negative connotation. Maybe you think of the Spanish Inquisition or the Salem witch hunts or something of that nature or try to associate with some sort of it doesn't seem like something that's very good. But it's it's bec some often uh maybe often, maybe sometimes, I'm not sure, somewhere in there, the reason that that is, is because it has been used. This passage very frankly has been used the wrong way. Let me illustrate it this way. Suppose you're talking to somebody and you're having a conversation with them, and suddenly They pull a knife on you and they say, want this? Okay Well, what would you immediately do? You would be like, hey, back off. This is a weapon. This is going to be used against me. But if the same knife was you were sitting around a campfire and you were trying to whittle a stick to make a s'more and somebody pulled out a knife and said those exact words want this And turn the handle to you to hand it to you, that very same knife would be used in an entirely different way, and you would think of it as a very positive thing, right? And I would suggest to you that in that, in a similar way, this passage, because it has been used in a way throughout church history in various times, not always, but various times in a way that is har that has been harmful, we come to this subject of church discipline and we think, oh no, what what is this? And that is not at all the way God intended for us to take this. There are some I'm going to tell you up front here as we go through this passage that you will You know, there are some passages, there are some messages that you can sit back and kind of listen to and just sort of sit back. You can't sit back on this passage. I'll just sort of let you know ahead of time. This is one that I'm going to encourage you two things. Number one, I I would encourage you to take notes on this path. I don't say that every week, but many of you already do take notes, and I certainly commend that to you. But I would recommend that you do take notes on this passage because there are a lot of details. Number two, I'm going to ask you as we go through this passage to reserve judgment until you have heard everything. Does that make sense? Sometimes something might sound a little strange or not sound quite right, but there's some times where it's very important to sort of get the whole picture. before before we really understand what's going on here. And I think that's very important in this passage. And then there are so many details that I'll be going over this morning that it might be good to re-listen to the to the passage Or if you have home groups tonight, home group leaders, I'll be praying for you as you go through this. This is not the easiest one to lead as well. In fact, home group leaders, I will send you my sermon notes after the service so that you have those uh available uh to look through, although I'm not sure they'll help you their mind it's not not yours. But if in case they do, um I think that'll that might be helpful for you. But I again uh still take notes I think would be helpful and and I would encourage that. Of course you're not like sinning or something I'm not going to come and practice the first step of Matthew 18 to later on if you don't take notes. I'm just suggesting that might be a good idea this morning. There are some things that I encourage us to think about when it comes to the context of this passage. In Matthew 18, verses 1 through 14, which we looked at last week, we see a great deal about the protect the importance of the protection from sin. Christ has said in the passage, if you'll note last week, he has said that we need to be very careful about causing other people to sin. And that matter. And then also we need to be very careful about sin itself, us partic participating in sin. Christ takes the problem of sin extremely seriously, even for those who are already his followers, even for those who are already his disciples. In Matthew 18, just to remind us in verses 6 through 8, it says, Whoever causes one of these little ones to believe in me to sin It would be better for him if a millstone were hung around his neck and were drowned in the depths of the sea. Woe to the world because of offenses. For offenses must come, but woe to that man by whom the offenses come. And then he says this, if your hand or foot causes you to sin, cut it off. And cast it from you. It's better for you to enter into the life into life lame or maimed rather than to have two hands or two feet to be cast into everlasting fire. Jesus In warning his disciples and instructing his disciples and preparing his disciples for the establishment of his church is very concerned about the matter of sin. It is dangerous For the Christian, not just the unbeliever, is dangerous for the Christian. It is deceitful. And so because of that, Jesus now goes into a passage That helps to offer protection and also helps to offer restoration protection and restoration as we go into this passage, I think it's important for us to understand. The fact is we are living in an extremely evil world. And the world right now is under Satan's influence. Colossians 1. 13 says this. He has delivered us from the power of darkness. We are under the power of darkness before we're saved, but there is still In the world, it lies under the sway of the wicked one, 1 John 5, verse 19 says. This world lies under the sway of the wicked one. There are influ evil influences on every side. And part of the reason that God has got that Christ has started the church and built is building his church is for the protection of his disciples. And so it's important for us to understand that at the beginning of this as we go into this. Notice also, I want us to realize that after this passage, in verse 21 of this passage of this chapter, you have Peter that responds with a question. He says, Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me and I forgive him? Realize that this passage implies, the passage we're going to be looking at today implies that most of the time forgiveness sh or I should say forgiveness should always occur in the life of a Christian. toward another believer. And forgiveness and restoration is the goal of this passage. And when the disciples heard this, uh the Peter and Matthew making a point of this as he goes through this, Peter and likely the other disciples are asking this, okay, well That's a lot of forgiveness. This could happen. People can sin against me a lot. There could be sin in the church, sin in general a lot. How often do I have to forgive? And of course, we know the answer is essentially and definitely every time we need to forgive. So this passage is for protection, for restoration. to show us uh uh uh how to carry out forgiveness with one another. That is the point of this passage. It is not intended to be used as a weapon is intended to be used as an as an instrument, a tool with which God's church can flourish, we can be protected from sin, we can be restored in fellowship. That is the point of this. And then also, this is important before we go into this. This passage really presupposes the scriptural validity of formal church membership. People say, well, I don't see church membership in the Bible. You cannot practice this passage with any kind With you really can't practice this passage well at all without, maybe the first step you could, but without church the or without church membership. So when you think of the whether church membership is biblical or not, it is absolutely biblical because there are certain commands in Scripture and there are certain passages in Scripture that without it you would not be able to to follow it. And this is one of those passages. We note also if we look at the book of Acts and go through the book of Acts, it does very much seem to be that they had there was formal church membership in that in that book. In Acts chapter 2, verses 40 through 47, it says in verse 41 of that passage, And those who gladly received his word were baptized, and that day about 3,000 souls were added to them. And they continue steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship and breaking the bread and prayers. Later on in the passage, verse forty four, now all who believed were together and had all things in common and sold their possessions and goods Divided among them. We don't have to have to do that part of it, but but the idea of the passage is that verse 26, so continuing daily with one accord in the temple, there was a fellowship. They were breaking bread together There was a connection to each other. And then we see later on in Acts chapter 18 that there was One local church commending members to another local church. Verse 27 it says, and when he desi desired to cross the Caia, the brethren rode, exhorting the disciples to receive him And when he arrived, he greatly helped those who had believed through grace. So you have that kind of thing that indicates to us that they had church membership back then And I would just say as well, in Hebrews chapter 13, verse 17, it says this, obey those who have rule over you and be submissive, for they watch for your souls. those who must give account. And there is no qua really no question that that what it's talking about is the the the responsibility of elders to watch for the souls of people in the church. Well, who are those people? Is it the responsibility of elders to watch for the discipleship of people that are and and responsible for the people that are not members of their church? It's not. There is a there is a necessity To know who a pastor or elders or pastors are are responsible before the Lord And how do you know? Well, when someone chooses to submit themselves under that responsibility, that is how you know. So church member membership is very, very important. And that it you sort of have to if you're gonna flesh this passage out, you're gonna have to presuppose that A very general note, it's important for us to understand that as we live in this world and there are sinful influences in the world, sin is so deceitful that we are bound sometimes to uh to have blind spots, to have sin in our lives, perhaps even that we don't even realize, we don't even recognize In Matthew or James chapter 5, verse 19, it says, Brethren, if any among you wanders from the truth and someone turns him back, Let him know that he who turns a sinner from the error of his ways will save a soul from death and cover a multitude of sins. It commends those who would notice as a brother in Christ is wayward, going the wrong direction. That person who notices that and and goes and reaches out to that brother is one who is commended in that passage. We need to have each other's backs is basically what it's saying in that passage and others. The general idea is we are in this together as disciples of Christ as members in the body of Christ, and we need to have each other's backs. And then Sin is so deceitful and so dangerous that we need accountability. Accountability is part of what God is doing in membership of the local church. First Corinthians chapter ten verse twelve says, Therefore let him who thinks he stand, take heed lest he fall. Maybe at this point you're saying, well, I don't really need this whole church membership thing. You know, I'm good and I don't need accountability. I don't need people And I only I I like to keep to myself and I don't want people coming after me and I don't want to go after other people and I just kinda want to do my own thing. Well that is very American of you. But it's not very New Testament. The one another passages throughout the New Testament show us very clearly that we are not to isolate ourselves from other believers. But instead, we are to be connected one to another. The Bible says in Proverbs 15, verse 32, he who disdains instruction despises his own soul. But he who heeds rebuke gets understanding. In Proverbs 27, 6, Faithful are the wounds of a friend, but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful. And in Proverbs 27, 17, as iron sharpens iron, so a man sharpens the countenance of his friend. The reality is we as Christians should desire accountability from other believers. And if we don't, if we say, no, I'm fine, I'll deal with it myself, I'll handle it on my own, whatever it is, when we have that kind of mentality, that sort of lone ranger mentality, it probably is because of pride. And so it's important for us to understand that. Now that was my introduction. Now we will get into the passage, and I'll just assure you that this will go at a fairly quick clip. It's only five, it's not that many verses, and so uh I think that will be okay. So God provides a method for protect for protection and for restoration in this passage for believers, for way we're believers. And I want us to see, we're going to see five five things here in this passage. Number one, we're going to see individual confrontation. We're going to see group intervention, congregational involvement, appropriate treatment, and gospel restoration. Individual confrontation, group intervention, congregational involvement, appropriate treatment, and gospel restoration. And we will move at a much pretty quick clip through these. We begin then with individual confrontation. The Bible says in Matthew 18, verse 15, Moreover, if your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault between you and him alone. If he hears you, you have gained your brother. So what is it saying here? A couple of things for us to understand as a brother would go to another brother and show him his sin, which is what this passage is saying. Number one, we need to go with humility and love. The passage in Matthew 18 has just said that in verses 1 through 3. Christ highly values humility, and of course, the commandment that that summarizes all other commandments is to love the Lord our God and to love our neighbor as ourself. So clearly it is extremely important to follow all of these points in love. We why would someone go why would someone get involved? Why would someone go to another brother in Christ and identify sin in his life? Well it may be that there's been a sin against him and that's what's indicated in the passage And so he needs to deal with this for because there's been a breach in their relationship, and certainly that is part of what's going on here But it may be that he sees it and he knows that person is going is headed the wrong direction and he is out of love and concern for that person who maybe is a blind spot, isn't seeing the sin that he or he or she is in He goes after that person out of genuine love for that person. The fact is, most of us are not, we don't like confrontation. And it's not something that we want to do. It would be it's weird if you actually like it and you really want to do it. But But it is sometimes it is very necessary for us to do. Secondly, self-examination is absolutely important. We're talking now about preparing to take this first step. Self-examination is extremely important. In Matthew chapter 7, verse 5, you remember that passage it says that before we would we would be able to take uh uh uh something out of someone else's eye. We've got to remove the beam out of our own eye. And it and and it doesn't say in that passage that you can never take something something out of some somebody else's eye. It doesn't say that It says this, verse 5 of that passage, Matthew 7, remove the plank from your own eye, and then you will see clearly to remove the speck from your brother's eye. And so before we would ever try to deal with another person's sin, we should first look at our own lives. Galatians 6 says this in concert with this other verse. Brethren, if a man is overtaken in a trespass in any trespass, you who are spiritual, restore a one in a spirit of gentleness. We must go with gentleness. Considering yourself lest you also be tempted. We must consider ourselves. And I would just say thirdly that I this is just a matter of wisdom, I think, I hope. that it is really helpful if you have a previously positive loving relationship with that person. If you have no interaction with a I'm not saying you couldn't do this, but if you have no interaction with a person and you don't have a loving relationship with a person and suddenly you try to go in and correct their problems, that might not go all that well. And so I would just encourage that as something that we need to consider as well. So the problem, let's look at the problem here. The problem is that this person has sinned. The brother goes, it says a trespass. There's a trespass that is made. It is not only relegated that if somebody trespasses against you, we're going to see that in other places in Scripture, that it's not just an offense against you, but certainly that's what originally we're talking about here in this passage It says, moreover, if a brother sins against you. First of all, we're talking about a brother. We're talking about someone who has professed to know Christ as their Lord and Savior. But also this sin, it is the normal word for sin. It's the word that's used all over the New Testament for the word sin. But I want to remind ourselves that this is actual sin that we're talking about. It is objective verifiable, it's a trespass, it's something that you can actually identify, it's there's it's clear. And it's something that's probably likely being repeated, not something that happened and then that didn't happen again And so very important to understand, it is objective, verifiable sin. It is not, number one, a general concern. It's not just a general concern. Now I'm not going to say that we shouldn't go to other brothers and sisters in Christ over a general concern. You see a person that's just making unwise decisions, maybe they're not sin, but they're unwise decisions. If you have a relationship with them, you love them, you're kind to them, to go to them and say, hey, I'm just curious about this or that kind of thing. There's nothing wrong with that. In fact, it says in Scripture, 1 Thessalonians 5, verse 14 It says, now we exhort you, brethren, warn those who are unruly, that's sin, but comfort the faint-hearted, uphold the weak. And then it says this: be patient with all. So there is certainly a place with encouraging those who are weak, upholding those who are weak, comforting the faint-hearted. There is something we need to be encouraging with each other when somebody is when there's a weakness, when there's a concern When they're if we're doing it in love, great, that's wonderful. But this in this passage is talking about clear, verifiable, objective sin. It is not just a general concern. It's not just a matter of wisdom in this passage It's not just okay I want you to do this is you're you're doing something that's fool that I my mind it's foolish and I want to help you Now, there's nothing wrong with that, but if you're going to do that, you're probably and they don't this dismiss your quote when's wisdom unquote, then very probably you're not going to go to the next step or the next step or anything like that. This is a matter of wisdom. It's not a matter of sin. Now I'll just say by the way we do need to understand the difference. A sin is a violation of the Word of God Something that is a matter of wisdom may be various there may be various applications involved, but there is not a moral trespass. There is not missing the moral mark And understanding a wisdom issue from a morality issue is important scripturally. We need to know the difference and we need to identify the difference. A matter of opinion. It is not a matter of opinion or personal conviction or conscience. That's not what we're talking about here. You could have in your own conscience, for you to do something that violates your conscience, it would be sin The Bible says, whatsoever is not of faith is sin. And so it's very important that we have sensitive consciousness before the Lord, that we are we don't violate our conscience, because to do so is sin. But what we're talking about here is not something that I would see in my life as sin, but is not clearly sin in Scripture. That's not what we're talking about here. We're talking about objective, verifiable sin here. And also we're not talking about a perceived motive. Okay, sometimes we get into these, we we think we know the motive of somebody else. That you know the Bible tells us very clearly that we are not to judge each other's motives. Or remind us of this. In 1 Corinthians 4, verse 5, therefore, judge nothing before the time unto the Lord comes, who will both bring to light the hidden things of darkness and reveal the counsels of the hearts. then each one's praise will come from God. We might have a question mark about somebody's motive, and that is, you know, probably okay. But for us to definitively judge the motive of another person is not biblical. It is only God that can know somebody's heart. And so we are not going to be going to somebody based upon just a perceived wrong motive and then try to expose their fault that way. This passage then says, moreover, if your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault. The word tell means to expose It's to expose a fault. It is translated sometimes to bring to light. John chapter 3, verse 20, for everyone practicing evil hates the light and does not come to light, lest his deeds should be exposed. It's the same word there. Matthew 5. 11. And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather expose them. That's what the word means. The word means expose them. In other words, you are coming to another brother or sister in Christ You have identified a clear sin, and you are exposing it just to them. By the way, that's important for us to understand here. This is to him and him alone. The word is alone You are privately going to that person. It indicates, folks, that when private sin needs to remain private. If it is something that is not uh observed by other people and not something that no, the private sin should remain private. And so if a brother sees another brother overtaken in a fault, of course, according to Scripture, then they should go to that person privately first. It shouldn't be gossiping to other people, shouldn't be talking about to other people. No, go to the person in love and expose the sin to the other person. It implies clarity, by the way. If someone is to do this, they should go with specifics They shouldn't go and just say, I generally am kind of concerned about you, and I see you doing all kinds of things that I'm concerned about. No, this is this is clear, it's specific, it's an exposure of sin. And I also want to say this, just I think by way of wisdom, that you don't have to wait for someone to come to you. If you know you have somebody has something against you The Bible says previously in the book of Matthew, Matthew chapter 5, verses 23 through 25, it says, Therefore, if you bring your gift to the altar and therefore and there remember that your brother has something against you It doesn't say, you know, I've had people who say, um, well I don't need to go to that other person. I got nothing against them. But do you know they have something against you? The Bible says here, if you know a brother has something against you, leave your gift there before the altar and go your way, first be reconciled to your brother, and then come and offer your gift. Agree with your adversary quickly quickly while you are in the way with him. Lest your adversary deliver you to the judge and the judge hand you over to the officer and you be thrown into prison. So clearly we are to do this and we are look, the point that Christ is making here is that relationships in the body of Christ are important. And they should remain f there there should be fellowship with one another and restoration should happen. And we should have a clear account of sin before each other. This these kinds of things. are very important. And the Bible says here, if he hears you, if that brother who is erring, who has clear sin, hears you, the Bible says you have gained your brother. That is the objective. Let me be very clear about this. The objective of the entire thing here, of this entire passage, is You gain your brother. You restore. The whole point of this passage is restoration. In fact, I would go so far as to say that if you can't see a path to restoration, don't practice this. Because the point here is restoration. We want to restore with other brothers and sisters in Christ. The whole point. is restoration. The word gain means to a res it's talking about a restored relationship. For example, Matthew 16, 26, for what profit is a man if he gains the whole world and loses his own soul? It's the same word there. Matt Mark 838, same thing. This word gain. And in fur uh in 1 Corinthians 9, verse 19 through 22, it uses the word win, to win someone. It's as though there has been a breach in a relationship because of some sin and you are choosing to go to that person, they sinned against you, and you want to make it right. Or you and you and you want to you want to win that person. You want to gain that person so that there is a restored relationship. This is and very clearly, very candidly, this kind of thing, frankly. This step of church discipline, which is not at all punitive, should probably be happening all the time. This is the kind of thing that should be happening very frequently in a church. Uh I I d uh this is the kind of thing that I wouldn't even know how often it's happening in church and I don't want to know how often it's happening happening in church, if you know what I mean If someone has sinned against you, or if there is a pattern of sin that you see in somebody else's life that you know is going to really hurt them, that they're not seeing, this is something that we should be doing with each other in the body of Christ. And then finally, the point of all of this is relational restoration. In Leviticus chapter 19, verses 17 through 18, it says, you shall not hate your brother in your heart. You shall surely rebuke your neighbor and not bear sin because of him. You shall not take vengeance, nor bear any grudge against the children of your people. But you love your neighbor as yourself. I am the Lord. This is how we love your neighbor. Go to it's a rebuke in that case, but it means the idea is to go to him and expose him. We do this because we love our neighbor. We do not want to hold grudges or bitterness or s or that kind of a thing. In other words, there are some times that someone sins against you in such a way that you can't let it go. And you need to go to that person rather than whole harboring any kind of bitterness or resentment toward them. It is very important Luke 17, verse 3 says this, take heed to yourselves. If your brother sins against you, rebuke him, and if he repents, re forgive him. And if he sins against you seven times in a day, and seven times in a day returns to you, I repair, and say I repent, you shall forgive him. That is pretty clear how often we are to forgive and what God wants us to do in this in these situations. So all of that to say this. I have a question for you. Do we love our fellow broth brothers and sisters in Christ? Do we love our fellow church members enough to confront them when necessary? Do we love them that much? That when we see them going the wrong direction, we're willing to confront them? You know, Christ takes sin so seriously in this passage, and he takes it so seriously in the entire chapter here. And he wants us to understand exactly how to deal with this. And so, do you love your brother and sister in Christ enough to do this? And number two, are we humble enough to receive correction? from a believer who would come to us? Are we humble enough to receive correction from someone else? This is what God has in mind, what Christ has in mind for his church. Unfortunately, it would be wonderful if every problem in the church, every sin in the uh in the body of Christ, this is all that ever needed to happen. Unfortunately, that is not the case. So what happens when a person is an obvious sin and is unrepentant? What should go on next? And we see group intervention is the next step in verse 16 It says, but if he will hear if he will not hear, rather, take with you one or two more, that by the mouth of two or three witnesses every word will be established. That person is, if there's not repentance, and there is that pr perhaps that person continues to commit that sin or ignores clear violations of scripture. and it's harmful to him and it's harmful to others, then then that person needs to take a witness with him Galatians 6. 1, as we already read, identifies those who are spiritual. Spiritually mature people are ideal to be used as witnesses in this situation. So you're taking somebody with you and they are going to hear the matter. The witness here is not, I don't it, you know, there's some commentaries that think this, but the vast majority The vast majority of views on this is not that the person necessarily has to witness the sin. Not talking about a witness of a sin. Like when we think of a witness, we think of someone who actually witnessed the crime. That's not what's going on here. It's the witness of of someone that goes with you to establish that this is objective verifiable sin that needs to be dealt with And by the way, the implication is that if you were to take a witness and the witness says, you know, I'm not seeing sin here. I'm not seeing a real this is not sin. This is a matter of wisdom. This is a matter of opinion. This is a matter of conviction. then at that point you don't have a case. That's why it says in Deuteronomy it quotes Deuteronomy 1915, it says One witness shall not rise against a man concerning any in uh in any iniquity or any sin that he commit commits. By the mouth of true two or three witnesses, the matter will be established. The word established means to stand. In order for that sin to stand, in other words, if for that sin to be identified as sin to be valid. The witness needs to agree. The person that comes with you needs to, after hearing the matter, agree. And what you see in the text next is it says, if he refuses to hear them. Both of them, or maybe three witness, maybe two witnesses, both of them are saying um are saying this is sin to that other person and exposing the sin. They're both doing that. They're both agreeing, and they're doing that. So the next step is verse 17a, congregational involvement. If he refuses to hear them, let it uh tell it to the church. But if he refuses even to hear the church, let him be like a heathen and a tax collector. So the word refuse is an interest is is is actually not used anywhere else in the New Testament. But we do have an Old Testament use of this word, and it and it in Isaiah 65, verse 12, it says, because and it's it's It's a Hebrew equivalent word, because when I called you, you did not answer or you did not hear. Bottom line is exactly how it's translated. They are refusing to listen. They're refusing to hear. In that situation, if that continues, then the next step is to actually take it to the church. The word church is the word assembly. So it is then now going to be exposed to the assembly. And it says here, if he refuses even to hear the church, What's it saying there? We're going to actually move right on. Now it's the church knows about it, the assembly knows about it, and now we are going to move to appropriate treatment. Appropriate treatment 17B. Now, I want us to notice something about this, that a lot of times the next the next thing that's said here, if you're, or actually it's this thing, if he refuses even to hear the church is not really followed often. Do you catch that? It says, even if he refuses to hear the church, it clearly implies then he's hearing the church. He is hearing from the assembly. So if a person continues in sin and he is unrepentant after witnesses are after witnesses are brought and all that. And that is brought to the assembly, then that person should hear from the assembly. This is something that is often not practiced. There's sort of this step is usually it's just brought to the assembly and the church and then and then the decision is made and and moved on. That really is not what God intends. So this presupposes that the assembly has the opportunity to not only hear the matter, but also to admonish the individual. How does this work? I'll give you three possible applications of this. One is he hears from the members of the church at the congregational meeting. So if somebody is sinning, somebody sends. And um and they go through the steps and he's invited to a congregational meeting and he comes to the congregational meeting and others also mention how harmful this is and how destructive in a loving way That is not often going to happen, I'll just let you know. A person that is refuses to hear the witnesses is probably, at least in our culture, not going to come to the congregation. It could happen, but it's not usually going to happen The second application of this is that the congregation, people in the congregation, are compelled to go to him so that he has a chance to hear from other people besides just this small nucleus of people. We the only time our church so far in ten years have practiced church discipline that's uh uh has practiced church discipline, that's what we did. We gave the congregation, we explained the matter to the congregation, we said, please, if you have a relationship with them, please go to the person. And we gave many, many months, months and months and months to allow this to happen. There is no reason to to rush any of this, by the way. There's no reason to get this done fast. There's no time limits on this. There's no time frames on this. This is something that you want to give as much time as possible, as much prayer as possible, and as much opportunity to restore the brother as possible. And so then we find if that still doesn't happen, if after, or another application would be the church leadership is representing the congregation and going to the person. So that would be another possibility. The church leadership explains the matter to the congregation and in a in some particular circumstance, that that particular sin, they go on behalf of the congregation and say, look, we all are in agreement on this and uh and goes to that person. But if they don't hear, or they still refuse to hear, then it's important then to take the next step, which is Let him be a heathen. Let him be like a heathen and a tax collector. Now, this is a bit confusing. A little bit controversial. What did Jesus mean when he says, let that person be as a heathen or a tax collector? Well, on its face, we can at least say that he's saying, let that let us treat that person as an unbeliever. Clearly, he then means unbeliever. So that person, even though he may profess to be saved because of his because of the direction that he has gone and he is his refusal to hear uh uh uh to repent over clear sin Then as a result of that, we then the congregation then treats that person as an unbeliever. Now, the controversy here comes because the Jews were treated tax collectors and heathen so differently than Jesus did. So was Jesus saying, treat them the way you as Jews treat tax collectors and heathen? Or was he saying, treat them the way that I treat them? Remember there's a big difference. They would separate from them entirely, uh the he uh uh heathen and tax collectors And actually, for a lot of different reasons, in the Old Testament, they were taught to do this. They were instructed to do this. For example, Exodus chapter 12, verse 15, seven days you shall eat unleavened bread On the first day you shall remove leaven from your houses, and whoever eats leaven bread from the first day into the seventh day, that person shall be cut off from Israel There were very clear instructions about uh who should be cut off and who shouldn't, and all those kinds of things in the Old Testament. So what is he saying here? Well, let me suggest to you that he is not s suggest that Jesus is is just from what we see in the heart of Christ and it and throughout the New Testament, what we see is that Christ, on the other hand, what did he do? He rubbed shoulders with with unbelievers. He rubbed shoulders with tax collectors. He reached out to them and showed love to them. So let me just suggest to you that this is not saying that a that a you treat a person as an unbeliever and therefore he can't come I do not think that's what it's saying here. In fact, don't we want unbelievers to be under the preaching of the Word of God? If someone, if we're going to treat a non-treat somebody as a non-believer, don't we want to continue to love them? Don't we want to treat them that way? I would suggest to you that we do. And so I do not believe what he's it's saying here is that we bar somebody from coming to a service or attending a service. And by the way, that's something that is that is uh that there's a lot of confusion about when it comes to the issue of church discipline. If we don't not if we do not have a path to restoration, just remember this. If we do not have a path to restoration, there should not be church discipline at all. The whole point is gaining someone. The whole point is restoration. Even after you treat the person as a non-believer, or you have to uh do that, uh, then you still are praying, you're praying for their salvation. You're praying that they come to Christ. That is, restoration is still what we want, God, and we're looking for repentance. We still want that to happen Now at this point, to really flesh this out, I think we need to take our Bibles and turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 5. So would you turn there? 1 Corinthians chapter 5, we have an actual example of what Christ intended as Paul explains it when there is a particular situation when there is obvious and in this case public sin Quite gross sin, actually. And what Paul says to do about it, what they were doing was nothing. The church was just ignoring it. They were just letting it go. They were letting it occur. These were members of the of the body of Christ, a family that was clearly in sin, and they were just letting it go. Notice, and the issue was an incestuous relationship. I mean this is no, this is objective, it's verifiable, it's clearly, I mean it's like on the really Can I say gross side of sin? I mean, all sin is bad, but this is really kind of heinous. This is things that unbelievers even know are sinful And so 1 Corinthians 5 verse 1 says, It is actually reported that there is sexual immorality among you, and such sexual immorality is not even named among the Gentiles that a man has his father's wife, and you are puffed up, and have not rather mourned. And notice what it says in the passage, that he who has done this deed might be taken away from among you. That particular case he's saying that they need to be taken away from among you. In other words, this needs to happen. There needs to be what we would call today excommunication, or let me put it this way, a removal of membership. That's by the way why you have to have membership in the first place. There needed to be that. They needed to have that in this particular case, and they weren't doing it And there's a reason why. We won't take the time to go through all of this, but would you look at verse 5? Here's what Paul and God wanted them to do. Actually, look at verse 4. In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, when you are gathered together among with uh along with my spirit, with the power of the Lord Jesus Christ, deliver such a one to Satan for the destruction of the flesh. that his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus. The intention is still restoration, but he says, deliver them. Unto Satan for the destruction of the flesh. Now we won't take the time to, there are a couple of different views as to what that word flesh means. But it at least means this. That that when we actually only see this one other time in Scripture, 1 Timothy 1, verse 20, it says, whom I delivered, Paul speaking, I delivered to Satan that they may learn not to blaspheme. What it's essentially saying is that there is a protection that the church offers, and that person needs to not have the protection of the church. and to go out and to exp and to realize the sinful influence of Satan in the world and to experience that. In other words We're taking our hand off of the situation and allowing God to do what He wants to do. There's other things that we could say there, there's other views there, but I'm not preaching on Matthew uh on 1 Corinthians 5. It's not an I'm not exegeting that. I'll just simply say that much. And so it's very important for us to understand That is that is a step that we need to take. But understand this, that the whole point is restoration. In other words, 1 John 5. 19, I've already quoted. We know that we are of God. The whole world lies under the sway of the wicked one. And there's a sense in which God desires to use the wicked one, to use Satan, to actually cause that person To cause that person to realize and what how bad of a situation he is and ultimately perhaps come back to the Lord. That is always the goal. Now the question then comes, is there ever a time where a total disassociation, even from church, from coming to church, from preaching, uh coming to the preaching of Is there uh is there any ever a time eight that total disassociation is appropriate? And I think that the answer is yes. It has to do when the particular person is contentious and causing very serious problems in the church. We see this in Romans chapter 16 and 2 Thessalonians chapter 3. In Romans chapter 16, verse 17, it says, Now I urge you, brethren, note those who cause divisions and offenses contrary to the doctrine which you learned and avoid them. There is an if they're causing divisions because of false doctrine, if they are deliberately and purposefully trying to cause dissension in the church. He says, note them and avoid them. For those who are such do not serve our Lord Jesus Christ, but their own belly and be sp And by smooth words and flattering speech deceive the hearts of the simple. For your obedience has become known to all. Therefore, I am glad on your behalf, but I want you to be wise in what is good. and simple concerning evil. Titus 3. 10 says it this way, reject a divisive divisive man after the first and second admonition. know that such a person is warped and sinning, being self-condemned. Second John 10, verse 11 says, If anyone comes to you and does not bring this doctrine Do not receive him into your house nor greet him, for he who greets him shares in his evil deeds In other words, if there is someone that is deliberately trying to cause divisions in the church, there is nothing you can do except to avoid that person. to move on, to let God work with them, and that may require a total disassociation from that person In Second Thessalonians three, verse six, it says, But we command you, brethren, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, that you withdraw from every brother who walks disorderly and not according to the tradition which which he received from us And in the context of that passage, you had idle people that weren't even working, that they had just become busybodies, and they were causing real dissension in the body of Christ. But even in that particular case, even in those situations, it doesn't mean you're nasty or mean toward them. Because he actually says in verse 14 of the same passage, 2 Corinthians chapter, 2nd Thessalonians chapter 3 And if anyone does not obey our word in this epistle, note that person, do not keep company with him, that he may be ashamed. Yet do not count him as an enemy. but admonish him as a brother. They are still not our enemies. In other words, I can't think of any situation where you would actually treat them with as an enemy unless I mean the only thing I can count actually I can't think of as a If someone was l literally violent that you had to you had to you know with some sort of equal force deal with them in that way That would be the only thing that I can possibly think of where uh where that would where you would have to treat them. But you're still not treating you're still realizing that they are not your enemy. I think that's very, very important to understand. Now, with all of that, he ends with the whole purpose, again, of restoration. Look at verse 18. Surely I say to you, whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven. What is he talking about again where he says, whatever you bound on earth will be bound in heaven? Well, this is the this this is the second this is not the first time we've seen this In Matthew 16, you would call from a free few weeks ago, verse 19, it says, And I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven And whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven. If you recall back then, what we learned was the keys of the kingdom, we won't go through all the explanation of why, but the keys of the kingdom are essentially the gospel. The keys of the kingdom are the gospel of Christ. And loosing and binding is something that God does and that we recognize. You remember that? That's important as well. It's not something that the church does. It looks like it could be that way. But there is a particular way of wording this, there's a perfect tense here, that it could be and probably should be translated this way. It should be translated as the New American Standard and the Holman translation do, and whatever you loose on earth shall have been loosed in heaven. The Holman Bible says, and whatever you loose on earth is already loosed in heaven. And so there's nothing wrong with the translation. It's not like it's a mistranslation in the New King James or the King James. But for added clarity, it would be helpful for us to understand that this is in the perfect tense. And so this is what it boils down to, this is the church recognizing what has already taken place in heaven. In other words, Well, what is that kind of thing? Well, it's someone coming to Christ, and we're recognizing that. Or someone being restored to Christ and we're recognizing that. So that's important for us to realize as well. Now it says then, if two of you agree on earth. Now what does it mean when it says if you two of you agree on earth? There's different views on what this means I'm going to suggest to you a view that very candidly I'm not going to be dogmatic on because I just learned of it myself this week. Very few things I learned completely new that have never heard of before, but this one really did commend itself to me as a possibility, but I'll just say it as a possibility. And it's not a new view, it's just one that I hadn't heard before. It was first uh published by a man by the name of J. Duncan Derrett. He wrote uh an article uh entitled, Where Two or Three Are Convened in My Name, a sad misunderstanding And in verses, uh and that was back in nineteen seventy nine, uh nineteen around nineteen seventy nine, nineteen nineteen eighty in that time period And he said this, he suggested this, that the two who agree are the offender and one against whom the offense has been committed. So you have the offender and the one who's offense. Those two are now coming back together and they're agreeing. Now that I looked at that and I looked at it, I thought, boy, that makes a lot of sense in the context. The whole goal is that these people these people that are sinning against each other get they get back together. Even the possibility of this person even after they are, they there's there's uh there's um uh uh punitive church discipline done and they're removed from membership, even if there still rest can be the possibility of restoration after that, uh that is that really commends itself to me and I uh This current time, that would be the way that I would take this. It makes a lot of good sense to me in the context. Either way, I think what we're talking here about is the goal of restoration here. And I want us to see in 2 Corinthians 2, verses 5 through 11. The conclusion of the matter that we had looked at before that is in 1 Corinthians chapter 5. Would you take your Bibles and turn there for a few moments? 2 Corinthians 2, verse 5. Now in this passage, what's wonderful about the admonition that Paul gave to the church in 1 Corinthians, the church in Corinth, about this person that had committed this very that was involved in this very horrible sin of an incestuous relationship As bad as that was, they followed the admonition of Paul, and do you realize that that person did ultimately repent and was restored? Now I think that is very helpful for us to understand. The reason I think that that is so helpful is is that there are times where we think, well nev nobody after Nobody after all this could actually come back to Christ, after all of this could actually come to repentance. I mean, you know, somebody's like that sinful. You you don't get a whole lot like worse than this God chose to use this as a very sinful thing to show that anybody Any situation where a Christian has fallen into this kind of sin, they can be restored. So in 2 Corinthians chapter 2, verse 5. It says, But if anyone has caused grief, he has not grieved me, but all of you to some extent, not to be s too severe. This punishment which was inflicted by the majority is sufficient for such a man. So that as contrary, you ought rather to forgive and comfort him. It's talking about the man uh that previously they had had to practice participant on, lest perhaps Such a a one be swallowed up with too much sorrow. Therefore I urge you to reaffirm your love to him For to this end I also wrote that I might put you to the test, whether you are obedient in all things. Now whom you forgive anything, also forgive For if indeed I have forgiven anything, I have forgiven that one for your sakes in the presence of Christ lest Satan should take advantage of us, for we are not ignorant of his devices. So this person is restored. And that is the wonderful thing about this, about the tool that Christ has given the church in this passage. is that on every level the hope and the prayer is restoration. And then we see finally in verse 20, for where two or three are gathered together in my name, I am there in the midst of them. Now some see prayer here and some don't see prayer, but what we do see for sure, Matthew 18, verse 20, is that there is a special presence of God when we gather together. That is, as we assemble together and as we gather together, and there is a sense in which that presence of God, as we gather together, the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace, those things need to be preserved. Psalm 82. 1 says this, God stands in the congregation of the mighty. He judges among the gods. It's important for us to have that unity in the body of Christ. that allows for that special presence of God in the assembly together. Now, with all of this in mind, we went through a whole lot, right? That's why I asked suggest you take notes and listen carefully on all this. I just have three questions for us. Number one, do we realize the deception and danger of sin? The reason I'm asking that question is that this will likely not make a whole lot of sense to you if sin is taken lightly. If you take sin lightly, why would all of this need to happen? It doesn't. Or if we think that we have the ability to catch every sin that we do or that we commit, or that we have in of ourselves the ability to handle every sinful situation. then we won't see this as necessary. But the fact is, sin is like a cancer If you detect cancer early, you have a great possibility of dealing with it and it not being a problem. But if you don't detect cancer early enough, it will destroy you. And it's the same way with sin. This is why Jesus deals with this and gives us all of this instruction about this because Jesus takes sin extremely seriously, and so should we. The Bible says, therein, take take heed lest ye uh where ye think ye stand, take heed lest ye fall. None of us are able to stand on our own We need each other. We need the body of Christ. And when we go, when we stray, we go the wrong direction, we have accountability. Number two. Do we understand the value of church membership and church discipline as loving protection? As loving protection in every In every step of this there should be love, a desire for restoration, a grieving over sin, a gentleness. That should be the heart of someone who is involved in church discipline according to Scripture. Do we see that as valuable? Do you see your church membership that way? Do you see that as something, as a protection and as restorate, as a need for restoration? And number three, do you love people enough to go to them when there is sin? And are you humble enough to receive correction? Do you love people enough to go to them when you see clear sin in their lives? Now I'm not I'm not talking about something that is um you know they something they sin one time or there's something they yell at somebody, you know, there's certain certain things that we do that, you know We should take tour counsel with each other about. But when there is a pattern of harmful sin that we see in somebody else's life, Are we willing to go to them? And particularly if they are sinning against us and it's bothering us, it's causing s resentment in our lives or bitterness in our lives, are we willing to go to them and get that and deal with that? And then number three, do you love people enough to go to them? When there is sin and you and you humble are you oh I already read that actually. Do you sorry do you love people enough to go to them and are you humble enough to receive correction? Now You may be listening today and you're saying, well, uh I this is interesting for the church, but I'm not even, I don't even know if I'm a Christian. How does this apply? The only way this applies is very simple. Sin is a serious problem. Sin separates us from God. That's what sin does. And the fact is all of us are born into sin And the Bible tells us that we need redemption from the punishment of our sin, which the Bible says is death, is spiritual separation, is separation, eternal separation from God. So that Jesus died in our place to take our punishment so that we could have our sin forgiven. And so that we could be rightly related to God. And if you're listening today, the only thing that uh and you don't know if you have a relationship with the Lord, the only thing that you can really draw from this is simply that Sin is a very serious thing. It is not something that God can just overlook, even for the life of the Christian. It's not something he can just look the other way. There must be true forgiveness which only comes through Christ and always can come through Christ. The Bible says He's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. He desires for you to be saved. The Bible tells us in John 1 12, But as many as received him, to them gave you the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. So if you don't know If you're not sure about who Jesus is, if you're not sure about whether you have a relationship with him, please come and talk with me. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can have a personal relationship with the Lord For the rest of us, may we take these this very, very seriously. May we understand what God desires for us, and may we value God's instruction in this passage. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you and thank you for your word. We thank you that it is your desire to preserve your saints until you come. And Lord, we understand from this passage and from the passage that we learned that we were in last week how seriously sin truly is, how deceptive it is, how dangerous it is. Lord, it is our desire that you would help us to catch sin in its earliest movements in our own lives before it would ever come to a place where someone would uh ever have to approach us. But Father On the other hand, that may happen from time to time and need to happen. Give us the humility to receive it and give us the love to identify it when needed. Help us always to have the right approach to this. Help us, Lord, to always desire restoration in the body of Christ among believers. And we pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.