That was great. Thank you, Heavenly Father, for the opportunity that you've given us to gather here today as a church family. And we we pray for your spirit to be present with us and help us to humble us ourselves to listen to the Spirit's prompting and uh for um the message that uh you have for us this morning. We pray for Pastor as he'll be bringing your word and we pray um that That we would listen, but not only listen, apply what we hear in our lives, Lord, as we so desperately need it. We ask all of this in the name of the Son Jesus Christ. Amen. We'll be reading this morning in Matthew 19, verses 3 to 10. The Pharisees also came to him, testing him. Saying to him, Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife for just any reason? And he answered and said to them, Have you not read that he who made them At the beginning, made them male and female, and said, For this reason a man shall leave his father and his mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one, one flesh. So they are no longer two, but one flesh. Therefore, what God has joined together, let no man separate. Then they said to him, Why then did Moses command to give a certificate He said to them, Moses, because of the hardness of your hearts, permitted you to divorce your wives, but from the beginning it was not so So and I say to you, Whosoever divorces his wife except for sexual immorality and marries another commits adultery, and who whosoever marries her who is divorced commits adultery. And his disciples said to him, if such is the case of a man with his wife, it is better not to marry. The passage that we're looking at this morning is a passage that um is has come up in our series in the book of Matthew. We have several visitors with us today. Thank you for for being here. And I do want to note that the message that we're looking at today is on the subject of divorce and remarriage. It is not a subject that I just decided to choose to preach. uncomfortable, whether they are uh and and of course they are all helpful and they are all God's word and so we want to just I just wanted to sort of note that. And um I but I frankly it's it's an extremely important passage because there is so much confusion, even about the nature of marriage, which I preached on last uh two weeks ago and also how permanent marriage is. In fact, when you think of marriage, what do you think of? And when you think of what marriage should look like, what do you think of? Unfortunately, one of the problems I think we have in our society is that we are getting our ideas of love and marriage. from from Disney characters and rom comps. You know what you know, rom uh romantic comedies Okay. I some of you I could tell there's a blank look. I thought everybody knew it was a I have I have young k I have kids in that age bracket that use say rom coms. Romantic comedies, I could tell it that we weren't getting like, oh what's a rom com? Alright. Anyway, romantic comedies. Um and we've got this whole idea of marriage being A key to happiness. That if I will get married, then if I can find the love of my life, if I can find the right one for me Then and only then will I be happy. Did you know, as we taught a couple of weeks ago, that is not, should not be the goal tonight. Marriage. It is not about you and I becoming happy because of who we married. If we marry for the primary purpose of being happy, at somewhere along the line we are going to be sorry. Disappointed, every one of us. And then the problem compounds when you get married out of an expectation of being happy, and then you find one day that they no longer make you happy. Well then what do you do? Well, that is perhaps one of the reasons why fifty percent of marriages in our country end in divorce. And unfortunately, Christian marriages, the statistics are Christian marriages are no better. 50% of Christian marriages also end in divorce. And so The reason is because we are going into marriage with the wrong purpose. I'm going to say very candidly to you that there have been times in my encounter Counseling couples. But I have said to people who have been married on married for a decade or more, I've said to them, Why did you get married in the first place? And why are you married now? And Christian couples who can't tell me. Or they have a reason that is totally unbiblical and they know it, and so they don't want to tell me. And the reality is what actually has to happen in those cases is they essentially have to sort of they have to remake their marriage. They don't get divorced, that's not an option. They need to remake their marriage so that they understand the biblical purpose of marriage. Because the biblical purposes of marriage are not to make me happy. As we have said on many occasions before. Happiness is not something that is attainable. You cannot pursue happiness and attain it. It does not work that way. God says, blessed is the one who seeks after him, and happiness is a byproduct of that, particularly lasting, enduring joy. Joy and happiness. As we noted last two Sundays ago, we noted that God has three purposes in marriage, according to Genesis chapter 1. One is that God made marriage to reflect his likeness He made marriage to result in family, be fruitful and multiply, and he made marriage to be created, he created marriage to be on mission for the Lord together. That is that God wants us to, as Christians particularly, to say, I can serve that, serve the Lord better with that person than apart from that person. And when we come to those reasons for marriage, that I want to reflect Christ, that I want to be fruitful and multiply, as God says, if the Lord allows. And if he doesn't, that's okay as well, because there are two other purposes here, to reflect Christ, and also to be on mission to serve the Lord as a team for him. If I have that in mind, then I can go and evaluate my marriage based upon those purposes rather than am I really happy in this or not? And so when we come to this, we realize that I I just want to say that when we think of the concept of divorce, which we're going to be getting into into in this passage, some of what we're dealing with is would not even be on on the table for Christians uh who want to please God. Because Christians who want to please God don't ask, how do I get out of something or how do I how do I uh uh escape uh some sort of sacrificial How do I get out of it? No, how do I please God? Some of the problem is really the question that we're asking, is really the issue that we're asking. Dealing with. And in fact, what brings this up in Jesus' mind in this passage is Pharisees that are coming with really a question that's an unfair question. Do you realize that? It's a question that that is intended to trip Jesus up. It's not a genuine, sincere question. It's one intended to trip Jesus up. And yet Jesus In his awesome wisdom confounds them in his answer, and we want to see that today. What we're actually going to see in the passage is that That marriage is intended to be the most permanent institution on this earth that was created by God. It's the most permanent institution. On this earth created by God. That's what God intended it to be. So why do we say that? We're going to see three things in the passage. We're going to see that the grounds for divorce did not exist originally. There was literally no grounds for divorce originally. That the allowance for divorce was not ideal, but it was a concession. It was not ideal, it was a concession. And finally, we're going to see that marriage, the marriage covenant was violated by remarriage. Marriage covenant was violated by remarriage. Now you say, well I've got a lot of questions about even those three things. Well you listen up. We're gonna go we're gonna go through each one. Number one, the grounds for divorce did not exist originally Look at verse 3, it says, and the Pharisees also came to him, testing him, and saying to him, It is lawful, is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife for just any reason? And he answered and said to them, Have you not read that he who made them at the beginning made them male and female? And said, For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother, and be joined to his wife, and they too will become one flesh. So then they are no longer two but one flesh. Therefore, what God has joined together, let not man separate. So the question that he they ask is, is it lawful? See the question? Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife for just any reason? reason. Now the background behind this question is that you had two schools on the ground what the grounds for divorce was at that particular time. You had one school, the Shemai school, that said that there was no grounds for divorce except for adultery. That was the only grounds for divorce. You had another school, the Hillel school, that was much more liberal, that said that you could that the man this is all actually about the man divorcing, not the woman, it was a p patriarchal society back then Then it really women didn't divorce men. It was men that divorced women back then, uh almost entirely, if not entirely. And and that school said, the Hillel school said that a man could divorce a woman for any reason whatsoever. In fact, you could divorce a woman if uh um uh if you s if your wife spoiled your dinner too often. Literally, it says that. In the Mishnah, or if he finds someone that is no uh or if she is no longer in favor in his eyes This is an extremely liberal view of the grounds for divorce. And so this is the background. So the Pharisees are coming to Jesus with this question, knowing that he ain't gonna win In their mind. That literally, if it he's going to upset one school or the other by whatever he says And you know what Jesus does? This is so such a great example for us, and so awesome as to how he responds. He's going to give them three appeals. He's going to immediately give them three appeals. And the first appeal is going to be an appeal to Scripture. He immediately says to them, have you not read? Now understand that the Pharisees were to intend they were supposed to be experts in the Mosaic law. And he is saying to them, have you not read? Have you not read? You not seen what Scripture says? Folks, this is an Important and wise way to start any kind of conversation that is controversial. This is what the Bible says. I remember years ago I was teaching in a Bible college, small Bible college, and I was teaching, and I had mentioned in the in in the that That scripturally that uh women should not be pastors, uh, they shouldn't be in church leadership. Okay. And um I just sort of said it in passing, I made the assumption that everybody in the class class would have agreed with me on that, but I didn't really need to demonstrate it. But I found that was exactly opposite that was not the case. That half of the people there, or more than half, were objecting to that idea. immediately, and I didn't know it when I said it. So the way that I handled it was I just stopped and I turned to 1 Timothy chapter 2. And I just I said, look, what we need to do here, folks, is just read what the Bible says. We just need to read it. And I literally just read through First Timothy chapter two. And then I gave some very brief explanation of 1 Timothy chapter 2. And they uh they I said, now look, don't shoot It's right here in the text. You really can't get around it. It's not based upon they thought it was based upon cultural. It's very clear it's based upon the created order. Before the Lord. They're equal in value and those kinds of things, but you cannot get around what Scripture says. It's very clear. And that's what Jesus does here. Jesus says, Have you not read? Read what the text, and then he quotes Scripture for them. He literally quotes Genesis chapter one and says exactly what it says. The second appeal which he goes to in Genesis chapter one verse twenty-six was which we looked at two weeks ago at length, is an appeal to creation. He goes all the way back to how God originally intended things. He starts there. He starts, number one, have you read what Scripture says? Number two, have you seen what God intended and created? Originally. What did he intend? And then he appealed, thirdly, to the institution. The institution of marriage. The two become one flesh. And then he says, with those three appeals, wherefore got what God has joined together, let no one put asunder And he he's done. He's literally done his argument. He's finished. In his mind, he's done. Literally, he has said, what God has joined together, let no man put asunder. Now the the um they did not care for this. Uh they didn't know what to do with it actually, because nobody was that strict The most conservative of the two schools of thought at least allowed for adultery, and the other one allowed for anything. And so they didn't know they they really thought this was a a real problem. And we're going to get to that in a minute, but I want to make a couple of applic applications here. Number one, I've said it before, but I'll mention it again. Are we asking the right question? See, they asked, is it lawful? And really under what grounds is it lawful? That's the question they're asking. And it's almost like Jesus is saying, wrong question. It's almost like Jesus is saying what you need to understand is what marriage is for. What you need to understand is why you should be married. What you need to understand is marriage, not what the grounds for divorce are. You need to ask the right kind of question. And you know what folks we do as well. Whether you're single or whether you're married, you need to ask the right question. The right question is how do I get out of this? The right question is how do I please God in it. Malachi chapter 2 verse 16 says, For the Lord God of Israel says that he hates divorce. For it covers one gar a one's garment with violence, says the Lord of hosts. Therefore, take heed to your spirit that you do not deal treacherously. Do you know what God says about divorce in Malachi? He hates it. He is displeased with it. A sinless uh and I'll say secondly, a sinless divorce is not possible. Now a sinless divorce is possible on one side, and we'll get to that. You could have one side that is not in sin and the other side that is. We'll get to that in a minute. And I want to say at this point, very I want to be very compassionate to the words who have gone through those who have gone through the great um And I know I in no way want to um make your pain feel worse or have you feel guilty or anything. I want you to understand and we'll we'll reiterate this later on, but where sin abounds, grace doth much more abound. So understand that and we're going to get into that a little bit more in a few minutes. Marriage, but we need to understand this, that marriage is not intended to be Just a page that you turn into a new chapter. I couldn't believe that that was the description that somebody gave me one time. I was talking to a Christian. who was contemplating divorce. And I said, why do you want who was a w a woman actually said, Why do you why do you believe it's fine to divorce your husband? Both Christians. And she says to me, I just feel that that chapter has done, and I need to turn the page. Look, marriage is not a chapter. And marriage is not a page to be turned. And it's not a feeling that you get that God is not going to lead you that way. that some feeling that you get that it's now time to turn the page in your life and now you you have the ability to be able to divorce. D. A. Carson says it this way. Therefore any view of divorce or a marriage taught in either testament, old or new, that sees the problem only in terms of what we may or may not be done has already overlooked a basic fact. Divorce is never to be thought of as a God-ordained morally neutral option, but as evidence of sin, of hardness of heart, the fundamental attitude of the Pharisee to question what is wrong. Now, with that in mind, we move secondly to the allowance of divorce in Scripture, verses seven through eight. The allowance of divorce is only a concession in a fallen world. Look at verse seven, it says this. Then said to him, Understand, they're thinking that he's saying there are no grounds whatsoever. So they said to him, Why then did Moses command to give Testament. It's an allowance given. So they really actually twisted what Scripture says in the Old Testament already. And he said unto them, verse 8 Moses, because of the hardness of your hearts, permitted you To divorce your wives, but from the beginning it was not so. He reiterates again. Understand that pre-fall there was no intention, there was no ag for divorce at all. The thought of divorce was not it was not I mean that was not something that was an option. And even after that, there were for many, many years that was really not an option But we have here this issue of it says, it was permitted for the hardness of their hearts. The hardness of their hearts. So there was a there was Moses made a concession for the because of the hardness of their hearts. What was that? What is that? What was the hardness of their hearts? Now note simply that first of all that this hardness of heart is mentioned in Mark chapter ten verse five in the same context because the hardness of your But in Mark chapter sixteen, verse fourteen it says, Let he uh later he appeared to to the eleven as they sat at the table and rebuked their unbelief. and hardness of heart. That unbelief and hardness of heart are coupled together in Mark sixteen, fourteen, because they did not believe those who had seen him after he Do you understand that this concept of hardness of heart very likely has something to do on some level with unbelief. It is a hardness of heart. Now we understand what what is the hardness of heart? Jesus is all obviously referring to some sort of sick Situation. What is the situation? Well the situation is this. Back in the Old Testament, and this was not approved by God, but back in the Old Testament, you had made a leadership which was approved by God, but it was taken too far. So that it became a matriarchal society, I mean I'm sorry, a patriarchal society entirely. The woman actually had almost no rights at all. She was not able to own land. Of course we have that in our our country's history actually. She was not able to uh she was not really able to survive outside of either a relationship With her father or a relationship with a husband. I mean survival was a problem. And the husband had would, and this was happening Where the husband was able to literally put her out of his house and no longer provide for her And put her in a spot where he rejected her entirely, so he wasn't doing anything right when it came to the marriage. Rejected her entirely, and she was sort of stuck because she couldn't couldn't be remarried because uh and survive because her husband was uh uh was still he didn't divorce her, he just put her out of the house So she so she was she was really in a very hard place. And because of the hardness of a man's heart, of the husband's hearts that were doing this that caused this to happen Moses said no that is inappropriate to to do this. You must you must provide for your wife. And if you are if this is not going to happen, then you then you need to write her a letter Of divorcement so that she could survive. Understand, folks, that that was the situation. It was that dire. It was a concession based upon something that there was no, it was not God's intention for the beginning. It was not God's ideal. It was based upon a very uh very difficult circumstances that frankly never should have happened if a hus if the husbands were doing the right thing. thing in the situation. Now, I'd like you to take your Bibles at this point and turn to Deuteronomy chapter 24 because this is really the passage that all of this is based on. And I want to make a A few notes about this to really as we begin to develop this this concept of what the grounds for divorce is or what it's not and all of that Let's then move to Deuteronomy chapter 24, and I want us to see what this passage says. Now what this is, very f very clearly is Is case law. This is not original law that is based upon God's moral attributes and his character. This is something has happened And this is how you must deal with it. If this happens, then you must deal with it this way in this particular case. And I just want to pause here and just say something. else about this. It is so this is a a another clear example as to why it is so important when you are interpreting scripture, when we're interpreting scripture Because when it came to this text, the Pharisees went wrong because they looked at the text, didn't really look at the intent of the the text and they said this obviously means because there's divorcement in the Bible, because there is divorcing, this obviously means that God actually originally intended for there to to be a marriage contract and then the ability to be able to get out of that contract. They were viewing marriage as a contract rather than a covenant because they They missed the original intention of marriage, and actually they missed the original intention of this passage in this case law when it comes to this issue of divorce. Now, with that in mind, would you look at Deuteronomy 24, verse 1? It says, When a man takes a wife and marries her, and it happens that she fill finds no favor in his eyes because he has found some uncleanness in his eyes. in her and he writes her a divorce a certificate of divorce puts it in her hand and sends her out of his house When she has departed from his house and goes and becomes another man's wife. So let's pause there. What's happened so far? He has found something in her that is unacceptable. We don't really know what that is, that uncleanness In fact that became the crux of the debate back in Christ's time and it actually still is the crux of the debate. What is this unclean Is this adultery? Is that what this is? Is it something else? Is it something sort of ex sort of uh some um uh unnatural kind of sexual thing? It's not it's not we don't know. And so we see in the passage here that either way, whatever it is, he's divorced her, he's put her out of his house, she has now married somebody else. Understand this is all this is the situation. Verse three. If the latter husband detests her and writes her uh a certificate of divorce, the second husband puts her in her hand Then her former husband who divorced her must not take her wife her take her back to be his wife after she has been defiled. For that is an abomination before the Lord, and you shall not bring sin on the Verse five. When a man has taken a new wife, I'm reading this for because I think Now what's going on here, number one, understand this is sort of the sequence. Number one, the man husband finds uncleanness in the wife. And we don't know what that is. It's also mentioned in Deuteronomy 23, verse 14, talking about ceremonial defilement. And of course, we don't really have ceremonial defilements in the New Testament. Testament. But we do have a reiteration of this command on some or uh this passage on some level, which we'll look at in a minute. Legally, uh he legally divorces her, he marries uh she marries another the woman uh the uh um the the woman is uh in the divorce situation with the man the the second husband dies or divorces her the command is don't go back to the first husband that's the command That's the whole point. The intention of that is don't go back to the first husband. That's the purpose of this case law in this passage. And they are drawing, the Pharisees are drawing a lot of different kinds of conclusions from this. Now, is there any New Testament correlation to this? I'm going to ask that question. I mean, is there any situation where there is a separation where where there is a hardness of heart? And divorce is allowed. Would you take your Bibles and turn to 1 Corinthians for a moment? 1 Corinthians chapter 7. And we're going to see this. And I actually think that what we have here is a is is what we're is a a New Testament application of this concept. First Corinthians chapter seven verse twelve. Verse twelve says, But to the rest I not the Lord say. Now let me pause for there there before Before we go any farther, verse 12 is not saying that this is Paul, not the Lord. What he's saying is this is teaching that is that is in addition to what Jesus taught. Okay, that's not it is inspired by sc by God's by by uh the Holy Spirit. It is every bit scripture as much as any other part So understand it's not like Paul is saying, uh I'm going outside, I'm just not gonna give opinion. I'll do that sometimes when I preach. I'll sort of preach and then I'll say, by the way, this is my opinion. He's not doing that here. He's saying this is additional teaching beyond what the Lord has already taught back when he was on earth. So he says this if any brother has a wife who does not believe and she is willing to live with him, let him not divorce her. So clearly talking the un a non-Christian It says, don't divorce a non-believing spouse if they're willing to stay with you. Don't do that. And if a woman who has a husband who does not believe, if if he is willing to live with her, let her not divorce him. And for the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband. It's talking about set apart for influence. Would be unclean, but now they are holy. But if if the unbeliever departs, let him depart. A brother or sister is not under bondage in such cases, but God has called us to peace. So there is an allowance, there is a ground for divorce when the unbelieving spouse leaves. They depart. Now, folks, that just makes good sense, doesn't it? How can you make how can you stay married to somebody that literally departs out of the house? Now there's a legal term abandonment which is not exactly the same as this. The legal term abandonment means they've actually left and you can't find them anymore. That's not this. What this is simply saying is they have departed. They are no longer wanting to be married and and the presumption is they're unChristians. So we have this either you call it biblical abandonment or if you want to stay away from the confusion of the legal term, you you You you call it um you call it departure and that is then grounds for divorce. In other words, if you have a this and this happened all the time in the first century. The first century the woman or the man would come to Christ, the other one would not want to be married to a Christian anymore because their lifestyle is so different, everything's so different, and they say, I I don't want to be married more, and they leave them. And in that person in that case, there is no guilt on the part of the person who is being left. And I want to be I want to be very clear about that This. There there is some times where where you are where you you know uh uh uh uh uh a husband husband or wife will leave the person. They'll depart. And that one left behind has a sense of a feeling of guilt, a feeling of what did I do? And of course in any kind of of relationship, there is some kind of correlation between between what happened in the marriage. Maybe there is some uh some area of fault or could have done things better, but understand this that if the person Leaves, they depart, they want to get divorced. Understand, you are not at fault. I just want to reiterate that here, and I think that that's part of what Paul is trying to say in 1 Corinthians 7 here. So we do have an application for this. Now, we're not finished, unfortunately, with the Well, I should say unfortunately. It's God's word, so we're not finished. We're getting into the more con even more controversial And so now we'll move into verses nine and ten. Now what Jesus then does below here is he's going to give a further explanation of what he's now going to talk about what remarriage is, what divorce and remarriage is. He's going to extrapolate on what he's already said and he's going to say what divorce and remarriage is. Now, I want to pause here at the at this moment and I want to point something out to you. That that in every in every kind of teaching, every subject, every theological subject, every subject in scripture There are things that are clearly revealed in Scripture, and then at some point you go below the surface and it's not revealed anymore. Okay, you have when you're dealing with the doctrine of predestination election, you have that. When you're dealing with a trinity, you have that. You ever tried to really understand the Trinity? You can't really understand Well how can two three become one and how could how how does that work? I mean how how could three be one and how how how how how can you have three and one and one and three That doesn't make any sense. It's not logical. And it's and in our minds it's not. You just simply have to believe what the Bible says. And you can't go that you drop below the surface and that's all you can do. You go below the surface and And folks, it's very important to know where that line is. Where is the line between what is clearly revealed and what is not revealed? And so we're gonna find that line today here In this text. So keep that in mind as we go through this. It says in verse 9 this and I say to you, whoever divorces his wife except for sexual immorality and marries another Commits adultery. And whoever marries her who is divorced commits adultery. His disciples said to him, Now notice what his disciples say. If such is the case of a man with his wife, it's better not to marry at all. You catch this? The disciples are, this is such a he Jesus is so permanent in his discussion of the of marriage that they say, man, maybe I don't want to get married at all. I've had kids that said that. I've had uh one of my daughters said, I don't want to get married, because what if I don't like him afterwards? I mean it's a fair point anyway. It's not when you really understand what marriage is all about and all that. That's uh you know that that'll come later. But uh she does understand how permanent it is, obviously, right So Christ addresses this, and I want to begin by pointing something out to you. What he is doing here is he is labeling divorce and remarriage. He is calling divorce or marriage adultery. That's what he's calling it. Okay? Now, I want us to do it for this reason. Would you look at the text and what we're going to do, there's an exception, there's a clause there with two commas, except for the cause of s of sexual morality, which we'll we'll we'll get there. But if you take that out, I think you have to take that out to see what the meaning is saying Okay? You take that out, what then is it saying? It's saying whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery. Okay? Alright. So normally speaking, there's an exception there, but normally speaking It says that divorce and remarriage is adultery, that by definition it is. I just want to say this though, is it unforgivable sin? If someone is divorced or remarried, is it unforgivable? It is not, of course not. And I just want to say this. There are people in this room room that are divorced or remarried. There are Christ there are godly Christians who are divorced and remarried. And may they may or may not have what they thought were grounds, whatever, all that we'll get into that in a minute, but Understand this, that it is something that by God's grace can be restored. The gospel is so great that where sin abounds, grace much more abounds. And I want to be very clear about that. That does not give any of us the the notion that well we could just take marriage lightly. No, no, no. But it but I do want us to understand that on the other hand, if you are divorced through marriage There is a restoration, there is a grace that is extended, that can be extended to you. And I want us to be clear about that. But what God says here is that it is called it is called uh adultery. Now He says this is by the way, there's a parallel passage in both Mark and Luke. And in both Mark and Luke, and there's this is why some of there's some confusion about this in both Mark and Luke it doesn't include that that that exception clause. It just simply says, for example, Mark chapter 10, and he said unto them whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery against her. And if a woman divorces her husband and marries another, she commits adultery. That's it. That's all it says. Doesn't have any exception clause whatsoever. Luke, same thing The only person the only one that has this exception clause commits adulter or commits uh uh this sexual immorality is the word. It's the word pornea, which we're gonna get to. is this passage, uh is is Matthew. Now, all right, what then is this exception clause? Well, I'm gonna there are four different uh views. This this The New Testament or the New King James translates it sexual immorality, the old King James uh translated fornication, there's other translations, but basically the word pornia is the Greek word. It is not the word. There is another word for adultery. It's not that word. So what does this word mean? What is it? Number one, I want to give a There are four views to this. And I'm going to give you the the view and then sort of the counter to the view in some of the cases. Number one, adultery is one some say it's adultery. In fact, that's what one what the the Shimma I said the one school of thought said, okay, this is talking about adultery. The problem with that, the those who oppose that view, they would say, well, no. It can't be adultery because those who were committed adultery back then were stoned. And Deuteronomy chapter twenty two, verse twenty two says, If a man is found lying with a woman married to a husband, Then then both of them shall die. The man that lay with the woman, the woman and the woman, so that you shall put them to death, b uh so that you shall put away the evil from Israel. If there is actual adultery, then they were stoned back in the old test Testament. So somebody says so they say, well, that can't be adultery then. So they were stoned. Now the the counter to that would actually be, well they did though that was the case, it was not practiced in the first century by the time Christ comes around. Now, a second view is it's unnatural or deviant sexual sin. Homosexuality, bestiality, that kind of stuff. Okay? Unnatural deviant Sexual sin. So that's another view, it's possible. Another view is premarital unchastity that is discovered during the betrothal period. That's another view. So that view is basically that during in that in that year in that time period you had a betrothal period. You had a time where for a year they were legally married, but for a year they didn't consummate the marriage. marriage and prior to the time of consummation, if there was a discovery that there was um you know sexual on one part or the other, then they could at that point write a letter of divorcement. Some say that's what it is a reference to. And then others say that it's actually a matter of incest. It's that's unlikely because nowhere in the Bible does it ever call incest marriage, and so uh that seems to be an unlikely, I think that's probably the most unlikely. Now, what okay, you've got four views. Uh look, godly people don't agree on this, by the way. There are godly people that are on different sides of this, and I think it's important that understand that there are well-meaning people that under different sides of this and by the way if you come to the end of this and you say well I don't really agree with with Pastor Jim on this that That's fine. Okay. Um so understand that, but here's here's where I'm going to take us then. We need to actually look at what the evidence is Evidence is. What evidence do we have in Scripture to try to determine or figure out what this exception clause is? Well, in the immediate context, we do know one thing. We know it has to do with the hardness of the heart. Okay? Because Jesus already said that. Why did Moses allow a letter of divorcement? Because of the hardness of the heart. We know that, right? So whatever it is There is an aspect to it that the person who is doing the divorcing, there is a hardness of the heart in the pro in the process Okay, so number one, understand that. So even that alone, you sort of look like it, is there any case where someone could initiate a divorce? divorce and it and it not be for the hard I mean how do you do that without a hard a hard heart? I'm not I I uh that that's something to consider The other evidence we have is an example that we find actually in the book of Matthew of Joseph. Do you remember Joseph? And do you remember the story there? Joseph discovers that Mary is pregnant. Joseph is in the betrothal period. He has not consummated the marriage. They don't consummate the marriage, of course, until Jesus is born. And he it says in the passage in Matthew chapter 9 1 verse 19, and Joseph, her husband, being a just man and not wanting to make her a public example, was minded to put her away secretly. All right. And so he decided, because she's pregnant, obviously that comes from somewhere, and he decides that uh that uh and he's a very and says being a just man He decides that he is going to be private about this, he's going to be discreet about this, but he's going to put her away. He's going to give her a letter of divorcement there. Now it's not a slam dust because it doesn't Anywhere in the passage that it's that it is that that was a right approach or wrong approach technically. It's prescriptive, not descriptive. It's descriptive, not prescriptive, but it does say being a just man. So it's very likely that that that Joseph's intention, which of course he didn't carry out When the angel appeared to him and realized that this is of the Holy Spirit, it's very likely that Jesus, that what Joseph was doing there was legally and morally appropriate. Then the question comes, well what about what about now? We don't have a betrothal period. Is there any possibility? Now let me just say this. There's the line, by the way. We have just gone below the surface. Do you realize you don't find anywhere in Scripture That there is clarity beyond that point. Okay? In other words, you don't find anywhere in Scripture where there is divorce and remarriage based upon infidelity or anything like that. In it, particularly in the New Testament, you don't find that after the betrothal period. So we have now just gone below the surface. But we're going to dip a little below the surface and just Just make I'm gonna ask a question. Uh is it possible that someone who continues in sexual sin adultery will not stop, still wants to be married, but will not stop Stop. Could that possibly be a grounds for divorce? Understand that there's a sense in which he's abandoning the marriage without without officially abandoning the marriage. He is and this is unrepentant hardness of heart. This is not, okay, somebody's done something and they're they're repentant. This is hardness of heart. They've abandoned they've essentially abandoned it. There's a s sense in which they've abandoned the marriage because they continue in an unrepentant state. They are very likely not Christians, but they don't really care about a letter of the I don't care about finalizing it on paper legally. I'm gonna leave that as a question. The Bible doesn't say, so I don't have to say. But I'm just gonna leave that as a possible a possibility. I have seen that take place, not personally, but I've I've mm been involved in giving counsel to a pastor who's that's taken place. And I I can see I'll just say this This is my opinion, I could see where that becomes essentially abandonment. And it follows the idea of the hardness of the heart. Now what about every other case? We've just gone below surface. I'm not even gonna comment on it. I'm not even gonna go there. I'm not gonna say one way or the other on any of that. You know why I'm not gonna say it? Because I don't have Because the Bible doesn't say any more than that. I'm not saying that there aren't possibilities, I'm not saying there are but here's how I have have in our church and in my ministry decided a long time ago uh how how I would deal with this. Number one, by God's grace, I don't hope I pray I'm never in that situation. Okay. Hopefully my wife and I are both Number two, I've just decided because there is so there is confusion and differing people People that disagree on this when it comes to grounds that I'm going I'm not going to perform remarriages at all unless the previous spouse has died. Just not I'm I'm I'll give I'll if somebody comes to me for counsel, I'll give them advice, but I'm not I'm not gonna perform them. But I un but understand this because there is con Confusion about this. There is uh not there is a lack of clarity about this. Uh somebody comes to me and says they're they they're divorced and they want to get remarried and they're They ask me to perform it and I say no, I'm sorry. And they go to get married and let's they're a member of our church and they and I they go to get remarried anyway. Do you know what I'm gonna do afterwards? I'm gonna love them. That's what I'm gonna do. I'm not gonna I'm gonna love them. Because in order for there to be some sort of church discipline or something like that, there should be discipline church discipline If there's unrepented sin. But in this particular case, when there is a remarriage, you can't there's not repentance from the remarriage. There's not restoration from the remarriage. Some difficulty there, maybe beyond difficulty, but let me just say this as well. I am grateful to know remarriages where where remarriages where they actually came to re realization Where they came to the realization that they they biblically shouldn't have gotten remarried, but they are remarried, and they admitted it before them before the Lord and you know what God has done something great with our with them with those marriages. I can think of two people, two couples in my mind, and God really, really blessed them. God showed grace in their marriages. They raised godly raised godly families and all of that. And so all of this, I think, needs to be in a New Testament context of grace. Stay where you are and ask the question, how can I best please God? That would be my ultimate uh uh uh encouragement. How can I best please God in the situation that I find myself in? If you're single, don't get married unless it pleases God. If you're married, don't get don't get uh uh You know, please God in the marriage. And if you are remarried, if you're divorced, please God in that state. And if you are remarried, please God. that state and realize that that ultimately happiness is not found in this. Happiness is found in plea. I actually have five five concluding applications here and we'll just go through them. Number one, Christians who take marriage vows seriously. should please God sacr uh should uh please God sacrificially rather than looking for grounds to escape sacrifice. Sometimes marriage is hard It's difficult. It doesn't seem to be making ha making someone happy. And in those cases they need to say, well, I am going to sacrificially please the Lord rather than saying, do I finally have grounds to get out of this thing or something? You're asking the wrong question when we're doing that. Number two, is it possible for two Christians to divorce without sin on either side? It's not. It is impossible for two Christians to divorce without sin on either side. Maybe on one side that might be possible, but on two sides it's not possible. Number three, outside of departure, any grounds for divorce is at best unclear and maybe non-existent. Okay, any grounds for divorce is at best unclear outside of departure or slash abandonment. Number four, God's love and grace abounds for those who have gone through the pain of divorce. Those of you you should know God's love and grace abounds, where sin abounds. Look, the whole problem of divorce or marriage is entirely because of the fall. Whether you are at fault or not, it is because of sin. Right? And where sin abounds, grace much more abounds. Understand that. Romans 5. 12 says, Moreover, the law entered that the offense might abound, but where sin abounded, grace abounded. much more. And number five, although marriage, like everything else, has been marred by the fall, this is wonderful. We can look forward to Do you know that all of our marriages are precursors to a marriage that is perfect? And that is the marriage supper of the Lamb. Would you take your Bibles and turn to Revelation chapter 19? And this is actually going to be prepar preparation for our communion time together, actually. Revelation chapter 19, and would you and And uh w while we're gonna I'm gonna read through verses six through ten. Revelation nineteen six through ten. Because what we're going to see when there is no sin in the world Way anymore and the fall in the way anymore is that there is going to be a union with Christ on behalf of the church with Christ that is going to have all of the blessings of marriage. The closeness, the sense of belonging, the sense of security, the sense of joy, the sense of Intimacy, it's going to have all of the blessings of marriage without any of the problems of marriage. And if you're here today and you say, well, I am not happily married, or you're divorced, or you're in a situation where you're single, whatever it is, whatever situation you're in, realize that you could serve God exactly where you are and miss out on nothing in your life because there's going as as long as God you do what God wants you to do And because there's going to be a day where there is going to be the marriage of Christ and the bride. And this is what we all look forward to. Revelation chapter 19, verse 16. six says this. And I heard as it were the voice of a of a great multitude, as the sound of many waters, and as the sound of mighty thundering saying Hallelujah, for the Lord God omnipotent reigns. Let us be glad and rejoice and give Him glory, for the marriage of the Lamb has come. And his wife has made herself ready. And to her it was granted to be arrayed in fine linen clean and bright for the fine linen and the righteous acts of the saints. Then he said to me, Write, blessed are those who are called to the marriage supper of the Lamb. And he said to me, These are the true sons of the Lord Jesus worship God for the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy. There is going to be a day where there is going to be a union between Christ and his bride, the church, where there is going to be all of the benefits of the marriage, of the union of the world. That we have of marriage without any of the marring of sin, and we can always look to that day where there will be a total and complete satisfaction. Are you feeling unsatisfied today? Realize that you can be satisfied in Christ and you can be fully satisfied one day in complete oneness with Christ. Christ. Look to that day and serve God and please him faithfully until that day. And we get we have a chance to do that this morning as an appetizer. What we're going to do is with communion is actually an appetizer of the marriage Supper of the Lamb. Because God gave us an ordinance that we are to partake of. God commanded that we do this. We do this together. One, it is to show the unity that we have in Christ. We believe the same thing. We believe in the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ for our salvation. Number two, we remember, we remember what Christ did for us on the cross. Number three, we preach it. We are Demonstrating publicly as a testimony that we believe in the finished work of Christ on the cross as He die as He has paid the punishment. for our sin. And the Bible says you do show the Lord's death until what? Until he comes. This looks forward to the day where Christ comes again. Until then we please Him, we endure, we live in light of the gospel. And when he comes for us, we will be able to partake of the main course of the marriage supper of the Lamb together. There is a special Hello, my name is Jim Gunam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.