You full of so much of your truth that we have sung in each song that we've sung this morning. We've seen truth from your word as it was read from Psalms. Lord, we thank you for your truth. We thank you for what it reveals to us about yourself. Truly, Lord, we recognize and realize that in so many areas we behold you and we yet still do not see you fully as you truly are We carry with us inaccurate views of who you are shaded, veiled views of who you are. Lord, I pray that you would enlarge our view of you May we see you more accurately, even this morning, as we hear from your word preached, we ask that you would guide us, use your Holy Spirit. To illuminate the truth of your word to us. Lord, we thank of many who are traveling and many who aren't with you. us this morning. We pray for their safety. We pray for uh the Moldens and we pray for Brad. We ask that you would watch over them as they Do uh different things in this country and outside of this country. We pray for the Philippagus as well, Lord. We ask that you would comfort them. Uh in this time, as they expect uh his stepfather to pass, Lord, we we pray that you give them comfort. Pray that you give everyone in the family a re a a A complete measure of your grace as you see fit, Lord. Strengthen them. We pray for His stepfather, Lord. We ask in these final moments that you would Do a work in his heart that he would bow the knee to you and accept Christ as his Savior. We pray, Lord, all these things in Christ's name. Amen. Reading this morning, the text will be Matthew 16, 1 through 12. Matthew 16, 1 through 12. Please read along with me Then the Pharisees and the Sadducees came testing him, asked that he would show them a sign from heaven. He answered and said to them, When it is evening, you say, It will be fair weather, for the sky is red, and in the morning, it will be foul weather today, for the sky is red and threatening. Hypocrites You know how to discern the face of the sky, but you cannot discern the signs of the times. A wicked, an adulterous generation seeks after a sign. And no sign shall be given to it except the sign of the prophet Jonah. And he left them and departed. Now When the disciples had come to the other side, they had forgotten to take bread. Then Jesus said to them, Take heed, and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the Sadducees. And they reasoned among themselves, saying, It is because we have taken no bread. But Jesus, being aware of it, said to them, O you of little faith, why do you reason among yourselves because you have brought no bread? Do you not yet understand or remember the five loaves of the five thousand and how many baskets you took up? Nor the le seven loaves of the four thousand, and how many large baskets you took up. How is it you do not understand that I did not speak to you concerning bread But to beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the Sadducees. Then they understood that he did not tell them to beware of the leaven of bread, but of the doctrine of the Pharisees and Sadducees. What causes someone to be influenced the wrong way This is a question that is going to be, we're going to flesh out in this text as we go through it. Jesus is warning the disciples in this passage about the influence. Of these Pharisees and Sadducees, but isn't it true that we live in a world where there are all kinds of influences on every side? What causes people to be influenced? For example, you know, if you think of somebody that's a young person, somebody that's they're kind of coming out of childhood into adolescence Why would they, why are we concerned about their influence and how they are influenced? Well, it's because there is something in us that wants to be accepted. And there's something in us that really likes to be in the center of everything, likes to be on the in-crowd. And somebody says, Well, I don't like to be on the in crowd. I don't really care about that. Well then you are on your own in crowd. So you're either wanting to be on the in-crowd or you've decided that you're the center of your world and you don't care what the rest of the crowd thinks, honestly. It's one you you usually one or the other. But either way, you want to be the center, and so there's a sort of a desire to be there's sort of an influence that comes with that. There's also a general mentality It's called a consensus theory, but general theory that people tend to believe that the crowd, if a crowd believes in it, then it probably is true. Consensus of a group of people actually. They all agree on it, it probably is true. And Jesus is very, very concerned about this because In the very beginning stages of his ministry, as he's doing lots of miracles, we're going to see this a little bit later, but lots of miracles and things, then he has great popularity with the crowd. But things are changing in his ministry that he beg we begin to see really here and we'll see as we go through the book of Matthew. The Pharisees and Sadducees here in this passage are coming to Jesus and they're going to test Jesus. This is not the first time we've seen the Pharisees. It's the first time we've seen the Sadducees testing Jesus. in the book of Matthew. But we've seen the Pharisees before, and if you recall from Matthew 12, verse 14, that the it says the Pharisees went out and plotted against him how they might destroy him. When they approached him about the Sabbath, and he essentially said, not essentially, he did say, I am the Lord of the Sabbath. They decided at that point that they were going to plot how they might destroy Jesus. And then later on in the same chapter in Matthew 12, it hadn't been that long since we've been there, they attributed the works of Jesus as to the the leader of demons. Then the Pharisees uh uh the f Fellow does not cast out demons except by Beelzebub, the ruler of the demons. They essentially were saying that Jesus Jesus was under the power or was himself Beelzebub, the ruler of the devils, of the demons. So clearly the Pharisees have made their view of Jesus known. And they have on several occasions tested Jesus, and they're testing Jesus here again today. But this time, so how do we then Become aware of the influences that reject Christ. How do we become aware of those things? Number one, we identify the rebellion. We're going to see that in verses one through four. We are secondly going to see that we need to beware of swelling of influence. Beware of the swelling of influence. And finally, there needs to be a removal of the blinder of the practical. Now, did you catch those three? Identify the rebellion. We're going to see that in verses 1 through 4. Beware of the swelling of influence. Number two. And then number three, remove the blinder of the practical. What do these mean? What's he talking about? Well let's first look at identifying rebellion. Verses one through four. It says, Then the Pharisees and Sadducees came and tested him, saying, testing him, asked, what he should show uh asked that he should show them a sign from heaven. So the Pharisees and Sadducees, they come and they say, show us a sign from heaven. Well, who are these Pharisees and Sadducees? As I've already said, the Pharisees and the Sadducees, although they did in Matthew chapter 3 They did come after and team up together against John the Baptist. They have not yet teamed up against John against Jesus, except now we see them. The Pharisees and the Sadducees were two very distinct, different groups that believed different things. For example, the Pharisees believed in the resurrection. And the Sadducees did not. The Pharisees believed in following the oral law, and the Sadducees did not. Jesus would have taken the side of the Pharisee when it came to the resurrection, but he would have taken the side of the Sadducee when it came to the oral law not being necessary to follow. And so these groups were usually very much at odds with each other. So it's pretty significant when they come together to team up together against Jesus in this passage. In fact, they're at such odds with each other in Acts chapter 23. They continue to be odds with each other after the resurrection, the ascension, the apostles are starting churches and everything, all of that It's very interesting what happens. They make up the Sanhedrin and together they bring Paul in, and when Paul realizes that the group that is bringing bringing them in under trial is made up of both Pharisees and Sadducees, he says this in Acts 23. 6. It says, when Paul perceived that one part of were Sadducees and the other Pharisees, He cried out in the council, Men and brethren, I am a Pharisee, the son of a Pharisee, concerning the hope and resurrection of the dead, I am being judged. And when he had said this, a dissension arose between the Pharisees and the Sadducees, and the assembl assembly was divided. For Sadducees say that there is no resurrection, and no angel or spirit, but the Pharisees confess both. Then there arose a loud outcry, and the scribes of the Pharisees' party arose and protested, saying, We find no evil in this man, but if a spirit or an angel has spoken to him, let us not fight against God Now when the earth there arose a great dissension, the commander, fearing lest Paul might be pulled to pieces by them, commanded the soldiers to go down and take them by force from among them and bring him into the barracks. So these You've got a lot of even acrimony against the between the Sadducees and the Pharisees. And yet here they're coming together. That's very significant. And they're coming together to test Jesus. The word test there is an interesting word. It's actually sometimes translated tempt. For example, back in Matthew 4 when Jesus was tempted by Satan, that same word is used. Matthew 4, 1, then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. Matthew 4, 7, the word tempted, you shall not tempt the Lord your God. The same word as here. The Pharisees and the Sadducees came to test Jesus. to trip him up. They had false motives. They were not coming to really ask a true question, a genuine, sincere question. They were coming because they wanted Jesus to say something that on some level would incriminate him. And cause him to have further problems with the people. And they wanted him to do a sign, to perform some sort of sign. And this time, they've asked him to perform a sign before. But this time it was different. This time they asked him to perform a sign that was from heaven. Would you perform a sign from heaven? Well, what was Jesus' response? In Mark's Gospel, the parallel passage to this gospel, in Mark's Gospel We find that when Jesus hears this from these Pharisees and Sadducees as they team up against Jesus, we find that he sighed deeply in his spirit. He is grieved. And deeply sighed in his spirit. He is grieved by what by what is taking place here. And he realizes that there is a real danger here. There is a real development here and the two of the and the these two groups coming together and asking for this sign from heaven and Jesus with such incredible wisdom. I mean it's I mean, it's just I just love seeing sometimes how Jesus responds to these guys. They think they got them dead to rights. They think that they got them exactly where they want them. And the way that Jesus responds, every time there's just such incredible wisdom, you know, of course, divine wisdom, obviously. But notice how he responds in verse 2. He answers and said to them, When it is evening, you say it will be fair weather. For the sky is red. In the morning it will say, it will be foul weather today, for the sky is red and threatening. He says to them, You seem to be able to look at the sky and know what the weather's like. Of course, we know that that's been, you know, pr you know most places in the world you you know I guess it depends on the region. Actually I was doing a little But uh there's this sort of red sky at night, sailors delight, red sky at morning, sailors take warning kind of a thing. And apparently they would use of course they didn't have the modern ad advancements in weather that sometimes do us good and sometimes do us no good whatsoever uh today. But but the truth is um They would they needed to know what the weather was like. They were fishermen and and you know farmers and it was very helpful to know what the weather was like next day, particularly if you're going to go out on a boat. And so they would try to determine that by the sky. What was the what color of the sky was, what was the composition of the sky. And he said to the Pharisees and Sadducees, you guys can figure that out. You can figure the weather by the sky. But he says, you can't even figure out the signs of the times. In other words, what Jesus is saying is the signs are already here. You've got everything you need. In order to be able to see who I really am and what is really going on. Of course, we know that Jesus has given many, many miracles before. He's done all kinds of miracles right in front of them And they are asking for more signs. You know, when you cast out demons out of people, when people are blind and they see and they're dumb and then they speak and are here, like what more signs do you need? And we know from John chapter 5 that God, that Jesus brought these miracles as a sign to authenticate who he really was. And so when these Pharisees and Sadducees, Jesus had just come back from being with the Gentiles, comes into this Galilean area again, and immediately they're after him. They are on They are on uh uh on the offense now. And Jesus says, No. Uh no, you you you don't need another sign. We're going to see that in a minute. But why, why, why would they ask of this? What was really going on here? Well, we actually see why in verse four It says this, you wicked and adultery. First of all, he says hypocrites. And he said that before. We know what a hypocrite is. It's somebody that says one thing and does another. Someone whose heart is evil, even though they profess to be something good. And they profess to be godly righteous people, and yet in their hearts were totally wicked, and we see that. And we're going to see that a little bit more later. But what we find here is he says, you are a wicked and adulterous generation. Now, there's two things that we see from that. One is that these guys were wicked and adulterous Adultery is not necessarily in the sense of the way we would usually think of it, but in being unfaithful to the truth, unfaithful to God. They were wicked in their hearts. And he says, this generation requires a sign. They continue to do this even after the resurrection. In 1 Corinthians chapter 1, verse 22, it says, For the Jews request a sign. And the Greeks seek after wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified. To the Jews a stumbling block, to the Greeks foolishness, but to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God, and the wisdom of God. So Jesus says to them, I'm not, the problem is your heart, the problem is your wicked, the problem is your adulterous generation. And the idea of being an adulterous generation indicates that you're influencing this generation that way as well. And then he says, no, no sign will be given to you. Except one. And it says, except the prophet of Jonah What was he saying there when he said, No sign will be given to you except the prophet of Jonah? Was he just simply saying that you can look at Jonah and you could see that God is real? Was that simply saying there, or you could look at Jonah and you could see that Jesus is That Jesus is No, I think he's saying more than that. In fact, in Matthew chapter 12, he has already told them this before. The Pharisees have asked, in fact, go ahead and turn take the Bible and turn there. Flip a couple of pages over. Matthew chapter 12, verse 38. And you'll see that here. In Matthew 28 12, 38 it says, Then some of the scribes and Pharisees answered, saying, Teacher, we want to see a sign from you. But he answered and said to them, an evil and adulterous generation seeks after signs. Does this net look familiar? Sure looks familiar to me. Except it didn't say from heaven, that's the difference. But he said, and no sign will be given except the sign of the prophet Jonah. And then he explains, for as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the great fish, so will what The Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. This is a reference, a veiled reference to the resurrection. Just as the Jonah came up from the whale, it's implied here that Jesus will rise from the grave, and that will be that that's going to be the final sign of the authenticity of who Jesus is. Jesus is. We're looking forward to celebrate. Actually every Sunday we we celebrate the resurrection. And of course next Sunday we will as well. But the resurrection is, folks, the resurrection is the sign for time and eternity that Jesus is who he said he was. That's why in Acts chapter 1, verse 2, um Uh the writer there says, under the day which uh Theophilus says, under the day or actually Luke says to Theophilus, under the day in which uh he was taken after he, through the Spirit Holy Spirit, had given commands to the apostles whom he had chosen, to whom he also pre uh presented himself alive after suffering by many infallible proofs, being seen of them of forty days and speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom of God. Where do we find the sign that Jesus really is who he says he was? Where do we stake our claim as it is? Where do we anchor our trust, our dependence? It's on the resurrection of Jesus Christ. The bodily, literal bodily resurrection of Christ. That's it. If we don't have the literal bodily resurrection of Christ, our faith is in vain, the Bible says, 1 Corinthians 15, we are yet in our sin. But Jesus did rise bodily from the grave, victorious over sin and death. And what Jesus was saying here to these Pharisees and Sadducees is: there will be a sign coming that I am who I truly say I am. But what's interesting is you get into the book of Acts, as we've already seen, and did these Pharisees and Sadducees even believe that sign? Although there were many, many Witnesses, many witnesses, to corroborate the reality of the bodily resurrection of Christ? No, they did not. They still didn't even believe that sign. Why? Why would they be so hard-headed Well, are we hard-headed today sometimes? Do people even today say, well, you know, I don't know about the bodily resurrection of Christ They say, well, I have a put people say something to something like, well, I'm I'm a scientific kind of person, and if I can't see it, then I can't believe it Now the fact is we believe all kinds of things that we aren't we don't scientifically see And you know, we nobody questions the nobody questions the beginning of this country. Nobody questions even uh ancient history when it comes to uh different empires that rose and fell and all kinds of historical data. Nobody questions those kinds of things, but when it comes to the resurrection, suddenly there's a question. And yet there is as much, if not more, more written witnesses of the resurrection, more historical evidence of the resurrection than any other historical event, potentially than any other historical event imaginable. I don't have the time to go into all that. You don't want to be here all day and for the whole week. But still people are a people are intent on saying, well that I don't know about all that and all that. I can't see it. They test it and all that. The fact is, the real issue here with these Pharisees and Sadducees, why did they deny the clear signs of who Christ was, both in the miracles that he did as well as the resurrection later on. Why did he deny all why did they deny all of that? It was because they wanted to be the center of everything. It really is. They want the power. They are wicked, and they wanted to be the center. C. S. Lewis uh actually says in one of his books that everyone, he uh he said this, I'm not sure if I could say everyone, but every he says everyone desires to be in what he calls the inner ring. Everyone desires to be the inner ring. He explains that everybody starts in the outer ring. We're born in the outer ring. And as life goes on, we have to sort of focus in on those who are on the inner ring. Perhaps it's parents that are on the inner ring of the outer ring. But our goal, our goal is always to be on the inner ring. You see this as a family. A family becomes child-centric. Why? Because that child wants to be on the inner ring. I'm just going to tell you, parents, you need to keep Christ on this in the center, and you all ought to be on the inner ring, and the children need to be on the outside I don't mean outside as in like you leave them flapping in the wind. I just mean that when it comes to the centrality of where things are fo the focal point in the home, that was totally for free, but uh but it it applies. All of us want to be in the center. We want to be in the this inner ring. And what you see with these with these Pharisees and scribes and and uh and Sadducees here, they want to be in the inner ring. And when they began to really go against Jesus, they wouldn't actually do anything that was too overtly problematic for Jesus because the multitudes were after him. But they decided they plotted together that they were going to destroy Jesus, and they even teamed up together two groups that usually do not do that. Why? Because they wanted to be in the center They did not want Christ to be in the center. They wanted to be in the center. And you know, that is the way our human hearts are as well. We want to be in the center of our lives. We want to be on the inner ring of things. And what we really ought to want is Christ to be in the center of everything. So Jesus realizes that there is a bit of a there is a bit of a shift going on here. And he then says in verse 5, look at verse 5, it says, when his disciples had come to the other side, they had forgotten to take bread. So Jesus basically leaves. He leaves that Galilean area that he's in. And he goes to the other side. Well, probably he goes into Idemia again where the Gentiles are, but i either way, he gets out He gets out of that area, comes to the other side of the Sea of Galilee, of the lake there, it's really a lake, but it's the Sea of Galilee And they set foot. And the disciples realized, ha, we forgot bread. We forgot to store enough bread. We forgot to put enough, uh, make enough bread to bring with us. We don't have the supplies we need for this journey. And they're all preoccupied with their stomachs. Imagine twelve young men occupied with their stomachs. Not not a hard thing to imagine, right? But Jesus says something to them. He says, Take heed and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the Sadducees. He is warning the disciples. Why is he warning them? What is the leaven of the Pharisees and the Sadducees? Well, what he is talking about is a swelling of influence. You understand what leaven is, right? Leaven is, you know, you have yeast in bread. uh baker's yeast and bread uh that can be a very, very small amount that a chemical uh process takes place where there's a converting and fermenting of sugars that allows that bread to expand and grow bar grow larger. It can be very, very small amount and then it begins to expand over time. And what Jesus is saying is there is a swelling of influence that is take going to be taking place here. Now, we know that leaven in the Old Testament is not always spoken of as sinful, as like an associate, you know, sort of a illustration of sin, but it is often. And in the ceremonial system in the Old Testament, you couldn't always use often you were not allowed to use leaven for some of the ceremonial breads that they made and things. Leviticus 2. 11, Exodus 12 explain that. But as you get in the New Testament, you actually find that leaven is used in 1 Corinthians, for example, to talk to really explain the nature of sin. First Corinthians chapter 5, verse 6 says, Your glory is not good. Do you not know that a little leaven leavens the whole lump? What is he talking about? Therefore, purge out the old leaven that you may be be a new lump, since you truly are unleavened. For indeed Christ, our Passover, was sacrificed for us. Therefore, let us keep the feast Not with old leaven, nor with the leaven of malice and wickedness, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth. Paul takes this illustration of leaven verses unleavened. And he says that you are, if you know Christ as your Savior, if you are truly a child of God, you are, as it were, unleavened bread. But a little leaven, you have that old sin flesh, sinful flesh in you, can leaven the whole lump Sin can affect everything in us. It can affect every part of our lives. And Paul says: don't allow it to do that. Cast out the old leaven. Kill it, get rid of it, put it out. Let us uh therefore let us keep the feast. He's using it as an illustration. Not with old leaven, nor with the leaven of malice and wickedness, but with the unleavened bread of what? Of sincerity and truth. So what is leaven? What is the leaven here? Well, it is this growing influence that the Pharisees and Sadducees we're beginning to have with the people. Of course, we've already noted that he is that they are have been plotting against him. And you'll note then that by the time, as time passes in these Gospels in Matthew and Luke and other places, we find that there's more and more popularity Toward the Pharisees and the Sadducees and the religious leaders and less toward Christ until it comes to the point where they come and arrest him. And it says in Luke 22, for example, and there are other Gospels that say the same thing 47 and 48 it says, and while he was still speaking, behold a multitude. Remember we've seen this multitude, different places doing different things at different times. They want food from Christ, they're getting miracles done. The multitude comes. And he who was called Judas, one of the twelve, went went before them and drew near to Jesus to kiss him. And Jesus said to them, Judas, are you betraying the Son of Man with The multitude is there with them to betray Jesus. It's the multitude with him. And then eventually, Matthew twenty-seven, verses twenty-five, twenty-through-twenty-five They say the multitude says. It says in that passage, verse 20, the chief priests and elders persuaded the multitudes that they should ask for Barabbas to destroy Jesus. They, the elders, that's including the fellow Pharisees and Sadducees, the religious leaders, and the chief priests, actually, they all gang up together now. And they they convinced the multitude of the Jews to say to Pilate, Crucify Him. So what is Jesus saying here? We're in the middle of it. We're now between the time where the multitudes are for Jesus and the multitudes are against Jesus And Jesus says to them, be careful of the swelling of influence by these Pharisees and these Sadducees. Be careful, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees. So what is this leaven? Well, it actually says there's it's interesting. In verse 12 of this passage, it says The teaching or the doctrine. Do you see that? The teaching or the doctrine. What is that? What is he talking about? The teaching or the doctrine of the Pharisees? Well, I'll tell you what it's not talking about. It's not talking about all kinds of teachings. It's singular, not plural. So it's not talking about beware of all the teachings of the Pharisees, beware of all the teachings of the Sadducees, because A, they didn't even agree with each other. So it wasn't that that he was talking about. There was a particular teaching, a particular doctrine, a singular doctrine, that he said, beware of that doctrine, beware of that teaching. Luke tells us very clearly what the leaven is. In Luke 12, it says, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, 12. 1, which is hypocrisy. Beware the leaven which is hypocrisy. So we know it at least includes hypocrisy. But clearly the Sadducees and the Pharisees ganged up together to to teach one singular truth. And they were doing it under subterfuge. They were doing it, uh they weren't doing it out in the open, but what were they trying to get across that Jesus is not who he says he is. that it was a rejection of Jesus as the Messiah. That was the teaching. The teaching is that he's an imposter Basically, they're saying, follow us, don't follow him. Because they've become very clear by this time that those that they were at odds Jesus was very much at odds with the Pharisees. He named them for who they were. He exposed them for who they were. There was no question about that. And so this teaching was the idea, the idea that Jesus is not the Savior, is not the Messiah. And Jesus says to these disciples, be careful about this. Beware of this leaven. It's leaven whose method is hypocrisy, their method is hypocrisy, their motive is a desire for power, and their teaching is Jesus is not the Messiah. Be careful. But we find something really quite interesting that the disciples are not, they don't get what he's saying. Has that happened before? Happens a lot, actually. We're almost getting used to it. Jesus said something. Disciples think he means something else. But notice what it says here in verse 7. And they reason among themselves. Let's go back here because we took some time to talk about the uh we talked to some time to talk about the leaven. Do you do you remember what they were talking about They're hungry, right? I guess. I guess they they were talking about their their they they didn't bring enough bread. Oh no, what are we gonna do? We don't have enough bread for this journey that we're on. And uh another passage says they had one loaf One loaf of bread for twelve guys, not gonna work. Okay. And I'm not talking about you know the loaves we have, the the loaves are like little little loaves. Clearly not enough bread. It's like I guess one of the disciples brought bread or something. And they noted that. So they're really concerned about this bread. And Jesus says, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, and they begin talking about this. Verse 7, and they reasoned among themselves, saying, It is because we have taken no bread. Jesus says, Beware of the love and the Pharisees, it's because we've taken no bread. Now what what? What what are they saying? What they must have thought he said is is they don't have any bread And so he is basically saying, make sure you don't get bread from the Pharisees. Okay, so they're thinking extremely literally here. And they're discussing this. And Jesus kicks in and what does he say? Oh you of little faith. Why do you reason among yourselves because you have no bread? Do you know what they're preoccupied with? They are preoccupied with the practical. They are preoccupied with the practical. And it has become a blinder for them. They are so occupied with what they're going to do for food. Where are they going to get their next meal? What are they going to do with the issue that they're dealing with with this bread and not having enough bread? We shouldn't have brought more bread and we should have dealt with we should have we need bread. That Jesus says something to them, and they are just totally preoccupied with the practical. And he says to them, O you of little faith, why do you reason among yourselves, because you have brought no bread? And then he says this, this is really interesting. He says, Do you not yet understand or remember the five loaves and the five thousand and how many baskets were took up? Nor the seven loaves of the four thousand, and how many large baskets you took up. How is it you do not understand that I did not speak to you concerning bread? But to beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the Sadducees. Do you know what he's pointing out? He's saying, Look, do you see all those leftover baskets you picked up? You got twelve baskets from the first time I multiplied bread? You got seven baskets from the The next time I multiplied bread. You notice Jesus is saying, Look, I'm going to provide for you. I will. I've done it before. Just think back for a minute. You've got no worries about bread. You've got plenty of bread. 12 baskets of bread, seven baskets of bread. I'm really good at providing for you. Why are you worried? That's what he's saying. Are we guilty of this? Are we guilty of being so preoccupied with the practical? that we miss the spiritual. And when Jesus says to these disciples, he gives them this illustration. He says, Don't you remember how well I've provided for you in the past? The disciples sort of that blinders come off and they realize what he's talking about. We are really guilty of this, aren't we? In so many ways we become preoccupied with those practical needs. And if we're not careful, we miss the spiritual lesson. We miss entirely what God is trying to teach us spiritually. But this is not the first time we've seen this in Matthew. Do you remember last time, last Sunday, I mentioned that several times Jesus said to the disciples, O you of little faith. Why did he say this of the disciples? Well, it's really interesting. The first time he says it is in Matthew 6. And you know what it has to do over? What the issue is That time it's clothes. Matthew 6, 3. Now if God so close the grass of the field, which today is tomorrow, uh thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe you, O you of little faith? Do you remember the passage? He said, do not worry. Do not, you know, scripture said, do not be anxious for anything. Do not worry about tomorrow. Don't worry. It's a command. We are sinning when we worry. And Jesus says, Don't worry about tomorrow. Don't worry about what you'll put on. Look at the lilies of the field. Look at how they're clothed, they're provided for. Look at the sparrow and how he's fed. Look at all of that and realize I will provide for you Oh you of little faith. But this is not the only time that Jesus says something. Later on in Matthew chapter 8, verse 26, he again says, Oh, you little faith, this time they're in a storm. They're afraid of what's going to happen to them. We got food, we've got clothing, we've got things there. What's going to happen to us in this storm? But Jesus is with them. And so he says to them, but he said to them, Why are you fearful, O you of little faith? Then he arose and rebuked the winds and the sea, and there was great calm. Again, in Matthew 14, verse 31, the issue there is with Peter, and he is afraid of falling into the water. There's a practical problem, and he says, Oh, you of little faith, why did you doubt? Do you not see, brothers and sisters in Christ, that one of the greatest barriers for us to really see the spiritual truth that God wants us to see? To not be duped by the devil, to not be influenced, to put ourselves at the center instead of Christ at the center is a preoccupation with the practical. And I'm preaching to myself as much as anybody else. Because I'm a pretty practical guy, honestly. I see things in front of me, they got to get them done, and they need to be done. And uh if I don't get them done, nobody else is gonna do them. And if I'm not careful in my morning devotions with the Lord, I can spend time with the Lord, and I can be thinking the whole day about what I need to do. And totally miss my fellowship with the Lord. Maybe I'm the only one. I doubt it. We we have got to learn. We we real it really is showing our little faith, and I am included in this. When I do not step back and say, Lord, you've always provided in the past. You've taken care of us in the past. You've protected us in the past. Why do I need to worry about bread? And this is what he was telling his disciples, and this is what we need to learn as well. Peter apparently learned it really well because we get to 2 Peter chapter 1, and Peter has a totally different outlook on everything. And he says this in 2 Peter 1, verse 5. It says, but also for this very reason, give all diligence to baking bread. No Give all diligence, add to your faith virtue. Add to your virtue knowledge Your knowledge, self-control, self-control, perseverance, perseverance, godliness. Godliness, brotherly kindness, brotherly kindness, love. Do you know why he's listening all of these things? He's not listing all these things for us to be sort of this um this list of things, okay, I gotta make sure I pick up today I'm gonna do loving kindness, today I'm gonna do this, today I'm gonna do Uh no, no, no. These are all qualities of Jesus Christ. And He wants us to grow in Christ-likeness. And he wants us to give our diligence, our diligence to growing in Christ's likeness, to add to our faith virtue and the virtue knowledge, and the knowledge, self-control, and all that. Be diligent about that. Not about the practical. Not about the it doesn't mean you are lazy. No, that's not what he's saying at all either. But folks, we must remember the priority here. And this is what Jesus is saying. Jesus is saying the priority must be on those things that are spiritual. That must come first rather than what is practical. Too often our worry about practical matters Cause us to neglect spiritual truths and lessons that God is trying to teach us. We need to, and you know the answer to this The answer to this is is a couple of things. But one one is we've got to look back and see what God's already done. We've got to look back at God's previous provision and see that He's always provided in ways I mean look if you've been saved for any length of time There have been times in the past you look back and you go, man, I don't know how that was going to work out on paper, and it works out I don't know how that's gonna I'm not sure what's gonna happen here. And it does, and God works it out Stay focused on on growing in Christ-likeness. What is God trying to teach me? How is he trying to grow me in the midst of the practical difficulty that I am facing? That must be the kind of question. And then to look back at God's protection. Has God not protected us in the past? And frankly, if God chooses not to protect us in the future And if it's his will, it's his will. I love what Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego said to the king. We're not careful to answer you this matter. If God wants to save us from this fiery furnace, then fine. And he certainly can, but if he doesn't, that's okay too. Are we willing to do whatever God wants us to do? And be whatever God wants us to be, and go wherever God wants us to go? Or are we so preoccupied with ourselves as the center? So that if I don't have things a certain way, then I just don't know what I'm going to do. That is exactly the lesson that Jesus is wanting to teach the disciples here, and certainly the lesson that we need to learn. learn as well. Because when we are preoccupied with the practical, there is a real sense in which it makes us vulnerable to being influenced the wrong way. Influenced by the leaven of the Pharisees. What is that leaven? That leaven is hypocrisy and And putting ourselves at the center. And Jesus said, be careful, because you can't serve two masters. Either you'll hate the one and love the other, or you'll love the one and despise the other. You can't serve God and mammon And wrapping all this up, we need to understand a couple of things. Number one, do we come to God on our terms or his terms? Remember, that's what the Pharisees and Sadducees are doing. They're coming to God on his term. They're saying, show us a sign from heaven. They want it their way right away. And they want to be in the center of all of it. Do we come to God on our terms or on her His terms? I was uh reading recently somewhere uh that if we when we pray, Lord, your will be done. We are praying for his will to be done and our wants to be to be on the on the shelf. We are now praying a biblical prayer. We're praying biblically that God's will is done. But that means our wants are set aside. If we don't pray for God's will to be done, we're not praying a biblical prayer. And so it is so important for us to come to God on His terms rather than to coming to God on ours. Number two, are we guilty of wanting to be the center of our world? And rejecting Christ as the true center of everything. Now we would never say it that way, most of us. We wouldn't say, well, I'm rejecting Christ as the center of everything. But folks, if it if If we're living as though we're the center, then effectively you can't have two people in the center. Number three, are we so consumed with the practical that we are missing what God is trying to teach us spiritually? We so consumed with the practical that we're missing what God is trying to teach us spiritually These lessons that we see in this passage, this warning that we see that Jesus has given the disciples is given to us as well. The fact is that you may be listening today, and there is, you have been so preoccupied with the practical that you don't even realize your need for Christ. That is really the way the world lives. Most of the world lives going to job, coming home, doing what they want to do, doing is basically a cycle of life of the practical And if you ask, for example, the average average person in the world uh or if you talk to the average person in the world uh uh about the fact that you go to church on Sunday, they're gonna say, why would you waste your whole why would you give up your Sunday for that? Right? You ever you ever experienced that in um uh in in the workplace? Man, you you you give up every Sunday? Why would you do that? What what's why are they saying that? They're saying that because they are occupied with the practical. They're occupied with what their needs, what they want. They don't understand the spiritual at all. And there might be somebody here today, you might you might be You might be preoccupied so much with the practical that you've never actually considered your spiritual need. And you know how to do that? Just think about what's going to happen when you die. That's practical. Because when you die, what happens after you die is of eternal importance. If you think to yourself, well, I don't know what's going to happen after I die And the Bible says, these things are written that you may know that you have eternal life. You can have eternal life today. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how this works. Please come and talk to me afterwards. I would be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can have eternal life. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you and praise you for your patience with us. For your love for us, for your speaking truth to us, for your word that is uh c corrects our priorities and adjusts our thinking. And I pray that you would do that today for us. That you cause our minds and our belief To be adjusted to the truth of your word. That we would cause, we would allow Christ to be the center of everything. That we would pray for your will to be done in our lives, that we would be content with whatever that will is, that we would wait on you That our diligence would be on growing in Christ-likeness. And it's seeing what you want to do with us. Lord, we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.