Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning to honor you and to give you all the praise and the honor and the glory. You're truly the only one worthy. Father, you are the great I am. You are the creator and sustainer of whole life. And Father, we are grateful and thankful this morning for the great love wherewith you have loved us in sending your only begotten Son, Jesus, to die on the cross, taking the sin of the world upon himself. And Father, that he was laid in the grave and rose again, giving us great hope. Father, we are thankful and grateful to us. morning. We pray this morning, Lord, that you would prepare our hearts to worship you and to learn and to grow. And Lord, I love the uh line in there that we could love you more and more in that last hymn, Father Father, might it be so? Might you enable us this morning to open our ears and our eyes and our minds to your word. And I pray you'd be with Pastor Jim as he presents your word. And I pray that Father we would have ears to hear, eyes to see, and a desire in our hearts to apply what we learn. That Father, when we leave here today, we will be changed more and more into your image from what we have heard and learned. Help us to ponder through the week and Lord to remember what we have been learning. And Father, I do want to thank you this morning for the many blessings that you bestow upon us. Thank you for enabling us this morning to be here together freely in this nation to worship And Father, we do lift up our leaders and pray that God, you would work in the hearts and the minds of our leaders, Father. That they would come to know that you are the one true living God. That Lord, we as a nation might repent and cry out to you that you would hear from heaven and come and heal our land. Help us to be Delight and assault in this world today. And we ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. We're going to be reading this morning from Matthew chapter 6, and we are going to be looking at verses 8 through 15. Therefore, do not be like them, for your Father knows the things you have need of before you ask him. In this manner, therefore, pray. Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come. Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. And give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And do not lead us into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. For yours is the kingdom and the power and the glory. Amen. For if you forgive men their trespasses, your Heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if you do not forgive men, their trespasses, neither will your father forgive your trespasses. We've been going through this Sermon on the Mount and we have come now to what is is known as the Lord's Prayer. But it really, I think, would be more accurately called the disciples' prayer. He is really telling the disciples this is this is the manner in which you pray. In the introduction of David Crump's book, Knocking on Heaven's Door, a New Testament Theology of the Petition of Prayer, He tells a story of somebody who came to his office. It was a young woman, and she was noticeably distraught, very upset Because in her church her um somebody her best friend had died of cancer, leaving behind a husband and two kids. The question that was posed to Pastor Crump was this. Pastor, why did God lose? How can the devil be more powerful than Jesus? The reason that this question was asked was because her pastor had gathered people around to have an overnight vigil to pray for the healing of her friend, but she ultimately died of cancer anyway. And in her mind, she thought to herself, well, what's the use of prayer? It looks like God lost this battle. What is the use of prayer? Why do we pray? And why did Jesus say in his in his uh to the disciples that we ought to pray. In Luke 11, 9 through 10 it says this, so I say to you, ask, and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. Knock, and it will be opened to you. For everyone who asks receives, and he who seeks finds, and to him who knocks it will be opened to you This indicates that God answers the prayers of his people, that we should ask and knock and seek and receive. In Hebrews chapter four, verse sixteen, it says this, let us therefore come boldly to the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of Need. And that word need is a very important word. In fact, you'll find in our text in Matthew, verse 8, of the passage that we're in, it says this. Therefore, do not be like them, for your father knows the things that you have need of before you ask him. So look what is prayer? Prayer, according to this passage, is asking for needs. It's asking for needs. And Jesus does not want to leave this up to sort of the disciples to figure out. He is literally going to say to them, You need to learn to pray in this manner. Now, he is not saying you need to pray these exact words. Some churches do that sort of as a matter of ritual, and it's not necessarily wrong as long as it's Sincere, but that's not what he's saying here. He's saying pray in this manner. What is the manner in which we are to pray? Well, the question then becomes: what is a need? If God wants us to pray and he wants us to ask for our needs, then what is a need? And a need is something, listen carefully because this is going to be important. A need is something that is necessary in order for the for the gospel and the kingdom of God to be advanced. Let me say that again. A need is something for the kingdom of God to be advanced Sometimes we pray for things that we think we need, and maybe that thing that we're praying that we think we need really wouldn't advance the kingdom. And sometimes we are so perplexed as to why God would not answer our prayer, in our minds we think, boy, certainly this would advance the kingdom. I mean, somebody getting uh healed of cancer or some those kinds of things, how could that not advance the kingdom? And that's where we have to appeal to what God says in his word, that his ways are not our ways, neither are his thoughts our thoughts. So when Jesus says, and yet Jesus wants us to pray, he wants us to be to ask. And he wants us to be very engaged in his kingdom work through prayer. So, how do we do that? Well, we're going to see in this passage that we are to pray with the kingdom advancement in mind and we're going to see this in three areas. They're kingdom purposes. We're going to pray with kingdom of purposes and we're going to see this in three areas. Number one, kingdom advancement. Kingdom needs and kingdom victory. Kingdom Advancement, Kingdom Needs, and Kingdom Victory And in looking at these three areas, we're then going to be able to really see how is it that the disciple, the follower of Christ, is to pray. How should we pray? We begin then by looking, first of all, at the fact that God wants us to ask Him for kingdom advancement And we pick up in verse 9 where it says, In this manner, therefore, pray, our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, your will be done. On earth as it is in heaven. Now, every part of the Lord's Prayer except for the very end and the very beginning are are requests. They're asking for something. But the very first couple of words here, our Father, first four words, our Father in heaven Is the way that Jesus begins his prayer. And the way that he begins his prayer is very, very significant. He first of all says, our Father. Our Father who is in heaven. Why does he say our Father? It is because Jesus wants to emphasize that prayer is something that we are to do together. It is something that we are to do corporately together. Now, this does not mean that we're only to pray together and never to play pray individually. He's already said, if you remember, go to your closet. And pray by yourself. So he's not at all saying that we shouldn't pray by ourselves. We should. But now as he gives an example of prayer, he is praying. He is literally praying to his father, and he is doing it in such a way That his disciples learn how to pray, and he is saying together with them, our Father. Another thing that's really significant about this is he says, our Father. He says, Father. This is the first time in Scripture where Father as God is directly addressed as the Father. In the Old Testament, the concept of the Father was certainly there that the Lord was their father, was Israel's father. In Deuteronomy 32, verse 6 it says, But you thus with the Lord, oh foolish and unwise people, is he not your father who bought you? Has he not made you and established you? In Psalm 103, 13, it says, as a father pities his children, so the Lord pities those who fear him. And in Isaiah 63, verse 16, it says, Doubtless you are our father, though Abraham was in ignorant of us, and Israel does not acknowledge you. You, O Lord, our Father, our Redeemer, from everlasting is your name. But now this is the first time in the New Testament. That is in the Old Testament. This is the first time in the New Testament that Jesus describes, uh he addresses God as his father. And this is something that would have been very strange to the ears of the disciples. They would not have normally thought of God being their father. We think of it that way all the time. We think of God being our heavenly father. This is something that they would not have immediately thought of. And yet God Jesus says when you want to pray to God, address him as our Father, one who is a provider and creator. protector. We need to have this in mind when we are praying to our Father. And then it says, our Father who are in heaven. In heaven. Why is he saying that? He's talking then, he's pointing out that God the Father is what is called in Scripture transcendent. That means that the Father is separate and above his creation. Sometimes, folks, when we use God's name We use it in such a common way that we're not really giving it the reverence that it deserves. And when Jesus uses his name, he he recognizes that the Father which art in heaven, he is above his creation. And he is separate from his creation. He is the only one who is the creator and we are the creation. What perfectly illustrates this is actually the Old Testament. In the Old Testament, they had the tabernacle that was established and then the temple. And in that tabernacle and in later the temple, the Shekinah glory of God was in the temple. God desired for there to be a way to Dwell with his people, that's the eminence of God, the closeness of God, and yet to be separate from his people to show that he is separate and above his people. And so the transcend- the the temple of God and the tabernacle of God where the glory of God came and where all the sacrifices were made and where all of the death uh the the the cleansings took place, all of that pictured God as above all and yet wanting to be close to his people. And we that's the kind of mentality we need to have when we're thinking about God and praying to Him. The fact that He is above all. And yet through prayer, we can be close to him and we can address him as our Father. Now from then on, everything else is a request. He's going to ask one thing after another after another. Now when you and I think of asking for things, often we're thinking, perhaps we think of asking for food or clothing or shelter. or asking for deliverance from a particular situation, or we've gotten ourselves in a bind and we pray for God to deliver us from that. Or There's some sort of emergency, and we pray about that emergency. He begins by saying, Our Father who art in heaven, I'm going to ask you that your name would be hallowed. That your name would be holy. This is actually a request. Jesus is asking that his, that God's name would be holy. Well, immediately you said yourself. Well, God's name is holy. I mean, God, the identity of God is holy. Why would we ask God to be what he is? Well It's not, we're not asking him to be what he is, but we're really asking him, what Jesus was asking him here, was that he would be regarded as he truly is and treated as he truly is The name of God reflects who God is. Remember back in the Old Testament in Exodus chapter 3 and verses 13 through 15 where Moses was at the burning bush and he asked the name of God and what did God say? He said, I am that I am. The name of God is the identity of God. He is the I am. And the intent of every Christian, every true disciple of Christ, every follower of Christ Should be to make God known as He really is. That others would treat God as God That others would treat him as holy. Folks, we're living in a society that that is anything but true. We're living in a society that choose that that takes the name of God very flippantly. very irreverently, uses acronyms like OMG, which I would just suggest to you may not be the wisest way for a Christian to respond to something We have taken the name of God and we have u we we think of it as something that is cheap And something that is used just to express ourselves in a moment of dismay, or just in a moment of surprise, even. The name of God is to be regarded as the character of God, and the character of God is to be holy. It is holy. And God desires for us to know Him and to make him known. So the very outset of the prayers of the request, the very first request is to make God known as he really is, as holy. Ezekiel 36 Verse 23 it says this, I will sanctify my great name, which has been profaned among the nations, that you have profaned in their midst, and the nation shall know that I am the Lord, says the Lord God. whom I am hallowed in your and you before their eyes. Do we do we realize, folks, that in that day when Ezek when God wrote this and said this in Ezekiel The nations did not regard God, Jehovah God, as truly God. And our nations aren't doing that either. Whether it's our nation here, the United States of Na of America, or nations around the world, the Bible says that the nations rage. They rage against the Creator God. And God desires for his name to be, as it truly is, Hollowed. And there is a particular way that that is going to take place. It's going to take place when God's kingdom. comes. And that's in the very next request. How is it that the name of God, how is it that God will truly be known as He is? It is as the kingdom of God is established. The kingdom of God is the rule of God. It is the fact that God rules. And in this passage, we have a, the next request is that The kingdom of God would come. And this has been the hope of God's people for centuries. And still is today. How is it that the name of God is ever going to be what God intends it to be? How is it that all are going to come under the rulership of God? It is as his kingdom comes. The Jews were waiting for this. It says that remember of Joseph of Arimathea, the person who uh donated the the uh the the um tomb to to Jesus It says that he waited for the kingdom of God. It almost implies that he uh that he knew the significance of what he was doing because he was trying to do what he was doing in order to to see the kingdom of God come. There is a uh a Jewish hymn That says this, may he rule his kingdom in your lifetime and in your days, and in the lifetime of the whole house of Israel, speedily and soon. That's an old Jewish hymn. The Jewish people, even in the Old Testament, looked forward to the day when the Messiah would come and set up his kingdom on earth. And when Jesus came, he announced that the kingdom is at hand. And Matthew 3. 2, actually, I think it was John the Baptist there, said, Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. And in Matthew 5. 17, in the book that we're looking at, it says, From the time Jesus began to preach and say, Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. The same thing in Matthew 4. 23, where it says that he preached the gospel of the kingdom. Jesus had come to proclaim that the kingdom of heaven is at hand, that the rule of God is at hand. Now what's interesting is we are still anticipating the kingdom of God coming. It is true that the kingdom of God, for those who trust Him as our Lord and Savior, we are followers of the King And we are kingdom citizens now, and we are placing ourselves under the rule of Jesus. But as you look around and you see the nations and you see the world, you realize that the world is not doing that yet. There is no question that the world is not under the mediated kingdom of Jesus yet. But there will be a day where that occurs. How is God's name really going to be the way that God intends it to be? How are people to really know God? When the kingdom comes. And we are to be involved in making God known through Jesus Christ now So that they can accept him by faith. But there will be a day that we look ahead to where Jesus will come again. In 1 Corinthians versus chapter 16, verse 22 It uses this term, O Lord, come. It's the word Maranatha, our Lord come. It is the oldest prayer expressed in the early church. Come, our Lord, our Lord, come. And so today we still can pray this prayer, Lord, may your kingdom come. And a true disciple of Christ will naturally pray that prayer. A true follower of Christ knows what it looks like to be under the rule of Jesus. And will want others to be under the rule of Jesus, to make him known, and to look forward to the day when the whole world will be under the rule of Jesus when he comes. That is the hope. of the believer. And God says, Jesus says here that we are to pray for that. David Crump in his book says this, our groaning is an inescapable quality of existence. We live stretched between the already and the not yet. And sometimes the tension pulls more tauntly than we can bear. So the Father gives us the gift of prayer to bridge the gap. Well, with all of these different requests, there is one more request that really is a very heavenward God-centered request, and that is That God's will would be done now. The kingdom of God is a future request. Lord, would your kingdom come? But while you tarry, while your kingdom is still to come, Lord, would your will be done now? And this also should be the prayer of every believer. Every disciple of Christ, everyone who names the name of Christ, should earnestly desire the will of God. This is exactly what Jesus, how Jesus came. And I think we mentioned this last week when we we noted that Jesus is here to do the will of the world Matthew eighteen fourteen it says, even so it is not the will of your father who is in heaven that one of these little ones should perish. And in Matthew 26, 42 it says, again, a second time he went away and prayed, saying, Oh O my Father, if this Cup cannot pass away from me unless I drink it. Your will be done. He prayed to his father, Lord, nevertheless, not my will, but your will be done. Do we pray? That God's will truly be done. Whatever it is that that God's will would be done. Paul says, continues this idea of uh there's actually many other places that we could look at it, but Paul continues this idea of the Lord's will being done. And that we should know and want the perfect will of God. When he says in Romans 12, 1, I beseech you therefore by the mercies of God that you present your bodies a living sacrifice. Holly, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may do what? Prove what is that good and acceptable. and perfect will of God. These are the first three request requests. All of them are requests that are general requests that are requests that take the big picture in mind. And let me just pause and say this. Sometimes when we come to God with our prayer requests, we do not have the big picture in mind. When we come to God with a particular need, we hit straight for that particular need, and we forget that there is a forest. there that we need to be thinking about and how the tree is in the midst of the forest. And when we pray, sometimes the reason that we're not really seeing answer to our prayers We're not really knowing how to pray in a godly manner is because we're not really looking at the general plan of God and praying for that first and then looking at how our specific request lines up with God's kingdom purposes But on the other hand, I want you to know now that God, Jesus then moves to very, very practical requests. And he is now going to say, we're going to see that there are kingdom needs that God wants us to pray for. He wants us to pray for kingdom needs. And we pick up here in verse 11, and it says this, give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. He says, give us this day our daily bread. Bread is a term that really is talking about all food. This is a very practical thing now, isn't it? We've gone from the kingdom of God coming and the will of God being done. And now, and the name of God being being uh identified as it truly is, and now, well, you know, the truth of the matter is, in order for us as as Christians to do that In order for us to make God's name known, we have to eat. And so God recognizes this and Jesus recognizes this, and so now he moves us to very practical prayers about our necessities of life. And God wants us to pray for our physical needs. Very likely there are a few things that Jesus had in mind when he prayed this. One is that there's an Old Testament story of the nation of Israel and how God provided for them. Do you remember that? He did it through the manna. Jesus, God of course, had delivered Israel from the Old Testament from Egypt, from Pharaoh, from the hand of Pharaoh, and brought them out into the wilderness, and they were hungry. And what did God do? God gave them manna to eat. In Exodus chapter 16, verse 2 through 8, it says this. When the whole congregation of the children of Israel complained again Moses and Aaron in the wilderness, and the children of Israel said to them, Oh that we had died by the hand of the Lord in the land of Egypt, j children of Israel were very dramatic uh a lot. Uh when we when we had sat by the pots of meat And when we ate bread to the full. For you have brought us into this wilderness to kill this whole assembly with hunger. He says this. They said this to Moses, and in a sense they're saying this to God. Oh, that we were going to die. Oh, that we'd be able, we'd be back under the enslavement of Egypt and sitting next to pots of meat. That was the mentality that they had. And they were they weren't praying, were they though? What were they doing? They were complaining. Well, God hears their complaints, and because God is a loving heavenly Father, he says to them, Behold, I will reign bread from heaven for you. And the people shall go out and gather a certain quote every day, and I may test them whether they will walk in my law or not. And it shall be on the sixth day that they shall prepare what they bring in, and it shall be twice as much as they gather daily Then Moses and Aaron said to all the children of Israel, At evening you shall know that the Lord has brought you out of the land of Egypt, and in the morning you shall see the glory of the Lord, for he hears your complaints against the Lord. But what are we that you complain against us? And Moses said, This shall be seen when the Lord gives you meat to eat in the evening, and in the morning bread to the to the fool. The Lord hears your complaints which you make against him. And what are you are we? Your complaints are not against us, but against God. So in the Old Testament they complained, but in the New Testament, Jesus is now going to set an example that they should pray for their physical needs. This shows also, folks, that there is a sense of dependency that the disciple is supposed to have on his master. And in the first century, that's exactly the case. When we think of the disciples, we think, you know, in the first century, we think only of the disciples of Jesus usually. But in that day, this was a fairly common thing that people would be taught by others, maybe it would be a An apprenticeship of some kind. And a person would actually choose to follow day and night an individual who would then teach him what he could know And in return, there would he would he would supply them with meat. He would work for them, but he would supply them with food and and everything they needed during like a year of apprenticeship The apprentice was completely dependent on the one on his master, and they called it a master-disciple relationship. And Jesus uses that cultural idea and he applies it to his own disciples, and that's exactly what the disciples did over the three and a half years. Spent time with Jesus. They went with him day and night, and they pro Jesus provided for them. And we have examples of that in Scripture, how He pro how He provided for them. They were totally and completely dependent upon Jesus. And did you know that even though you and I work jobs, And we provide for ourselves through these different kinds of ways that ultimately we are in our minds supposed to think of ourselves as entirely dependent on Jesus for our needs. Because the work that you do, the vocation that you have, you are, God desires for you to do that not purely for money. But God desires for you to do that and do it to glorify him. The vocation that you have ought to be a calling in your life whereby you glorify him, you live your life in service to him, and then he takes care of your needs. That is the vocation for the Christian. And it doesn't matter whether you're in the ministry or whether you're in secular kind of vocation. You are still all followers of Christ are in the ministry in that sense. Do you view your vocation that way? Do you view your place of vocation as a place where you can serve the Lord? That will change when we have that kind of perspective. That will change our perspective on things where we're not looking to our employer for our needs to be met, we're looking to God for our needs to be met. And that's exactly what disciple of Christ. It is a totally, a total change in our perspective where we begin to say, okay, I'm going to do what God wants me to do, which includes work, by the way. And I'm going to do what God wants me to do, and I'm going to trust Him to provide for me, and I am going to pray for that in dependence on Him. And then we see this. That there are physical needs there, but then there are also spiritual needs. Now let me ask you a question. When you think of spiritual needs, you could think of all kinds of things, could you? All kinds of things that you that you may need. But if you could summarize If you could summarize the greatest spiritual need that you have and that I have, what one in one word, what word would that be? And I'm going to give you the word that this is biblical. It's the word forgiveness. I mean, just think about it. Why is it that we have spiritual needs? It's because of sin. Who sins? Everyone. If you know Christ is your Lord and Savior, The Bible tells us that He has separated your sin as far as the East is from the West. That's forgiveness. But the reality is we as Christians still sin. And we still desperately need forgiveness. So in this very short prayer, where Jesus only selects the things that are that are most needful. He says, generally, give us this day our physical needs. We need to pray for our physical needs. But we also need to pray for our spiritual needs, and he summarizes those spiritual needs in forgiveness. Forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. Or in Luke, forgive us our sin as we forgive those who sin against us. The word debt and the word sin, they're two different words with the same meaning. It's really talking here about our sin debt. And the fact is that that is the greatest spiritual need that we all have to be forgiven of the Lord And the way that we're forgiven of the Lord, of course, as you know, is that when we accept when we when we trust in what Jesus did in dying on the cross for us, he took our sin on himself And he gives us his righteousness, and if we will trust in that by faith, then we stand forgiven by God. But it's interesting that he says this. He says, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. Forgive us our sin as we forgive our trespasses. What is he talking about here? In fact, he says in verse 15 But if you do not forgive their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses. The greatest spiritual need of our lives is forgiveness. And do you know that the greatest spiritual need of our lives also is for us to be able to forgive others? The truth of the matter is, you cannot forgive others until you yourself have been forgiven. But there's a bit of a problem here. Is it saying that if we don't forgive others, then we ourselves, like God, retracts his forgiveness from us? Well, no, positionally, the Bible is very clear that if we are forgiven of God, that is something when he declares us forgiveness, the Bible is very clear, I'll never leave you nor forsake you. He tells us in his word that we are saved And that is it that is we are secure. So it can't mean that, but what could it mean? Here's what I think it means Sin has a damaging effect in our lives. When you and I sin, we may have been positionally forgiven for our sin because of the cross. But sin has a damaging effect in our lives, and if we refuse to forgive others, that sin of unforgiveness continues to work inside of our lives and it damages us. And and we will not we won't we may be positionally forgiven, but we won't experience the forgiveness that God gives. There is a difference between being forgiven positionally and experiencing Christ's forgiveness. And we, if we withhold forgiveness from others, we will not experience the forgiveness of God in our own lives, we will not feel it. We won't know it. We won't know it to be true. That's why the Bible says this in Hebrews 12, verse 15 Looking carefully lest anyone fall short of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness spring up cause trouble, and by this many become defiled. You and I, brothers and sisters in Christ, cannot afford not to forgive. Forgiveness is absolutely necessary. And sometimes the things that we're praying, we're praying for our needs, we're praying the things that are struggles in our lives. And not only are we not thinking about the big picture of what would be best for the furtherance of God's kingdom, but we're also not thinking about the fact that we've got an unforgiving spirit in our own hearts The Bible says if we regard iniquity in our hearts, the Lord will not hear us. And often that heart iniquity comes in the form of bitterness and an unforgiving spirit. And so Jesus, realizing this, says, forgive us our debts as we forgive those who sin against us. Then finally, as we then uh those are the things that he prays, and then finally we have that God asks for kingdom. God wants us to ask for kingdom victory. He says this, and do not lead us into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. What does he mean by that? Don't deliver us into temptation, but deliver uh uh don't lead us into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. Well, it can't possibly it can't mean that there is a possibility that God tempts us and we're praying that he doesn't do that. The reason I say that is it's very clear in James 1 verse 13, let no man say, when he is tempted, I'm tempted by God. For God cannot be tempted by evil, nor does he himself tempt anyone. So it's clearly in Scripture God is not tempting. This word tempt can mean test. It means tempt or it can mean test. But we have a problem there as well, actually. Because the Bible actually says in James chapter 1 verse 2, Brethren, count all joy when you fall into various trials. We're actually, and in Matthew 5, in this passage, it actually says That when we are persecuted, we're actually to rejoice and be exceedingly glad, for great is our reward in heaven It seems to be the case that when trials come upon us, there is a sense in which we are to joy in those trials. We are to be exceeding glad in those trials. Well, then why would we pray that they don't come? This is a little bit confusing, isn't it? And the best answer that I can give is to actually look at the actual words and example of Jesus in other places. He says, for example, in Matthew chapter 10, verse 23, he commands the disciples this way, when they persecute you in this city, flee to another. For assuredly I say to you, you will not have gone through the cities of Israel before the Son of Man comes. Jesus actually told his disciples that when you are persecuted, flee. So he's not saying, Jesus is not saying in that passage or any other passage that when persecution comes, we're actually supposed to say, bring it on. In fact, later on in Matthew 24, verse 20, in prophesying what's going to happen in the future, he says, pray that your flight may not be in winter or on Sabbath, because it's going to be worse for you. So we're su we're it's actually fine to look ahead and to pray and to pray that calamity doesn't come upon us. And in 1 Timothy 2, verse 2, it says this, for kings and for all their authority, that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty. So in other words, folks, there is absolutely nothing wrong with praying that God works in our lives in such a way that there is peace and there is calm. And that the severity of the trials are lessened. But we must also say with Jesus, nevertheless, what? Not my will, but yours be done. At the same time we're praying for deliverance, we also pray for the will of God to be done, which is why Jesus put that first. And then he says this, deliver us from evil. Now very likely what he's talking about there is deliver from the evil one, the devil, Satan. Remember back in chapter four of Matthew, he is already s been under the temptation the great temptation of the devil. And you remember that the general content of those temptations were to show that Satan wants the kingdom. He wants to be in control when God is setting up his kingdom and Jesus ultimately is in control. There is a kingdom of this world run by Satan, a kingdom of darkness, and a kingdom of God run by Jesus, a kingdom of light. And so it says this in Colossians 1, verse 13. He has delivered us from the power of darkness and conveyed us into the kingdom of the Son of Love. Ephesians 6 verse 12 says this, for we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this age, against the spiritual hosts of wickedness. in heavenly places. Jesus understood that the greatest threat to the kingdom of God is the kingdom of Satan. Now ultimately Jesus will reign But there's a sense in which in our lives and our involvement of the kingdom can be greatly impacted by Satan. And so we ought to pray that He protects us and keeps us and delivers us from the evil one. And finally, just in a benedict and sort of a closing, he says, For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. So in concluding all of this, let me ask three questions. Number one. Do we live for God's name to be treated as sacred? For kingdom advancement, and for God's will to be done? When you go to the Lord in prayer, is that your first concern? God's kingdom advancement, God's name to be treated sacred, and for his will to be done God invites us to come to him, but it must be with these things in mind. Number two, Do we pray for our needs, spiritual and physical, in light of kingdom purposes? Do we pray for our needs in light of kingdom purposes? Are we living for the purposes of God? And then as we come upon different things in life, we see the deficiency that's there for God to move for the kingdom of God to move forward. And so we pray for that deficiency, that thing to be met by God. So we pray for the needs in light of kingdom purposes. And finally, do we express our dependency on God for kingdom victory? Do you realize, brothers and sisters in Christ, do you realize that we can do nothing of any spiritual value, of any kingdom significance apart from the work of God. And that work is done through prayer. It's easy to serve. It's easy even to give of our alms. But the most difficult thing we can do as Christians is to continue. Consistently pray to him. And yet it is also the most important and most needful thing that we can do as well. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and thank you for your word. We thank you for its truth, and we thank you for the example that Jesus gave to us on how to pray. To pray in this way. And I pray, Lord, that as we as we think of the importance of prayer, that we would pray in this way. That we would have your kingdom purposes in mind as we pray And as a result of that, we would see great answers to our prayer and know that it is because they will further your kingdom. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. To have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon