Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we remember that we are saved solely by your Grace through faith. That it's not of ourselves, but it's a gift that you have given us. And Father, we fall short so many times. We struggle in this life with different Trials and tribulations. And Father, our hope is in you and you alone. And you are our highest You're the one that we come to. And Father, we're thankful for the grace that you have bestowed upon us and the privilege you give us to be able to come come to you in our times of trial and trouble. And we're thankful for your word and the great and precious promises that you give us through your word. That we would rely and trust solely in your word and be led by your Spirit. And as we come to your word this morning, open our hearts, open our ears, Lord, unstoppably them and open our eyes that we may hear from you this morning through your word. I pray for Brother Henrique, Father, that you will give him the wisdom and discernment. And the strength and ability to bring forth your word. And may we be receptive to it. And may we be changed from being in your house this morning. under your word, then when we came in, may we be different as we go out, trusting in your word. In Jesus' name. Amen. We are going to be in 2 Corinthians chapter 12 this morning, verses 1 through 10. 2 Corinthians chapter 12, verses 1 through 10. It is doubtless not profitable for me to boast. I will come to visions and revelations of the Lord. I know a man in Christ who fourteen years ago, whether in the body I do not know, or whether out of the body, I do not know. God knows Such a one was caught up to the third heaven. And I know such a man, whether in the body or out of the body, I do not know, but God knows. How he was caught up into paradise and heard inexpressible words, which is not lawful for a man to utter. Of such a one I will boast, yet of myself I will not boast, except in my infirmities. For though I might desire to boast, I will not be a fool, for I will speak the truth, but I will refrain lest any one should think of me above what he sees me To be or hears from me. And lest I should be exalted above measure by the abundance of the revelations, a thorn in the flesh was given to me. A messenger of Satan, to buffet me, lest I be exalted above measure. Concerning this thing I pleaded with the Lord three times that it might depart from me And he said to me, My grace is sufficient for you, for my strength is made perfect in weakness. Therefore, most gladly I will rather boast in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me. And therefore I take pleasure in my infirmities, in reproaches, in needs, in persecutions, in distress, for Christ's sake For when I am weak, then I am strong. I have become a fool in boasting. You have compelled me, for I ought to have been compelled Thank you, Harry, for reading the passage to us this morning. Our focus this morning will be on verses ten through seventeen. Spe or sorry, seven through ten, I should say. Um I appreciate Harry always reading. for us. And um so if you're not there already, you should be. Second Corinthians chapter twelve. And um In this passage we have a familiar setting, something that we have probably read, something we've studied, something we have likely uh even been comforted by in the past. However, I always find that these well-known passages are so important to dive into And look at because sometimes we forget things. Other times we've missed things actually over the years, or even perhaps misinterpreted. And I think there are some great truths that we can look at this morning. So going back probably twenty some years ago, maybe not quite twenty years ago, I was in college and um Miranda and I were dating at the time. In fact we might have been engaged. And for those who know the college experience, and even those who perhaps don't, uh there's a common thing that takes place, and that's student body uh president elections. Call those things. Those are always fun. They can be fun. Sometimes they get a little out of hand. I remember uh this particular year Miranda was actually a part of one of the groups that were being going to be uh voted upon. She was part of the group. Uh their slogan was run with us. And they even got some of my music with chariots of the chariots of fire and you know they had this whole imagery going on and then their opponents uh was uh raise the bar. That was their slogan. I I recall this. And um So it was, you know, it was an intense battle. And actually I think it was really close, but Miranda's run with us, that that group ended up not winning, and the raise the bar group won And um you know he uh and the the guy that that became student body president, he's a he's a good guy. You know, he's he's obviously he he brought with him a a tech savvy element and you know we knew he would do a good job. job and so forth. Now I do recall though that there was um uh Thursdays were typically the the student body activity days in Chapel. And they decided that they would have this bench press competition. Right? And so they got some of the beefiest, um, burliest guys. No, I was not one of them. I know what you're thinking. Um Not me. It wasn't wasn't me. And um and I remember it coming down to like five left and they kept putting more weight onto it, right? And Um then it got narrowed down to three and those three if I remember right they just lasted a long time. It was two eighty-five, two ninety, three hundred, three ten. Like they were just it was just pumping it up, right? And it was getting intense like the the chapel was getting really loud, everyone was getting really excited until finally uh the two of them fell off and then the one guy actually was still going like it was no big deal. I don't know Well I don't know. I don't know how you do that. But um so we crowned the victor, right? And there was the the announcer, the moderator or such, and he had the mic and he was and he said to the w the winner, the student body president, his name was Ryan, and he said, Hey Ryan, why don't you give it a shot? And he's like, No, no, no, no, no, I don't want to do that that. And he said, no no no look, we will take all the weights off and you go ahead and you try it, right? And poor Ryan, he was a good sport. He got there to the bench, he laid down, the guys took all the weights off. He grabbed the bar, he took it off of the the pedestals, it came down, and it did not go up. And that's when that's when Tim, who lost student body president, said, Hey Ryan, raise the bar, Ryan. Come on, Ryan, why don't you raise the bar? I mean the heckles, like it was all Very funny, at Ryan's expense. Ryan was engaged at the time too, and the moderators a said to his Sarah, are you are you sure? And she was very confident, and I believe they're still married to this day. It did not the r the bar was not raised at that particular time. Why do I even tell this story? What are you talking about, Enrique? Why are we talking about this? Well I'm bringing to the forefront something that's pretty common across all cultures. Strength is valued. Weakness is not. Strength equals good Weakness equals bad. Strength strength is something to be, you know, um Praised and glorified, you know, the f the more you can lift, the farther you can run, all these things, like these are awesome things. If you are weak and you're not able to do certain things, well you're the subject of Ridicule, teasing, you could get made fun of, you could get ostracized. Those types of things are what typically happens all across this world, right? Strength is valued. Weakness is not. But the truth is, some of us are stronger than others. Some of us have different weaknesses. How are we supposed to view our weaknesses? Now weaknesses come in various forms, right? Weakness can come in various forms. How are we to view them? How does God view them? We mentioned already this is a fairly familiar passage. However, even in this familiar passage, there are some startling statements that we find here. Uh statements that if we really stop to consider them, they they at face value they sound outlandish, perhaps even ridiculous. They go against our typical way of thinking. Is for instance, is Paul speaking in a hyperbole when he says he delights in his weaknesses? Because he says that, right? Is that just what is that? Is he exaggerating in some way when he states when he is weak, then he is strong? Could he really mean that? What does that even mean? God tells Paul in this passage ultimately that his grace is sufficient and his strength is made perfect and weakness. The lesson that we're seeing here from this text is that we are to rely on God's strength through the various weaknesses that we could have How do we do that? How do we rely on God? How does Christ's strength rest upon us, as it says in the passage? How does this happen? We're going to see this morning how God's strength and grace can rest upon us. So we're going to look and start here. We're going to focus on verses 7 and 8 from the passage, 7 and 8. And we're going to see the beginning here. That relying on God's strength begins with humbly acknowledging our weaknesses. Relying on God's strength begins with humbly acknowledging our weaknesses. Now, we've seen from earlier in the passage, verses 1 through 6, that delivered to Paul were these visions of an incredible nature. He doesn't even explain what they are. He doesn't say what he talks about. But he says that they are so magnificent. And so remarkable that to boast about himself, the temptation to glorify himself as a result of what he saw and experienced was very high. And so God's design that we're seeing here is that he is preventing this from happening in the life of Paul. And he prov God prevents this from happening in ways that we might consider rather well unexpected. What does it say again? It says, unless I should be exalted above measure by the abundance of the revelations. A thorn in the flesh was given to me, a messenger of Satan to buffet me, lest I be exalted above measure. You notice how he says that twice there. He starts that verse with exalted above measure, ends with the same. Statement. Concerning this thing I pleaded with the Lord three times that it might depart from me. So it talks about the abundance of the revelations. So there's a little question as to is this the quantity or the quality? Is it so many revelations that that this needed to happen? But most agree that this would be the quality of the revelation. The visions were so grand, the the quality of them, what was contained in them was so magnificent. That is the reason God brought this thorn in the flesh to him. And that brings us then to a very common question and very debated question in this passage: is what is the thorn? I'm going to suggest to you at the outset that we don't know. He doesn't tell us. He does not tell us. But I think what we do see are some things, there are some there are some possibilities, and I think there is a at least a good way to lean. I I would say it that way. The main suggestions that for this thorn are a demonic torturer, a literal demonic torturer. uh perhaps a difficult temptation that he was dealing with or even a physical ailment. The word thorn is is used during that time the tip that is the typical translation of this word, but it was often used in other uh in in the vernacular of that time as a stake, something very big. No, we think thorn and we think of the little the little pricklies on a on a rose bush or or something like that. You know, the largest thorn I've ever seen came off of a tree and it was maybe that big. And that's even not very big compared to really what the imagery is talking about. This is really a better word probably for our understanding would be a stake. A stake that goes into the ground. You know, something that's quite long. and something and that's the idea of that's the thorn in the flesh or the stake in the flesh. So this isn't this isn't like a little thing that's annoying you and you can pull out and throw away and say that's bad I Yeah, and then maybe you get a little bit of blood and then it's it'll heal up. No, we're talking about something that's impaling is the idea. Now, again, this isn't likely literally impaling him, but it is It is um it is there is some he's taking some imagery, he's taking some some license to to So, one of the things that helps us with understanding what this is is number one what we just talked about that it's really a stake. Um it it was used um A stake in the flesh was a common phrase used in that time. I think maybe something in our vernacular would be a pain in the neck. You know, that's something that we say pretty often, right? A stake in the flesh was a common figure of speech for that day. But it was used for more than just a pain in the neck. It was used for this is something that is painfully it's very it's excruci So, what could it be? Well, I don't believe that it is a demonic torturer. I don't believe that that is necessarily what's going on. Exactly. It does say that it is a messenger from Satan, and we'll get to that in a moment. It's possible that it is a difficult temptation, but we don't really see that in this passage. And we don't have any also biblical internal evidence to suggest that. But what we do see is that there are some other elements in Paul's life from this letter and other letters that perhaps give us some some insight. In Galatians 4, he talks about, 4. 14 specifically, he talks about an illness that he had that was a trial to him And in verse 15 of the same same chapter, he says, You would have torn out your eyes and given them to me. It is definitely clear that he had some sort of eye condition. How severe it was necessarily, not possi not positive, but he closes the letter of Galatians, where he says he writes with his own hand, and he He states specifically in verse 6, uh chapter 6, verse 11, how he says, he talks about the large letters that he uses. So clearly it it is something to do, his eyes are affected in some way, and it's at least some sort of eye disability, if not something that also hurt him as well. Uh in other in other parts of First Corinthians um it talks about also Uh Paul was Paul Paul was not known as a as a magnificent speaker, especially in First Corinthians it talks about that. How you know Paul Apollos was the main guy who was very vocal and very vibrant and educated and so forth. And Paul was educated very much too. But he didn't come he talk he talks about not coming to the Corinthians in in power or in persuasive words of man's wisdom. He just came to them with the truth of the gospel. Because of this, some folks in Corinth derided Paul. They viewed him as something less and even questioned his apostleship in many cases. Cases. And you see him having to to defend his apostleship in both letters. So I believe that the best the best the way I would lean at least is that this is some sort of physical affliction that Paul is is expens d um describing and experiencing. And that this physical um this physical affliction could a actually have to do with the eye problem that that he discusses in other in other And that's really all the time that I'd really like to spend on that. There's much there are other options. There are some interesting, weird ones out there, but I think that this is the best thing to to talk about. The reality is is that this is likely something that the Corinthian church was aware of. He doesn't describe it internally, likely because they knew what he was talking about already. And that's something that the commentators brought out as well. But the purpose of the thorn, or the purpose of the stake in the flesh, is really the intent here, and that's what we want to focus on. The reason that it was sent to to Paul is that it was an effective cure for any mistaken pride or euphor uh euphoria that the visions might evoke in him. God wanted Paul to remain humble and fully aware of his own weakness. And honestly, it's it's not such a bad thing to have this ambiguity about his his ailment, whatever it might be. Because we all, in in many cases, have the ability to personalize this in a certain way where we also have thorns, we also have stakes in our lives. And this is an important and appropriate lesson for us to learn as well. We're going to see later specifically, but I want to just preface it here a little bit And maybe foreshadow a little bit. Weaknesses in this passage are it's talk likely talking about a physical ailment in this case, but it's not limited to that. I would suggest that weaknesses can Can be physical for sure. They can also be mental, mental slash, emotional, and they can be spiritual weaknesses as well. And we'll flesh that out a little bit more So the purpose is that that God wanted this to be a constant reminder of his grace and God's power working through Paul. And that is how we ought to be looking at our weaknesses as well. More on that in a bit. Now it does say that this is a messenger of Satan. There is no doubt about that. And most of the commentators talk about the fact that this is this is the adver our adversary, right? And we're not we're not uh unfamiliar with Satan's um actions and the We've seen in other portions like Job where Satan seeks to destroy God's people through trials and weaknesses and tribulations. God though always has a different plan and a different purpose for all of those. Satan believes he can he knows the heart and he knows what will make people crack, but only God truly knows the heart. And so God can not not only know the heart, but he can also use all of these things for the per for his purposes and plans in his life. And so also it says uh that we can we can look at the fact that God's as one commentator put it, Satan comes as God's adversary to lure people away from God's rule. Or he comes as God's proxy to implement trials God authorizes. Ultimately, either way, God is in control and behind the situation. Now we see here in verse 8 Paul's initial response. What is Paul's initial response that we see? His initial response is: please remove this. Please remove it from me. And the truth is this request, I mean, it's it's kind of refreshing actually. We um we often see Paul's writings and we see what he says and how he eloquently puts things in his his in his letters and we elevate Paul in a in a in a very high regard, but it's it's good to see some humanity in in these in in this individual. He does what any of us would do immediately. He asks for it to go away. And he doesn't ask for it once. It says that he asks for it three times. It is true that most of us in the beginning of offering of problems in the beginning of weaknesses that we are experiencing. We are not able to really grasp the big picture of what's going on. We we focus on the then and now and and what what we want to happen right away. One commentator put it this way. is that Paul has resigned himself to submit to God's will about his weakness and no longer makes this request. So I should say he he he makes it three times, but then he gets his answer, and it's maybe at the time not the answer he wanted But it says here also, times come in our lives when we must learn to accept what is inescapable and then listen for what God is saying to us through it. We might find that we are mistaken about what we think is best for us and for God's work. So, Paul, we see here he he he acknowledges what is taking place in his life with this thorn in the flesh, this stake in the flesh. He he s he sees his weakness and he asks for the the stake to be removed so that he can then become strong in his in his own in his own Sense. But God's response is different. He acknowledges the weakness. We also must acknowledge our weaknesses. and do what they and and understand them for what they are. You know, the truth is, in many cases, now maybe this is a personality thing a little bit, varies from person to person. Some of us when we are faced with weakness we may end up rather paralyzed by it. Rather we're we're we're stuck, we stop. We we don't go forward any longer. Others, perhaps, when we are faced with weaknesses of varying kinds, we almost deny it. We we we end up in in a sort of denial and don't acknowledge it. And often the denial, the root of that, is actually the opposite of what God intends. The denial is there is because of pride. We we seek to we seek to we we say we we see weakness and we say, well that's bad. That's our initial response, right? And so we we then We then come to and we think about it and we say, no, no, I can't be weak in this. That's impossible. And so we deny the weakness and then we try to press on in our own strength. And what invariably happens We burn out actually as we try and fight this weakness on our own We must acknowledge weakness for what it is. If we see it in our lives, it has to be, we have to come to an understanding of it. Admitting weakness is difficult. Accepting weakness can be more difficult. Going to God with our weakness sounds like it should be easy, but even that can be hard for us to do. If we are weakened in some way, we should not deny it and we should go to God in prayer with it. That is, eventually, at least, what Paul does And then he gets his response, and we're going to look at that here momentarily. So first we see that relying on God's grace begins with humility. It means humbly acknowledging our weakness. And going to God with our weakness. Now we see that it also includes knowing the sufficiency of God's grace. So it begins with humility, begins with acknowledging our weakness, going to God in our weakness, not trying to rise above it in our own strength. And then it also includes knowing the sufficiency of God's grace. This comes from the first half of verse 9. So it says here, and he said to me, this is God's response, My grace is sufficient for you. My strength is made perfect in weakness. When we go to God in regards to a weakness, in regards to an infirmity, we we have a particular answer in mind that we're looking for. And it is often the same that Paul expresses. We want it removed. Whether it's physical, whether it's mental, whether it's spiritual we would rather have this obstacle, this hindrance, removed s from us so that we can press through freely. And we do that in a lot of other scenarios, right? I mean if if uh you know if if you're if you're um if you're uh exercising or you're you're playing a sport like some of the guys we we like to play at tennis uh on mondays or tuesdays. Um Uh he's not here today. I wanted to pick on him when he was here. That's a bummer. Stefan, somehow, and the guys know this. Stefan comes and plays tennis. straight from work it seems in his pants and boots and it's like ninety one mile uh ninety one uh degrees outside and he still gets every ball that is hit to him and it's remarkable And I go, uh I'm in shorts and light shirt and you know it's I wanna be free. I w I don't want these hindrances. Somehow he manages maybe he's applying this passage and I don't know it. Probably not. That's just Stefan. He's he's So he we we see that for the most part if we're normal. We we have a hindrance and we we get rid of it. We put it to the side. We we shed weight off of you know uh I wouldn't want to play tennis with all my work clothes on. I wouldn't want to run with all my work clothes on. Those types of things. Um so we that it's the natural thing. We we approach life that way most of the time in in almost every aspect But in our spiritual walk and the path that God has before us, God is suggesting and showing us that the path that He has set before us is not without hindrances. It's not without weaknesses. It includes these. And that's by God's design. So his answer to Paul is the answer that he gives to all of his people. My grace is sufficient for you. My strength is made perfect in weakness. So with that in mind, now it is not wrong. I don't know I do not believe that it is wrong for to to ask God to remove a particular weakness. If that is our prayer, we should offer that to God. And He may. He may in His wisdom decide to do that. However, we ought to anticipate. the answer that Paul has given in this passage. He may say, No, you will keep this weakness. It's by my design, and I will give you grace and strength to overcome it. Now this grey this word grace in this passage, you know, we that's we sing about that a lot and we we often define it as what? It's it's God's unmerited favor, right? That and that's a very common um definition. And and while that's not necessarily wrong to apply that here. I think that is there. This because it is coupled with strength, we have just a slightly different nuance of this word here. It is the common word that's used all over the New Testament. But because he says, my grace is sufficient. My grace is sufficient. This is most likely denoting more like divine power, because it is coupled with strength and it is sufficient. It is the idea of to be to be satisfied with, it is suffice for, it is enough. It's very simple understanding. For Paul, the promise that whatever the messenger of Satan afflicted him with, he will be given sufficient strength to bear up under this load that he is expected. Experiencing. Now it you know, it's it's so common for us to think that It's it's it's a multi millennia um old understanding of of weakness is bad, strength is good, remove weakness so that you can be strong and that is the way that you should live life. And even in circles of evangelicalism today, we see strands of that thinking. Even in those that that at least profess Christ and preach the gospel, there's a belief that God's will is that everyone should be healthy and happy. And that if healing doesn't occur, or or as you know, to put it in our wording, if hindrances and weaknesses aren't removed, that it's just because you lack faith. You lack the proper belief, you lack the proper uh you just haven't elevated enough. And that just does not s that does not align with this passage. It doesn't align with the scripture, the teaching of Scripture as a whole. God's plan for his people individually remains supreme. It reigns supreme That plan includes weaknesses. And I don't have any problem saying that I believe that that plan would include weaknesses always. for every believer. Some weaknesses might be more robust than others But God has this plan in mind. At some level, God's people will endure weaknesses Maybe for a short time, maybe for years, maybe their entire lives. And we ought not resist this type of working in our lives when God selects it for us. I want to quote a few of the different commentators that what they said, because I I can't say it any better than what they've how they put it here. God's desire God desires that his power rest on his people. But this cannot be done with people who are proud and self-reliant. God desires that his power rests in his people, but this cannot be done with people who are proud and self-reliant. Another one says, where human strength abounds, the effects of divine power may be overlooked. But where human strength fails, the power is clearly seen to be God's Where human strength abounds, the effects of down divine power may be overlooked. But where human strength fails, the power is clearly seen to be God. God's. And another one, man's extremity is God's opportunity. Man's security is Satan's opportunity. God's way is not to take his children out of trial. But to give them strength to bear up against it. God's answer, God's answer, more often than not, I believe, is that his strength is sufficient for us His grace is sufficient for us. And then he says again, though, my strength is made perfect in weakness. So this is explaining how this works. What does it mean that God's strength is made perfect in weakness? And I think the best uh the best way I saw it to f explained was like this. So God's power neither displaces weakness nor overcomes it. Doesn't displace it, doesn't move it out of the way, doesn't overcome it like like like that. On the contrary, it comes to its full strength in it comes to its full strength in it, through it. So we will always be cognizant of the weakness. is the idea. If God's power displaced it, then we wouldn't be aware of it anymore. Make sense? If if God's power overcame it, then we would not also, we will also wouldn't be aware of it anymore. No, no. The weakness is basically front and center there in our minds. And it is then in which Christ's power, God's power, God's grace. resides in us. And really brings us then to this question Because this this can make us feel a little uncomfortable, especially with certain weaknesses that God allows into our lives. Whether it's physical, mental, emotional, spiritual, do we really believe that God's grace is enough? That's key. God says specifically, it is sufficient, it is enough. Do we believe that? If you don't believe it, then you're missing something. You're missing an element to what God's grace really can do in you your life and maybe it's because you you haven't really had the opportunity or yielded yourself to be a be under the influence of God's grace in that sense. Perhaps you are very much in the position of someone who takes on weaknesses by the horns and just wrestles them into submission. Maybe you deny it, maybe maybe you overlook them, maybe either way, you're not allowing God's grace. to become the sole provider for your strength. Do we really believe God's grace is enough? Whatever and and here's I think some insight that can help. Because a lot of us would rather believe, no, what I have to do in my life would be easier with no hindrances. That's sort of what's on the table. Naturally we would want to say, no, life Responsibilities, things I need to accomplish, they would all be easier without hindrances. God says, no, hindrances remain, weaknesses remain. This is actually better for you. this way. Now that goes against the grain, does it not? It goes against the grain. Whatever we endeavor to do, we believe it would be easier with no hindrances. It does make good sense But accomplishments are rarely done without the hindrance of weakness involved. In Paul's case, he likely believed that the weakness he was feeling was a hindrance to his ministry. And if it really was an eye problem of some sort that was painful, yeah, that sounds really debilitating. He believed he could minister better with it gone. God had other plans. God wanted him to rely on God's strength and grace for the work that he had set for him. And so it is with us today. Whatever weaknesses we are experiencing, God's grace is available to strengthen us through it. And it really comes down to this question. What should we really want? What should we really want? Should we want a hindrance-free experience where we rely on our own power? Or should we want a weakness-field life where we gain divine power from God? Naturally we would say, no, I want the weakness-free life. I want the hindrance-free life. I don't want obstacles. I don't want things that debilitate me, whatever form they come in. That way I can do it better. I can do it better. And therein lies the problem. You think you can do it better without God's help. And God is telling you no. We ought to rather want, we we should embrace the weaknesses that we have in life, however they form, whatever they look like. So that we can gain the divine power from God. We can gain His grace. And let me ask you, what would be more effective? Your life with your own power with no hindrances, or your life with all the weaknesses and God's power resting upon you. Now we have seen that relying on God's strength it begins with humility, acknowledging our weaknesses, going to God with them. And also we've seen just now that we need to know and rest in the sufficiency of God's grace. But none of this will really happen. None of this, this will all remain a foreign concept to us, I believe, unless we embrace the third point here that we see in this passage. We see that in order to rely fully on God's strength, it requires that we have a new perspective on our weaknesses as a whole. So in just the space of a few verses, now I don't know how long this took for Paul. I don't know if it was hours, days, months, whatever it was. But at least in the space of a few verses, he's gone from, I want this stake in my life removed, he's gone from that to a whole new perspective. So look at the second half of 9b. It says, Therefore, most gladly I will rather boast in my infirmities. That the power of Christ may rest upon me. Therefore I take pleasure in infirmities, in reproaches, in needs, in persecutions, and distresses for Christ's sake For when I am weak, then I am strong. What a shift I mean he's gone from saying, we want I want this removed to I take pleasure in them. He he goes from I want it to be removed to saying I boast in them I mean on the surface this sounds rather ridiculous. How many of you have ever gone to someone and just bragged about how bad you feel? Have you ever have you ever had someone come to you and said, Man, this injury or or this this uh debilitating m uh mental you know di uh deficiency, it's really great. I love it. I wanna I wanna share it with you. No, that it doesn't happen, right? And and it kind of seems like You could read this rather casually and say, I mean, has Paul lost his mind? Like, if someone came to us like that, we would say, you're kind of nuts. You're kind of crazy. What kind of masochist are you? Like what are you doing to thinking this way? I mean, n no one talks this way. No one talks about really enjoying that really you know that week-long stay in the hospital. No one no one talks like this. What does it mean then that he says, I delight in? I delight in, I boast in. What what is what is he getting at here? Well, it means that he fully accepts The way Christ's power works in his life through his weaknesses. What it doesn't mean is that there isn't any groaning It doesn't mean that there are never that the burden is always light. It doesn't mean that it's always easy. Remember, the weakness does not get removed, folks. It stays there. It is there. But he knows that all this suffering it follows the precedent of Christ's suffering, right? Paul even talks about it in Philippians three. Uh where he he he wants to know his Lord, he wants to know Christ and the fellowship of his sufferings. This was something that God was enabling Paul to do, to endure, not to just escape. And look what it says next here. It says in verse 9, I would rather boast in my infirmities. I will glory in them. I will glory in them. How can you say that? That the power of Christ may rest upon me. that talks about dwelling, residing in. Christ's power takes residence in us. We who have been dealing with weaknesses, weaknesses that maybe we can even think of right now in any given area, do we realize that the power of Christ resides in you, in that state, more than any other. So we see here then, he talks about what he boasts in, he talks about the reason for it is that that this is when this is when The power of Christ dwells in him, resides in him. So what qualifies as weakness or weaknesses? Well, he gives us a little list here in verse 10. Um most of the commentators state that the first one there, there are five that are mentioned, but the first one, infirmities, is the same as weaknesses. So he's giving he's giving you a heading. These are the infirmities. I take pleasure in infirmities. And then he says, infirmities look like this: reproaches, um, uh needs, persecutions, and distresses. These are all all four of these are troubles that Paul faced in his in his travels and his ministry. So he defines them by this. So the first one there is reproaches. This is these are things that he experienced, and they are physical in nature. It is likely talking about the public whippings that he experienced, the imprisonments that he experienced. These are the reproaches that that he uh is talking about there Needs, these are hardships that he would face while in ministry. The things that he was lacking. Uh sometimes, as we we saw in uh Philippians, there he sometimes he had much and more than he needed. Sometimes he had less than he he needed in certain cases. Those were weaknesses that he experienced Next are persecu uh yes, persecutions. Persecutions. He's likely talking about specifically the hostile Jewish nation that was against him. during this time. At times you may remember there were there were times where Jewish leaders would follow him city to city and give him trouble and so forth. And he may be talking about that in particular. And then distresses, distresses he mentions here. Sometimes this word is used when finding oneself in a tight corner or like a narrow strait, and there's no way to escape. Uh it it was used in in times when uh in in the idea of an army that's attacking, but they end up in a narrow path and they can't maneuver and they can't escape or retreat. And so we see, like we mentioned earlier, all of these basically amount to three simple categories for us: weaknesses in that are physical, weaknesses that are mental, weaknesses that are Sometimes weaknesses that we experience are self-inflicted. Sometimes, perhaps, they are even from satanic origin. Other times, they are through no fault of our own. We have these things in our lives, and we have them constantly to varying degrees. And we have some options in front of us in regards to these weaknesses. We could wallow in the weakness. We could. We could wallow in it. That might lead us to just self-pity. It might lead us to a a point where we are crippled. And uh uh mentally and we really cannot be used for God as He would want. Weaknesses can do that. Weakness weaknesses can discourage us to the point where We we cannot get past what we are experiencing. As we mentioned before, we could stand up to the weaknesses in our own strength. And this might work for a little while, but inevitably we will burn out. We don't have enough strength to overcome it. We could play a victim mentality and be stuck on thinking we we do not deserve this weakness. We compare ourselves to others and say, well, they don't have to deal with that. They don't have to deal with this. They don't have to deal with this mental struggle or this physical ailment. Or we could see God's hand in our lives And understand that weaknesses are from the Lord. They are built into our lives to see the power of Christ rest upon us Built in. Often we we experience weaknesses and we can we can sometimes think that well it's just bad luck You know, I was wrong place, wrong time, and and this happened. Um sometimes we can we can think of it that way Do you really think, do you really think that whatever weaknesses you experience, do you really think they're accidental? Do you really think that the universe is just against you, as I hear some co-workers say at times? Feels it might feel like that. Sure, it might feel like that. No, the truth is much more comforting, friends. They're built in. They're part of the package that God has for you in order that Christ's power may dwell in you, reside in you. Now, this seems a bit paradoxical, does it not? How can we be strong when we are weak? Physically that makes no sense, right? Either you're you can lift lift three hundred ten pounds, a banchit, or or you can't. This is different. And it's talked about it in one of the commentaries, and I'm going to read the quote here. It says, the paradox is noted by all. It is sometimes Suggested that Paul is saying that whenever God's servants humble themselves and acknowledge their weakness, Christ's power can flow through them. But the point throughout has been that Christ's power is perfected in Not in spite of weakness. It is likelier that Paul is asserting that the weaknesses themselves represent the effective working of Christ. How so? We often think that without human strength we are destined to fail, and without personal courage, we are bound to falter. Yet, as good as these are, such qualities tend to push us to self-sufficiency. And away from God dependency. Enduring strength lies in God alone. Weakness. Weakness equals power, then, is an incorrect formula. It is not weakness equals power Weakness, rather, equals Christ's power, Christ's opportunity to display his power and have his power reside in you. What makes Paul weak here, as we're seeing, allows the power of Christ to work through him all the more. We are most powerful when we are least reliant on our own resources. There actually isn't a time, really, when you think about it, there isn't a time when we aren't weak to some degree. Is that not true? There are elements, there are times when we are weak. And there are, I can't think of any times when we're really not, in some degree. We are always in a position of needing God's grace. And this is how it has been throughout all of human history. When God interacts with his people, we see this over and over again. Especially when you look at the Old Testament, for example, Abraham confesses to God in Genesis 18:27 that he is nothing but dust and ashes. Moses asks of God in and in Exodus 3. 11, who am I that I should go to Pharaoh and bring the Israelites out of Egypt? Gideon asks in Judges 6. 15, how can I save Israel? My clan is the weakest in Manasseh, and I am the least in my family. David even says in 1 Samuel 18, 23, Do you think it a small matter to become the king's son-in-law? I am only a poor man, little known. In all of these cases and more, we see God's basic way of operating in the world 1 Corinthians 1 27 through 29. But God chose the foolish things of the world to shame the wise. God chose the weak things of the world to shame the strong. He chose the lowly things of this world, and the despised things, and the things that are not, to nullify the things that are. Why? So that no one may boast before him. This all presupposes, however, that you have access to this power in the first place. Maybe you're here and you have never really Experience, never even seen God's sustaining grace and strength when you had times of need. I would suggest that it's possible that if that's the case, maybe you don't actually belong to God in the first place. It is possible that that's the case. The grace and power that our text is talking about this morning is for those who have repented of their sin. Been made alive by trusting in the sacrifice that Jesus gave. He gave himself to the death of the cross that people may depend on that sacrifice for salvation and nothing else. If you have not allowed Christ to be your substitute, when He takes your penalty and you take on His righteousness, then today would be a great day. to make that decision. And if you have more questions about that, I encourage you to see me or one of the others in leadership this morning to talk about that more. As we wrap all this up and we want to take these applications home with us, what do we want to take away from this? Well, number one, weaknesses come in many forms, spiritually, physically, and mentally. It begins by humbly acknowledging our weaknesses We must humbly acknowledge our weaknesses. We can fall into denial in these cases. We can also stubbornly and pridefully deal with them ourselves, thinking that we can handle it. We can do it without help. We must acknowledge these weaknesses and we must go to God in prayer. For his help. We can ask for those weaknesses to be removed, but we must acknowledge that that might not be his plan. And I would suggest that more often than not, it is not his plan. He wants you to remain in many of those weaknesses. Secondly, we must know and believe that God's strengthening grace is sufficient for any weakness. That arises in our life. We must know and believe that God's strengthening grace is sufficient for any weaknesses. That arise in our lives. God told Paul that his grace was sufficient enough. It was enough. It was enough. No matter what God causes in our lives, whatever weaknesses that come into our lives that He has built in purposefully. You can rest assured that he will supply the strength and grace for it, and it will be enough. And then finally, I asked this question. When weaknesses enter into our lives, what is our perspective? What do we think of them? What do we think about weaknesses? Do we do we do we keep this You know, a general understanding of, well, weakness is bad. Strength is good. Mental strength is good. Mentally weak, it's bad. We need to fix that. Physically same, spiritually same. What is our perspective? Our text today is teaching us Weakness is not bad. Actually, weakness is normal. Normal. I know that's countercultural. But it is normal. In some measure, God can work in us and defy to find delight and comfort in our weaknesses of the various kinds that we find in ourselves. We can find security and satisfaction that Christ's strength is resting upon us. I'll ask it again. Would you rather have weaknesses with Christ's power upon you? Or little to no hindrances in your life, little to no weaknesses in your life, and none of Christ's strength. Which would you rather have? Our perspective needs shifting when it comes to the mental, the physical, and the spiritual weaknesses that we encounter. Weakness, it doesn't equal strength, but weakness does equal God's strength, Christ's power residing in you. Weaknesses are those opportunities For that to take place. Let's pray. Father, we come before you and we we first thank you for passing Truths like this we we we need so badly. Because in our in our minds and in our hearts we we get these things backwards. And Lord, I pray that you would do a work and myself and the others in here with us that we would have a proper view of what weaknesses are, really. That we wouldn't seek removal, that we wouldn't strive and do everything we can to become stronger on our own strength. But rather understand that these weaknesses, whether they are physical, mental, spiritual, that they are built in They are part of your plan for us, all so that the power of Christ may reside in us. And I ask, Lord, that we would believe that. We would believe it wholeheartedly. For any of my friends that are going through weaknesses now. And perhaps some that are really acute. I ask, Lord, that you would strengthen them with your grace. I ask that you would make your power clear and evident to them. And that they would be able to see and distinguish what is their own power and what is coming from you. And that they may eventually also boast. And glory in their weaknesses because of the splendor and the magnificence of your strength on their lives. And perhaps, Lord, there are some that also the weaknesses aren't as acute right now. And perhaps uh They're acknowledg there's acknowledgement of them, but they're not too difficult. But it may be, Lord, that weaknesses of a more acute nature are coming down the road that you have built in. And I pray, Lord, I pray that you would ingrain these truths in us now, so that when the weaknesses Do come, the hard ones, the ones that we initi immediately say we want removed from us, when those come, that we would seek the power of Christ by relying on your grace. rather than relying on ourselves or denying or trying to remove them ourselves. We pray, Lord, all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.