Let's pray together. Father, we do come to you and as we s just sang This world is not our home. And if we're having the right kind of heart, we ought to say, you can have all this world, but give me Jesus. Because it is still the cross. Lord, our desire should be for your name to be lifted high, for Christ to be exalted. That it is in him we live and move and have our being. And we confess, Father, that very frequently it is easy for us to get off track in our motives, where we are living for self rather than living for Christ Where the circumstances of our lives or the trials that we go through turn our cause us to turn our gaze away from you Instead of turning our gaze toward you. We thank you for the testimony of the Apostle Paul in Philippians. That through trials and difficulties, through mixed motives and difficult issues, his gaze was focused on Christ. And we pray, Lord, that you would help us this morning to readjust our thinking and our focus. And the words of your scriptures this morning would cause our minds and hearts to focus on Christ as well. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. I'd like to invite you to take your Bibles and turn to the book of Philippians. Harry will be preaching this from this text in a few moments. We want to turn there now. And we'll be reading from verses 12 through 18 of this chapter. This is a Book of the Bible. It's a prison epistle. Paul's in prison when he wrote this book. It is a book, of course, written by the Apostle Paul to the Church of Philippa, Philippi to thank them. for their support of him, but also to encourage them to rejoice in Christ. Reading, picking up in verse 12 of chapter 1. But I want you to know, brethren, that the things which happen to me have actually turned out for the furtherance of the gospel. So that it has become evident to the whole palace guard and all the rest that my chains are in Christ. And most of the brethren in the Lord, having become confident by my chains, are having become confident become confident by my chains, are much more bold to speak the word without fear. Some indeed preach Christ even from envy and strife, and some also from goodwill. The former preached Christ from selfish ambition, not sincerely, supposing to add affliction to my chains. But the latter out of love, knowing that I am appointed for the defense of the gospel. What then? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is preached. And in this I rejoice, yes, and will rejoice. I want to take a little different twist on this passage this morning and to help us and encourage us. And I entitled this, Joy in the Midst of Trial. And when you read what was just written to us and all throughout the book of uh Philippians, there is great joy mentioned so many times by Hall. And the question comes to mind is as we begin to look at this This is a trial that Paul is going through. It is a situation. It is his circumstances at this point in time. And so my question this morning to begin would be this: Do we think of our trials and our circumstances that we go through? Do we think of them as obstacles? Do we think of them as an inconvenience? Do we think of them as a burden? Are we not quick to want to get through the trial so we don't have to suffer so much pain and so much agony and all that is going on in our life But my second question is, or do we think of our trials as an opportunity? This is an attitude of the heart. It's an attitude of the mind. And if we are looking at it in the first question as an obstacle, And it is something that's inconvenient at this time. I would like to get through it so I can get on with my life, and so on and so forth. Then we will not understand what's going on with Paul here. As we think about Paul, one thing that you will see in here and in Acts, if you want to know. What is going on with Paul at this point in time? You can look at Acts chapter 28 and especially at the end of Acts 28, where it talks about this particular spot that he's in. But when you think about Paul, he's never, you don't hear him complaining. You don't hear him grumbling, well, why God, why am I going through this? Why is this happening to me at this time? You don't hear that from Paul. You don't hear him complaining at all in what's written here. So I want to begin by giving you a little context of what is happening. Uh Pastor touched on it, but uh let's go through it here and see what the situation is as to why Paul is in this predicament. Paul was falsely accused and he was imprisoned in Rome And he asked to be brought to Rome so that he could stand before um um Caesar and be judged by Caesar because he had gone through so much back in uh leading up to this point. where he's in prison here. But he was living under house arrest and he had rented a house near the uh um um Caesar's palace. He was chained to a guard twenty-four hours a day, and he was here for two years. Two whole years. Can you imagine this? Can you imagine being chained to a guard twenty-four hours a day? This guard changed every four hours or six hours. So he had several guards in twenty four hours, but he was always chained to them. Nothing else. He was chained to them. And He had the freedom in this house to be able to receive visitors, and he had the freedom to preach the gospel, he had the freedom to teach He had these freedoms even though his change will guard twenty-four hours a day cannot get out of the house. He is to stay there. His food had to be prepared, uh whether he did it or the people that they brought in, uh Christian uh brothers and sisters, but it wasn't provided for him. And so everything here that we see he's confined And if you've ever had the uh opportunity or misfortune to be in prison or visit prison, uh either way, that confinement Is hard to go through. But here we see Paul. The Philippian church now, they had heard about this and they decided to send money and supplies by the hand of a man named Epirotius. who would stay and help Paul when he got there. But here, Epirodius became ill almost to the point of death. You can imagine Paul. And after he had recovered, Paul was writing this letter for Ephirodius to carry by hand To the Philippian church to encourage them and let them know his situation. So, when you're in this situation This man brings you supplies and food and stuff that you may need, and then gets ill almost to the point of death. This is part of his trial. And then we find, as he recovered and went back, Paul thought that they might have misinterpreted his difficulties and became disillusioned or discouraged back in the Philippian church. And therefore this brings us up to verse twelve. And Paul is writing now to the church. This is what he says. I want you to know, brethren. This is something he wanted them to know. He said that the things that have happened to me actually turned out for the furtherance of the gospel. Now you can imagine the mindset back at the Philippian church, how much joy this would bring to the Philippian church that even though he's in prison This is going on. Paul wanted them to know that God's blessing and power were still with him even in prison, even in his trial. He was not out of the will of God. He wasn't there because he was guilty. He was in the will of God. And that's God's work. The gospel was still continuing. Now this is important for us to catch this because it's the same with our trials. It's the same with our trials and the things that we go through. And so here we want to look at Paul. Paul's calling was actually given that he was to go to the Gentiles. and present the gospel. But he says here in um one seven here, he said that my calling is to The defense and confirmation of the gospel. And Paul's focus was Jesus Christ and him crucified in 1 Corinthians 2. 2. And he also says that Paul's light is to live as Christ and to die as gain. We find that in verse 21. Now if you look over in Ephesians 6, 20, now Paul, here in this prison, was also writing letters to Ephesian church. He was writing to the Colossae Church in Colossae, the church in Philippians, and he says this in Ephesians 6. 20. He says, I am an ambassador for Christ in chains that I may speak boldly, that I may speak boldly through truth. And so then we find that Paul was not hindered at all by his circumstances. When Paul was with, was not in prison, he was with some friends, fellow believers. He um they were saying that he should not go up to Jerusalem because he may be in trouble, he may get beaten and be put in jail. But here's what Paul responded. He says What do you mean by weeping and breaking my heart? For I am ready not only to be bound, but am also ready to die in Jerusalem for the name of Jesus Christ. Christ. To live is Christ. To die is gain is Paul's life. So We find here now, this is the message that he is sending to the church. And if you look here in verse 12, where it says This is really key here. He says that the things that have happened to me, being in prison, now he's waiting here For to go before um Caesar for his trial. He's waiting. He's been two years waiting. change regard twenty-four hours a day. And here w if you would think about that, I'm thinking about my situations and my trials, and are they anything Like this. Trials are not easy to go through, are they? They are very hard to go through. But we can learn some things here today It says here that they actually, him being in prison, actually turned out for the furtherance of the gospel. And I like what he says in verse 13. He says, so that it has become evident To the whole palace guard and to all the rest, that my chains are in Christ He says the evidence came to the whole palace guard. Now, this palace guard was pretty a lot of men, a lot of guards. And the whole palace guard. And he says, the rest, who are the rest? It could be Caesar's household. Because it says at the end of Philippians that Caesar's household sends their love uh to the Philippian church. So people in Caesar's household were being saved, being Touched. These guards are being touched. Can you imagine every day happen to see him writing letters or had taken in visitors and speaking the gospel to people and Teaching God's word, it had to affect these. So this is the evidence here we see that the whole palace guard and to all the rest that my chains are in Christ. So What does it mean that his chains are in Christ? It's because of his zeal to preach and his joy amidst the trial. We find out here in several places, but in I like what he says it in verse eighteen, by pretense or truth, Christ is preached. And in this I rejoice and will rejoice. And so we see here, people around Paul who got to know him and Christ through him knew he was no criminal. They knew he was no criminal, but became a prisoner because of his preaching, Jesus Christ, and the message of salvation. This is why he's in prison. And he's preaching this message of salvation, and most of these people that were in contact with him at this time were most likely unbelievers. These guards were probably unbelievers. Caesar's household, probably unbelievers. And it was a stir in Rome. There was a church in Rome, and we see that here that some of the believers were coming there. But we see this here, and it's important for us to see this, that these were mostly unbelievers. And like the palace guard, who was changed every four hours, they were all having the opportunity to come and listen and hear. They had no choice if a change joined to hear what's going on. And I would can just see here Paul actually showing compassion to them. These are the men back in uh uh earlier where they were beaten and put in prison him and silence and even then this this gets me here even then when they're chained to the floor and they were beaten With rods it says. And he's had lashes and everything. But he's laying there at the floor and they are singing hymns and praise Jesus to God. How can we go through a trial and complain and grumble when we see this happening to Paul? And we can say, well, you don't know my trial. understand what's going on. Well it's not Harry speaking here. What you're saying is, God, you don't know me. You don't understand my trial. You don't know what I'm going through And that's a wrong attitude. Anyway, I want to look here now and find out what the Bible says about joy amidst the triumphs. Now we know some of these verses, but I want you to follow along. We're going to be in James chapter 1, 2 to 4. This is one of the verses that a lot of people go to. And it's hard here to understand exactly what James is saying, but we're going to work through this so that we can come to the understanding of why we are to count it all joy. My brethren, he says in James chapter 1, verse 2, my brethren, count it all joy when you fall into various trials. Here's the key word. Knowing. Knowing that the testing of your faith produces patience. But let patience or endurance or perseverance have its perfect work. Now, what does it mean That when we're going through a trial of testing, the testing of our faith is not for God. He already knows our heart and our mind The testing is for us. Will I go through this? How will I get through this? And it's testing us to see if we will stay faithful in the belief of Jesus Christ. Christ and what he has done. We are going through it together with Christ. And we're going to see here and he says to it produces patience You know, most of us, I think we can all agree, most of us, it's if a trial is coming up on us and we have to go through it, we want to hurry up and get to the other end, right? Yeah. But here you have to be patient. You have to wait on the Lord. And he says here, this patience that we have, this endurance and this perseverance, will have a perfect work. What does that mean? And he moves on to say that you may be perfect. This does not mean that you will be perfect in not having any sin anymore. more or any more trials. But what this means is this perfection that we are going towards is spiritual maturity. You will be complete. You will lack nothing and the testing of our faith. If you might for one moment bear with me here. Uh I think about when I'm thinking about this uh patience and this testing and waiting on the Lord. What verse comes to your mind? Probably Isaiah chapter forty, right? Verse thirty-one. He says in Isaiah chapter forty, verse thirty-one. But those who wait on the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings like eagles. They shall run the race, or they shall run, and they will not grow weary, for they shall walk, walk in the spirit. We shall walk worthy and not faint. We have to wait on the Lord as He takes us through this trial. We have to lean on Him and depend on Him. And what we're seeing here is that you may be perfect. spiritually mature and complete, lacking nothing, the testing of our faith, brothers and sisters, is to deepen our communion. And our greater trust in Christ. We want to trust Him more. And if we don't go through trials, it's kind of hard in life to really learn how to trust Jesus Christ. Christ, unless we go through some trials. And this is very clear in Scripture throughout. But here I want to say this also: that in turn, if we go through this and we get this greater trust in Christ It will produce a godly and righteous character in us. Can you imagine when the people were coming before Paul? You think that his character had anything to do with what was going on in the further subject kingdom. God is doing the work. This we understood from the Sunday school class this morning. If you miss the Sunday school classes morning. It really to me it was encouraging because it came alongside of what I'm looking at here. But I want to turn also what the Bible says in Romans five, three to five. Romans chapter three verse Verses 3 to 5. Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial. Steadfast under trial And here we're not being tossed to and fro by all our thoughts and everything else, but we're going through the trial together with Christ, and we are seeking to become more trusting in Christ. And him and not ourselves, and we go through this trial. He says, For when he has stood the test, he will receive the crown of life, which God has promised to those who Love him. And I also had down here Second Corinthians four sixteen through ten. I'm not going to read that, but I want to go to First Peter chapter four, twelve to thirteen. This I think is a very key verse. 1 Peter chapter 4, verses 12 to 13. Beloved, do not think it is strange Concerning the fiery trial which is to try you, as though something strange has happened to you. Don't we, a lot of times, approach trials wondering? Why has this happened to me? Why is this happening now? I have been with so many brothers and sisters, even people who are unsaved. That question always comes up, what is God doing to me Did I do something wrong? The only time that God is going to do something when you do something wrong, it is a discipline. It's not a trial. It can be a trial. But most trials are set for us to grow and to nurture and to become more trusting in Christ. This is what the trial is for. And it says here: do not think it strange. So we need to get that out of our mind. A mindset that we go into a trial, and I will tell you, we have many trials going on in the church today. In our church alone, there are people going through some really tough trials in life. And it says here that you are to rejoice. Right? It says things happen to don't think it's strange when something happens. to you here, but he says, rejoice. Now why would I rejoice? Listen to what he says. Rejoice to the extent that you partake of Christ's suffering. You know, we died with Christ, right? We will suffer with Christ, and we will be raised with Christ. But he says here, partake of Christ's suffering. That when his glory is revealed, You may also be glad with exceeding joy. Can you imagine that in the middle of a trial? Can you imagine having this joy that we're talking about here from Paul? Now I want to the question would come up now is from most people, where does this joy come from? Where does joy come from? It's not anything like what the world would think. So let's take a look. Where does joy come from? We're going to look at a couple passages that will help us with this. And there are some words that also go along with joy. And I'm going to start in John chapter 14, verse 27. John chapter 14, verse 27 says, this is Jesus speaking. Remember, Jesus is telling the disciples now that he's going to be leaving them. Now you can imagine being with him all along and seeing all the stuff he's doing, and all of a sudden he's gonna leave us and where I am going you cannot go. But he wanted And this is what he says. I give to you, not as the world gives, that peace of love and more and this and that that we saw in the sixty Romans. thing this is not nothing like that. My peace I give to you that the world it's not as the world gives to you. And he says here in this passage. And this is something hard sometimes to grant But he says in this passage, let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid Why, when we receive this peace of God, it indwells us. It's not on the outside, it's not something that we've got to muster up, it indwells us. And we're going to look at that in a minute and see why we have all these things given to us in the scriptures and yet we don't activate them because we don't trust We don't put our faith and our trust in what is said. So here, this piece also, when I think about this piece, he's talking about a peace that passes all understanding. Morning and the sun's quest. But it also is a peace that we have this peace with God. I am no longer an enemy of God. I am his child. I have peace. I don't have to worry about the wrath of God coming down on me when he comes back at the end. So we have this peace And if we have that peace when we go through trial, it takes away a lot of times the worry and the um just being afraid. Am I gonna make it through? I had cancer uh uh a while back. And the thought at first kind of shocked me. Especially as high as my PSA was. I thought, man, this has got to be all over my body by now. But I prayed, my wife prayed and the church prayed, and I I made a decision at that point at the beginning that I was just going to trust God. If it was that He was going to take me home, that was okay. And if not, help me get through this. And so having this peace, it didn't matter to me if I got the cancer and died. What mattered to me was is that But I went through it in a way that honored God. I did not want to go through it fearing and wondering whether I'm going to die or whether I'm not. I didn't want to worry about that. I didn't want to think about that. And a lot of times when we're going through trials, we wonder and worry about what's gonna happen, what's gonna be the outcome, what's gonna happen here. And a lot of times it's not a matter of Death at the end. Well other times it's all the stuff that's gonna happen while you're in the trial. If it's a trial with other people, you gotta deal with other people, you wonder and you're thinking, we don't need to be afraid, we don't need to have our heart trouble We need to stay focused that God is the one who's bringing us through the trial. And let's look at also now and look at John chapter 15. And we're going to be looking at 9 through 11, John 15, 9 through 11. As the Father loved me, Jesus is speaking here I also have loved you. And what's he say? Abide in my love. How do we abide in my love? The answer is right next to it. He says, if you keep my commandments, if you trust me, if you will take my word and believe in it, trust in it. You will abide in my love, just as I have kept my father's commandments and abide in his love. Abiding in Christ is the source of joy. If we are being obedient. We don't want to go around living our life any old way we want to, and if we're living in sin, we are going to be disciplined. And so we can't expect this peace and this joy to be in the middle of a situation if we are not walking close to the Lord, if we are not trusting Him and His word and what He says. precious promises. He says here, right after this now, he says, these things, where does joy come from? These things I have spoken to you. That you, that my, that my joy, Jesus' joy, will remain in you. And that your joy may be full. Joy comes from Jesus Christ Now, how do we know we have this joy? I want to read 1 Corinthians chapter 6, verse 19 to 20. This gives us an answer. If we are truly a born-again Christian and we are trusting Christ for our salvation, if we are there, 1 Corinthians 6, 19 to 20 says, or do you not know? That your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit, who is in you, whom you have from God, and you are not your own For you were bought at a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. Now, let's take this a step further. Okay? So we have the Holy Spirit. I want you to turn with me a book, two books back, and let's look at Galatians chapter 5, verse 22. And see what the evidence is of this Holy Spirit that is indwelling us, how we know we have this peace, we have this joy and all in us And here's what it says. But the fruit of the Spirit, which indwells us according to 1 Corinthians, there we just spoke of. But the fruit of the Spirit is love. It's joy. It's peace. This is the fruit of it. Long suffering. There's that patient word again, the patience that we get. We have kindness, we have goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. All these things Or indwelling us, but can only be activated by abiding in Christ and obeying his will. So if we're going through life unsaved and don't know Christ, none of these will apply to us. You might have a little of this in that in. But it's not nothing like here. This is what secures us also. This Holy Spirit is what secures us till the day of our full redemption. But I want to take a look at one thing here. Now, when you think of the evidence and the fruit that comes from a true believer who is trusting Christ. I'm thinking of Paul right here now. I'm thinking of him. What gave these guards what was the evidence they were seeing? Can you imagine coming in and being chained to a guy who's gonna be talking nothing And I can guarantee you they saw the kindness in Paul. Even though some of these guards may have been ones who beat him earlier But Paul here, there was evidence in his life that changed them that the gospel went forward. He's he's preaching the gospel. God's doing his work in him. But I'm thinking these evidences the fruits of the spirit are coming out in his life right there when he is in the middle of this trial, when he is being chained to a guard, or whether he's talking and you can imagine these guards, if he's showing this goodness and this kindness to them, this is coming out of him. Just the evidence of the Spirit's presence. This is God working in and through Paul. These guards probably went back to Caesar's palace and were sharing stuff with some of the people in the palace. And so they were getting Weird here, what's going on? So they come. The heaval loud visitors. And we see in here at the end of the book, I like that, that he says that uh Caesar's house So the household was touched by Paul. And I think the evidence of his spirit, work God's spirit working in him, they probably saw this gentleness. They probably saw this peace. I mean, he's chained for two years to a guard every twenty twenty-four hours a day. He has this peace. He has this joy even of sharing the gospel. And the gospel was going forth according to the scripture. It furthered the gospel. Now, if Paul was sitting there and he was grumbling and complaining, every time a new guard came in, this is hurting, man. You've got to get this off. But if he had that attitude, what do you think? If he was sitting there, I don't know why I gotta wait two years to get the Caesar, what's going on? You don't hear that. But you see it the Holy Spirit's fruit working through him. And this to me is what actually God used to further the God And he does the same for you and I. As we are going through trials, we don't want to consider it as a burden, we don't want to consider it as I gotta hurry up and get through it. But what is the opportunity here. What has God given me an opportunity? And I'm going to share some things that uh have happened to me. But I want to go forth here a little further Galatians 5. 22. We just read that and we see the evidence here of God's presence in us and what it produces. And here we see now in John 15, 1 and 2. We're still thinking, where does joy come from? And why in the trials do we have this? Why do we see this? And you look at uh John chapter 15, verses 1 and 2, where Jesus is speaking. again and he says I am the true vine my father is a vine dresser and every branch in me that does not bear fruit he takes away And every branch that bears fruit, he prunes, that it may bear more fruit. Going through the trial is God's pruning to us. He's not necessarily pruning us for sin. That's discipline to make Me. But here, when we're going through the trial, he's pruning us and each time we go through a trial, a little more of that stuff. What is the pruning that he's doing? He prunes here, he said That it will bear more fruit. This is the sanctification process for each one of us in life. He's removing anything that would drain the spiritual life out of producing maximum fruit. Now, some of you here this morning know that I like gardening. I don't just like it, I love it. Now, I learned something this year, gardening And I love tomatoes. I love big tomatoes, little tomatoes, and all kinds of tomatoes, but I love the big ones. But anyway, I'm sure Brother Tim can relate pruning trees and why we do these things and others of your regardless. But I'm thinking about here now last year when I did tomatoes, I learned that if you dig the hole deeper, take off the lower branches and plant that tomato plant deeper, even though the plant's only this tall when I buy it, by the time I have it buried, it's only this tall. But it says the more roots you have in there, the more process of getting more of There's juice in there that helps to grow the tomato. But the other thing I learned that the little when you come to Wild like that and that little branch will come out, you're supposed to switch them off so that they don't Don't go all over the place. Well, this year I learned on YouTube of all places that there are fruit producing limbs and leaves and branches on tomatoes, and there are others that are not fruit producing. So you cut off the ones that are not producing, and what do you get? I've got a eight foot tall tomato plant. And I've got more tomatoes. Joey can testify. I have more tomatoes this year than I've ever had. So next year when I do my tomato It'll be the same thing. I'm gonna grow them up like that. But you look at my tomato plants now the first three feet or so, there's no branches. Then you get up to where you've got them coming out everywhere. You get the ones that are not going to produce a tomato and you cut them off. That don't mean you strip down the plant completely, but you want to get those things that are going to drain the juice out and cause you not to have as much fruit This is what Jesus is talking about here when we go through these trials and these testings and God is going to prune us when we go through these trials So that we don't have these things in us that are going to take the spiritual life out of producing maximum fruit. And we see here, he says, that in spite of his situation, the furtherance of the gospel went forward. to think about that. How do we approach our trials? Trials drive us to trust God completely and to depend on Him. It's hard when you're going through trials. I understand that because there's so many avenues of the trial. But if we will trust completely and depend On Christ going through it, it will bring forth much more fruit. I think of maturity here when he was talking about this sanctification also is to bring us to more mature. And we looked at Hebrews 5. 14 before And he said that those who were of solid food were given solid food because they were by the use of what they were learning, they were maturing more and more and learning what the difference is between right and left. So when we think about these things and we think about going through, think about this also, because he says if you remain on milk, you're going to be So it how you go through that trial, whether or not you're going to grow and mature more and put your faith stronger in Jesus Christ, or you're going to try to go through it yourself, which is a big headache And it's also going to cause a lot of anger, a lot of problems, and you will not be that witness, that light that Jesus Christ wants us to be to those who are involved in this Verse 14: The gospel lived out by Paul in the midst of his trial showed unbelievers the reality of a relationship in Christ. Would you get that? Paul, the gospel lived out by Paul. All the spiritual fruits are coming out of him while he's there. In his trial also was an example here. To unbelievers, the reality of a relationship with Jesus Christ. Do you think anyone wants to come to Christ watching us if we are not faithful? if we are grumbling and complaining about everything. We are not to do that. We are to go through the trial, trusting Christ in it. I don't care what the trial is, we all have different trials and they're all hard. no nobody's exempt and some are harder for others than uh than others. I I have family right now that I it it brings tears my eyes. And yet it's the trial they must go through. And they seem to be doing pretty well trusting Christ through it. And that's a good thing. We have Joey and I just got some information about some friends that we knew most of our life in in in living in uh Edgewater and uh wife has cancer stage four cancer and uh I don't think either one of them are saved. Uh the husband husband struggling. He wants to know why the treatment she's getting is not working, why is she not getting better? She's not going to get better. She has stage four cancer. How do you go through And also it can give you a misinterpretation of who God is. Well, I pray to God for miracles and nothing happened. He he's going to die anyway. I've heard this I will tell you that I have had the privilege and opportunity to uh memorize Minister at several funerals. And I don't think as the time goes by, it's so different, and Pastor Jim I'm sure can relate to this, it's so different when it's a believing person That's going to die or die than an unbeliever. And a lot of times, even in the midst of when it's a believer, you have people around you who are not saved. And how many times do I hear, I don't understand this? Why would God do this? He has a family. Why would God do this? Why now? What is going on? I and the thing they'll tell you, and if they're an unbeliever it's kind of hard here, but they'll say, Well, I prayed. I prayed for America And God took him home. He said, I can't understand why you people were so happy or so at peace about this. Brother and sister. When someone says that to you, God has opened a door of opportunity. Don't pass it up. Get together with that person and share Christ to explain to them how they can have the same peace. We also found out in verse 14 that the gospel lived out by Paul in the midst of his trial was also an example. And to the believers. Remember what it says there? That they became more bold? And so we see here that Paul's attitude and Paul's love for Christ and The indwelling of the Holy Spirit. You see here that in the midst of his trial, he was an example to the believers. Of his joy and God's faithfulness, and it caused those believers to become even more bold in their faith and sharing. Let me ask you a question this morning. Let me ask you two other questions Has there ever been a person in your life, a Christian, who was going through a trial, that their boldness, their Peace and their joy helped you and gave you encouragement to step out in your own faith. I have a couple folks in my life that cause me to think more. And one of the things you think about here, a lot of times if you if you were in the situation of this church in Rome You could have been put in jail for your faith. And this fear, they had this fear of that, but they saw that every God was taking care of him. He's been in jail for two years So it gave them this boldness to speak the gospel. Let me ask you another question. Where have you been an encouragement to others? God gives us these opportunities every day. Let's move on now to uh The second part, which is Christ is preached. And we're going to look at Philippians 15 to 18. Now this is the part that he just spoke about that the um believers were able to uh they were more confident by his chains by what he was going through, by his trial, that it encouraged them to become more bold and speak the word. But what happened, Paul says, which is normal in most cases. Some indeed preach Christ even from envy and strife, and some from goodwill. What I like about this, some of envy and strife, what is he talking about here? He's talking about that person. He even mentions it here. He says the former preached Christ from selfish ambitions. Not sincere. Supposing they will add to affliction to my chains. Does Paul get on them? Does he condemn them? Does he get mad at them? You don't see it here. He's rejoicing. Now I don't want to jump out here ahead of myself, but I think about some from envy and strife. Selfish ambition. Not sincere. They had a jealousy of Paul's power And success and his giftedness that they want to imitate it. And they think that since Paul's in prison now, we have this opportunity. And he says, supposing to add affliction to my change, they wanted to discredit Paul because he was in prison. And this gave them the opportunity to become somebody in the church that everybody will look up to. It was selfish ambition. And one of the things here, evidently, in this They were not, even though they had false pretenses, they were not preaching a different gospel. They were preaching the truth. It was not like over in Galatians chapter one verses six and nine where they were perverting the truth. Paul would absolutely have said something. Something against them. But they were speaking the truth, but with false motive. And he says, God can even use thinking, God can even use evil to fulfill his will. There is nothing wrong with having ambition, right? Nothing wrong with having ambition. But we should have ambition to be the best for God. But if it's selfish ambition, if you are trying to get impress others and you want your self-image to be built up, that is pride instead of true success for God. Paul gives us a warning in Galatians chapter 1 verse 10. He says, for I do not, he says, for do I now persuade men for God? He's asking the question. Or do I seek to please men? Listen to what he says. For if I still pleased men, I would not be a bondservant of Christ. And at the beginning of this book he says that I am a bond servant of Christ. Paul's attitude went kind of like this. If you preach the true gospel, I don't care as much about your wrong motive. God will deal with you. But at least the gospel is being preached. But if you preach a false gospel, I don't care how good your motives are, you are dangerous and must stop preaching the gospel. If Paul's imprisonment could not hinder the gospel, neither could the motives of some other people. God can use the evil. We don't want to ever encourage this selfish ambition. Which definitely is a reminder to us to be careful in our own hearts and our own thoughts about our motives. Well, we are serving God. We don't want it to impress men and all that. We want to do it for the glory of God. So we find here God's work is still getting done And that was a cause for rejoicing. Now I want to end here with a few remarks concerning this. passage here. And I have uh two um I have it here somewhere. I have two quotes. And they come from the uh Mo uh Puritans There was a Puritan named Thomas Watson, and he wrote about this spiritual joy that we're talking about. He says, spiritual joy is a sweet and delightful passion. Arising from apprehension and feeling of God's goodness and favor, whereby the soul is supported under present troubles and fenced against future troubles. Fear. Isn't that a wonderful statement? Who does not desire joy? If your life character is characterized by joy, that makes unbelievers wonder what you have that they don't. they desire. It's important. And to have joy in the midst of trials requires a mind fixed on something that the trial cannot touch. This is coming From another uh Puritan here. His name is Thomas Mann. I love this one. He says if a man would lead a happy or blessed life Let him but seek a sure object, a sure object for his trust, for he shall be safe. He shall not be afraid of evil tidings. His heart is fixed. And it's talking about trusting the Lord, and he brings up Psalm 112. 7. He has laid up his confidence in God Therefore, his heart is kept in an equal poise. You see that? He has laid up his confidence in God, therefore his heart is kept. and equal poise. How could Paul go through this trial that he's going through? This is not the first one. We all know that. Paul's been beaten, he's been stoned, he's been left for dead, he's been uh whipped several times, been imprisoned several times. A lot has happened to him. But we see him going through the trial Here, confidence is in God. His heart is kept at an equal voice. He's not jumping all over the place, wondering why this, why that. He doesn't have There is that peace of God that Jesus Christ gives us, and it is this joy in him that Jesus Christ gives us. It is by his Holy Spirit, that we have this ability. But if we do not obey God, and if we do not abide in Him, Then you will not have this joy and peace working in your life. Close here. I have two applications and Number one, we should consider trials as an opportunity to demonstrate the joy of the gospel. Consider trials as an opportunity to demonstrate the joy of the gospel. And the second one is abiding in Christ is source of that joy. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you from the bottom of our hearts this morning. I thank you for the ex Example of your servant Paul. I thank you for the scriptures that you give us to encourage us to be always Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet. or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes. and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God. according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone. or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.