Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning with grateful and thankful hearts. And we want to praise you because you are holy, holy. Holy. You are the Lord God Almighty, creator and sustainer of all life. And we praise you this morning and thank you for the greatest gift ever given in your Son. Jesus Christ, and through his death on the cross and his resurrection, and our faith placed solely in him for what He has done at that sacrifice on your cross. Father, we now can come before you this morning and worship you in praise and honor and glory. And we are thankful for Jesus. Christ. We're thankful for his birth and Father, this time of year that we celebrate. And I would ask, Lord, that you would help us again, as others have said. that we could set aside this time and take away those distractions and all of those things and cares that we worry about during the week. And I pray that we will concentrate on the next hour on your word. And I pray that in all things, Father, you would be glorified and lifted. up. And Father, we do ask that you would be with those who are unable to be with us today, maybe through illness or traveling. And Father, we just ask that you would bless each one and protect them And Father, may you guide and direct our thoughts now as we come to your word. And we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. We are going to be in Matthew chapter 1 this morning, and we are going to be looking at verses 18 through 25. So if you have your Bibles, open up and follow along. That is Matthew chapter 1, verses 18 through 25. Now the birth of Christ was as follows. After his mother Mary was betrothed to Joseph, before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Spirit. Then Joseph, her husband, being a just man, and not wanting to make her a public example, was minded to put her away secretly But while he thought about these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph. Son of David, do not be afraid to take to you Mary your wife, for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit And she will bring forth a son, and you shall call hence his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. So all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the Lord through the prophets, saying Behold, the virgin shall be with child and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which is translated, God with us. Then Joseph, being aroused from sleep, did as the angel of the Lord commanded him, and took to him his wife, and did not know her till she had brought forth her firstborn son, and he called his name Jesus. We have been going through the book of Romans and um came to a very good stopping point right at the end of the would make sense. So began as I usually do, begin to look at different at the Christmas narratives and looking at the different Christmas stories and just looking at different insights about them. Of course, when you're, I've been pastoring for quite a while now at this church, 12 years, and so that's a lot of Christmas messages. Sometimes you're looking at and trying to, you know, you you're not trying to figure out what you haven't said before, but trying to kind of look at it and see what different uh different insights perhaps that you hadn't noticed before. And one of the things I noticed in looking at the Christmas stories both in Matthew and in Luke this time was um there was some consistency when it came to uh people like Joseph and Mary and and even Simeon and Anna and all of these different characters that God used uh sovereignly used in this in to bring about the birth of Christ. It really all of them There seems to be a connection with all of them being quite useful in a certain way. And we're gonna we're gonna focus in on Joseph this morning. and his usefulness for God's purposes. But I want to begin by asking two questions. One question is this. Does God use everything and everyone to bring about his ultimate will? Does God do that? And the answer is yes, absolutely. God uses everything and everyone to bring about his ultimate will. Let me ask a second question. This is helping to understand the idea of usefulness as God used these different characters and also God is able to use us. Does God use those who follow Him? in a special way. Does God use those that follow him in a special way? And the answer is also yes. So yes, God uses everything. But also God uses those who follow him in a special way. There is a a text in 2 Timothy chapter 2 that really illustrates this extremely well. In chapter 2, verse 20 it says, but in a great house there are not many vessels of gold and silver, but also wood and clay. Some for honor and some for dishonor. Therefore, if anyone cleanse himself from the latter, he will be a vessel for honor, sanctified, and useful for the master. Prepared for every good work. Flee also youthful lusts, but pursue righteousness, faith, love, peace with those who call on the Lord out of a pure heart There are vessels for honor and vessels for dishonor. There are different ways that God uses us and he says suggests he not suggests he says in his word here that if we will cleanse ourselves then we can use for honor rather than dishonor The fact is things are used in different ways. Uh uh, you know, a punch bowl is not used the same way as a toilet bowl. I mean they're both very useful. But you would not want to use them the same way. They're very, very different. The question I'd like us to ask this morning is how do you want to be used? This past uh just yesterday I went to a concert. I would sort of say it's a it's a quasi-secular concert. Had had some sacred music, had some other music I uh that was not sacred. Um and uh but it was all it was all tasteful. But it was uh but I noticed something about some of the more complex kind of dissonant songs uh that were a little hard to figure out where it was going and what it was doing, that kind of a thing. And then a distinction between some of the sacred, beautiful, pure sometimes even more simple music that really conveyed the message well. There were certain songs that conveyed the message well that were pure and beautiful. And there were other songs that I actually couldn't even figure out them what the message was. Well, a couple of them because they were not in the same in in the English language. But but but also I they they were just dissonant and complex, one that was written Very recently, that I had a hard time even understanding what the point of it was. What kind of usefulness do we want? Do we want to be the kind that conveys the message well? Or do we want to be the kind that is dissonant and complex and you can't really figure out what that person, what what's going on? See, in the text that we have this morning, we see a man named Joseph, whom God really uses in a very special way. But Matthew goes to considerable lengths to to to help us to see the thinking of Joseph as we go through this, although we never see Joseph speaking at all. In fact, the narratives never talk to see Joseph speaking. You see Mary speaking. You see some of the other characters, almost all the other characters speaking. Joseph never actually speaks, but the actions that he What he does, how things, how he handles himself really speaks volumes. In the same passage in 2 Timothy, it says this. 2 Timothy 2 verse 19 says, Nevertheless, the solid foundation of God stands having this seal. The Lord knows those who are His And let everyone who names the name of Christ depart from iniquity. I think it's a very, very helpful verse If we want to be on a firm foundation, go ahead and leave that up there for a second. If we could want to be on a very, very firm foundation, we need to understand without a doubt that the Lord knows who those who are His If we know Christ our Savior, we're not trying to work toward getting more favor. We have the favor of God by no effort of our own because the merits of what Christ has done for us But on the other hand, if we're going to be used, useful for the master, then we do need to that same person, by the same name, we need to depart. From iniquity. So how was Joseph useful? We're gonna see three things here. One, um he responded to confusion wisely. You ever you ever had things hit you that were extremely confusing? Confusing. News that you went, I do not know what is going on here. Joseph had that. There's no question about it. He responded to confusion wisely. Then he decided he wanted to please, he pleased God reverently. We're going to see in the passage, he pleased God reverently, and then he obeyed God courageously. He responded to confusion wisely. He pleased God. There was a great reverence in what we're going to see here. in Joseph's life. And then he obeyed God courageously. Let's pick up here then in his response, we see that he responded to confusion wisely. Now the birth of Jesus Christ was as follows, after his Mary, after his mother Mary was betrothed to Joseph, before they came together He she was found with child of the Holy Spirit. Then Joseph, her husband, being a just man and not wanting to make her a public example, was minded to put her way secretly So there was, Joseph was betrothed to Mary. Now, that is, frankly, more than engagement. Some people say, well, it's the same thing as No, it's not. It's legal marriage. Joseph was legally married to Mary. But in those days, the marriage was not consummated right of the way right away. Usually it was about a year or so before the marriage was consummated. So that Joseph and Mary were legally married and yet they had not yet consummated the marriage. That was the situation that they were in. And the text tells us that Mary was found with child be by means of the Holy Spirit. It says the same thing in Luke chapter 1, verse 31. The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the highest will overshadow you. Therefore also the Holy One who is born will be called the Son of God. But it's highly unlikely that Joseph realized this at this point. In fact, we'll just say he did not. He did not realize this, otherwise the angel wouldn't have had to come to him because the angel did. But he did not at this point realize that it was the he had heard of the news of the pregnancy of Mary without knowing that the Holy Spirit was involved at all. Now, I want us to think about what it would be like to be Joseph. This was devastating news. Hearing this news probably plunge, no doubt plunged Joseph into an emotional nightmare Questions, I'm sure, just flooded his mind. Who? That would be a good question. Why? And probably most importantly, what do I do now? Joseph knew the Old Testament. He knew the scriptures. He very likely knew of the scriptures that uh that told about how he had the ability, the the biblical ability to stone him, although he did not have that option. back in the first century, the Romans would not allow the Jews to have execution, perform execution. criminal punishment kind of thing. So that so but we see in the text that he was, we see this character of a just, righteous man. Look at verse 19. See it there? Joseph was a just man. Now, I want us to see this in several other places as well. I noticed this in Matthew about Joseph, but if in Luke, I noticed this about the other characters in the Christmas story as well. In Luke chapter 1, verse 5 through 6 it says, There f there was in the days of Herod a king the king of Judah Judea, a certain priest named Zacharias of the division of Abijah. His wife was the daughter was of the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth And they were both righteous before God, walking in all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord, blameless. We see the same kind of thing of Mary in Luke 1. 28. And having come in, the angel said to her, Mary, rejoice, highly favored one, the Lord is with with you. Blessed are you among women. And we see in the case of Simeon and Anna, we see Simeon in chapter Luke chapter 2, verse 25. And behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon, and this man was just. and devout waiting for the consolation of Israel. And then we see the same same thing of Anna in the text in Luke 2, 36 through thirty eight. So God used all of these different people in a very special way to bring about the birth of the Savior. Mo- uh Joseph was one of those people. Joseph was a just man. He was the word justice is also translated righteous. He was a righteous man. He was a just man. He wanted to do the right thing. But he also did not want to shame Mary. It says he didn't want to put her away, he didn't want to, didn't want to embarrass her. He decided he was going to put her away privately. He he didn't want to shame her in front of people. He didn't want to get back at her or retaliate or any of those kinds of things. Isn't that easy to do when we're hurt? I mean the only thing that Joseph could assume is that Mary was unfaithful to him. That had to be the only possibility, the only physiological possibility in Joseph's mind. And Joseph certainly was hurt. Joseph uh was was Certainly had lots of questions, but Joseph didn't react in anger. He didn't react in wanting to get back at Mary or to give her the fullest extent of what she deserved. We I think of Micah 6. 8 that really describes I think Joseph well. Micah 6. 8 says, He has shown you, O man, what is good, and what does the Lord require of you but to do justly, to love mercy. And to walk humbly with your God. I think that describes Joseph really well. He was a man who wanted to do justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with his God. Joseph wanted to do right despite the the the situation that he was in, the difficulties, the the the questions, the embarrassment, all of that, he decided he wanted to do what's right. You ever been in a situation like that before? Where you were confronted with a problem or you were you had learned of a situation and you were tempted in your own flesh to retaliate to to bark back or whatever it was. But Joseph didn't. He decided to do what's right. I remember I've on many occasions I've had different people that have come to me and said, uh what do I do? I've got a really difficult situation here. One situation that that that happened and I was talking to the the man And I appreciate so much what he said. He was in a very difficult situation. There was a family member that was rejecting him and he didn't know why. And I was just kind of talking to him about it and kind of considering what his options are and all that. And he just said to me, you know what? I just want to do do the right thing. See, that is what Joseph did in the situation. Can you imagine Joseph, if Joseph had reacted in the wrong way? Can you imagine the mess it would have made? Mary actually didn't do anything wrong. But Joseph could have reacted in the wrong way and really made a whole mess of things. but he didn't do that. He decided instead to, he thought through it biblically. He thought through what are the options. Deuteronomy 22, 23 through 36. Actually says that she could be brought before the gate and publicly embarrassed and then stoned. He didn't have that option, though I don't think Joseph would have taken it anyway. But the other option would be in Deuteronomy twenty-four, where it says that if a man takes a wife and marries her, and it happens that she finds no favor in his eyes because he found some uncleanness in her, and he writes to her a certificate of divorce and puts it in her hand and sends her out of his house. So that's what he decided to do. He was going to do that. But you know, even it's not like he just decided to go right away and do this. Joseph paused. Joseph decided to sleep on it. That was also wise, wasn't it? Even though he had decided the best option he had was to biblically write her a letter of divorcement. In this situation, and to and to uh do it privately, he he he had a plan that was biblical, he had a plan that was that that was wise and merciful even as well. But he paused. I think there's a lesson for us there even. Sometimes we need to pause that there's something in our spirit that says we shouldn't take action on that. Maybe we need to sleep on it. That's what Joseph did, and we pick up in verses 20 through 21, and we see that Joseph really desired to please God reverently. Because as he went to sleep. We pick up in verse 20 it says and but uh while he thought about these things and by the way I love that just he thought about these things. He didn't just make a quick decision, he didn't just react, he's thinking, he's meditating about these things. And while he thought about these things I can imagine him going to bed at night. He's processing everything, thinking through this. An angel of the Lord appeared to him, and it says in a dream. That's why how we know he was asleep. Saying, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take to you Mary, your wife, for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. And she will bring forth a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for ye shall save his people from their sins. We first see in this passage that Joseph, as I mentioned already, was thoughtful. He didn't rush into action. He didn't react. He was thoughtful. He had made a plan, but he was cautious about it. He wanted to do things the right way with the right timing. Uh we need to resist when we have situations in our lives and when we're hurt, we need to resist the impulse to flee or to fight. Isn't that what we want to do? One of those two things, fight or flight. We want to fight against it or we want to flee from it. And usually neither one of those two are the right things to do. Joseph was thoughtful. Then we see the puzzle piece was in place for him. This angel comes to him and presents this reality that the Holy Spirit was the one who was at work in Mary. This was some a very important puzzle piece and really changed, of course, changed everything for Joseph and his thinking. And so we we see here in verse 21. That he was also careful. We know this because of what the angel said to him. The angel said, don't be afraid to take Mary your wife. Don't be afraid to take Mary with your wife. Don't fear that. Don't be afraid of that This indicates that Joseph was being, and everything else we see as well, that Joseph was being careful with all of this. So he was thoughtful, but he was also he was also very careful I think of 2 Corinthians 7 verse 11. The context of that passage is on repentance. But when it explains what it looks like when someone truly repents, and I think it illustrates for us the kind of the kind of spirit that Joseph had and the kind of spirit that we ought to have as well. Verse 11 of 2 Corinthians chapter 7, it says, For observe this very thing that you sorrowed in a godly manner, what diligence it produced in you. What clearing of yourselves, what inundation, what fear, what vehement desire, what zeal, what vindication, and all these things you proved yourselves to be clear in this matter. God desires for us to be careful, uh to be to be diligent In thinking through things, there ought to be a sensitivity to what is right and what should I do and what is the wisest thing to do. We see that in Joseph. And we also see that Joseph is humble. We know this because the angel is going to tell Joseph, you need to name uh name this person, this baby, a very specific name This was this was really um something that Joseph was going to have to forfeit. You see, back in that day, um the the the husband had the father had the total right to name the child whatever he wanted and it was It was kind of a sign of status and a legacy that he was going to be able to pass on. And yet the child was not Joseph's. Joseph was going to parent him, parent the baby, parent Jesus ultimately, but but he wasn't the father, it was God who was Jesus. Jesus' father. And so there was a specific name that he had that he had to give, and that name was Jesus. That was a big deal. Do you remember over in Luke when John the Baptist, before he was born, you remember the controversy over there? uh Elizabeth said we need to name him John, name the baby John, and they said, nobody in your family is John. Verse 61 of Luke 1 says, But they said to her, There is no one among your relatives who is called by this name. Zacharias has to step in and write down, his name is John. That's the kind of controversy that you see there. That's how important it was, and Joseph gave up that to do what God had called him to do. He didn't need to be the most prominent person. He didn't need to be the person that had had the position or had the power. He was willing to humbly serve God. Of course, we have Jesus, in a sense, has two names, Emmanuel, God with us, and Jesus, which means Yahweh saves. Those two titles of Jesus. Jesus and Emmanuel, they really comprise what Jesus was here to do. He is with us. Jesus came to earth. to be clothed in human flesh, to who is he who is God became man, to eventually live a perfect life and then die for us to save us. Jesus Emmanuel. Well, we see then in verses 22 through 25 that Joseph also obeyed God courageously. And I want you to see a contrast here. So look at verse 22. It says, so all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the Lord through the prophet. That's for the prophet Isaiah. In verse 23, it says, Behold, the virgin shall be with child and bear a son and shall call his name Emmanuel, which is translated God with us. Now this is a this is a quote from Isaiah 7. 14. Would you take your Bibles and turn to Isaiah? Isaiah chapter 7. This, when this was originally given, it was given to a king named Ahaz, who was the king of Judea, the southern part of the southern tribe, the southern uh nation of Israel. Judea, or um Judah rather, not Judea, Judah. And he was the king of Judah. And Ahaz was Ahaz was a very wicked man. We actually know this from 2 Kings 16 and 2 Chronicles 28. I'm going to read, you're in Isaiah 7, stay there. In 2 Chronicles 28, it says this, and he burned incense in the valley of the sun of Hinnem, so we have idolatry, and he burned his children in the fire according to the abomination of the nations. whom the Lord had cast out before the children of Israel. And he sacrificed and burned incense on the high places, on the hills, under every green tree. This was a wicked king. He was so wicked that not only did he plunge Judah into idolatry, but he also sacrificed his own children. That's how evil this man was. That was the man. This is the man that this this quote was originally given to by Isaiah. And I want to kind of contrast How this man received these words with how Joseph received these words. To help us to really understand what's going on in the passage. We need to understand a few things of the what of the nations and the kings that were that were there in around 734 BC. So if you could first of all understand this, that you have the Assyrian Empire that is growing. It's working its way from the east over into the west and And you see that green area there, that is all by this point of the Assyrian Empire, that is all what they have conquered with a man by the name of Tiglath Pelezer III. You could see Israel to the left there, the little sliver of of Israel next to the Mediterranean Sea, and all of this land. That has already been conquered, starting from Babylonia and working its way west. And it was headed for Israel. Now there were there are there were several nations, small nations in play in the Palestinian area Uh air a uh Aram was in the north and that and what makes this passage can make this passage a little confusing is Sometimes it'll call it one thing and in another passage it'll call another. So we're going to put all this together so we can understand this a little bit better. But you've got Aram here, which was is modern day Syria, and it's actually mentioned, I think, over in 1 Kings, it's actually mentioned as Syria. So you have Aram, and the king of Aram is Rezin, and the capital is Damascus. All of these are mentioned in different places in Scripture. So you have this king of Aram, and that's in the north, the far farthest part of the north there, in the green there. And then you also have the northern nation of Israel. Remember that Israel and Judah split in two by this point. And so you have the northern nation of Israel, and these two nations, Aram and Israel, had made an alliance. the northern part of Israel. They had made an alliance with each other. Pikah was the king of northern Israel, which is also actually called Ephraim. uh sometimes. So uh Ephraim is one of the tribes, but it's actually named as describing the entire northern Israel. So you have you have Assyria that's coming this direction Israel and Aram, they make an alliance because they want to fight, they want to be able to stand against Assyria who is gaining power and influence. They want to convince Judah to join them as well in alliance, and this is where Ahaz is in play. It looks as though that what occurred was that they they tried to convince the king, and actually there was the Ahaz's predecessor first and then Ahaz, and when they weren't able to convince them to make an alliance They went and they attacked Jerusalem. Historically it looks like they attacked it twice. The first time they attacked it, they were they failed, but they were gonna try to head toward Jerusalem and attack it again. And the goal was actually to de to depose Ahaz, uh to get him out of there, to put their own puppet king in there so that they could make this alliance and hopefully be powerful enough. Now that's the that's the background here. So let's then get in the text and you'll be able to see this as we pick up It says verse one. Now it came to pass in the days of Ahaz, the son of Jotham, the son of Uzziah, king of Judah, that rezin King of Syria, and Pikah the son of Ramaliah, king of Israel, went up to Jerusalem to make war against it, but could not prevail against it. And it was told to the house of David, saying, Syria's forces are deploy deployed in Ephraim. So his heart and the heart of his people, this is Ahaz, the heart of his people were moved as the Trees of the wood are moved with the wind. Bottom line is they're scared. Okay, they're nervous about this. So the Lord says to Isaiah, verse 3: Go out now to meet Ahaz. You and shear Joshua your son at the end of the aqueduct from the upper pole, telling him exactly where he is, on the highway to the Fuller's field, and say to him, Take heed And be quiet, do not fear or be faint-hearted for these two stubs of smoking fire branch, for the fierce anger of resin. And the Syria and the son of Ramalia, because Syria Ephraim and the son of Romalia have plotted evil against you, saying Let us go up against Judah and trouble it, and let us make a gap in its wall for ourselves, and set a king over them, the s the son of Tabel, that their own king, thus says the Lord, It shall not stand. He says, It shall not stand. Nor shall it come to pass, for the head of Syria is Damascus, and the head of Damascus is Rezin, within 65 years of prophecies made here. Within 65 years, Ephraim, that's the northern tribe of Israel, or the northern country of the nation of Israel, will be broken so that it will not be a people. The head of Ephraim is Samaria, and the head of Samaria is Remelia's son. If you will not believe, surely you shall not be established. So he says, if you won't believe, then you're not going to be established either. Then he says, verse 10. Moreover, the Lord spoke again to Ahaz, saying, Ask a sign. Look, if you don't believe me, ask a sign. And not if you don't believe me, but just to confirm, ask a sign. Ask a sign for yourself from the Lord your God. Ask it either in the depth or in the height above. But Ahaz said, I will not ask, nor will I test the Lord. So Isaiah comes to Ahaz and Prophesies that these guys are not going to be a problem. Don't make an alliance with them. And if you want a sign, I could give you a sign. And Ahaz refuses to Ask for a sign. So you know what God does? He gives them one anyway. So if you look at verse 14, it says, Therefore the Lord Himself will give you a sign. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son and shall call his name Emmanuel. There it is. That's the passage. The virgin shall conceive and bear a son and shall call his name Emmanuel. Now, this is there's an immediate fulfillment of this in Isaiah 8. But what we we won't take the time to look at that just for sake of time. But what we basically find is that And that the fulfillment is actually ends up showing that Ahaz is going to be destroyed too. And of course, we know all of those nations are destroyed by Assyria ultimately and taken over by all of them. But the real issue here is how Ahaz received this prophecy. How did he receive it? He received it in rebellion He received, he didn't even want to know what the sign was. He didn't even want to accept that there would be a sign. Why is this? Because he was an evil man, because he was wanted what he wanted. He was an idolatrous man. He was not interested in that. So Ahaz decides, I'm going to make an alliance. with this man Tiglath Pelezer, this king of Assyria. Because he's so afraid of the other alliance, so he decides to the enemy of my my the any the enemy of my enemy is my friend and so he he decides to go and sigh with Tiglath pleaser. That's found in second 2 Kings chapter 6 It says, but he um so Ahaz, verse 7 says, so Ahaz sent messengers to Tiglath Pleaser, king of Assyria, said, I am your servant and your son. Come up and save me from the hand of the king of Syria of Syria and from the hand of the King of Israel who rise up against me So he joins Assyria and eventually what happens? They're all taken over by Assyria. This man did not do what God had called him to do. So we see this contrast. The next time this phrase is used, the Lord will give you a sign And his name is Emmanuel, all that, we find we're we're in Matthew now. And what does Joseph do? Verse 24, Matthew 124. Then Joseph, being aroused from sleep, what does he do? He does exactly as the angel of the Lord commanded him. He takes the same statement, he believes it, and he he runs consistently with it. So it says he took his wife, so he he joins back with his wife, but As a matter of consistent, consistent with the truth of Scripture, we find verse 25, and did not know her till she had brought forth her firstborn son. So he chose to not have a physical relationship with her because he wanted to work consistently with the prophecy that he received from this angel. Joseph aligned himself with the Word of God and the purposes of God, and he had humble courage. In fact, we could really imagine that Joseph in this situation would have taken the world's disdain, realized that the world, the even their friends would not have necessarily believed that the Holy Spirit did this to Mary. There was going to be disgrace, there was going to be confusion, there was going to be all kinds of issues and problems and reputation issues. And yet, what happened? Joseph decided to do what was consistent. with what what he knew was true of the will of God. I love uh uh I came across some uh guidance from a Puritan named John Flavil that I think is very helpful When you're trying to determine what the Lord's will is for your life, the situation as you find yourself in a situation, I think that this is going to be helpful. And we see this in the life of Joseph as it's laid out. Number one. John Flavell says this, get the true fear of God upon your hearts. Start there. Don't we see that in Joseph's life? We see that Joseph truly feared the Lord. He wanted the presence of God in his life. And he truly in a biblical way feared God. He he wanted to do right. There was a sense in which he was afraid to do the wrong thing. He was cautious about doing the wrong thing. And so and so because of that, it guided him in the right direction. Number two. Flavil says, study the word more and the concerns and interests of the world less. That's good advice. Study the word more and the concerns of the interests, concerns and interests We are so influenced by our culture, by what our culture says is valuable, what our culture says is right, what we ought to want from our culture. And yet Flavil says, study the word more. If you're confused about direct the direction God wants you to go, making decisions in your life, study the word more and the concerns and Interests of the world less. Number three, reduce what you know into practice, and you shall know what is your duty to practice. He says, reduce what you know into practice. In other words, do what you know. Sometimes we're wondering what in the world to do with certain situations, but we're not doing what we know to do. Sometimes we want to see all that laid out before us when God says, no, just follow me one step at a time. Do what you know to do. Obey what you know to obey. You know, somebody says, I I don't know what to what job to take, whether this job or that job. But you're not even searching, you're not even praying, not even reading the Bible, you're not even doing the things that God wants you to do. Start there. There have been many times where somebody come to me with confusion and and and and and uh just struggle in their lives, uh wondering what to do, how to do it, and and I might ask a question like um Are you are you this is very simple, but are you spending time in the Word regularly? How can you know what God wants you to do with your life if you're not spending time with Him? How can you know how to make wise decisions in your life if you're not spending time with him and knowing his mind? You can't. So know the right thing to do, what you know to do, do, do it, and the other things will begin to be able to be revealed. We see this in Joseph's life. He he took what he knew and he did what he could with what he knew and then God revealed more. Number four, pray for illumination and direction in the way you should go. Beg the Lord to guide you in straits. That's that's That's old English for difficult circumstances. And that he would not suffer you to fall into sin. Pray that the Lord would illuminate your way. He would direct your path. Pray that God would show you And the number five, and this being done, follow providence as far as it agrees with the word and no further. I think this is is great. This is what Joseph did. He followed providence as far as it agreed with the word and no further. He considered what Scripture said, he did what Scripture said, he then learned more about what his situation included, and he went in direction of providence. He went in direction of how God was leading, how God was providing. He stayed in that direction And so he was able to do God's will and follow after God and really be used of God in this way. So I would ask two questions. Number one, Do you desire to be used of God? In this way, do you desire to be useful for God? If you say, yeah, I I really do, then I would encourage you to to realize that there is a special usefulness that if you know the Lord and you love the Lord, then then you're if you will if you will follow him, follow in his ways, If you will purify your heart, if you will really desire to obey him, if you'll do follow the example of Joseph, then you will be able to be useful for God's purposes And then the second question I have to ask is this: Do you, have you accepted Jesus, Emmanuel? Have you accepted that God who came in the flesh is your Savior? This is a question I'm going to be asking in the next several weeks as we as we are entering the Christmas season. It's the most important question that anybody could ever ask. Do you have a personal relationship with God through Christ? This is why Jesus came. He came to be born and to live a perfect life. And because he is God, he was qualified to pay the punishment for our sins. with his own life on the cross and dying for us. The fact is, you do not have grace if you do not have a cross. And you do not have a cross if you do not have a manger. And so the manger points us to the cross, which points us to grace. And if you have not received the grace of God in your life, If you don't know where you would spend eternity if you were to die today, if you don't know where you stand with God, Let me encourage you, come and talk with me after the service. I would be thrilled to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you are truly a child of God, that you have a relationship with God. Have you accepted Jesus? Amen. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you To have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.