But I'd like to uh welcome all All the fathers here today also and wish you a happy Father's Day. And uh let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we are so grateful and so thankful You truly are our Heavenly Father. You are perfect in every way. You are perfect in love. You are perfect. Perfect in mercy, perfect in wisdom, power, and uh Father, you are our perfect example And we are grateful this morning that you love us and that you are merciful toward us, and that you do grant us grace and mercy. And Father, I thank you this morning for your great and precious um plan of salvation through Jesus Christ our Savior and our Lord. Thank you for what you have done at the cross on our behalf, making it possible for us to come together this morning before your throne and just lift up your name in praise and honor and glory. And Father, I pray this morning that you will work in our hearts And our minds help us to set aside all the cares and concerns that we came in with this morning. And help us, Lord, to be sure that we are not worshiping and honoring you with our lips and our hearts be far from us. Work in our hearts this morning to draw us to you, and Father that in all things may your great name be praised Praised and honored and glorified and lifted up. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. We're going to be reading this morning from Matthew chapter 19, verses 1 through 6. Matthew 19, verses 1. Now it came to pass when Jesus had finished these sayings, that he departed from Galilee and came to the region of Judea beyond the Jordan, and great multitudes. followed him, and he healed them there. The Pharisees also came to him, testing him And saying to him, Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife for just any reason? And he answered and said to them, Have you not read that he who made them at the beginning made them male and female And said, For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother, and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh So then, they are no longer two but one flesh. Therefore, what God has joined together, let no man separate. So we are going through the book of Matthew and we have come to Matthew 19. And if you remember, Matthew 18 was talking about the institution. of the church and the subject matter really changes uh to the issue of marriage, to the institution of marriage in Matthew 19. Of course, every time there is a Mother's Day or Father's Day or whatever there is, I have to sort of decide what am I going to do here? Am I going to just continue with the text? Or am I going to do a Father's Day message? Usually I just continue with a text and maybe I'll illustrate some things from the point of view of a father, mother, whatever. But uh in today I'm I am going to continue the text for the primary reason because I really like to continue in the text. But the secondary reason is is not only is it Father's Day, but it's also my wedding anniversary today So it would be totally inappropriate for me to not talk about marriage on a day that's actually my anniversary when literally it's the next text. The other thing that I want don't want to do is talk about the divorce day. And so when you go through when you go through the passage, uh you see that of course the the Pharisees are asking a question about divorce But and we will cover that. Um but we what we're going to do today is every most of the time when I hear this message, when I hear this passage preached on Um oftentimes the emphasis becomes so much on divorce that they actually have forgotten that we we actually skim over the very first things that Christ says. And in the very beginning of what Christ says Christ reminds these religious leaders of the institution of marriage from the very beginning. He says, do you he says verse three or verse uh Verse 4 rather, he said, and he answered them, have you not read that he who made them at the beginning made them male and female? And said, for this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and they two shall become one flesh. We are living in a day, folks, where we don't we ought not skim over that. We're living in a day where we need to actually be quite reminded about this institution of marriage. And really, it is God's intention that the institution of marriage, which is the very first institution ordained by God in the Bible, undergird and provide the foundation for the family. So that fathers, if you are married and you have kids, your first responsibility as a father is actually to your wife. as a husband. And oftentimes mothers and fathers are guilty of this of becoming so child-centric that they forget that the actual undergrounding of the entire family is the marriage in the home. Now that does not to say that if a marriage has not gone the way that God would most desire in Scripture, that suddenly it all else is going to fail. I am grateful for my own father whose parents were not together. They did divorce at an early age, uh at his early age, and um And I'm grateful my for my father how in God's grace he stood uh God used him to stand in the gap and to have a godly marriage and have and have kids and all of that, um, to do it in a godly manner when he had no example of that. So if you're f if you're here this morning you say, well I don't have the option of having a mar uh a marriage the way God intended with kids and all of this. If you're here this morning that way understand that God you are in need of God's grace. Actually we all are. But you are in need of God's grace, but God is very abundant in grace And so understand that in the very beginning of this before we get into this. But we do want to look at the subject of marriage this morning. And to understand that in our culture, this concept of marriage has become so distorted that even in Christian circles, we are not clear on what the biblical definition mean is for marriage. What did God originally intend? And what Jesus does with these Pharisees in the very beginning of this is he says to them Don't have you not read in the beginning what is the original purposes of marriage? What is the original essence of marriage? I might say to you this morning as well that if you're not married, this is actually a very important message for you as well. Don't think at all it's not. Because the reality is you as a single person, if there ever is a prospect prospect for being married, you need to know what that should look like. And if there is no prospect for being for being married, it's interesting that in the text later on we're going to learn about singleness. So don't give up hope or anything. We're going to see later on he's going to Christ is going to deal with the issue of singleness. And frankly, I'll just give you a heads up. that in the New Testament we actually see a great a fairly profound uh value given to singleness And we will see that in the future. But for now, let's note just what this meaning, this original meaning of marriage is. And I'll also note for us this morning that when we when when the world thinks of marriage, even sometimes when Christian thinks of marriage There are different pictures that come into the minds of people. For example, somebody might think of fireworks, or somebody might think of a ball and chain I remember in my um we had a little party before not really party, but like Christian party before we were uh the night before we were um Uh I was married and we went bowling and uh uh they all said that um uh I was gonna getting married and the guy at the bowling alley said uh Uh said, yeah, oh yeah, you're about to put on your ball and chain. I mean that that's the kind of thing that you hear about marriage Uh sometimes marriage is like, okay, people feel like if they once they get married, everything is just gonna the happily ever after idea. And I'm going to live happily ever after. So on one hand you've got a ball and chain. On the other hand, you got happily ever after. And frankly, it's none of that. What is God's intention for marriage? What is the purpose of marriage? Why is it so important? One of the things I would say just to understand how badly our world is uh our world is when it comes to this, um, that the divorce rate has doubled since 1960. And in 1970, 89% of all births were married parents, but now we're down to 60%. And probably most tellingly, 42% of Americans, um American adults were married in 1960, but now it's only 50 percent. That was actually, that's a 2008 statistic. It's probably way, way, uh more uh way less now. Or way more of a percentage of single people now. Sociologists look at our Western world and they note sometimes and have sometimes debates over what's happened even with marriage and Some, even secular sociologists have noted that some of what is happening now is that marriage has become more of kind of a a consumer a consumer contract rather than a covenant relationship. where both parties are looking to see what they can benefit out of uh the marriage. They can sort of do a cost-benefit analysis of the marriage and they get married based upon a mutually agreeable cost-benefit analysis and they get married and stay married for a little while until that that changes and suddenly it's time to cut your losses and get out. Folks, that is not the biblical idea of marriage at all. The biblical concept of marriage is not a consumer contract, it is a loving con uh loving uh covenant So Christ is emphasizing the original meaning of marriage in this passage, and we are going to do that this morning. We're going to look at the original purposes of marriage, then we're going to look at the essence of marriage, and then the original means of marriage. Let's begin then by looking at the original purposes of marriage. And Christ said, as we have already noted, have you not read, he who made them at the beginning made them male and female? Now that in and of itself lies in the face of what we are dealing with in our society today. But I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn to Genesis chapter 1 this morning. And we're going to look at verses 26 through 28 and other passages as well, but we'll start there in Genesis 1, 26 through 28. And we're going to see in this passage that there are three biblical purposes for marriage. Verse 26 of this passage says, And God said, Let us make man in our image. according to our likeness. That's going to be important actually. Let us make man in our image according to our likeness. Let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the air, and over the cattle, and over over the earth, all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God created him, male and female, he created them Number one, purpose of marriage is to is that God made marriage to reflect his likeness. God made marriage to reflect his likeness. We see that in this text in a very unique way. You notice in the text it says, let us make man in our image. Now prior to this, Christ, God has created multiple things, but in and in those cases God was singular. When it came to this verse, it says, let us make man in our image. And of course it's referencing the reality that Christ is a tri-unity. That is the Trinity. That is, there are three distinct persons and one essence. three distinct persons, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, and one essence, one God. And the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit as three distinct persons, and yet one decided that they would make man in their image. What, how did they do this? They did this by making, in their image, male and female. That is, folks, I'll just say this, that male and female is more than just a bio, it is at least a biological construct, but it is more than a biological construct. There is something spiritual, the technical term is ontological, but the spiritual about male and female. God created male and female in his image, in his likeness to reflect him, because he made it possible for a male and a female to to come together in unity so that there would be two distinct persons that would unify in marriage That is, marriage is an institution that is designed to reflect, not to be an exact approximation of, but to reflect The Trinity itself. The fellowship that the Trinity has, the unity that the Trinity has, the distinct persons that the Trinity is. All of that is marriage is intended when me male and female, and that is the only biblical marriage, by the way, with male and female come together. That it is to reflect a a tri it is to reflect distinct persons coming together in unity. That is, that God's, that marriage is to reflect God's likeness, to glorify God. That's what marriage is intended to do. We have further proof of this in 1 Corinthians chapter 11, verse 3, where it says, But I want you to know the head of every man is the woman, the head of the woman is man, the head of Christ is God. It equates The relationship of the father and the son and the husband and the wife, and we'll get into that more of that later It's very profound and very it's really quite weighty that we are, as married couples, intended to reflect the character of God in the tri-unity of God Number two, God created marriage to result in a family. In Genesis chapter 1, verse 28, it says, God, then God blessed them. And the word blessed means to give them a function. He gave them a function. And God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth and subdue it. God created marriage to result in being fruitful and multiplying in resulting in a family And we're going to get into more of that applicationally later. And number three, the purpose of marriage, God created marriage to be on mission for the Lord together. God created marriage to be on mission for the Lord together. We see that in verse 28 as well. It says, and let them, who's them, male and female Let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the air, and over every living thing that moves on the earth Did you know that God desires the marriage relationship to have a mission in serving the Lord? That we are to be able to serve the Lord better together than apart We are to be on mission and serving the Lord. And notice in this particular case, God wanted them, well, in all cases, is to have dominion over the earth, to have be creative and or organizing things. This is talking referencing vocation. If God has called you to a particular vocation, don't ever diminish that and think that is that is secondary secondary to Like going into the ministry, it's sort of interesting I was listening to a preacher one time and he pointed this out. Some people have this sort of mindset that They have the vocation that they are in is somehow um you know lesser than like being a pastor or a missionary. And the preacher pointed out that in the new heaven and the new earth there very likely is going to be vocations and you will be able to perfectly perform perfectly perform the without sin and all the problems of sin. You know one vocation that won't be there is pastor. You're not gonna have a pastor in the new heaven and new. You're gonna have Christ right there. You won't need me anymore. And you're like, man, thankfully there's an end of this. But don't diminish the vocation, don't diminish the serving the mission that you and your spouse are intended to fulfill for God's purposes in your life. Do we realize that our marriages are intended to resemble God Himself? How are we doing? Well we're going to move on here, and we're going to point out then that the now we're going to move to the original essence of marriage. What is what is the essence? What is the nature? What is the meaning of marriage? And we're going to see in Genesis chapter 2. Would you turn there? Genesis chapter 2, and we're going to see in verses 18 through 20. The very essence of marriage. And the Lord God said, It is not good that man should be alone. I will make him a helper comparable to him. Out of the ground, the Lord God formed every beast of the field and every bird of the air and brought them to Adam to see that he would call what he would call them. And whatever Adam called each living creature, that was its name. So Adam gave names to all cattle to the birds of the air and to every beast of the field. But for Adam there was not found a helper comparable to him. So we see that he made male and female, he gave them purposes. Then chapter two is going to sort of backtrack and flesh out this marriage relationship. that is that God has developed in Adam and Eve. And you know that, and of course, the way that he did this was he he created Adam first, and that was intentional. And he noted, God noted, that Adam, that it is not good that Adam should be, that man should be alone. It's not good. Now that's significant because in Genesis chapter 1, verse 4, verse 10, verse 12, verse 18, verse 21, verse 25, and verse 31, he Noted his creation and in each situation he says it's good, it's good, it's good, and it's it's good And when he created man, he said, it's very good. But when he saw that man was alone, distinct from from Eve later on. He said, it's not good. Now, this is sometimes misap misapplied. Sometimes people think that Adam was lonely. I don't think this is really an emotional loneliness that God is referring to. We're really talking here about a deficiency that literally in this particular case God said that Adam, in order to do his job, in order to serve, to fulfill his purposes, to procreate the human race, to do all of these things, he was going to need He would there was deficiency and there and it was woman who is going the woman who was going to have to be comparable to him Now, I just want to pause here for a moment. And for those of you who are single, do not feel like you need to go out and you say, okay, that's the problem. I'm incomplete. I've got to find somebody. No, because we actually find over in 1 Corinthians chapter 7 That Paul said, I would that you be like me, that I'm single and complete, and I would that you be like me. You can, as a single person, come be completely complete. In fact, I would go that go so far as to say this. Don't think that anybody completes you until you're married. In other words, don't think to yourself, okay, well, that person completes me and that's why I'm going to get married. They don't completely until you're married. And there's actually a very important reason that we'll go into later in later time as to understand all of that. But folks, those of us who are married do need to realize that our wives do complete it. Those of us men in our here do need to realize that that there is deficiencies without them. And you know what? You almost don't even need the Bible to figure that out. Right, men? I really don't even know what my life would be like without my wife. It would be a mess, for sure, disorganized, um, and uh it would be actually fairly miserable. when I really think about it. It would not be good. And most of you men are sort of shaking your head, yeah, yeah, I can see that. And it says that in the text that that he made a helper comparable to him. The word comparable is an interesting word. It it it uh it means it means to to ju something that's joined together with something else. It's It's um the it's an opposite and corresponding thing. Opposite and corresponding. It's very much like a dovetail. Those of you who are woodworkers out there, you know what a dovetail looks like. Uh when I go and look around, look look at furniture just for fun or whatever, uh I always look pull the drawer out. I want to see in my mind, and I don't know if this is right or not, but in my mind I think a quality piece of furniture, if I pull the drawer out, at the end of the drawer, you want you know what I want to see? I want to see those dovetails, right? If they just slap it up against the other side, that's not that hard. But the dovetails to me, it's a that's a much Nicer piece of furniture if you've got dovetails. Why? Because they are opposite and corresponding and they fit together. And that's exactly what God intended for the female and male to be opposite and corresponding and to fit together. So God solves this deficiency in Genesis chapter 2 verse 21. We pick up there and it says, and the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall on Adam and he slept. And he took out of his ribs and closed up the flesh in his fa in his place. Then the rib which the Lord God had taken from man he made into woman, and he brought her to the man. And of course, you know what Adam said about this. This is now, verse 23, and Adam said, this is now bone of my bone and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman because she has was taken out of man. It has been noted that God did not take Eve from a man's foot. or from any other part but the side of Adam for a reason. I don't really know if that's true, but it illustrates fairly well. And so we see here in the text that he says, verse 24, and this is such a critical verse, therefore a man shall leave his father and mother. Be joined to his wife, and I want to focus in on that phrase, and they shall become one flesh. They too, persons, shall become one, one flesh. Now, this does include the idea of a physical union It is not less than a physical union. In fact, it's more than a physical union that is here. Some people think of it that this is only talking about a physical union here, a consummation of the marriage. That is not the case. This is much more than that. In fact, there is uh there uh uh there we can see from Genesis chapter 6 verse 12 It says, so God looked upon the earth, and indeed it was corrupt, for all flesh had corrupted their way on the earth. So there's the same word that's used there in Genesis chapter 6, all flesh had corrupted their way. Do you think that that was they were just talking about the physical there when they said all flesh? No, they're talking all souls, all people. had correct corrupted their own way. In Joel, we see the same thing. Joel chapter 2, verse 28, and it shall come to pass afterward that I will pour out my spirit on all flesh. When God said, I'll pour out my spirit on all flesh, is he saying he'll pour his spirit out on everybody's body? No. We are talking about something far more than just physical here. There is a spiritual union, not just a physical union in marriage. This word flesh here is what's called a sin Synectiche is what it's called. You say, what's that? It's a figure of speech in which the part of the thing is used to represent the whole. For example, let me give you a couple examples. If you say you're doing a head count, you've got a group of people and you're doing a head count. Do you only care about their heads? No, you don't only care about their heads. You're doing a head count because everybody only has one head, hopefully. And as a result of people only having it one head, you're counting their bodies. You're counting the people there by doing a head count. You're counting the souls that are there, the people that are there by doing the headcount. Or if you say Baltimore won by six runs during this time of the season, if I say Baltimore run by six I'm not talking about the whole city of Baltimore ran one by six runs. I'm talking about the Baltimore Orioles uh won a game by six one six runs So that's what this is. The flesh is a illustration of something far more than just the flesh. Yes, it does include the union of the flesh. And marriage is maintained by the union of the flesh. And it symbolized the spiritual union there. But it is far more than this. And then notice what it says in the text in verse 25. It says, And they were both naked, and man and his wife, and they were not ashamed. They weren't ashamed. In other words, there was the way, of course, they weren't ashamed because they were they hadn't there was no sin yet. That helps. But the way that this is worded, the author who the human author who is Moses and God, the divine author is indicating that there is a lack, there is a freedom, there is a true freedom in marriage. There is intended to be a freedom in marriage. That's important for us to understand because in our world, remember the ball and chain idea? In our world, people think of marriage as a ball and chain, and God says a true biblical marriage brings freedom. Tim Keller said it this way, when dating and living together, you have to prove your value uh daily by impressing uh and enticing. You have to show that a that there's chemistry there and the relationship is fun and fulfilling or it will be over. We are still basically a consumer relationship and that means constant promotion and marketing. The legal bond of marriage, however, creates a space of security where we can open up and reveal our true selves. We can be vulnerable, no longer have having to keep up the facades. We don't have to keep selling ourselves. We can lay the lay the last layer of our defenses down and be completely naked, both physically and in every other way. God intends it intends there to be a freedom and openness and access in marriage in in a way that there is not it's not even possible in any other relationship on earth. physical or you know or earthly relationship. We realize that marriage is much more than a physical civil union. It is the joining of souls. Folks, this is important for us to understand. It is important for us to realize. Then we move then to the original means to marriage. How do people biblically get married? How does this happen? We pick up in verse 5 and it says this. For this reason a man Well actually it's verse 5 of Matthew night of Matthew 19, or you can you can stay in Genesis. For this reason, a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and they too shall become one flesh. How do biblically people get married? And the answer is twofold. One, God does it. And two, the each party has a part in doing so. I want to begin by looking at the fact that God says that He joins people together. He joins couples together. In fact, in Matthew 19, verse 6, it says, Therefore what God has joined together, let no man separate. That is, the merit marriage, biblically, is not just some agreement or some binding contract. Marriage is a covenant relationship. Proverbs 2 verse 17 says this, who forsakes the companion of her youth and forgets the covenant of her God? In other words, when someone breaks their marriage union, they are breaking not only the a con a an agreement between them and the other person, they are break breaking their covenant before God. Matthew chapter Malachi chapter 2 verse 14 says Yet you shall say, For what reason? Because the Lord has been witness between you and the wife of your youth, with whom you have dealt treacherously, you you uh yet she is your companion and your wife by covenant. And you might want to write this down. We won't take the time to look at it, but in Ezekiel chapter 3, verses 22 through 27, it says the same kind of thing. That we that God creates a covenant. This is not a consumer contract. This is not a evaluation of the benefits of this agreement that might that you know a cost-benefit analysis analysis. No, this is intended to be a covenant. Now if you can think of an uh an A-frame, I think it will be helpful for us. If you're building a structure, um and maybe, you know, like a roof, a normal roof. You have on a roof an A-frame. You've got it's joined at the top, but it's also joined at the bottom, right? Or even even more descriptive is is if the entire structure was an A-frame. And so you have At the top you're joined, and at the bottom you are joined to a foundation. And all of those joints are absolutely necessary in order for that A-frame to stay joined together. For example, you can have the top joint joined well, but if the two bottom joints are not joined to the foundation well and the thing separates, what's going to happen? The whole thing, the whole structure is going to fall flat, right? The other thing is true as well If at the top you have an A-frame at the top, that separates, what's going to happen to the bottom? Actually, it will be separated from the bottom. The structure will be separated from the bottom as well. It will break that union at the bottom. And so while the union of an A-frame is extremely strong at the top and at the bottom of both sides, It is also very, if one of those unions are broken, the others break as well And the reason that I say that, folks, is to help us to understand that every illustration breaks down, so don't take that illustration too far. For example, if if a a marriage union don't breaks down, it doesn't mean you lose your self you lose your salvation. I'm not going that far. But here's what I will say. I don't think we really understand how much our marriage relationships, our marriage relationships, affect our relationships with God. And I don't think how much we really understand our relationships with God affect our marriage relationships. They are inseparably linked in this covenant relationship one with another. And so we find here it says for there needs to be a leaving father and mother and cleaving to the wife. What is it saying this for? Believe is this transactional relationship that there is a separation from the father and the mother. Now it doesn't mean that you no longer are no longer your parents. That would be a wonderful Father's Day to learn that you don't have a, you know Anyway, no. Uh I'm not saying that. But there but folks, when it comes to their identity, there is an identity shift. The identity goes from the nucleus relationship, the nuclear home, to the child moves into a new identity with her husband Or and the husband moves in a new identity with his wife. It is a they're creating a new nuclear home. And it says here that there must be a cleaving. The husband must cleave to his wife. The word cleave is an interesting word. The Greek equivalent of this word means glue. or cement. It means to attach firmly, to join by mortising. In the New Testament, we see most of the time it's the word is joined. Join here, join there. I really like the word cleave. I think that is an excellent description of what he's talking about here. It means to join together, to stay together, to cleave together. And it's interesting that the word cleave is actually used in 1 Corinthians 6, verses 16 through 17. It says, Or do you not know that he who is joined to a harlot, that's the word cleave here. is one body with her, for the two he said has shall become one flesh, but he who is joined with the Lord is one spirit with him. Paul in that passage is pointing out that how horrible it is for there to be a joining together physically outside of marriage because there is a joining physically without the spiritual joining So there is to be a cleaving. Another use of the word is the joining of metal. And Rick talked a couple weeks ago about welding together. That's this word. To weld together, to glue together, to cleave together, to join together. God says that we are to leave, and God says that we are to cleave together. So this is a covenant relationship where there where we are now cleaning together. We are joining together. We are joining together. socially, economically, we're s uh we're uh we uh we no longer have we lose much of our independence it doesn't mean we are still distinct persons But we when it comes to how we live and what we do, we are, the Bible wants us in marriage to be joined together. The covenantal love is in scripture is the strongest kind of love. In Song of Solomon, don't worry, uh uh but Song of Solomon, some of you are a little younger, I'll read this passage is is G-rated. Song of Solomon chapter 8, verse 6 says this, let me as a seal upon your heart, as a seal upon your arm, for love is as strong as death. Jealousy is cruel as the grave. Its flames are flames of fire, a most vehement flame. Many waters cannot quench love Nor can the flood drown. If a man shall give for love all the wealth of his house, it would be utterly despised. There is a covenant kind of love that God intends in our marriage. It is a binding covenant that is made as a public vow, and there is an enormous act of love when that happens because it becomes an entirely exclusive relationship And we need to realize, folks, that according to the New Testament, our relationship with our spouses does affect our relationship with God. He particularly tells husbands this in 1 Peter 3 verse 7, where it says, Husbands likewise dwell with them with understanding. giving honor to the wife as to the weaker vessel, as being heirs together of the grace of life. Why? That your prayers be not hindered. Husbands, if you think that you can have a terrible relationship with your wife and a good relationship with God, you are mistaken. Wise, if you think that you can be mad at your husbands and have a wonderful relationship with God, you are mistaken. These things are connected. Now, with all of that in mind, we have, I want us to move to responsibilities, and I have this up on the screen for us, our responsibilities in marriage. and family. What are our responsibilities? They should be up separately. Can you pull that back and animate that for me? I'm sorry. What are our responsibilities? Number one We need to treat marriage as a covenant relationship, not a consumer relationship. We need to treat marriage as a covenant relationship, not a consumer relationship. We've talked a great deal about that already. It is incredibly important. In fact, what happens, unfortunately, is that two you get this sort sort of idea. Um in common marriages. And you got the wedding and all that and before the wedding and everything. And peop and a guy and a girl has fallen in love They've fallen in love, they get married, and on the other side of the marriage, it might be in the first year, second year, or fifteenth year, but at some point they fall out of love. In fact, I dare say that under that definition, every marriage falls out of love at some point. There are expectations that are not met. There's not the fireworks. There's not the it's not all glitzy and glamorous. It's not uh live heavily after uh ever after. It's not what I expected it to be, and at some point you realize that, and some people are out, they cut their losses, and some people say, no, I am in a covenant relationship, I'm gonna keep my vow. We need to understand number two to love in order to like. We need to love in order to like, not the other way around. See, the world's got backwards. And frankly, many Christians have it backwards. They like in order to love. But what I'm suggesting to you folks is that what we actually need to do is to learn within our marriage to love in order to like. You ever had that discussion with somebody? Is loving the same thing as liking? Can you love someone? I've had this discussion. Can you love some without liking them? And I've had some people say, yeah, you could definitely love some without liking them. And I've other people say, uh no, you can nah, that's kind of disingenuous. If you love somebody without liking them, that's not real that's like hyp hypocritical love. That's not really true. What's the answer to this? There's a man, and I don't uh test everything that he sa uh says at all. His man's name was Shoren Kierkegaard. He was in prison for many, many years and had a lot of time to think about these things, I guess But he noted that in his mind that there are there are several different kinds of outlooks in life. He says there is an aesthetic outlook. an ethical outlook and a religious outlook. You can have an an aesthetic outlook, an ethical outlook, and a religious outlook. This man said this about an aesthetic outlook. He said, everything is judged as to whether it is fascinating, thrilling, exciting, and er uh and entertaining. An aesthetic aspect is important to any life lived well and happily, but when the aesthetic dominates a life, it creates a huge problem. An aesthetic often um or an aesthet is what he calls it. An aesthetic often claims to be f a free individual. Life should be thrilling, full of beauty and sparkle. His temperament tastes feelings and impulses collectively drive him. Looking at another looking another way, the person is actually dominated by the aesthetic sensibility is controlled by circumstances The athlete does not really love the person. He or she loves the feelings, the thrills, the ego rush and experiences that the other person brings. The problem is, folks, that fades fast. Or it fades slow, but it fades. We cannot be controlled by this sort of aesthetic kind of life where everything's got to be exciting, everything's got to be beautiful and sparkle and thrills and all of that. We want that And it's nothing wrong with having that, but when that dominates our lives, when it dominates what we do, when it make it causes us to make certain decisions, folks, we are headed for disaster. Because that's not what marriage is all about. I'm not saying you can't have it in marriage. In fact, you probably will have it in marriage from time to time. But it is not a reality all of the time. C. S. Lewis put it this way. I thought what he said was so excellent when it came to this. He said, do not waste time, and he's talking actually not about marriage, he's talking about our neighbor loving our neighbor, but he says this. Do not waste time bothering whether you love your neighbor. Act as if you did. As soon as we do this, we find one of the great secrets. When you are behaving as if you love someone, you will presently come to love him. If you injure someone you dislike, you will find yourself disliking him more. If you do him a good turn, you will find yourself disliking him less. The worldly man treats certain people kindly because he likes them. The Christian trying to treat everyone kindly finds himself liking more and more people as he goes on, including people he could not even have imagined himself liking at the beginning. C. S. Lewis is right. If we start by following the command to love, rather than determinant trying to decide whether we like What will happen is over time, if we God never commands us to like somebody. He commands us to love them. He never commands as a husband for us to love our wives. It says, or to like our wives. It says that we need to love our wives. Because the reality is love is not essentially an emotion. Love is a decision that we make before God and before others that is carried out in action and ends in a feeling. Not the other way around. In other words, when we fall in love with somebody, we feel a certain way and we act on those feelings that will not work. in the loving in a loving relationship long term in a marriage. You must choose to love first and ultimately, eventually, you will like. Now I'm not suggesting to you that you marry somebody you don't like. That would not make a lot of good sense. But just understand that within marriage, at some point, you're not going to like them. And you must follow the command to love them. And if you do, your feelings will follow and you will like them again. And folks, that is going to help us greatly. And this is exactly why God says in his word to the husband, love your wives as Christ loves you. loved the church and gave himself for her. That's the kind of love, this covenant love that God wants us to have for our wives. Of course, wives, we you should have them for your husbands as well. We need to apply this to marriage It's no longer about falling in love or out of love, which is really just a uh an expression of a heightened sense of emotion. No, it's do I choose to love? Because I love God. Because He loves me. In other words, sometimes it's really hard to love your spouse And in those times where it's really hard to love your spouse, you have to draw on the fact that God loves you. And when God loves you. And you realize his love for you, you're able to reflect that love to your spouse, and it will restore your relationship with your spouse. And frankly, it goes for every other Christian relationship as well. If we love others and choose to love them, the feelings will follow, and we eventually will like them as well. Number three, we need to lead without lording. This is, folks, this is directed very clearly to men today Fathers, we need to lead without lording. I think it's important to realize because oftentimes, perhaps even more so in our Christian circles. We get this idea of leading, and we think it now gives us a sort of a pass to do whatever we want. And folks, that couldn't be farther from the truth. Do you know the command for us to lead in Scripture as men does not give us a sense of freedom to do whatever we want. It gives us a heavy weight of responsibility to do what we ought. And so when we think of leading, we need to understand that this is not lording. In fact, it's the parallel in Scripture, which I've mentioned on occasion before, but I'll mention it again. In 1 Corinthians 11, verse 2, it says Now I praise you, brethren, that you remember me in all things and keep the traditions just as I delivered them to you. But I want you to know that the head of every man is Christ, and the head of the woman is the man, and the head of Christ is God the Father. And I also always, I just think it's important for us to point out that the value of the wife is equal to the value of the husband. The value of the husband is equal to the value of the wife, just as Christ is equal to the value of the Father, and the Father is equal to the value of Christ, and the Holy Sp Here it is equal to the value of the other two persons of the Trinity So this matter of leadership is not a matter of value at all. We are equal in value. We are equally made in the image of God, and so we are equally valuable. Very important to understand in marriage. However, it also says in 1 Corinthians 11, verses 8 and 9. For man is not from woman, but woman from man. Nor was man created for woman, but woman for man. That means then folks is talking about the marriage relationship, by the way, not any other relationship, but in marriage there is an understanding that God has made a help that is comparable to the for the the man, for the husband. What does it mean to lead without lording? Well I'll tell you what it doesn't mean. It doesn't mean that the husband's got to manage everything. Aren't you glad about that, husbands? It doesn't mean that you've got to manage the house, you've got to manage the finances, you've got to make every mare it doesn't it doesn't mean that. If frankly, my wife is way better at managing the house than I am I mean, you know, like it would not look like it does right now if I was managing it. I would have the sink piled high. We have a new rule in our house that we've been following for the last couple of I might get in trouble on it's my anniversary. Anyway, um uh but uh we have this new rule we've been trying for the last I don't know a couple of weeks that if if anybody in the house, if it's a dish that you can put in the dishwasher, you're not allowed to put it in the sink. So you put it right in the dishwasher. You know it makes tons of sense when you think about it. But I tell you, when you're in a habit of just throwing it on the sink, it's hard to it's hard to do. Anyway, like you go to our house right now and there's probably no dishes in the sink. It's it's really nice. Happy anniversary it wasn't. Anyway. Managing managing the house. Or finances. If you're terrible with finances, let your wife manage them. Um, it doesn't mean that we're to make all the decisions Every little decision I gotta make. No, but if you're smart, husband, you're gonna you're gonna find that your wife is a lot smarter than you in some areas at least Let them make decisions. Let them figure things out. Help let don't just micromanage them. Don't think you've got to make all the decisions. This is not about managing everything or making every decision. This is not that. I'll tell you what it is. I've got number one, the right way to lead. Number one, the husband-father sets the mission in the home. What I'm saying to you, husbands and fathers, is this. There are all kinds of things that you can delegate, but you cannot delegate spiritual leadership. You should not delegate that. There are all kinds of things that your wife is better than you at and you would do wise to let them do what they can do better than you at. Even if it is making decisions. But when it comes to spiritual leadership, that's yours and it is not to be delegated. The husband and the father sets the mission in the home. This is an example. The example is Christ Himself. Jesus Himself said this. My food is to do the will of him who sent me and to finish his work. Fathers, husbands, Who's sending the mission in your home? Remember we go all the way back to Genesis. What's the third purpose for marriage? To fulfill God's mission for you in this world. And the two are to be doing it together. But it is their husband's responsibility to discern from the Lord what that mission is. Poor wives sometimes have no idea how to arrange themselves other than their husbands, which is what scripture says to do. That's what the word submission means. Because the husband's not leading He's not setting the course. He's not setting the mission for the home. How can you range yourself under something that there is no course, there is no direction? There are times I felt very sorry, I keep my mouth shut if the husband isn't around, but there are times I felt very sorry for women in situations where they're tr they want they they would choose they would love to follow, but the husband's not leading. And there are sometimes the husband feels as though he can't leave because the wi the the the wife won't follow. That's a whole ball of wax that needs to be dealt with in counseling, frankly, when that happens And I'm not going to discuss it all here because I'll get in trouble. I probably are in trouble, but that's I'm used to that. Number two. Number two. Number one, the husband sets the mission in the home. Number two, the husband takes primary responsibility for the spiritual development of his wife and his children. The husband takes primary responsibility for the spiritual development of his wife and his children. clearly laid out in Ephesians chapter 5. It says, wives, submit to your own husbands as to the Lord. For the husband is head of the wife, as Christ is head of the wife head of the church, and he is the savior of the body. Therefore, just as the church is subject to Christ, so let the wives be to their own husbands in everything. Husband, love your wives just as Christ has loved the church and gave himself for her, that he might sanctify and cleanse it, cleanse her with the washing of the water by the word, that he might present her to himself a glorious church. not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that she sh should be holy and without blemish. So husbands ought to love their own wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. The husband has the responsibility to take care and to help disciple, help the wife. Grow spiritually, not to micromanage, not to lord over, not to um try to did you do your devotions today? No, not that. But to lovingly guide in a direction To help them grow spiritually. And likewise, it's the same in Ephesians chapter 6, verse 4, where it says this, you fathers, do not provoke your children to wrath, but fathers. Bring them up in the training and admonition of the Lord. The reality is, folks, it says for fathers to do that. Doesn't mean mothers can't. In fact, mothers more naturally do. You know why God doesn't tell us to to uh He doesn't tell us to eat three meals a day. Never in the Bible does He say to do that. You know why? Because we'll do it without being told or more. We don't need to be told to eat three times a day. We don't need to tell there are lot there are just things we don't need to be told to do. God tells us what we won't do. And the inclination of the man is often to sort of step back and let the wife take care of everything, even the spiritual things in the home. Husbands, if we're going to be men, godly men the way God wants us to, we ought not do that. It is our responsibility as husbands to understand that one day we will stand before the Lord in the judgment seat of Christ And to give an account of how I have, as a husband, nurtured the spiritual well-being of my wife and my kids. Much more to a much greater degree than the mother, the wife and mother will. And so the responsibility is squarely on our shoulders in that way. And if we will do this, if we will love. And we will lead in the way that God wants us to do. And number three, we need to serve. Loving leadership serves. It sets the mission. It takes responsibility for the spiritual development, but it also serves, folks, we need to be servant leaders. We need to equip our our uh our families, our wives, our kids to serve the Lord. We need to serve them. Loving leadership serves Now, you may say to yourself, boy, I I am not I am I don't even know what this kind of love looks like. This covenant love, this this dedication, this commitment. I don't even know what this looks like. And you know the truth of the matter is the wonderful thing about this is that you can. It doesn't matter what situation that you're in, the loving, the loving covenant, the covenant love, the one who sets the example is Christ Himself. Christ died for us so he could bring us into covenant love with him. But that requires us, doesn't it, to accept that. So that when Jesus died to pay the punishment for our sins, He did it to satisfy God's just demands But he also did it because he loved us. God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whoever believes in him Will not perish, but have everlasting life. But when we enter into that relationship, we enter into a covenant relationship with him as a son. A binding relationship, a relationship that is entirely dependent upon God and not on us. It is an unconditional. Love, an unconditional relationship. When you come to Christ and you all have a relationship with Christ, it's unconditional. You can understand you understand it's conditioned entirely on what Christ did for you on the cross. There is no better relationship to have. And you might be saying, well, I wish I had this marriage relationship, or I wish I could do this, or whatever, that kind of thing. Look, it all starts there. The only reason we can show, have any hope, husbands, of showing that kind of love to our sp our wives is if we first understand the wonderful and awesome love that Christ has for us and we enter into that love. So I encourage you, if you do not have a personal relationship with Christ, the Bible says that you are loved with an everlasting love. The Bible says that God commendeth his love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Will you accept that for yourself? And if you will, you understand that, you agree with God about that, you accept that. The Bible says if you will confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, you will be saved. You say, I'm just not sure about my relationship with the Lord. Let me encourage you, come and talk with me after b afterwards. I would be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can have be in this loving relationship with God, this covenant-loving relationship with God. For the rest of us, fathers, husbands, wives, mothers, May we understand biblical marriage in such a way that it reflects it reflects the character of God Undergirds the family in such a way that our children are blessed by it. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you for the truth of your word. We thank you that it really doesn't matter what the culture is saying. It can how it defines things, that we can go back, as Christ said, to the beginning. And we can see the original meaning of marriage, we can see the purposes of marriage, we can then learn from that how to apply these things to our lives as Christians. And I thank you, dear Father, that we are in a situation, Lord where we know we can see what is truth from the objective word of truth. And I pray, Lord, Lord, when we look at marriages, They are crumbling. Sin is affecting them. There's a such misunderstanding about what marriage is. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to live our lives in such a way that is truly pleasing to you, that we can have marriages that truly reflect your character. What light would that bring to this world? I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.