Uh you can take take your Bibles and turn to Psalm 89, and we'll be reading verses 24 through 33 for our call to worship. Psalm eighty-nine, twenty-four through thirty-three But my faithfulness and my mercy shall be with him. And in my name his horn shall be exalted. Also I will set his hand over the sea and his right hand over the rivers. He shall cry to me, You are my Father, my God, and the rock of my salvation. Also I will make him my firstborn. the highest of the kings of the earth, by mercy and my mercy I will keep for him forever, and my covenant shall stand firm with him. His seed also I will make to endure forever, and his throne as the days of heaven. If his sons forsake my law and do not walk in my judgments If they break my statutes and do not keep my commandments, then I will punish their transgression with the rod, and their iniquity with stripes. Nevertheless, my loving kindness I will not utterly take from him For allow nor allow my faithfulness to fail. My covenant I will not break, nor alter the word that has gone out of my lips. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and praise you because you are our Father. That was the the when when Christ came When he set an example of how to pray, he addressed you as his heavenly father. And Lord, there is so much in that in that uh title, Father. You are You tend to us, you care for us, you shepherd us, you love us, you discipline us, you chasten us. You restore us to yourself. There are so many things that we can think of when we think of the fact that you are our Heavenly Father. And we praise you for that this morning. And Lord, we confess before you that we often do not really think of you with all of a different facets of what it means to be a father. Sometimes we think of you as someone who is so loving that you're tolerant of our sin. Sometimes we think of you as so judgmental as one that has no mercy Lord, we are so limited and finite in our understanding of who you are, and we confess before you that if we're not careful We can go from one extreme to the other in our conception of you, and yet you are genuinely and truly our Heavenly Father. I pray, Lord, today, that you would help us as we worship you to remember that you are our Heavenly Father. We pray also for those of us who are fathers. our physical fathers, our earthly fathers. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to be the kind of fathers that would direct our children's attention to you. And we ask, Lord, for these things in Christ's name. Amen. Let us pray together. Lord, we thank you today for the fact that you are our Heavenly Father. It is true that While we all have earthly fathers, uh and while those of us who are fathers attempt to emulate you and your fatherhood to us, we always fall short. You truly are our Heavenly Father. There is none like you. We can have a close relationship with you as a Father has with his child. And I thank you for that, Lord. Lord, I pray that we would be those who would can would view you rightly Often our view of you is skewed and it gets twisted and and uh we don't see you as the Bible presents you. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to have a proper view of you, high and above us, and yet very near and very close and accessible. where we can look to you and cry to you at any point as as a son or a daughter would their own father. I pray, Lord, also, as we just sang, that Even in the smallest areas of our lives, that we would keep you at the center of our families in the things that we might even consider insignificant. Well we we ask that uh you would really take primary the primary spot in our hearts and in our families. Thank you, Lord, for how you are working in our lives and you have miraculously and gloriously saved us. And then you walk with us and you along this path that is life and it certainly has its its bumps, it certainly has its struggles. But we know that you are there every step of the way. And Lord, there are many struggles represented here this morning. by your folks. And I ask, Lord, that you would continue to supply the grace and strength that is needed for each day. I thank you, Lord, that that the Kill Cups are here tonight or this morning. I thank you, Lord, that uh you are you are working in them and and and strengthening them for them to be able to be with us today. I thank you, Lord, for those who are dealing with with struggles and illnesses. I think of Kristen and the pain that she is dealing with on a regular basis. I pray, Lord, that you would strengthen her. and allow her to find comfort in you and in your truth. I pray, Lord, for for others, Lord, that uh that have not mentioned what's going on in their lives and yet uh struggle. I I ask that that you would provide those with help from your truth, that they would seek help from your truth as well. That they wouldn't seek help from lesser uh places, whether it's in ourselves or in the world or in other things. Lord, I pray that as you work with us today through your word, that That you would provide great insight through Pastor Jim as he preaches, and that we would be impacted by the truth. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Reading the passage for today, we will be in Proverbs chapter 3 and verses 1 through 12. And it begins, My son, do not forget my law, but let your heart keep my commands. For length of days and long life and peace they will add to you. Let not mercy and truth forsake you. Bind them around your neck, write them on the tablet of your heart. So and so find favor and high esteem in the sight of God and man. Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and lean not on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct your paths. Do not be wise in your own eyes. Fear the Lord and depart from evil. It will be health to your flesh and strength to your bones. Honor the Lord with your possessions and with the first fruits of all your increase. So your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will overflow with new wine. My son, do not despise the chastening of the Lord, nor detest his correction For whom whom the Lord loves, he corrects, just as a father, the Son, in whom he delights. uh uh a m a message based upon the day of the of the calendar year that it is, whether it's Mother's Day or Father's Day or those kind of things. Um but occasionally it just seems like uh seems appropriate to do that. I've already been away for a couple of weeks. There's I'm not in the mid I'm kind of in the middle of a series, but I'm not worried about breaking continuity there at this point, so it just really and and I just really feel that there is a great need for us to be reminded as fathers of what our role is in the home. And particularly because in our culture uh we really have to actually fight against the idea that fathers are almost unnecessary And I I want to say at the very beginning of this that that there are some homes where the father isn't there and to know or very little fault of the mother, she is left in a situation where She has to raise the kids on her own and there are many, many situations like that. And in no way do I want to make a person feel as though they have no hope of being able to raise their children without a father in the home. The truth of the matter is the our Heavenly Father is able to compensate in those kinds of areas where the where the where the earthly father is not present. And he does that by his grace. And I I could give you examples of that uh in the cr in Christians' homes where the mother was really tasked with both the responsibility of the father and the mother, and by God's grace saw God's saw uh children come to Christ and be used of God. In fact, very likely Timothy was that way in the New Testament. Uh Lois and Eunice m mother and grandmother raised Timothy, and it wasn't until later that Paul brought him to Christ and uh was able to be his spiritual father, but he looks to looks from what we can tell that he did not have a uh a saved earthly father father in the home. And so uh so on one hand I want to make sure that I don't I don't uh make anyone feel like they're in this hopeless situation when their father is on the and not in the home. But on the other hand, I do want to emphasize the importance of the role of the father The Bible emphasizes the role of the Father as being absolutely important. And we're living in a day where there are 19. 7 million children And more than one in four are living without a father in the home. I actually think that's probably a conservative estimate. It's probably more than that. They're living without a father in the home. I think there are two two major extremes that fathers go to, major faults that fathers go to in their homes. One fault is absence. They're just not there. And that is a great tragedy in any home when a father chooses to be absent in a home. And I think that that is just something that's that's um that God's grace certainly can compensate for it, but it really is something that that is to be lamented. And sometimes fathers maybe they're physically there, but they're not mentally there. They're not engaged. They're not involved. They're not aware of what's going on. They don't really see their role as being being the spiritual leader in the home. And in every marriage there is there are different dynamics in the home. The h the wife might take of care of certain things if she has for instance of finances, if she has strengths in the financial financial area. the wife can take care of and the husband can take care of based upon giftedness. But I can tell you this, that the one thing that should not be forfeited by the father is the spiritual leadership in the home. That's the one area biblically you can delegate a lot, but the father should be taking the spiritual leadership in the home. And I just want to say at the very outset that spiritual leadership is spiritual servanthood. That we as fathers ought to be serving our families. Leadership in Scripture is not lording over Leadership in Scripture is serving, and we have Jesus Christ as our example. Jesus said that said of Jesus that he took on the form of a servant and was made in the likeness of man and submitted himself. And the problem that we're having in many of our homes today is a really a misunderstanding of the role in either extreme. Either they're just absent. Or they're taking on a role of leadership that the Bible never describes. Sometimes what happens, we as fathers, and I am very guilty of this, I'll just maybe this is like confessional time for me. But Uh I am very guilty of this. Sometimes we as fathers, we want to win the battle so much that we lose the war. And what I mean by that is sometimes we are so intent on our kids behaving a certain way the way that we want them to That sometimes we're really not considering the relationship that should be involved and the long-term effects of what we're requiring. You ever heard somebody say You better do this because if I want you to do this and I'm not going to be happy if you do this. You ever heard if mom or dad, you ever heard a parent say that? You better do this, and I'm not going to be happy if you don't do this. And you know what the kid says So it's so this is a battle between my happiness and your happiness. So what's going to win? Well we're all selfish. See we need to We need a parent in such a way where this is not a matter of my happiness versus your happiness, this is a matter of pleasing God And when it comes to me as a father and the goals that I have for my kids, when it comes to you as a father and the goals that you have for your kids. What we see in Solomon is that he is very concerned about the person's heart, his son's heart. Now there are a couple of things that we need to understand about this passage. This is not an arbitrary passage in Proverbs. I just pick, well it's Father's Day, and I just need to pick a Proverbs and okay, that'll work This is the there's one there are three the there are two chapters in Proverbs before this. The entire book is written to the Son. A father to the Son, or most of the Proverbs are. The first chapter is basically summarized, stay away from bad influences, they'll ruin you. And the truth of the matter is, wrong influences in a child's life can really be so detrimental it can work against the father's intention. Number two, wisdom, chapter two, wisdom is extremely important. It's valuable. Be diligent, work hard at it. You need wisdom. You're gonna have to be diligent in pursuing it. Value it more than gold and silver, value it more than precious stones, value it more than riches. Chapter 2, you need to value wisdom. And then we come to chapter 3. And chapter 3, verses 1 through 12. He then says, look at chapter 3, verse 1, my son. My son, do not forget my law. And then he says this. He uses this word three times in this passage. He says. But let your heart, the word heart is very important in this passage. Let your heart, we're going to see in verse 1, let your heart keep my commands. In verse 3, again, we're going to see it. Write them on the tablet of your heart. And again, we're going to see it in verse 4. Trust in the Lord with all your heart. Fathers, you and I, we we need to have goals for our kids, but they ought not be just compliance or stay out of trouble. Or I hope you'll just somehow make it okay in life. Our goal needs to be for the heart of our kids. That the hearts of our children are directed toward the ways of God And whether you're a father or a grandfather or a great-grandfather, if you're a man in our church that needs to have a fatherly role in the lives of other children in our church, we need to understand that the most important thing is that the hearts of our kids seek after God and follow after the ways of God. Now we actually need to understand what this word heart means. In the Old Testament, this word heart is a very, very full word. It encompasses a lot in this word. In fact, one scholar said that it is the richest biblical term for the totality of man's inner and immaterial nature. This is a term that's talking about the very life of the person. It's not just heart and a sense of emotions. It's talking about understanding and mind and will and life and everything That's what this word heart means when you see it in the Old Testament. In fact, it said of God Himself in Job chapter 34, it says in verse 14 of that passage If he should set his heart on it, if he should gather to himself his spirit and his very breath, all flesh would perish together in man And what Solomon is saying to his son Is that you need to follow after God with all your life, your understanding, your mind, your will, your heart. It's got to be all-encompassing. And the truth of the matter is we as parents fall short when we say, okay, make sure you got give God a little bit over here Okay, we're living lives of whatever it is that we're doing, whatever pursuits, but you know, make sure you give your dues to God, make sure you be religious, you know, have church factor in somewhere, or you know, make sure you read your Bible a couple times a week. I mean That is not Solomon's intention for his son. And it ought not be your intention and my intention, but you know what? Frankly, I'll just say at the very beginning, we can't teach it if we don't live it. We can't teach our children to follow after God with their whole being if we're not following after God with our whole being ourselves. So we need to understand that's what Solomon is pointing to as we look through this passage. In Proverbs 22, verse 6, it says this. Train up a child in the way he should go. That word train means to literally to develop the desires that your job, Father. is to develop and to train and to hone and to guide the desires of your children at a very young age A lot of people say, I'll just help my children find their dreams. No, that's not what the Bible says to do. The Bible says you ought to help your children have the right dreams. Or the right desires is how the Bible would put it. We need to shape the desires of our children by what we put in front of them. by what we direct them to, by what we allow them to do, by what we are excited about, by what our enthusiasm is, And the passage gives us really four areas that we need to have implemented in the heart, really implanted in the heart of our children. We're going to see, first of all, kindness and loyalty to the truth. Secondly, we're going to see dependence on God, not self. Thirdly, we're going to see service to God as masters And fourthly, we're going to see submission to God as the Father, those four areas. And we're going to work through them fairly quickly, but just understand these are all areas And these are not arbitrary. Oh, by the way, have good character. Here's a few examples. No. These are things that the whole heart needs to go after. All our old be our whole beings need to go after. And we pick up here in chapter 3, verse 1, it says, My son, do not forget my law, but let your heart keep my commands, for length of days and long life, and peace they will add to you. He's talking about a quality of life and peace that they will add. And he says this, the command here is, let not mercy and truth forsake you. The command is to not allow mercy and truth to forsake you, but instead bind them around your neck, write them on the table of your heart, and so find favor and high esteem in the sight of God and man First of all, we need to not allow mercy and truth to forsake us. Loving kindness is what this is talking about, and loyal to the truth to the truth. Must implant into our heart. Loving kindness and loyalty to the truth must implant into the heart. Well, these two things, mercy and truth, loving kindness and truth, kindness and truth, are often coupled together in Scripture. In Psalms 25, 10 it says, All the paths of the Lord are mercy and truth. In Proverbs 14, 22, it says, Do they not err that devise evil, but mercy and truth shall be to them that devise good. In Proverbs sixteen six it says the same thing, mercy and truth. By mercy and truth iniquity is purged. So what is it? What is this mercy? What is this kindness talking about? When the Bible talks here in the Old Testament about this mercy and kindness, it's actually talking about a covenant love, a covenant kindness. This is best illustrated in the book of Ruth. You remember the book of Ruth? And in the book of Ruth, you have Naomi, for example, in verse 20 of chapter 2, where she talks to her daughter-in-law about this guy Boaz. who is a kinsman redeemer for the for for the two of them, who ends up being that. And she has a she sort of sees that as a possibility And she says, Blessed be he of the Lord who has not forsaken his kindness to the living and the dead. And Naomi said to her, This man is a relation of ours, one of our close relatives. There's this covenant kindness, this covenant favor, if you will In Jeremiah 31, 3 it says, The Lord has appeared of old to me, saying, Yes, I have loved you with an everlasting love, therefore with loving kindness I have drawn you. The kind of love this is talking about, kindness it's talking about, favor it's referring to, is the kind of kindness and love and favor that is found in a covenant binding relationship. And what Solomon is saying here is that you need to have a covenant binding relationship to the one who is kind and the one who is truth. And that's God Himself. Truth and faithfulness is the second word that we have here. In Joshua 24, verse 14, it says, Now therefore, fear the Lord, serve him in sincerity and in truth. Put away the gods which your fathers served on the other side of the river and in and in Egypt and serve the Lord. This word truth is loyalty to the truth, faithfulness to the truth. God says by way of Solomon to his son that you need to have in as as implanted in your heart as part of your very breath, as part of your very being, as your love, as your life, part of your life. Loving kindness and loyalty to the truth. And the truth is, we can't implement we can't have that in our lives if we don't see it in our lives first. And we see it as we come to God in relationship with Him. It is God who has loving kindness toward us. It is God who is a God of truth. And when we see Him do that in our lives, then we're able then to produce that from our lives. And that happens, folks, only by means of the gospel. Notice in the text how it how he desires this to be permanent. He says it needs to be bound around your neck. It needs to be written on the tablet of your heart. He uses two illustrations here. The word neck actually could be translated throat. And what it's referencing is the idea that we get breath from it. And we we take in breath and we give out breath. We live by means of our throat. He's talking about we need to live by this. We need to breathe ought to be as our very breath. And then he says, the tablet of our heart. Back in those days, there were laws that were written various ways. Some were written on paper, a form of a kind of paper, some were written on parchment A c uh uh uh uh animal skin. But the the the the things that were m the laws that were most important that were intended to be permanent, that were not going to be taken away, that were absolutely binding, those were written on tables of stone, like the Ten Commandments. And Solomon says, these things need to be written in stone in your life. Fathers, the goals of our we the goals that we need to have for our kids is that covenant-loving kindness. and truth become the per they are permanent in the lives of our kids, in the hearts of our kids. And it says, when that happens, then we will find favor and understanding. Favor with God and man. How does this happen? It happens, frankly, through the gospel. Zach mentioned on Wednesday night that it says in the Old Testament that we actually have, because of the fall, hearts of stone. But Ezekiel chapter 36, verse 26, it says, I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit within you. I will take the heart of stone out of your flesh and give you uh the heart of stone out out and give you a heart of flesh. God says that the heart that we need to have is one that is malleable, is submissive, and one where then we can Know the loving kindness of God and the truth of God and frankly folks that comes only by means of the gospel. We need our kids to we need to live out the gospel in front of our kids. Our homes need to be living out the gospel. We need to be speaking the gospel and teaching the gospel and one of the greatest tragedies in the Christian home in our day and age is the idea that a child uh will somehow pray a prayer, quote unquote, get saved, and then no longer even interact with the gospel I got that done. That's over, and now I can live my life. That is a bunch of hogwash. They never actually got the gospel, if that's the mentality. The gospel is to be worked through and lived out and thought through and meditated on and wrestled over and why? So that it can be a very part of our lives. So that we can know the loving kindness of God and loyalty to his truth. Number two Dependency of on God and not self must be implanted in our hearts. In the heart And all of this has to be done by way of example. This is a very familiar passage of Scripture, but I think we actually miss a very important verse that's attached to this that we sometimes leave off when we quote it. Trust in the Lord with all of what? Your life, your heart. Trust in the Lord with all of your heart. And don't lean on your own understanding. In all your ways, everything, acknowledge him, and he'll direct your paths. But don't forget the next verse, verse 7. Do not be wise in your own eyes. Fear the Lord and depart from evil. You know why we don't trust God with all of our heart? It's because, folks, we're wise in our own eyes. And we need to have a dependency, a trust completely on God for our children, implanted in the heart of our children, not dependency on self. We must learn this In 2 Kings chapter 10, chapter 18, a man by the name of Hezekiah was a king. And it says of that king In that chapter, it says that he was unique and that there was none like him that came before him or after him. And in 2 Kings chapter 18, verse 5, it says this about him. He trusted in the Lord God of Israel. So that after him was none like him among all the kings of Judah, nor who were before him. Why? For he Set held fast to the Lord, and he did not depart from following him How do we hold fast to God and not depart from following him? Folks, the key is in this passage. We trust God and we do not trust our own understanding. The truth of the matter is, we as fathers, you know what we do sometimes, we have too much self-dependency. And probably one of the bad uh elements of masculinity in our culture historically is this idea that we don't need anybody else, that we're some sort of lone ranger that can do it all, and if you're not, you're not a man. Well, that's not biblical. Fact is, we are all needy people. And we as men are are in great need. And we must learn to trust God. We must learn to depend upon Him and not lean on our own understanding. In all our ways, acknowledge Him. And we do this when we fear the Lord, when we are when we understand that we are in the presence of God, we're acknowledging the presence of God all the time in our lives. And folks, we can apply this to our homes. How often in a day do we speak of the Lord? How often in a day were do we talk about the Lord to our kids? Is this a part of the atmosphere of our homes? Is this a part of the culture of our homes that we're constantly recognizing God's provision in our lives. We're constantly realizing God's ways in our lives. We're talking about how we need the Lord and how we want the Lord to direct us and how we want to please the Lord. what will please the Lord and what won't please the Lord. And when got when when our kids obey us, it does please the Lord. And if we want our kids to obey us, it's not to make me happy. It's because if you learn to please me, you'll learn to please God. That's the kind of atmosphere that we need in our homes. One where there is a fear of the Lord, an awareness of the presence of God in our homes. Why? Because it'll be health to our Health to the center of our being. It will be a healthy home, and we will have lives of spiritual health. Number three, service to God as master must be implanted in the heart. Notice then what the text says in this passage. These two things are fundamental that we talked about. Fully trusting God, having the loving kindness in our hearts toward God But then we see in verses 9 and 10 here, the next one, service to God as our master must be implanted in the heart. It says this, honor the Lord with your possessions. And with the first fruits of all your increase. So your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will overflow with new wine. Now, this passage, verse 10, there, it says, your barns will be filled with plenty. This is not an absolute promise. The Proverbs are not written that way. It's very important when you're when you're interpreting Scripture to understand that different different uh scripture is written different ways. They're called genres And in this pat this is wisdom literature, and so when you read Proverbs, you ought not saying, okay, you have a guarantee here. And this is not a guarantee that if you will give the Lord a portion of your possession, then you are automatically always going to be rich. It's not a guarantee here. What it's saying is that generally generally when you when you give to the Lord of your possessions, when you give to him of the first fruits, when you give to him, then you will be satisfied. You'll have enough And actually, that is a promise in the New Testament. The Bible actually tells us that if we will seek first the kingdom of God, you remember what it says? And his righteousness, and what? All of these things will be added to you, and all these things are actually the material things in the context he's talking about putting on cloth clothing and raiment and worrying about food and all that. He says this, you'll have what you need if you will seek first the kingdom of God. And that's essentially what this passage is saying. Honor God with your possessions and with the first fruits of your increase. This was something that was taught many that had many laws about this in the Old Testament, in Leviticus, and Exodus Many, many passages refer to giving of the first fruits. And in the New Testament, the Bible says this, Matthew chapter 6, verse 20. It says, But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, where thieves do not break in or steal, for where your treasure is, there your what? Your heart will be also. Why was Solomon saying this in a passage about the heart? Why would he mention this? It's because of this. Where you put your money is where your heart is. Where you focus your finances is where your heart is You want to the truth is you want to look at somebody's heart, open up their checkbook these days, nobody uses a checkbook. Open up their bank account ledger or their credit card ledger or whatever it is And you can see where somebody's heart is. You can see where your own heart is. Let me ask you this question just by way of application. Do when we Do we have a j a generous spirit where we where we think in terms of giving to the Lord, we get to do this? Or do we feel obligated to do it? When we talk to our kids about giving to the Lord, we talk about to our kids about giving to the Lord's work or to needs that we see or the do we say, oh I guess I better do this Man, I guess it better you know I gotta give the t you know yet work did you tie it this week? No, I forgot this week. We better do it this week, but uh Is that the kind of discussion that we have? I I'm not saying here folks, I'm look, I'm not ta saying we you need to give more and our church isn't doing well. That's not not the issue But the spirit and the culture that we have in our homes, the Bible says in 2 Corinthians 9, verses 6 and 7 that we need to give proportionately, regularly, and perhaps most importantly, cheerfully. The Bible says God loves a cheerful giver. He loves to receive gifts from us that we give because we get to. Because we want to, because we love him, because we see his loving kindness toward us, and we just got we want to love him back Is that the kind of attitude that our children are picking up from us when it comes to giving of ourselves? Not I don't think just monetarily, although that's what's in the passage in view. But of our time and our abilities and our heart, are we giving out of cheerfulness? Is the heart attitude something that is important to us and is something that we are teaching our children? And finally Number four, submission to God as father must be implemented in the heart or implanted in the heart. Submission to God as father. Now here's what happens in life as you go through life. The reality is God the Father has goals for us as his children. In fact, I want you to see what these goals are. Would you take your Bibles for just a few minutes and turn to Hebrews chapter 12 to see what God's goals are for you? Hebrews chapter 12. And we're going to pick up here in verse 4 in just a few moments here. In fact, what I want to do, this is actually, Hebrews chapter 12 is actually quoting Proverbs, of this Proverbs. And so it gives us further explanation as to what Solomon is saying to his to his son and the direct application that you and I can receive as well. Look at verse 4 of chapter 12. He says, You have not yet resisted the blood, striving against sin, and you have forgotten the exhortation which speaks to you as sons, as children of God. He says, My son, and this is a quote from Proverbs, my son, do not despise the chastening of the Lord, nor be discouraged when you are rebuked by him, for whom the Lord loves He chastens and scourges every son whom he receives. Verse 7. If you endure chastening. God deals with you as with sons. For what son is there whom the Father does not chasten? But if you are without chastening, of which all have become partakers, then you are illegitimate and not sons. Furthermore, we have had human fathers who corrected us and paid them respect. He's saying this. He's saying that if you are truly a child of God, you're going to be disciplined as a child of God. You're going to be chastened as a child of God. And if you're not chastened as a child of God, then you're not really a child of God. That God has a particular Goal for us as his children, and this goal is something that he is going to direct us toward and focus us in on and chasten us as a loving father will to so that we meet this goal. And don't expect, don't be surprised. Endure the chastening. Why? Because every legitimate child is chastened. What kind of, it says, what kind of father doesn't discipline his child? The idea of that was foreign in the mind of the first century. It's not that foreign today. Unfortunately, we have many fathers that sort of sit back and let their mothers do all the chastening. That is not biblical. The Bible actually tells us that we ought to be very careful not to provoke our children to wrath, and I'll tell you the key on how to do that. You cannot be so worried about your child's immediate behavior that you forget the ultimate goal. If you're so concerned about what they do right now, and I do this, I'm I'm guilty. If I'm so concerned about what they do right now that I forget the goal of truly growing in Christ, truly uh becoming more Christ-like. If I forget that goal, it's not going to be long before it's about what I want rather than what God wants. And I'm going to provoke my children to wrath, to anger, to frustration is the word there, exasperation. But the f our Heavenly Father doesn't do that. Did you know that by the way? Did you know that he is not ready to pick at you or beat you up for one misstep? That's not what this passage is talking about. God has an ultimate goal for you. Now I want you to see what the ultimate goal is. Furthermore, uh verse nine, furthermore, we have had f human fathers who corrected us and we paid them respect. Shall we not much more Readily be in subjection to the fathers of spirits and live. What should we be? In subjection. We ought to be submissive to the Father. For they indeed for a few days chastened us as what seems best to them, as human fathers do that. But he for our prophet It's for our profit. And we ought to discipline our kids' fathers for their profit. Why? What's the goal? What is the goal of our Heavenly Father when He chastens us? That we may be what? Partakers of His what? Are you there? What is it? Partakers of His holiness God's singular goal for you and for me is holiness. Did you know that? Say, well, I thought it was Christ-likeness. Yes. What is Christ? He's holy. God's singular goal for you and for me is Christ-like holiness. Why does he chasten us? He chastened us in such a way that he will direct us to that path toward holiness Christlikeness and holiness. And parents, you and I, we need to direct our kids that way. When we chasing our kids, we need to help them to understand, look, I am not doing this just because I want you to do what I want you to do. I am chastening you because I want you to move toward Christ-likeness and holiness. That was the goal. It says verse 11, now no chastening seems to be joyful for the present time. I have never heard a child, I mean you're not really doing something right if you discipline your child and they're like, yes. You're really not chastening your child if you do that. No chastening seems to be joy uh joyful for a present. but painful, nevertheless, afterward it yields the peaceable fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it What's the point? Look back at Proverbs chapter 3 and see what see what the warning is to our children and really a warning to all of us. What is it? Don't despise. My son, do not despise the chastening of the Lord nor detest his correction. Why? For whom the Lord loves, he corrects, just as the Father, the Son, in whom he delights. We need to teach our children to expect God's chastening, to chasten them in such a way That they understand when God chases them in the future, that God has a loving goal for them We have a loving goal for them in the home, but one day they're going to go out and they're going to go out and be outside of our of our authority and they're going to be chastened by the Lord as their as his as a loving Heavenly Father And don't despise that either, because God's got a goal for you just like I have a goal for you. And frankly, the goal is the same. Christ-likeness. That's the goal. And fathers, don't lose the battle. I mean, don't win the battle and lose the war. Remember, as you chasten, as you discipline, your goal is Christ-likeness and holiness. So summarizing all of this. This is what we need for the hearts, for our hearts. Frankly, this has got to be, you can't, you can't expect this in the hearts of your children if this isn't in your own heart. We must lead by examples in the home. The responsibility of the spiritual climate of the home and direction of the home is squarely placed on the Father. The mom helps tremendously. I don't know what I do without the mom side of this relationship, this one-flesh relationship. But I will tell you this, it's squarely placed on the home, on the father. Number one, be committed to loving kindness and loyalty to the truth Be committed to loving kindness and loyalty to the truth. Number two, be dependent on God, not self. This ought to be just something that is written into the very DNA of our lives, to be dependent on God, not self. To honor God as our master. And I'll just say one thing about this. Do you realize that you will you are always serving somebody? You are always enslaved to somebody. Did you know that? The Bible is very clear about this. We are always enslaved to somebody. You are either enslaved to yourself and to sin, or you are enslaved to Christ. And being enslaved to yourself and sin will create will create destruction and death for you. Being enslaved to Christ, he is a loving, benevolent master who loves you Who it see it's not a matter of oh I'll be enslaved to Christ or I'll be free. That is not the Bible's way of seeing it. It's not I'll be enslaved to Christ or I'll be free, it's I'll be enslaved to Christ or I'll be enslaved to sin And God loves you and sin hates you. Did you know sin hates you? Think about it. Sin does hate you. Do you know that? Think about it. What does sin, what is the result of sin? It's death, right? What is what is the worst kind of hatred? It's when someone wants to kill somebody else Sin hates you. Follow after the master who loves you, not the master who hates you. And we ought to want our kids to follow after the master that loves them, not after the sin and self that hates them. Finally, submit to God as Father. We need to do this in our own lives, and we need to teach our children to do this as well. So that our children, their hearts are turned toward God and they follow the ways of God. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and thank you for your word. We praise you for this truth that we've learned and been reminded of this morning. Father, I pray that you as would help us as fathers to lead our homes in a way that is pleasing to you. Help us to have spiritual goals for our kids. Help us to understand spiritual leadership in the home. Help us to understand that we will stand before the Lord not for the not for the behavior of our kids, but we will stand before the Lord for how we lead them. Lord, I pray that you would help us to also, really, in our own dependency on you, understand that we desperately need the gospel to do this. May we know the gospel, live the gospel. May we have the gospel permeate our home. And may the gospel do what we look we look at this and we go, there is no way I can accomplish all this. And that I think that's the point. This is the goals for our kids that only you can do through uh through the gospel, and we are the vessels. Help us to example these things so that our children can can be in the right environment to receive them according to your will and your way. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.