Let's bow our heads and pray. Heavenly Father, we are so grateful this morning. Father, we're thankful and filled with joy because of your goodness to us, Father. Father, your grace and your mercy that you show us, your kindness, and how you provide so richly for us. And Father, we're thankful for your Holy Spirit enabling us to grow and nurtured, to be nurtured, and to become more and more into your image. And Father, we're thankful this morning for your word And as we come to this time that we are going to be into under your word, Father, I would pray for those who are unable to be here this morning, maybe because of health issues or traveling, and we ask that you would grant them grace And if they can get in on the live stream, Father, we pray that they will be truly blessed. We pray for comfort and encouragement for them. And we pray this morning that Father you would help us to set aside all of those thoughts and cares that we had coming in this morning. And help us to concentrate on the next hour, Lord, on your word. And I pray that Father, your Spirit, will guide us and direct us and help us and give us understanding. And as we gain this understanding, Lord, may we desire to be more and more obedient to your word. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. We're going to be reading this morning from Romans chapter 4, and uh we are going to begin at the verse 1 of chapter 4 and go through verse 17 So, what then shall we say that Abraham, our father, has found according to the flesh? For if Abraham was justified for works, He has something to boast about, but not before God. For what does the scripture say? Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him for righteousness. Now to him who works, the wages are not counted as grace, but as debt. But to him who does not work, but believes on him who justifies the ungodly His faith is accounted for righteousness. Just as David also describes the blessedness of the man to whom God imputes righteousness apart from works. Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven and whose sins are covered. Blessed is the man to whom the Lord shall not impute sin. Does this blessedness then come upon the circumcised only, or upon the uncircumcised also? For we say that faith was accounted to Abraham for righteousness. How then was it accounted? While he was circumcised or uncircumcised? Not while he was circumcised, but while he was uncircumcised. And he received the sign of circumcision, a seal of the righteousness of the faith which he had while still uncircumcised. That he might be the Father of all those who believe, though they are uncircumcised, that righteousness might be imputed to them also. And the father of circumcision to those who not only are of the circumcision, but who also walk in the steps of faith, which are our father Abraham had while still uncircumcised. For the promise that he would be the heir of the world was not to Abraham or his seed through the law But through the righteousness of faith. For if those who are of the law are heirs, faith is made void, and the promise made of no effect. Because the law brings about wrath, for where there is no law there is no transgression. Therefore, it is of faith that it might be according to grace. so that the promise might be sure to all the seed, not only to those who are of the law, but also of those who are of the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all. As it is written, I have made you a father of many nations in the presence of him whom he believed. God who gives life to the dead and calls those things which do not exist as though they did. Have you ever had a relationship with someone that you really loved and respected? Maybe they're very close to you at one time, but you knew that you were not right with that person. There was something that was a wedge in your relationship, something that was a barrier in relationship and it really caused you a great deal of of aching and and just just Just angst about it. You would it's you struggle with it, maybe even you felt it in the pit of your stomach every time you thought about that person. Because you knew things just weren't that weren't right with that person. You valued the person, and yet you didn't, just things weren't right. The truth is the Bible tells us that we are born not right with God We're born, the Bible says enemies of God. And in fact, the Bible seems to indicate that we might know that uh intuitively. In Ecclesiastes chapter three it tells us that he has put enmity in or that he has put eternity in their hearts rather. He's put eternity in our hearts. There's something that tells us that there is more than beyond this life. That there is a life to come. And Romans chapter 2, verse 15, we learned that there's a conscience that can accuse us of wrongdoing. We can know just by living that we're not always, we're doing the wrong thing or we're we're not perfect in what we do And that there is a void in our lives. There is a something missing. And you'll hear people talk about it. I knew there was a void in my life, and I knew I needed to fill it with such and such. And sometimes that just might be a loss or something that is is just really emotional. But I think sometimes that really is a spiritual thing where people realize They are not right with God. So things in their life are not right. But the same thing can happen to someone who names the name of Christ. Someone who says that they're a Christian, where they struggle with whether or not they're right with God. Yes, they've come to God in faith through Christ. They have trusted him as their savior, but they they struggle with with with just our they don't have the assurance of knowing. that they are truly right with God, that things are clear in their relationship with God, that there is a clear position in Christ, and they're confident in that And one of the reasons that is, is that people struggle either with the void in their life that they are truly not right with God and they know it and there's something, they may not know they're not right with God, but they know there's something not right. And the problem is they're not right with God. Or if they i a Christian who struggles with that, that they are not truly assured of their relationship with God. Sometimes the problem is that things get confused when it comes to what truly causes a person to be able to receive the grace of God. This passage is actually Paul is talking, he's talking primarily to Jewish Christians. He's explaining to them that the offer of salvation is to all people And it is by grace through faith, and he's using the example of Abraham to show that the Jews are not the only ones that God desires to save and bring into right relationship with him. But we also, there's much application for us in strengthening our understanding of the gospel in such a way that it will really help us. to have confidence in our standing with God. And so we'll see that in this passage. The passage is going to teach us, particularly verses 9 through 17. That we are made right with God according to his plan. And that plan includes three things. First, No one is made right with God by religious practice. No one. No one is ever made right with God by religious practice or ritual And we're going to learn the particular practice that they were, the Jews were getting hung up on was circumcision. But understand that no one is ever made right with God by religious practice. No one also is made right with God by moral compliance. No one. No one has ever made right with God or maintains their right standing with God by moral compliance. So it's not religious practice, it's not moral compliance that makes people right with God. Then we're going to learn verses 16 through 17. That everyone is made right with God by grace through faith alone. That is the only way. But it's offered to everyone. And this is the this is generally what Paul is going to try to get across of this passage. It's not complicated. It's rather simple in the sense that we're just looking at these things. It's very clear as we go through the passage. But my hope and prayer is today as we go through this that there will be a sense of simplicity about this in such a way that it will help you in understanding and having confidence about where you stand with God. I my prayer, my hope is that everybody here at the end of this message will be very clear on where they stand with God, which is the most important question we could really ever ask ourselves. So first of all, we're going to see from the text in verses 9 through 12 that no one is made right with God by religious practice. And as I mentioned before, the issue is circumcision. Romans 4. 9 says this. Does this blessedness Then come upon the circumcised only, or upon the uncircumcised also. For we say that faith was accounted to Abraham for righteousness. How then was it accounted? While he so was circumcised or uncircumcised, not while circumcised, but while uncircumcised. So the blessedness that's referred to in this passage actually Goes back to verses 7 and 8 of the passage. So look at that for a minute. Chapter 4, verse 7 and 8 says, Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven and whose sins are covered. Blessed is the man to whom the Lord shall not impute sin. The happiness, the true blessedness. of any person is when their lawless deeds and we are all born in a lawless state and do lawless deeds When we find ourselves in a place of forgiveness where our sins are covered and we are made right with God. That is a blessed place. Well, does this blessing, he's asking the question, does this blessing only apply to the Jewish people who have been circumcised Or does it apply to people who have also been uncircumcised? He answers the question with another question. The question that he answers, he says, is, was Abraham made righteous Before he was circumcised, or when or after he was circumcised. And we know from a text, they would know it as well. that he was actually made righteous or declared righteous, made right with God, or declared righteous, before he was circumcised. We know this from Genesis chapter 15. That's the time where it says, and very key verse in the in scripture, he believed God, talking about Abraham, he believed the Lord, and he accounted it to him for righteousness. The concept of circumcision doesn't come until Genesis chapter 17. So in fact, take your Bibles and turn there, if you would. Genesis chapter 17, and we'll look at verses 10 through 14. Just to understand what this concept of circumcision is and how what God intended it to be used for Because ultimately the problem for the Jewish people was that they really weren't understanding what circumcision was truly to be used for And Paul is going to remind them of what it is and actually what it isn't as well. But you'll notice that this is Genesis 17 and And God declares Abraham righteous by his belief alone in Genesis fifteen. I'll just mention also by the way that even after we're finished Genesis 17, maybe keep a marker somewhere in there. We'll be looking at verses chapters 12 through 17, back and forth a little bit. So keep a marker in there. We'll be back in that section of scripture a bit a little bit later. But let's pick up in verse 10 of Genesis 17, where it says, This is my covenant which you shall keep between me and you and your descendants after you. Every male child among you shall be circumcised. And he shall be circumcised to the flesh of your foreskins, and it shall be a sign, and here tells you the purpose of circumcision. It will be a sign of the covenant between me and you. He who is eight days old among you shall be circumcised, every male child in your generations, he w he was born in your house or bought with money for uh from any foreigner who is not your your descendant. He who is born in your house and he who has bought it with your money with must be circumcised. And my covenant shall be in your flesh for an everlasting covenant, and your sir uncircumcised male child who is who is not circumcised in the flesh of his firstkin, that person shall be cut off from his first people and he has he has broken my covenant. The text actually tells us, and Paul's going to be make it more explicit, what What this circumcision is for. He says in Romans chapter 11, and he received the sign of circumcision, meaning Abraham, a seal of the righteousness of faith. which he had while still uncircumcised, that he might be the father of those who believe, though they are uncircumcised, that the righteousness might be imputed to them also Okay, so the Bible tells us basically essentially two things then. The Genesis passage tells us that it was a sign, and Paul tells us it was a seal. It was a sign. of the covenant that he was making with Israel. And Paul calls it here a seal. Well what's a sign? A sign points to something. It signals something. It shows something. It's like military dog tags. It tells all the information is necessary to show that you see somebody walking around with dog tags, you know they're probably in the military. or a branding of livestock. You know that that person has a particular brand and livestock. That's their livestock that's owned by them. It's an identification. And that's what it was intended to be in in this time period when it was when it was established with Abraham. It's simply identifying, it was a sign to show of the covenant or the agreement that Israel had made with God. It showed a covenant and it was something that every a every male was that was born on the eighth day, they would be circumcised to as a sign or a to show that they were part of this covenant that God had made with Abraham. And also with Israel as well. Word seal is similar to the word sign, actually, in this case. It means to authenticate something Think of a certificate of authenticate uh authenticity. You ever seen those and might go into a um I haven't been into any kind of uh store that sells antiques and things in years actually and I'm It's probably I'm really fine with that. But um but if you go you someone might go to a store to see an antique and you're trying to figure out whether it's authentic and it might be a certificate of authenticity. Well Is the antique authentic without the certificate? Well of course it is. The certificate just shows that some expert somewhere has. verified that the piece is authentic. Actually you could slap that certificate on anything. I always wondered about that. You could slap the art that that certificate on anything and it doesn't mean it makes the The piece that's not authentic, suddenly authentic, just because you slap a certificate on it. And yet that's essentially what the Jewish people began to think when it came to this issue of circumcision. That you must be circumcised, and when you are circumcised, you enter into this covenant relationship with God, and as a result, you have a relationship with God, and you are made right with God by circumcision. It's like they missed the forest for the trees. Was circumcision God something God commanded them to do? Yes. But this became such a serious problem because God had intended Israel to be a light to all of the nations. And we're going to see that more, even in the very beginning with Abraham. He wanted Israel to be a shining light so that all people would know how to come to him. But this con this idea of circumcision and being circumcised and the need for being circumcised became something where you are in or you are out in their minds. And they began to think to themselves, you are right with God or you are not right with God based upon this particular religious practice. And essentially, Paul is saying God never intended that to be the case. That the sum total of whether you or not you are right with God or not is dependent upon whether or not you are circumcised. This became a real issue in the first century church because you had many Jewish people coming to Christ. In fact in Pentecost in Acts chapter 2, you have many, many there there's those thousands of people, they were Jews. were scattered all over the place and came back for Pentecost, but they were Jewish people. Lots of Jewish people were getting saved, but also Gentile people were getting saved. And by the time you get to Acts chapter 15, you have this council that meets together to discuss this issue of circumcision. Should all these Gentiles that are getting saved, should they be required to be circumcised? And the answer uh was given by James as they met together, and James being the pastor of the church at Jerusalem, he he m essentially gave the gave the consensus and he says in verse 19 of Acts 15, therefore I judge that we should not trouble those from among the Gentiles who are turning to God, but that we write to them to abstain from things polluted by idols, from sexual immorality, from things strangled, and from blood. So basically he says, no, we should not impose this circumcision on them. Paul's going to take it even to a step further in Galatians chapter 5, verses 1 through 4. He says Stand fast therefore in the liberty by which Christ has made us free, and do not be entangled again with a yoke of bondage. Indeed, Paul say Paul I Paul say to you that if you become circumcised, Christ will profit you nothing. And I testify again to every man who becomes circumcised that he is a debtor to keep the whole law. You have become estranged from Christ. You who you attempt to be justified by the law, you have fallen from grace. In no uncertain terms, he says that if you depend upon circumcision, by the way, you better keep the whole law, which nobody can do. But those of you who are certain you are being entangled again by a yoke of bondage. He warns the Jewish Christians in Galatia about this. Now the reality is we f nobody is here is saying, well, I gotta make sure my I I gotta weigh this out with circumcision to see whether or not my you know I gotta make sure my sons are circumcised to make sure that they're going to heaven. Nobody's saying that here, more than likely. That would be strange if you did that, if you thought that. But all of us have this tendency, and the world certainly has this tendency to attribute some sort of religious practice as the thing that needs to be done so that you can be made right with God. In the world, for example, in Hinduism, there is a festival, great Hindu religious festival called Mahakumb Mela. Every 12 years this came about, and it's during the confluence of the Ganges and the at the confluence of the Ganges and the Yumuna River, it is known as the world's largest single religious event. The festival is led by a group of stark naked holy men who lead a procession of millions of pilgrims down into the holy waters. There's all kinds of things going on like there people are a bed of n a bed of nail during this festival on a bed of nails and broken uh glass are hit over the head with broken glass and They lie on hot coals, all of which are hoping to cause them to become right with God. One Hindu holy book declares, those who bathe at the conflux of the black and white river, talking about these two rivers that this meets, will go to heaven. Guaranteed, right then and there. Now we say, well that's stupid. Well that doesn't make any sense whatsoever. But do we are we guilty of the same thing? Paul warns about Paul even Paul the Apostle Paul before he came to Christ, he saw his own religious practices as being very important. He mentions in Philippians chapter 3 verse 2, he says, beware of dogs, beware of evildoers, beware of the mutilation. He's actually talking about Judaizers who try to pull you back. into these religious practices, he says, for we are the circumcision who worship God in spirit, rejoice in Jesus and Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh. Though I might also have confidence in the flesh. He says, if there's anybody that has confidence in the flesh, it's me. Of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, of the Hebrew of the Hebrews And you know what he says at the end of that all line of the things that he has and what he's done and who he is? It's all but dung. It means nothing. Especially compared to Christ. So we see that, see, the truth is we can be guilty of the same thing. There are some denominations that they attribute baptism this way or other sacraments, that if you will do these sacraments, or if you will be baptized. that you will then be able to uh you know that you'll be right with God. You can talk to some people if you just ask them Hey, if you were to stand before the Lord and he were to ask you, why should I let you to heaven, what would you say? Oh, well, I was baptized, or I was confirmed, or they go to these religious practices and they look to those as beings what they are looking to in order to be right with God. But even in our circles we do this. And we do this not through baptism. We're pretty clear on what that is and we're not not through, but we do this through praying a prayer. You talk to some people and you say, have you have you uh if you were standing before and he asked you why should I let you have him, what what would you say? And they answer, Well, I prayed a prayer when I was four years old. Or I prayed a prayer when I was five. They're actually looking to the prayed prayer, and in so doing, they're looking to it as a religious practice. That they did in the flesh, essentially, and they're not saying it this way, we can do the same thing with that sort of prayed prayer, okay, there's uh I'm good because I prayed that prayer. And then you go on and live the way however you want. We can have the same problem. So we need to be clear about this. That religion no religious practice whatsoever will make you right with God. Galatians chapter 6 says it this way. See with what large matters I have written to you with my own hand, as many as desire to make a good showing in the flesh. These would compel you to be circumcised only that they may suffer persecution for the cross, for not even those who circumcise keep the law, but they desire to have us have you circumcised that you may boast in your flesh. But God forbid that I should boast except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom the whole world has been crucified to me and I to the world, for Christ Jesus, neither circumcision nor uncircumcision. It is only by Christ, is the cross of Christ in which we glory, nothing else And so, secondly, we're going to see that no one is made right with God through moral compliance. We see this in verses 13 through 15 of the passage. Paul's still dealing with Jewish people, but these kinds of things are the kinds of things that we all struggle with, that we all deal with Because our flesh so wants to hold on to something tangible that we can know will make us right with God. So we have the law here that the Jewish people have linked up with. Verse 13: For the promise that he would be the heir of the world was not to Abraham or his seed through the law, but through the righteousness of faith. He says, think about, here's what he's pointing out. He's like, think about the promise that was made to Abraham. Was the promise made to Abraham through the law? Take your Bibles and turn there. We'll look at it. Genesis chapter 15. Hopefully you've kept the marker in 17. Go to two chapters back. Chapter 15. And let's look at verses 1 through 6. Remember, we've already quoted verse 6, which says Abraham believed God, and it was credited to him or counted to him, imputed to him for righteousness. But let's look at the context now and see what else is there. There's actually a promise given to Abraham, and let's see what else is associated with that promise. Genesis chapter 15, verse 1. And they would have been very Jewish people during this time. We read this, would have been very familiar with this passage in Genesis. Verse 15, verse 1 rather, chapter 15. After these things, the word of the Lord came to Abram in a vision, saying, Do not be afraid, Abram. I am your shield, your excellent, your exceedingly great reward. But Abram said, Lord God, what will you give me, seeing I go childless, and the heir of my house is Eliezer of Damascus? He says, I don't have any kids. You're giving me a promise that you're going to make a great great nation of me, but I I go childless. Then Abraham said, Look, Abram said, Look, you have given me no offspring, indeed one born in my house is my heir And behold, the word of the Lord came to him and saying, This one shall not be your heir, but one will come from your own body shall be your heir. Okay, he's like, okay, so it can't be from it have to be from my body. Then he brought him outside and said, Look now toward heaven, and count the stars if you are able to number them. And he said to him, So shall your descendants be. And he believed in the Lord and he accounted to him for righteousness. Was there any law there? Did God say to Abraham, Okay, if you do this, this, this, and this Then then if you do those things, then I will make of you a great nation. Is that what he says there? It's not there. He doesn't say if you comply with the law, if you do these things, if you make nothing. He just simply says, this is going to happen. It is a promise conditioned on nothing. I am it's an unconditional promise that I'm going to take for, I'm going to carry out. And the only thing that we see is that Abraham believed it by faith. So it is through faith alone. This is the argument that he's making. He is setting Abraham up as, because they set him up as the example, as the example now. To see how do you become right with God. And this passage teaches us that it's only by faith alone Verse 14 tells us this of the of the passage in Romans 4. For if those who are excuse me are of the uh of the law are heirs Faith is made void and the promise made of no effect. Those are our of the law heirs. Faith is made void. And the promise is made of no effect. So here's what he's saying. He's saying, look, if you inherit eternal life or you inherit a right standing with God by the law, Then you avoided out faith. It's not by faith at all. You can't have works and faith working together. It's one or the other He says this, and the promise is suddenly made of no effect. See, it's it's similar to a gift. It's similar to giving somebody a gift and they're trying to pay for it. You give somebody a gift and they're trying to pay for it, they're not gonna it's not a gift anymore. And if you make a somebody a promise that has no conditions on it, and then they try to place a condition You've voided out faith and the promise is no longer in effect. And that's what he's telling And that's that's what he's telling the Jews. The Jews have gotten this wrong, essentially, as a whole. And in verse 15 Why? Because the law brings about wrath. For where there is no law, there is no transgression. He says, the only thing that the law is good for is that it shows us that we are not right with God, that we are under the wrath of God. That's what the law does. It shows us this. The law can't save us. The law shows us we're not in right standing with God because we can't keep the law. For where there is no law, there is no transgression. Now transgression is the idea of stepping over a line. So if you step over a line that you're not supposed to step over, it's a transgression. Um I know many of like ho most of you are not hunters and neither am I. But when I would go up to uh I was lived up in Pennsylvania Um as you all know because I've used this I've said this before, I did not have much success if I really didn't have any success with hunting. I'd go out and sit in the cold all day and then see nothing and you can go home. But the reason was, primarily as I learned later on after I left, is that I was going to the public game lands. That is not where the deer are the you can't find deer in a public you can find deer down here a lot, but you can't find deer in a public game land. They leave you have to go to private property. Find somebody with private property and you're gonna be a m it's a much higher chance of being able to uh to shoot deer during during deer season season, during shooting during hunting season. So imagine you're you're out hunting in public game land, it's not working and you You walk and you just walk a ways and you just keep going and you keep going and eventually you see a deer and you shoot the deer. But after you shot the deer, you you know at some point Later, the the guy cut maybe you're you're gutting the deer in on the field or whatever. Uh you're get dressing it, getting it ready to to come in the and a guy comes and says, Hey, you're on my property Actually, yes, but until he tells you that you're on his property, you're not trespassing. Did you know that? Now, if you if the if you you're in this game land and you have this big fence and it says private property, no trespassing, and you jump the fence, then you're trespassing. But if you have no clue that that that that's private property and you cross over there, you aren't breaking a law actually until you know Well you knowingly go across the the that that threat that line. And so there's a sense in which some laws, I mean in inherently we are guilty and sinful before the Lord But the fact that we know the law does not make us less sinful. It makes us more sinful, if anything, and certainly causes us to realize our sin more. And that's what he's saying here. He's saying he's saying the law is no good for making you right with God. It's unable to do that. In fact, you're under the wrath of God. In Romans chapter 7, this is laid out this way. Paul begins to explain what it looks like to really realize that you're under the law of God. And he says in that passage, verse 7 What shall we say then? Is the law sin? Certainly not. On the contrary, I would not have known sin except through the law. For I would have not known covetousness unless the law had said, You shall not covet But sin, taking opportunity by the commandment, produced in me all manner of evil desire. For apart from the law, sin was dead. I was alive once without the law, but when the commandment came, sin revived, and I died. And the commandment which was to bring life, I found to bring death. For sin being occasioned by the commandment deceived me, and by it killed me. He has this we'll when we get to Romans 7 we'll flesh that out. But he has this wrestling match, if it will, if you will, with the law, realizing he can't keep the law and what he looks to to save him. will n actually condemns him to death. So that sin and the law together will cause him to simply be in a place of spiritual death, spiritual separation. For God. Now, we this is something that I think we can apply to ourselves, even as Christians. Sometimes in the Christian life, we get this idea we don't feel right with God because we feel like we're just not doing enough. I've actually had people come to me and say to me, look, I'm I'm struggling with whether I'm truly saved or not. And they str and they and I say, okay, well why why is that? And they'll say, well, I just don't feel like I'm doing enough. I've I've or I I don't feel like I've confessed enough or I don't feel like I've tried hard enough. All of those things people have come to me on occasion and said said those things when it comes to it comes to their feeling like maybe they aren't truly saved. Now folks, the problem with that is that has nothing to do with to do with salvation. You are not saved on your own merit. You are not saved based upon doing anything actually, let alone enough of anything. And if you're depending upon those things, depending upon what you do in order to be right with God, you truly are not saved. But if you're struggling with whether or not you've done enough, it it's interesting as I've seen this occur. I tell you what I think happens. We are so naturally inclined, our flesh is so naturally inclined to depend on self rather than depending on God, it's as though we're not willing to simply say it is all of what God did through Christ, and I'm trusting in that rather than something I have to do. Now next week we're going to talk about Abraham's faith in detail and what actual biblical faith looks like. But when it comes to this matter of what you do, we need to understand it isn't about moral compliance. That will not make anyone right with God. Because none of us, as we know, can be completely morally compliant. The Bible is very clear, if you commit sin in one point, you are guilty of all. Finally, and I think probably the key to this whole chapter is in verses 16 and 17. In verse 16, it says this: therefore It is of faith that it might be according to what? According to grace. So that the promise might be sure to all the seed, not only to those who are of the law, But also to those who are of the faith, of faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all. What's Paul saying here? Well, he wants to be clear that he says that it is of faith that it might be according to grace. And what is he saying there? It is very important, as we learned a couple weeks ago, that God's plan of salvation entirely glorifies God and doesn't glorify us at all whatsoever. We can't boast Ephesians 2. 8 and 9 say it this way, for by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest any one should boast. For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works. Which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. So God wants us to walk in good works. We are saved for good works, but we are not saved by good works. We can't be. It is only by the grace of God. Now, you might know that, but it's important to understand how to just put this together. Grace is unmerited kindness or favor. That is the definition of grace. It's unmerited kindness or favor. It's what God gives us, and it's unmerited. As soon as you add anything to faith, any self-effort, any religious practice, any moral compliance, as soon as you add any of that to faith, you don't have grace anymore. You can't, faith and works cannot be combined in order for grace to come about. It must be faith alone. And so we see that that's the case. Why? This is very interesting. Why? Why did God do this this way? Look at what it says. So that the promise might be sure to all. Do you see the word all there? Promise might be sure to all the seed. Not only of those who are of the law, but also of those who are of the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all. Now he says all the seed and that might sound kind of funny. Why would he say seed? Well, Israel was the nation of Israel, they w were big into this, I am of the seed of Abraham. They would say that kind of thing a lot, so they were used to use Paul is basically taking their vernacular. He's taking uh verse uh words that they would they would promote in their is their faith, their Jewish faith. And he's saying, this is actually how it really works, that actually all are of the spiritual seed of Abraham, not the physical seed, and understand there's a difference. But all all are from the same kind of faith as Abraham. And it is for all, apart from circumcision, apart from the law, apart from any religious practice. Why? So that the offer could be completely universal and be offered to everyone, no matter what ethnic ethnic uh group or country or the or creed or anything. It's offered to everyone. Now what's interesting about this, there's an irony here, I think, as a matter of application. What is the most object one of, maybe the most, but one of the most objectionable things that keep truths that keep people from coming to Jesus? It's the exclusiveness of Christ, right? Scripture says, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man comes of the Father but by me. Neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. It is the exclusiveness of Jesus that causes people to go, oh no, it can't, he can't be the only way. And it's offensive. But from God's perspective The exclusiveness of Jesus allows everyone to receive, it's offered to everyone. The way that he, the plan of God was that it wouldn't come through one. Salvation wouldn't come through one particular nation, one particular country, even one through through one particular religious denomination. It doesn't come through any of these things. It comes through Christ alone, from the Word of God, and it is grace received by faith alone, so that no one can boast And it's offered to all. So there's a sense in which it is the most inclusive of all faiths. See, that's God's perspective. You've got God's perspective who says, I am offering this to everyone inclusively And all you've got to do is accept it by faith. And yet the world's perspective and Satan's perspective and our flesh's perspective turns that and says, no, it's exclusive, and so it can't be right. I would encourage you if you think that way, if you struggle with this, well, how could Christ be the only way? How could all these other people be wrong? Understand This truth. This might be even something you can explain to somebody who's struggling with the exclusivity of Christ, who doesn't know Christ. This passage explains that it's actually so that it could be offered and opened up to everyone. And we s and that's what Paul is saying here. And we see this clearly in Genesis chapter 12. If you're there, you could flip to Genesis chapter 12 if you're in 17, 15. Go to 12. If not, I'll just read it for you. It says this verse 1. Now the Lord had said to Abram, Get out of your country from your family, and from your father's house to a land that I will show you. I will make of you a great nation. I will bless you and make your name great, and you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and I will curse him who curses you, and in you All of the families of the earth shall be blessed. See, what God said to Abraham, I'm going to make of you a great nation. His plan was that the blessing that we talked about before, the blessing of not having your sins imputed to you, that blessing was to be given to all and to offer to all that all of the families of the earth would be. Be blessed. That was God's original plan, and Israel had forgotten that plan. So Paul is reminding them of this. So that, verse 17, as it is written, I have made you a father of many nations. Talking talking about uh uh Abraham here, in the presence of him who he believed God who gives life to the dead and calls those things which do not exist as though they did. So it says here in the passage that he is the father of many nations. That's a quote from Genesis chapter 17, verse 5. No longer shall your name be called Abraham, uh, but your name shall be Abraham, for I have made you a father of many nations. That was God's intention from the very beginning. And that's why Paul would say in Galatians chapter 3 Verse 6: Just as Abraham believed God and it was accounted to him for righteousness, therefore know that only those who are of the faith, of faith, are sons of Abraham. And the scripture foreseeth that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel to Abraham beforehand, saying, In you all nations shall be blessed. So then those who are of faith are blessed with believing Abraham. That is God's intention from the very beginning when he calls Abraham. He does it in the presence of him who believed. And we read Genesis chapter 15. We saw that God offers this promise, that Abraham dialogues with God about it. And that Abraham believes God and God attributes to him accounts righteousness to him based upon the very presence of God. Now notice how it's described here, how God is described here. One who gives life to the dead and calls those things which do not exist as though they did. So first he says, one who gives life to the dead. And that's speaking, of course, of God. He's describing one who is able to, who has the ability to give life to the dead. He's appealing to what the Jewish people would have already understood. They already have accepted that Jehovah God, Yahweh, He has the ability to give life to the dead He may be tipping his hat to Ezekiel chapter 37 verses 3 through 5, which talk about the dry bones. You remember that passage? And that it says, surely I will cause breath to enter into you, and you shall live. God, and let's tell you something else that's interesting about how Paul does this. Paul is, he's really referencing God a lot, really God the Father primarily, in that they need to rest in that God has the ability to do all of this. He's appealing to the ability of God. So God has the ability to bring to life those who are dead. And notice what it says in the passage, he calls those which do not exist as those though they did. Now the the the the idea of calling is actually in parallel with the idea of bringing to life. It uses the same article. Okay. Definite article, to bring to life. So he's really saying the same thing here. As he calls people, he brings them to life. Things that do not exist as though they did. And the Bible tells us that faith is seeing what cannot be seen. And that is what God does for us through salvation. Hebrews 11, verse 17 says this. By faith Abraham, when he was tested, offered up to Isaac And he who received the promises offered up his only begotten son, of whom he was said, In Isaac, your seed shall be called. Concluding that God was able to raise him from the raise him up even from the dead, from which he also received him in a figurative sense. sense. And so we'll see more about this about the faith of Abraham later. So we have three questions from all of this. Three questions to ask. Number one Are you depending upon religious practice or ritual to make you right with God? Are you depending upon any kind of practice or ritual To either make you right with God or some practice in the past that has made you right with God. Have you ever said to yourself, boy, I hope I prayed the right things when I prayed to receive God. Christ. Well I hope I hope I did that right. Or or I know I'm saved because I prayed a prayer. Are you depending upon the religious practice or a ritual to be in right relationship with God? I mean this is one of the reasons, frankly, why in Vacation Bible School we we we want people to we want kids to make sure that they we we don't have p kids pray a prayer before they talk to their parents. Uh we want parents to work with them and we want to give parents the opportunity to work with them So we don't do that. Why? Because we understand that that it comes through true faith. Grace comes by faith alone, not by some ritual. And so we need to be careful about this. Number two, are you depending on moral compliance to make you right with God? Is that what you're depending upon? Some sort of moral compliance Compliance. You say, well, I did this really bad thing. I must not be right with God. Now I'm not talking about fellowship here with God. sin against God, you need to you need to agree with God about that and confess that to the Lord so you can be right fellowship with God. But when it comes to your standing before God, It does not have to do with any kind of moral compliance. And finally, this is the most important question. Are you depending upon God's provision of grace to making you right with God? You depending upon God's provision of grace. It is grace alone. That gift that is offered to us by what Jesus Christ did when he died. took on our sin on himself, took on the wrath of God to pay the punishment for our sin, so that he can give us his righteousness. He can dec and so that God, the Father, can declare us righteous. Because of the righteousness of Christ that is credited, imputed or credited to us based upon what Jesus did for us. And the only thing that we can do in order to receive it is to accept it by faith. We completely depend upon what Christ did. Not upon any other practice, not upon any other uh any other moral compliance. No, it's by faith alone in what Christ did. on the cross for us. If you have questions about this, if you're not sure about about this, let me let me encourage you. Come come talk with me. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure That you are right with God, that you are, you can be made right with God by receiving the grace that God offers. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you and praise you because you are a great God who and an all-wise God. Ephesians tells us that the plan that you made for salvation was a wonderful and wise plan, and we praise you for that plan. That all, anyone, no matter what religion, no matter what nationality, uh no matter what background can come to the foot of the cross and can accept what Christ has done in paying the punishment for our sin So that we can and and can be credited righteousness and can be blessed by being forgiven of their sin. We thank you for that wonderful gift, and we pray that if there's anybody here that doesn't know you as their savior, We pray today would be a day where they would understand their sin, their need of a savior, and they would be saved. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God. according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone. or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.