Matthew Chapter Twelve We're going to read verses 22 to 30 in just a moment, but let's go to the Lord in prayer first. Dear Lord, thank you so much for your word. Thank you that you are the victor, that you are a mighty fortress. And Lord, I pray that we would arise and serve you and be fighting on your side, not on the side of darkness. Lord, I pray that We know that victory is sure. We know that you will triumph. We know because though the powers of darkness nailed Christ to the cross, you overcame the darkness. And he rose from the dead. And one day he will rule the earth. And now as the battle continues, Lord, I pray that you would strengthen us. Lord, I pray that you would that you would uh help us to rely on your strength. Put on the armor of God. And Lord, this morning, as we hear more about this, as Pastor Jim comes and preaches your word, I pray you'd open our eyes to see what your word says. Open our ears to hear what your spirit says through your word. And Lord, I pray that you would challenge us and change us because of what we hear together today. In Jesus' name, amen. Scripture reader reading is Matthew chapter 12, verse 22. to thirty. Then one was brought to him, who was demon-possessed, blind and mute, and he healed him, so that the blind and mute man both spake and saw. And all the multitudes were amazed and said, Could this be the son of David? Now, when the Pharisees heard it, they said, This fellow does not cast out demons except by Beelzebub, the ruler of the demons. But Jesus knew their thoughts and said to them, Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation. And every city or house divided against itself will not stand. If Satan cast out Satan, is he divided against himself? How then will his kingdom stand? And if I cast out demons by the elz above, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore, they shall be your judges. But if I cast out demons by the Spirit of God, surely the kingdom of God has come upon you. Or how can one enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods unless he first binds the strong man and then he will plunder his house? He who is not with me is against me, and he who does not gather with me scatters abroad So this passage is has in view two kingdoms. The kingdom of Satan. Here in this passage is called is he's called Beelzebub and the Kingdom of God. Now that idea That there are two kingdoms and and that the the world, sort of a battle for the world in these two kingdoms. It's sort of ho hard for us to understand. And I was trying to think of an illustration that would help us with this Um and I thought of uh a few years ago my wife and I went up to uh New England area, Cape Cod area, and on the way back from Cape Cod, not very far much down, we stopped on our way back uh in in Rhode Island And we visited some of the um uh some of the the mansions right there on the coast in Rhode Island. I'm curious, how many of you ever uh have toured any of those mansions in Rhode Island? Okay, a few of you. Well I will tell you they are Just the most amazing opulent j it just blows you away. I've never been in a building. with that much richness and that much beauty sometimes and other times it's like rich ugliness. But anyway, uh it was it's it's just a massive Even if you go down like in the breakers, which w maybe maybe it's the largest mansion, uh if you go down into the kitchen area, the kitchen's probably like the size of my whole floor of my house or maybe two floors. huge. And you begin to you begin to realize that a house of that size, a mansion of that size, uh took probably, you know, h I don't know, many, many uh staff to be able to run the house. Uh you have cooks and maintenance people, you have groundsmen and servants and all of that. Now imagine that you own the breakers. That definitely takes an imagination, but uh for most of us. But um imagine that you own the breakers, this massive mansion And someone, you go on a trip and you come back, and someone has infiltrated and they have taken ownership of this house. And the rate the way that they've taken ownership of this house uh even though they are not the rightful owner, is they've come in and number one, they have they have d demonstrated or they've deceived all the staff and all the servants. and all the guards and everybody involved, the kitchen staff and everybody, that they are the rightful owner of this house. And that you are the imposter. You are not the rightful owner of this house. And as they come in, they've convinced everybody of this, and they themselves uh uh seem to be very strong and very powerful And so everybody thinks that they are serving the right owner of the house, that you are actually the one that's the imposter of the house, so that when you come in, you are rejected. When you come in, you are one there, everybody says, no, you're not the owner of this house. We've got another somebody else is the owner. And hope maybe that, we're going to come back to that illustration at the end of the story, at the end of the message, but that kind of thing will Uh that kind of illustration will help hopefully help us to understand that what is going on. There are two kingdoms from the very beginning in Genesis chapter three. You've got the kingdom of God and you've got the kingdom of Satan. Satan comes in and let's just use the word let's just understand what the word kingdom is. What is kingdom and it's very its very root? It's the word it's the idea of ruling. It's rule And in any kingdom, you have those who are the rulers or a ruler, and those who are the ruled. Those are the subjects. And it is Satan who desires to rule. And God is the rightful ruler. Christ is the rightful ruler. What does the rightful owner do to take back what is rightfully his? And that is what Christ has done when he came to earth the first time and is continuing to do and will one day accomplish completely. There will be a day as we We've noted last Sunday that every knee will bow and every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. He'll take back his mansion, or he'll take back the world for himself. Now, as we come into this story, there are a few things that we need to understand as we find Jesus who has uh who has uh casted out demons. A couple of things we need to see and remind ourselves of. It's been a while since we've been in Matthew, so I think it's a particularly important to remind ourselves of. There are three groups of people essentially in the story. You've got Jesus and his disciples there in the story. You've got the c crowds of people And that is not to be under uh uh you know missed. There are crowds, there are multitudes of people in this story. And you've got the religious leaders, three different groups of people in this story In Matthew chapter 12, verse 8, there was this whole controversy over the Sabbath, which was really part of a larger controversy over the keeping of the law, and the religious leaders were wanting to say that Jesus violated the keeping of the law and Jesus actually didn't violate the law. What he actually says, according to verse 8 of chapter 12, I'm the Lord of the Sabbath. I'm the Lord of it. I'm the master of it. By this was very offensive to these religious leaders. Who really represented Israel. That's important to know as well in the next this Sunday and next Sunday. And these religious leaders were officially representing Israel, and they said in verse 11 of Matthew 12 Then he said to them, What man is there among you who has one sheep, and if it falls into a pit on the b Sabbath, will not lay hold of it and lift it out? Who is d who is Jesus speaking there? As you'll remember Maybe not remember, this is like a month ago or two, maybe two months ago. Uh Jesus is appealing to the crowds of people that would understand the need to, if there's an animal that's stuck even if it's on the Sabbath, to get the animal out. of a practical understanding of this. And that tells us something about how Jesus is addressing these religious leaders with an audience of people, an audience of a crowd that Jesus desires to reach. That's going to be important as we look at this. The religious leaders keep going after Jesus, keep opposing him. To the point and they keep losing. Who are they losing against? I think they're losing against the crowds, the multitudes. Jesus is so um uh so wise in the way that he handles all of this. That the crowds are convinced that he's the Lord of the Sabbath, at least on some level, that the crowds are convinced of the thing of the arguments that Jesus is making that are countering the arguments that these religious Pharisees are making. And in verse 15, they get really upset, and it says this, verse 15 of Matthew 12, but when Jesus knew it, he withdrew from there, and great multitudes followed him, and they were healed. went after Jesus. They wanted to go after him. Verse 14, verse 12, chapter 12, and the Pharisees went out and plotted against him how they might destroy him. Religious leaders came to the place that they decided that this man, Jesus, was a great threat to their authority, to their rule, to their control. And they finally realized they'd better destroy him before they lose their power Now, when we come to this particular passage, a very important phrase in this passage that will help us to understand what's going on here is in verse 28, where it says this. If I cast out demons by the Spirit of God, or really, even since I cast out demons by the Spirit of God, surely, he says, the kingdom of God has come upon you. Jesus is offering and introducing the kingdom of God to the nation of Israel at this point. That's going to be important for today's message and next Sunday's message. So how does he offer this kingdom? How does he uh introduce this kingdom? He's going to do it today in three ways, in this passage in three ways. One, by freeing people from Satan's rule. How is he going to introduce and begin to begin to uh execute his kingdom? Well he's going to free Satan people from Satan's rule, then we're going to see by dealing with accusations that oppose to Christ in verses 25 through 27 He's going to deal with these accusations. And then finally, by declaring his purpose and method in establishing his rule. So first we pick up verses twenty-two through twenty-four by freeing people from Satan's rule. who was demon possessed, blind and mute. Now notice something about this man that's been demon-possessed. He was both blind and mute. This is a very unusual situation that the symptoms of this demon possession seem to have been um both the fact that he uh could not see and could not speak. So that when he healed him, it would have been very, very obvious. There would have been no question about the healing. In other words, you can imagine if somebody has an alleged demon possession And somebody goes to heal that person or to cast out a demon, and there's nothing objective that they see that's different. Maybe they're a little less crazy or, you know, whatever. There might be question about this, but this man was healed of his and uh was able to see and was able to To speak and the demon was cast out, it was an unmistakable kind of healing. And as a result of that, uh they these people are marveling, they're amazed. Now, one thing to note, and I think this is important to note, that this kind of demon, casting out of demons is a particularly difficult miracle. We actually know that from Matthew chapter 17, which is going to come in the future here, where the disciples are going to attempt to follow in Christ's steps and to cast out demons, and they can't. You remember that passage? We won't take the time to look at that, but he said this comes only by prayer and fasting. There is a particular difficulty in casting out demons. And he says, because of your verse 19 of that passage, because of your unbelief, for assuredly I say to you, if you have faith as a mustard seed, you will be able to move mountains. Move from here and there and I will move and it will move. Nothing will be impossible for you. However, this kind does not go out except by prayer and fasting. So the people respond, they're amazed, the word crowd or multitude is used here. So keep in mind we've got a massive multitude of people here. I suspect it's not clear of this in the passage, but I suspect, you know, Jesus started in the temple with the Sabbath. and kind of were I suspect that the crowd was growing. And I suspect that this particular mil miracle really gr uh ca caused a an even greater crowd to be there. And the crowd says, could this be the son of David? Now you could go back, we won't take the time to do that, but if you go back to Matthew 1-1, and it says in Matthew 1-1, this is the book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham. Matthew particularly is trying to get across that Jesus is, who the Old Testament prophesied, would come and be king and be the son of David. And the people are recognizing this. Essentially they're saying, could this really be that prophesied king in the Old Testament? Could this really be the Messiah? Now how do you how do you suppose these religious leaders feel about some kind of something like that? Well they're not happy at all They now, they're really concerned that this man is going to take over, that he's going to have control, that he's going to be able to assert his authority, that they're going to lose their authority and their power. And in verse 25 it says this, and when the Pharisees heard it, they said This fellow does not cast out demons except by Beelzebub, the ruler of the demons. I don't know if this was a rash thing on their mind. Uh we've seen them say this in parallel passages, things like that, but maybe so maybe they had this at the probably did. They probably had this in their mind. But it seems to me that in the passage, likely, they're they're feeling so threatened they're gonna accuse Jesus in this way. Remember before in previous times they've been a little more careful with Jesus when they've been around the crowds. When he's been around the crowds. They don't want to incite violence or anything like that in the crowd. So when the crowds are around, they're a little more careful. But this time they decide that they're gonna go for the jugular and they can't deny the miracle. That's not an option It's totally undeniable. So what do they do? They hit the source of the miracle. They say this is not by the power of God. This is by the power of Beelzebub, or the power of Satan. This miracle was unmistakable. It was amazing. And what the Pharisees decided to do was attack the source. They opposed Jesus in this. Now, there are a few things that we can learn from this. Some things that will be helpful for us. One is this: we must expect opposition, even from false accusations, when we're serving the Lord. It does happen. In fact, in Matthew, just a couple of chapters back, I'll remind us of this because it's been a little while, he says to his disciples, verse 24: A disciple is not above his teacher, nor a servant above his master. It is enough for a disciple that he be like his teacher and a servant is mat like his master. If they have called the master of his house Beelzebub, how much more will they call those of his household? Therefore, do not fear them, for there is nothing covered that will be revealed, and hidden that will be known. This is going to be something that you're going to deal with. You're going to And there are many places in all the gospels where Jesus warns the disciples on many occasions that even after I leave, you you are going to suffer persecution. He says on several occasions as well, if you are a follower of me, you will suffer persecution from one time or another. There's going to be opposition. If you're doing right And serving the Lord and being faithful to the Word of God, you're gonna find opposition. You're gonna find opposition even from people that name the name of Christ, that even from people that are quote religious leaders, unquote. I think there's a second insight that we can we can glean from this as well. Clearly, from this passage, what is going on is that Jesus as the ruler of his kingdom is asserting himself And Satan as the ruler of his kingdom is using these false teachers or they really are false teachers. They're they're religious leaders. They're false teachers in the sense that they're they've distorted the law and all kinds of things. But they're these religious leaders, he's using them Why? Why was Satan able to use people who were supposed to be in the Word? They were supposed to be knowledgeable about the law. They were supposed to be fastidious in how they kept the law. How was Satan able to use them? I think we have a very important insight here. Satan uses people that are preoccupied with their own power, their own control, their own kingdom. Satan, Satan, these religious leaders are really the pawns of Satan. And they They are wanting to maintain power and authority even in the name of God. They would certainly say that. There's no question about that. It tells us something about that. In fact, if you go to the book of Acts, do you remember there was a man in chapter 8 of Acts, a man named Simon? Simon was known as a sorcerer. He was known as someone who did great kinds of miracles. And the people were astonished by this man. And it actually says in the passage in verse 10 of Acts chapter 8, to whom they all gave heed from the least to the greatest, saying, This man is the great power of God. In this particular case, Simon was not functioning from the power of God, and yet the people took it as from the that he was functioning from the power of God. But the fact is, Simon, even though it says in the passage that he believed, and it's very questionable in my mind whether or not he actually believed or not, because of something that Peter says later on in the passage. But I don't really think that's the point. But we what we can see from this passage here, from that passage in Acts chapter 8, is that he comes to the apostles and he wants the Spirit of God, and there's a particular reason why he wants the Spirit of God. In verse eighteen it says, And when he saw that through the laying on of the apostles' hand of the Holy Spirit was given, he offered them money, saying, Give me this power also that anyone on whom I lay hands may receive the Holy Spirit. And this is what Peter says to him. Your money perish with you, because you thought that the gift of God could be purchased with money. You have neither part nor portion in this matter, for your heart is not right in the sight of God. Repent therefore of your of this your wickedness, and pray God, if perhaps the thought of your heart may be forgiven you, for I see that you are poisoned by bitterness and bound by iniquity. See, there is a reality that Satan can use someone who desires to have control, desires to build their own kingdom instead of the kingdom of God. desires uh to have notoriety and for pe that person can very easily be used of Satan actually to promote his kingdom. And that's why it's important for us to remember what Ephesians chapter 6, verse 12 says, for we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against But there's something else then that we learn about Jesus from this passage, and he's going to mention it again later on. He's going to say, since I am casting out demons, the kingdom of God has come upon you. Jesus really is in the business of delivering people from the kingdom of darkness. to the kingdom of his son. This is even now what Jesus is doing. It's what he did when he came to this earth. And it's what Jesus is doing now. In the book of Acts as well, in Acts chapter 26. In fact, I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn there for a moment. Acts chapter 26, if you would. Verses 12 through 18 Paul is describing his the summation of his ministry, the summary of his ministry to King Agrippa. Remember the Apostle Paul? The Apostle Paul is the is the apostle to the Gentiles. He's written more many, many books in the New Testament. He has planted many churches. He has ministered to many churches. He has given the gospel. One many to Christ. I mean, this is the Apostle Paul who has done much for Christ, arguably. He's done more for Christ outside of Christ himself when he was on this earth, perhaps, than anybody else in the New Testament. And this is how he describes his ministry. Verse 12, it says, While thus occupied I journeyed to Damascus with authority and commission from the chief priests at midday, O King Along the road I saw a light from heaven brighter than the sun shining around me, and those who journey with me. He's talking about the fact when he was converted at back in Acts chapter 9, he was converted to Christ And when we all had fallen to the ground, I heard a voice speaking to me and saying in the Hebrew language, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? It is hard for you to kick against the goats. So I said, who are you, Lord? And he said, I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting. But rise and stand on your feet, for I have appeared to you for this purpose, to make you a minister, a witness Notice what he says there. Both of these things which you have seen and of the things that I will yet reveal to you, I will deliver you from the Jewish people As well as from the Gentiles to whom I I now send you to open why? What's the purpose? To open their eyes in order to turn them from the darkness to light and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins and an inheritance among those who are sanctified by faith in me Brothers and sisters in Christ, do we not see that what God has called all of us to do is to be in a battle, a spiritual battle? For the lives of people who need Christ, they are under the power of Satan. All of us are born under that power. And they need to be freed to be in the kingdom of Christ. Colossians 1:13 says it this way: He has delivered us from the power of darkness. and conveyed us t into the kingdom of the Son of his love That's why it's important for us to understand when somebody comes to Christ, there is a lot going on. It is true that on a simple level, when somebody comes to Christ, they have trusted Christ as their Lord and Savior, they believe in what Jesus has done for them to pay the punishment for their sin and dying on the cross for them and rising from the grave, and now they receive the righteousness of the Lord. of Christ on their behalf. They take Jesus took on the sin of us, and there's a transfer that's made where he took on our sin. We trust in that. He's able to g acute, give righteousness. to us so that we are declared righteous by God. But this was under great, there's there's there's battle going on, there's warfare going on. And every time somebody comes to Christ, they are being moved from the power of Satan into the kingdom of Christ. That's what Colossians 1. 13 says. Now, with this in mind then, let's look at how you know you remember we've got these religious leaders. And they are opposed to what Jesus is doing. What Jesus really is doing, we're going to find out, we've already seen this, but we've already find out that Jesus is asserting himself as and his kingdom. By by what is he doing? Now think about it this way. What is he doing when he casts out a demon? How did the demon get there in the first place? Well, the demon or Satan, Satan and his demons, took control of that person, right? They took control. And what did Jesus do? Jesus released or freed them from that control, the person from that control. Now, we're going to learn a lot about really quite a few things that are helpful for us about what Jesus, what Satan is doing and what Jesus is doing in this passage to come in verse 25. Look what it says. And Jesus knew their thoughts and said to them, Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation. And every city or house divided against itself will not stand. If Satan casts out Satan, he is divided against himself. How then will his kingdom stand? And if I cast out demons by Beelzebub, by whom do your sons cast them out, therefore they shall be your judges. What is he talking about in this passage? Well, the Pharisees have said, excuse me, you are releasing People from the power of Satan. You're releasing people from the control of Satan by the power of Satan. Now just think about that. Does that make any sense at all? So Jesus says a a house divided against himself doesn't stand. A kingdom divided against itself will not stand. So that's a general statement about, and people have used that for a lot of things, maybe a little bit out of context in some cases, but there is a sense in which if you take what is he saying? Any any kingdom, any organization, uh a city It's brought to desolation. It will kill itself from the inside out. It will destroy itself from the inside out if it divides against itself and then works against itself. In fact, a civil war in some is in fact one of our nation's history. One of the bloodiest, perhaps the bloodiest war of all wars is the war between the states, the civil war. I may perhaps, I don't know, but probably pretty close. Why? Because you're on the inside, not on the outside. And so we have here in this passage These the kingdom is divided against himself. And the arg and then when he says this, he says, look at the look at verse 25, if Satan casts out Satan, he's divided against himself. How then will his kingdom stand? It's an argument of purpose. Satan's purpose is to take control of people. Why would Satan then actually release control of people? He would be working against himself to do that. That doesn't make sense. And and frankly, isn't this just an impeccable argument? I mean I I i I just would love you know you'd love to see the faces on these Pharisees, or at least maybe they have poker faces, but you'd love to see what their internal reaction is when Jesus comes up with these Incredible arguments that just totally destroy what they're about to say. Or what they what they've already said, rather. And then you have verse 27, you have another argument. Now to understand verse 27, and if and if I cast out demons by By be Beelzebub, by whom do your sons cast them out. There's a few things that you're gonna have to understand before we understand before we get we understand verse twenty-seven what it's saying there. First of all The Pharisees presupposed something here. They presupposed that the demons must be cast out either by the power of Satan or the power of God. By their statement, what they're saying is, it wasn't by the power of God. It was only, it says the text, by the power of Beelzebub. So there's no room in this particular miracle, there's no room in what they said for just human effort or human power or human strength. Now that's important to understand. Apparently also, there were some in Israel that at least claimed to cast out demons. Now, I want to say, hasten to say, that Jesus is not, the point of what Jesus is saying here is not to say whether or not these people that were claiming to pass out get passed out demons were right or wrong. It's not really what his it's not his point. But surely and clearly there were, by Jesus' statement, there were Sons of Israel, or people that were related in Israel, that were known as Israelites, uh, as Jewish people, they were casting out demons. And Jesus knows that the Pharisees are really concerned about public opinion. And so what Jesus does here is he says If I cast out demons by Beelzebub, by whom so whom do your sons cast them out? Let them be your judges. for your own people to cast your own people to cast out demons except by Satan the way you have said this. He said, let them be your judges. And he's putting the religious leaders in a place where now they have to think twice about whether they want to continue to attack Jesus. Jesus is is clearly very wise here uh in how he deals with all this. Now Um there are some with that's basically this section of is what's saying here. There are some things that we really learn by implication about. The power of Satan and the power of God, the kingdom of Christ and the Kingdom of Satan here. And what we learn by what Jesus said is that Satan's purpose, his kingdom, his his desire to rule this world, and to some extent is ruling the world now. His desire to do this is based upon infiltrating the people of the world and controlling them. Now not every and not every person is demon-possessed, but as a general rule, Satan's goal is to control people in one way or another, or to influence people. We see it from the very beginning in Genesis chapter three when the serpent came to Adam and Eve and influenced the people there. Remember that? And you ever and you all ever since then you have Satan Who is real in this world and his demons, they are influencing, they are attempting to influence people and to control people And that is the kingdom, the Bible calls it the kingdom of darkness. Now, again, I've already mentioned this passage, but it's important for us to understand. Ephesians 612. For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against principalities, that's authority structures within the kingdom of darkness. against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this age, and against spiritual hosts of wickedness in heavenly places. Now, on a day-to-day level, do we really could think about that? Do we really view the world as a place that has been taken over by Satan as the the the um the fraudulent owner? And do we really view what Christ is doing in the world is he is freeing people from the bondage of sin and of Satan? And we are in a battle as well, because here's the reality. Satan has the ability to influence us. Perhaps not control us, but influence us. Even Christians. For example, in 1 John 2, verse 6, or verse 9, it says, He who says he is in the light and hates his brother is in darkness until now. Same chapter verse eleven, but he who hates his brother is in darkness and walks in darkness and does not know where he is going because the darkness has blinded his eyes. There is even the possibility for the Christian to be influenced by Satan. Now, how is that happened? It is through lies. Satan is the father of lying. It is through false perception. It is through untruth. And that is why it is so important for us to be to be under the influence of the word of God and the Spirit of God. Now, after he's reasoned this, there's a sense in which he's won the argument. I think very likely he's won the argument among the multitudes of people there, at least many of them. And now he says this, verse 28: But if I cast out demons by the Spirit of God Surely the kingdom of the kingdom has come upon you. So now he said, if I do this, and I have done this Essentially, then the kingdom of God, uh the kingdom of God has come upon you. Now, what is he saying here? This is very interesting. He asserts that he is casting out demons by the what? Look at the passage, verse 28. This is very important, and it's going to be really important for us next week when we when we look at this further. By the Spirit of God. Very important. Okay? So he says, Jesus says, I am doing this by the Spirit of God. In a parallel passage to this one, in Luke chapter 11, verse 20, it says this. But if I cast out demons with the finger of God, Luke says, Surely the kingdom of God has come upon you. The Spirit of God, apparently, then is described as the finger of God. That's important because we actually go back to the Old Testament. And do you remember where the finger of God was in the Old Testament? You can go back to the book of Exodus. Do you remember? What wrote down the Ten Commandments? It was the finger of God. But it wasn't the very first time the word the finger of God was mentioned in the book of Exodus. It's actually in Exodus chapter 8, verses 16 through 19. And in that passage, you have Moses and uh and Dave and God has used Moses to perform this miracle of you know having lice everywhere. Remember the the the plague of lice? And the plague of lice is everywhere. And and um and the magicians and the you know the the the the astrologers of pharaoh, all the they come And they wanna they try to duplicate this and they go, We got nothing. And that's my paraphrase. But that's that's is that's essentially what he said. We can't do it And this is what these magicians say, verse eighteen of Exodus eight. Now the magicians so worked with their enchant uh uh with their enchantments to bring forth lice, but they could not So there were lice on man and beast. Then the magicians said to Pharaoh, this is the finger of God. What did Pharaoh do? But Pharaoh's heart grew hard, and he did not heed them, just as the Lord had said. Do you know in the Old Testament when it says the finger of God there, you know what it's pointing to there? This was the miracle. This was the the plague. That was intended for everybody, for Pharaoh, for his magicians, for everybody to realize this is God. There's no mistaking that this is God. And that's exactly what Jesus is actually saying here. He is saying that it I this by I am doing this by the Spirit of God. to demonstrate to you that this truly is God. And just like Pharaoh in the Old Testament, you're rejecting it. Now there's going to be next week we're going to see more commentary on this. But understand that that's what's going on here in this passage. You are rejecting my kingdom because you're rejecting what is obviously my working Actually, particularly the Holy Spirit's working through me, and you're attributing it to Beelzebub. Now, we go back to we go back to the text here. And he says this: the kingdom of God has come upon you. What does he mean there? What does Jesus mean when he says the kingdom of God has come upon you? Well, there's a couple things we need to understand about his kingdom. The word kingdom is used all over the place in the book of Matthew. It is everywhere. It's used very, very frequently And it seems to be that there is at least there is what's true about the term kingdom is that it's always used in reference to some sort of rule. Rule of God, rule of Satan, rule of Christ. There is always some sort of rule associated with the concept of the kingdom. But if you read through the book of Matthew, you might find that it's actually a little confusing because he says here the kingdom of God has come. But in Matthew 6:10, he says, pray. That your king the kingdom come. Do you remember that? Your kingdom come, your will be done. That's uh in the Lord's Prayer. He's saying we need to pray that the kingdom does come. And he says, here the kingdom has come, is come And we know right now is the kingdom of God, is the kingdom of Christ here? Well, you actually don't need a passage for that. Look around. Is Christ mediating his kingdom right now on this earth? Is every is every bow everyone bowing and everybody is that what's happening? No, the kingdom of God is not being mediated right now, but we know that one day in the future, when Christ comes And when every knee bows, every tongue confessed that Jesus Christ is the Lord, remember we talked about that last week, when that happens, there is going to be a Christ is going to set up his kingdom on earth. And we find that in Revelation chapter 20, verses 1 through 4, and other places as well. We won't take the time to look at that. Now, then I want, but the question then becomes: well, what is Jesus doing? here and really what is Jesus doing now? Well Jesus is very clearly he is offering the kingdom of God to Israel theoretically or hypothetically If they would have accepted it, he would have established his kingdom right then. Now they didn't accept it, right? And actually God knew he was going to accept it accept it, and for the foundation of the world he knew that they weren't going to accept it And there's a lot of reasons for that that that uh that we don't have the time to go into. But but they didn't accept the kingdom that was offered to him them at this point, and we're gonna see later that it was a clear rejection and Jesus is going to move on. But the question then still remains, what is what is his, what is our role in the kingdom now? How does this all work? Clearly, Jesus is not meeting his kingdom on this earth But do we have any relationship to the kingdom now? I think that this passage shows us, this verse shows us what is going what Jesus is doing. What he started to do here and even in some to some degree what he's doing now. Would you look then At um at verse twenty uh twenty-eight but if I cast out demons by the Spirit of God Surely the kingdom of God has come upon you. Or how can you enter a strong man's house? Look at what the look at the illustration How can you enter a strongman's house and plunder his goods until he first binds the strongman? And then he will plunder his house. So what is he saying? He uses an illustration. He says if you're gonna go and you're gonna take over the control of the house and you're gonna plunder the house, you're gonna you're gonna you're gonna Take control of the house. What do you first gotta do? Well, if there's a strong man in the house, you gotta bind the strong man. By the way, this will happen in the in do you remember in revelation chapter 20, we don't have the time to turn there, but if in Revelation chapter 20 20 Do you remember what happens? The strong man is bound completely. Like it says, Satan is bound. But what is Jesus doing on this earth now? What is God's role in the kingdom now? You know what he's doing? He is doing in a sense the same thing he was doing in this passage. We have a picture of what he's doing now. He is releasing people from the power of darkness and bringing them into the kingdom of That's what he's doing. And we have if you know Christ as your Savior, you are we are very, very We are very, very privileged of no merit of our own, of no, because God has chosen to bring us from the power of the kingdom of Satan into the power of the kingdom of Christ. And we are, we are kingdom citizens. Is there more that is coming where the kingdom will be immediately on this earth and all that? Should we still pray Christ's kingdom come? Yes. But should we also understand our role as salt and light in the kingdom of God now, Matthew 5? Yes. And so we need to understand our role. What is our relationship to Christ's kingdom now? In John chapter 18, verse 36, Jesus says this: My kingdom is not of this world. In other words, the kingdom of Jesus. The Jesus' kingdom, though hi he will mediate his kingdom on this earth, Jesus' kingdom is not is not sourced in this earth. It doesn't require the earth. He still has a kingdom. My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, my servants would fight, so that I should not be delivered to the Jews. But now my kingdom is not from here. And we again I'll reiterate this, Colossians chapter 1 verse 13, he says this, he has delivered us from the power of darkness, and what has he done to us? He has conveyed us into the what? The kingdom of the Son of Love, in whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sin. Now, some of that was a little bit deep, but I want to come back and just summarize all of this. Number one When we are serving the Lord, our opposition comes often from those who live for their own power, their own authority, their own kingdom If you are attempting to serve the Lord, if you want to serve the Lord, if you want to please the Lord, understand that there's going to be opposition. You very well could run up against people who actually think they're serving God, but they're really serving their own kingdom. We need to be aware of that up that opposition. But I hasten to say this, number two Even Christians can be influenced by the power, by the darkness of the king of Satan's kingdom. We must And I think there's a very important word. We must, it's the next slide there. We must submit to God's word and his spirit. We must submit to God's word. That's why submission is so important. We submit to Christ because we are a member of his kingdom. We are a citizen of his kingdom. We must submit to him. We must submit to his word. We must submit to the Spirit of God as it works in our lives. Otherwise, we are very likely gonna be a little Herod and build our own kingdom. Number three, God's work in the world today is rescuing people from the power of darkness. And placing them in Christ's kingdom. We are God's hands and feet in that work. Now, let me ask you this question then. Do you realize that we are all born under the kingdom of Satan? Do you realize that? That we are all born under the power of darkness. We're all born because of what Adam did in submitting his will to Satan. That we are all born under that. That we are in the we are under the control and the realm And the rule of Satan and our own flesh and the world actually. Do we understand that? And that what has to happen in our lives is that we have to move from the power and the realm and the rule of Satan to the rule of God. And the question is, whose rule are you under? You say, well, I'm I'm under my own rule. Yes, so were these religious leaders. They thought they were under their own rule. They thought they were they were in control. They wanted to stay in control. They were really uh it was really important for them to stay in control. They were not under the rule of God. They were under the rule of themselves, but actually they were under the rule of Satan Are you under God's rule or are you under Satan's rule? If you think that you are under your own rule, Well that actually isn't a possibility. There's two kingdoms. You're under one or you're under the other. And so if you think that you're under the rule, you're under your own rule, then whose rule are you under? You're under Satan's role. How do you get to be under the rule of God of Christ? Well, it's very simple. We actually saw in the passage it is by the redemption of Christ. Do you know Christ as your Savior? You say, you know, I don't know. Does that mean I've got to like follow a bunch of things and do a bunch of things and then I'll be able to be under the rule of Christ? No, no, no, no. Not at all. The only thing you got to do is submit to one thing, and that is Jesus did what he said he would do, and dying on the cross to pay the punishment. For your sin, in believing that with all of your heart. In in not depending on yourself, but in depending wholly upon what Jesus did in dying on the cross to pay the punishment for your sin. And when you do that, when you truly do that, then God gives you now a desire to please Him. A desire to submit yourself under Him. And so the question is: do you have that desire to submit yourself to God? If you say, I have absolutely no desire to submit myself to God, I don't have any desire to do that, but I think I'm saved. You're not. You're still under the rule of Satan and under the rule of yourself. But if you say, no, I I have a desire to please the Lord, I struggle, and we all do. And I have that sin, that flesh in me that wants to be, I want to rule myself, but I know I also want to be ruled by God. And you then then you have you have something in you that God has placed in you, and you are a child of him. So, which is it today? Are you a child of God or are you under the rule still of Satan The Bible says that as many as received him to them given to the power to become the sons of God, the ability to become the sons of God, even to them that be believe on his name. And if you are not sure of whose rule you're under, the Bible describes it as one or the other. And if you're not sure whose rule you're under, if you're unsure about that, would you come and talk to me? I would glad, be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can be under God's rule for what Christ did for you. Rather than under the rule of Satan. And for those of us who are under the rule of God, may we understand that Satan has the ability to That ship is sailed. But what he can do is he can blind us and And bring darkness into our lives. And so it is absolutely imperative that we are submissive to the Word of God and to the Spirit of God. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you this morning and we praise you for who you are. We thank you for your word and your truth. Lord, we we are grateful that by no merit of our own, those of us who have trusted you as our Lord and Savior By no merit of our own, we have been brought from the kingdom of darkness and conveyed into the kingdom of Christ. Lord, I pray that you'd help us to view ourselves as citizens of the kingdom of God. And may we live that way. May we live submissive to your rule. May we serve you and be actively involved in the work that you are doing in the world in preparation for the kingdom that you have. And we pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen. Let's stand and sing in response to what we have heard. Lead on, O King Egypt Let's stand together. You all need to work as far as four three fields on West Side. So we are well doing No Thy grace has been unscrolled, and thou will be turned with our Till saying spears for shall speak, and always shall we Thus we are men of these born up with all of me. We are not in nature. For my displays my body, thy face community, thy botness with me. Please come back tonight for prayer meeting for a time of uh a devotional from uh God's Word as well for the book of Psalms uh that'll be uh Uh covering the night as well as our congregational meeting and the exciting time that we have of putting away Christmas decorations. I don't forget that. It's not that exciting, but um but we do need help with that. All right, Josh, if you would close us in prayer. Father, we thank you so much for you. We thank you for your mighty name. A name that is above all names, one that we can look to and serve. We thank you, Lord, that you are setting up your kingdom, preparing For your return. We thank you, Lord, for as the earth groans for your return. We also look forward to that day. As I think of the verse in in uh chapter twelve verse 22 thinking about the blind man and the mute as we also were blind. We have a great miracle of salvation That we can stand in amazement at our blindness to sin and having no excuse. We have nothing to say against it. However You've made a way. Our old things were passed away. Forgive our apathy, Lord, of not seeing the lost souls of man. Being consumed with our daily endeavors, desiring our own ways, as we were once also in bondage. Thank you for releasing us. Thank you for saving us. Lord, help us to be doers of your will. Thank you for spending us Preparing us from actually seeing the wicked warfare that's going on behind the scenes as it's desiring to tear us apart. Father, May we be relishing in the fact of your goodness, and may we truly desire to serve you. John chapter 4, verse 4, the word says, Fear of God, little children, and overcome them, because greater is He that is in you than He that is in you in this world. Father, we give you praise that we do not have to be torn apart by this world. Our sin does not have to be To own us for we are bald in the price. We are forgiven. Father, allow us to have a heart for the lost. And may we be your hands and feet. this dark world and being active until you come. Lord, thank you. In your name we pray. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community here at BBC. you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family We can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide It helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, Or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. Or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. To have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon