Well good morning. It's a joy to be in the house of the Lord this morning, isn't it? And I was thinking as uh Brother Enrique mentioned about the words and I was thinking about how when we're singing that God is in our presence and uh it made me think more and sing louder when it came to the parts about Christ and uh him being And glorified. Let's go to the Lord in prayer this morning. Heavenly Father, we come with grateful and thankful hearts this morning, Father. We are so grateful for what you have done through your Son Jesus Christ. Christ. And as we come to this time of year that we celebrate his birth, I pray, Lord, that as we are getting into your word this morning, we would be reminded of all that you have done and all that the importance of Christ. Christ's coming, which gives us hope, Father. We have no hope otherwise. And so we are thankful for what Jesus has done at the cross on our behalf, and that we can become children of God. through faith in him. And Father, we ask this morning as we begin to come to your word that you would take all the distractions taught and that we would have that desire to meditate upon it and apply it and walk in our lives in such a way that it would exemplify your great name. And we ask In Jesus' name. Amen. This morning we are going to be in Matthew chapter 28, and we are looking at verses 16 through 20. Matthew 28, verses 16 through 20. Then the eleven disciples went away into Galilee to the mountain, which Jesus had appointed for them. When they saw him, they worshiped him, but some doubted. And Jesus came and spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Teaching them to observe all things that I have commanded you. And lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. Amen. We are excited about the baptism will take place in a few minutes, but uh before we do, I I was trying to decide what to preach on and I really felt like um It would be wise and helpful if I preached on the subject of baptism. I don't do that every time we have a baptismal service, but uh in this case it just seemed to be be uh something that I thought would be helpful for all of us. Because I think there's a lot of misunderstandings about baptism. And in some ways there is a A d in some cases there is a de-emphasis on the importance of baptism. In other cases, I think there is uh a wrong emphasis on baptism and I think it's just helpful for us sometimes to understand this important ordinances. There are only two ordinances that God, that Christ left us. Both of them reflect the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. And we do have the privilege this morning of doing both of them, communion and baptism. I want us to really focus in on this idea of baptism and what it really means. There is in our Christian Christian circles and in evangelicalism, a movement toward informalism. uh uh uh uh uh a de-emphasis of forms and formalities and to some degree that is not that that's admirable To some degree, we are actually warned in Colossians, for example, it says, beware lest anyone cheat you through philosophy and empty deceit according to the tradition of men. And so we do always need to think. If there is a particular tradition in our in a church, then we need to think in terms of Whether that tradition is really has biblical meaning and purpose behind it, or whether that tradition really is entirely empty and something that actually could divert our attention. to something that is not a priority in Scripture. Baptism is one of those things that is of very, very high priority This trend toward an informalism, a de-emphasis of forms and things that that like baptism or things that you do, uh, I think comes from our society as a whole. See, there are certain things that the Bible says that we really should do. Assembling together on Sundays is something that God says we should do and actually warns us if we're not faithful in doing that. Baptism is one of those things. I think one of the reasons that this trend within Christianity occurs where Even saying that baptism really isn't all that important, as long as I'm saved and I know I'm going to heaven, I know I have a relationship with God, that baptism really isn't all that important, I think part of that trend has to do with this sort of idea. that these formalities, these things don't really matter. You find this actually in the world. There are people, this is a very common thing now where people, you know, couples just live together And they say, what's the big deal about a piece piece of paper? As long as we know we love each other, as long as we know that we're committed to each other, what's the big deal about marriage or piece of paper? It's just a formality We see this in other areas of our society as well. And if we're not careful, we as Christians can begin to think that the things that God says are important we really just kind of downplay as and de-emphasize is not really all of that important. Of course, there can be a wrong emphasis too on baptism. We know that. Baptism has no merit in saving It's not as though someone has to be baptized in order to have a right relationship with God. We're going to see that very clearly as we go through various texts of scripture. And so we want to be careful about that end as well, about thinking that baptism is required for salvation, for certainly it is not. But on the other hand, we should realize that this ordinance A baptism is a biblical ordinance that we should practice. By the way, you might be asking, what is an ordinance? An ordinance is a practice, rule, or right established as an authoritative part of church order, typically through customary usage or biblical command. And actually, the ordinances that we practice, both the Lord's table as well as baptism, are biblically commanded and repeatedly biblically practiced throughout the first century. That's, by the way, why how you know an ordinance when Christ establishes it as such and tells us to do it, and we're going to see that clearly in baptism And also it is then clearly practiced throughout Scripture in the book of Acts as the disciples came together and churches were planted and Churches were multiplied. This was an ordinance that stayed with them and actually identified people as being in the body of Christ. And so it is a very important ordinance. In fact, it is actually, according to the text that we're in this morning in Matthew 28, it is actually a method, a primary method of discipleship. It is prior so and why do we know that? Number three things we're going to see. Number one, it is prioritized in the Great Commission in this passage. It is symbolized, it symbolizes our union with Christ, and thirdly, it tangibly signals the body of Christ Prioritized in the Great Commission symbolizes our union with Christ and tangibly signals the body of Christ. First of all, it is prioritized in the Great Commission. And I we Harry just read the verses here. I want to set the stage for you. Christ has now risen from the grave. Apparently there was a time where Christ said that after he rises from the grave, that everybody should meet in Galilee in a mountain in Galilee. And this was, he was going to give some of his last words, his final commission, his final commands to his disciples, but it wasn't just the twelve. I think it's likely 500 people that was with that that witnessed this. It says that he spoke to his disciples. It's not in the text. But we see over in 1 Corinthians chapter 15 that 500 people witnessed it at one time witnessed his resurrection. And I think it's very likely that this is where this occurred. They were up on the mountain, 500 of his disciples were gathered. They listened and were listening to the final words that Jesus would give them, and he gives them these words. It's not that much, right? 16 through 28 is a fact his actual words start in verse 18 through through verse 20, four verses. that we find recorded of the words of Christ. And he says, he starts off, all authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. So he's saying that now, because of my resurrection, I am going to begin the work of establishing my kingdom. Of course, we know that Christ will come again. and establish his kingdom physically, but there is kingdom work to be done because of the resurrection of Christ. And what is our role in the kingdom work that God wants to do? It's in the very next verse here. Verse 19, go therefore and this command make disciples. The command in the passage, in this passage, is for us. to make disciples. Or it might say in your version, the King James says, teach. Go for therefore and teach all nations. The word teach is actually a very different word than the word later on in the in the ver in the passage They're two completely different words. One is Mateo and the other is the Daskalos. Two completely different words. So it is accurate to say, make disciples. So God's work, Christ's work for the 500 that are here, and the ones that would multiply after, including all of us who know Christ our Savior. Our work as kingdom citizens is to make disciples. That's what God calls us to do. The establishment of the church is for that reason, so that disciples could be made. Disciples could grow. Discipleship is the central focus of God's church, of the local church, as Christ. has set up. And in this passage, you only see three methods mentioned to the discipleship. To disciple making. Only three things. Now there are all kinds of things that are necessary for contributing to disciple making. We know we have the entire New Testament that is going to flesh out all of these things, the importance of you know, loving one another and being kind to one another and and uh and sharing one another and caring for one another, all these kinds of things. But but But if you're going to narrow it all down, there are only three methods given in this passage for making disciples. And here are the three. They are in the Greek, there are participles, but in the English we'll see three things. Number one, it says go. So three methods are simply this: going. Baptizing and teaching. That's it. The final words of Jesus are: you need to, to make disciples, you need to go. As you're going, go. And Baptize and teach whatsoever things I've commanded you. That's it. Now folks, the reason I'm mentioning it this way is simply this. For us to say that baptism is really not all that important is to ignore one of the only three things that are mentioned in the Great Commission as m as methods for discipleship. That should tell us that this idea of being of being baptized and of baptizing those who know Christ as their Savior is a very, very important ordinance. We see this starting actually in the Gospels as we work our way through the New Testament. We see Christ is the example of this. In Matthew chapter 3, it's also in Luke 3, but in Matthew chapter 3, verses 13 through 17, it says, Then Jesus came from Galilee to John at the Jordan to be baptized. by him. And John tried to prevent him saying, I need to be baptized by you, and you are you coming to me And Jesus answered and said to him, Permit it to be so now, for thus it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness. Then he allowed them and When he had bap been baptized, Jesus came up immediately from the water, and behold the heavens were open to him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and aligning upon upon him And suddenly a voice came from heaven saying, This is my beloved son in whom I am well pleased. Christ said, in order to Fulfill all righteousness. In order for me to set the example that I need to set, in order for me to do what God has called me to do, in aligning with him, I need to be baptized. And so John the Baptist baptized me. Christ. He does so as our example. He then tells us in Matthew and uh here and that we also, as we make disciples, should disciple should baptize. And then we find in the book of Acts, as we open to the book of Acts, we find Peter and his disciples, and Christ's disciples, rather, the other disciples, they are fulfilling what Christ said for them to do. In Acts 2, 38, in Peter's sermon, he says, Repent and let every one of you be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins And you shall receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. Repent first, and then be baptized. It's that important. Acts 2, verse 41 through 42 says, Then those who gladly received his word, they received what Christ had done for them. They understood it, they came to Christ. But they were also baptized. And that day 3,000 souls were added to them, and they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine, in fellowship, in breaking of bread, there's the other ordinance in the church, and in prayers. See, I want us to go back to the first century for a minute and understand the beginning of this church. You've got 3,000 souls that are saved at Pentecost. And you have they're all in Jerusalem. The church, the very first church is formed, and then from there you have them going out and forming other churches. But there are a lot of things that they didn't have that uh that we take for granted today. There were no fancy church buildings. There were no church buildings at all. They actually, in the beginning, they met in the synagogues. There were no fancy church names. There were no websites. There was no Instagram posting that I'm a Christian. There's no Facebook posting with a Bible and a cup of coffee decorating delicately placed in such a way that it makes a nice picture to know that I did my devotions this morning and it looked really good too Uh you don't you don't really find that. That's not that's not what you have in the first century. There's no WWJD bracelets, there's no witnesswear t-shirts. These things are not present in the first century. If you wanted to show that you were a Christian, you didn't post it on Be Real. If you wanted to show that you were a Christian. You got baptized. That's what you did. You say, well, you know, we got all those things now. I don't need to be baptized. I could just post it on on Instagram and I'm good. No See, the Bible tells you how to do how to profess your faith. The Bible gives a particular ordinance. He commands it. It is a it transcends time. This is how you show you you profess your faith as a Christian. We continue this trend in Acts chapter 8, verses 36 through 37. And as they went on their way, they came a certain a certain water. You know the story of the of the eunuch who came to Christ, as Philip explained Isaiah to him. See, here is water. What doth hinder me from being baptized? And Philip said, If you believe with all your heart, thou mayest. They answered and said, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. And so Philip that day baptized this Ethiopian eunuch. Notice it's if you believe. See, what's absolutely necessary is that you come to an understanding of your of trusting in Christ as your Lord and Savior. You are truly saved, you are truly born again, and if that happens, then The next step for a Christian is baptism. F. F. Bruce, scholar F. F. Bruce says it this way: the idea of an unbaptized Christian is simply not entertained in the New Testament. And that's actually true. You never see them going around in the book of Acts and leading somebody to Christ and not baptizing them And so it's important for us to understand that this is God's method. The Apostle Paul in Acts chapter 9 was clearly converted to Christ. And not long after he was also baptized. Verse 18, immediately there fell from his eyes something like scales, and he received his sight at once, and he rose and was baptized. Then in Acts chapter 10, you have the story of Cornelius. You remember? Cornelius, he was a Gentile who was a devout Gentile who believed in God, but didn't have all of the information about Jesus Christ until Peter came to him. And once Peter came to him, God had to deal with Peter in the dream, you remember, and said, kill and eat and all that, remember all that. Once Peter came to him, came to Cornelius, he and many of his Gentile friends came to Christ. And I want you to notice something about this text in Acts 10, verse 44, it says, While Peter was still speaking these words, the Holy Spirit fell upon all those who heard the word. And those of the circumcision who believed were astonished, as many as came with Peter, because the gift of the Holy Spirit had been poured out on the Gentiles also Now, we won't get into all of that, but basically what you have here is a bunch of Jewish people observed that the Spirit of God came and dwelt these Gentile believers as they began to, as they understood who Christ was and accepted him. It says verse forty six, for they heard them speak with tongues and magni and and magnify God. Then Peter answered, Can anyone forbid water that these shall be not be baptized who have received the Holy Spirit just as we have? And he commanded them to be baptized in the name of the Lord, and they asked him to stay a few days. Notice what Peter does here Peter, the Holy Spirit baptizes them spiritually first. He indwells them and baptizes them. We're going to learn in a few minutes what that is. And then after that, he says to this Jewish crowd, hey, shouldn't I then also physically baptize them, since the Spirit of God has already done the spiritual work of baptizing them? And that day many Gentile believers came to Christ and were baptized. Would you take your Bibles now and turn to Acts 19? I want you to see this one and actually turn there. Acts 19 I want you to see a passage that really demonstrates just how important baptism after salvation really is. Just how important this is. In this passage, you've got a group of a group of people who know of God. They are believers in Jehovah God. They potentially are even possibly believers in Christ, but they have not been baptized after they have understood and come to Christ. I want you to see this. Verse 16, I'm sorry, verse 1. And it happened while Apollos was at Corinth that Paul, having passed through the upper regions, came to Ephesus. And finding some disciples, he said to them, Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you believed? Okay, so they clearly had believed. They received the Holy Spirit. So they said to him, We have not so much as heard whether there is the Holy Spirit. They were not taught about this. And he said to them, Into what then were you baptized? So they said, into John's baptism. And so Paul says, okay, well, that's good enough. Really don't need to baptize you. You were baptized by John's baptism. Yeah, you believed after you were baptized, but you know that's good enough. Is that what he does? I just I really messed things up here. That's not what the Bible says. Look at what it says, verse 4. That's why you should always check the scriptures, because I it's not what it says at all. Verse 4. Then Paul said, John indeed baptized with a baptism of repentance, saying to the people that they should believe on him. uh who would come after him, that is on Christ Jesus, when they heard this, they were baptized again. They were re-baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. us. See, that's how important back then baptism was, and it should be that way today. Because baptism It identifies us with Christ. It's commanded. It is a primary method of disciple-making, and it is constantly practiced as a pattern in the New Testament. So we understand its importance. Let's then move to understanding what baptism symbolizes. What is its significance? Well, it symbolizes our union with Christ. And we find in 1 Corinthians 10 verses 1 through 4 this is true, and there's an illustration here from Israel and the Old Testament as they were united actually with Moses, and this word baptism is used. 1 Corinthians 10 verse 1 says, Moreover, brethren, I do not want you to be unaware that all our fathers were under the cloud. All passed through the sea. All were baptized, notice what it says, into Moses, in the cloud and in the sea, all ate the same spiritual fruit food, all drank the same spiritual drink. For they drank of that spiritual rock that followed them, and that rock was Christ. Now there's a lot of details in there I won't take the time to go into, but basically what we see from the passage is that all were baptized into Moses. In other words, they were united together as Israelites into Moses into Moses as as they came together so that they could all partake of the same spiritual food and drink, ultimately looking ahead to the provision of Christ. So baptism is intended to signify a union, a uniting together. We see this in Romans 6, verse 3. Or do you not know that many of us who were baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? 1 Corinthians 6. 17, but he who joined to the Lord is one spirit with him. Galatians 3. 27. For as many as you as were baptized into Christ, have put on Christ. So it has to do with our union. But water baptism pictures something else. We kind of saw that from Acts chapter 10. Peter there is basically saying they, these Gentile believers with Cornelius, they should be baptized because this Holy Spirit baptized them already. And so it is true, as we find in the New Testament, that all Christians, anyone who names the name of Christ, is baptized with the Spirit of God. All Christians are baptized. So water baptism pictures the spiritual baptism that we have in Christ. In 1 Corinthians 12, 13, it says this. For by one Spirit we were all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether slaves or free. and have all been made to drink into one spirit. This is telling us that anybody who names the name of Christ, who truly knows Christ Not only has been dwelt by the Spirit of God and regenerated by the Spirit of God, but they have been baptized by the Spirit of God. Baptism is an identification And the work of the Spirit as he places us into the body of Christ, the church. This is a spiritual thing that happens when we come to Christ. John the Baptist, when he was baptizing, he actually said that there would be some someone coming, Christ himself, that would baptize with the Spirit. Matthew 3. 11, I indeed baptize you with water unto repentance. But he who is coming after me is mightier than I, whose sandals I am not worthy to carry. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. This baptism of the Holy Spirit also includes cleansing. When you take your Bibles and turn to 1 Peter chapter 3, 1 Peter chapter 3, I want you to see this in verses 18 through 22. We start having you turn to so many passages. This is b the uh when you when we're looking at the subject of baptism, we really can't just take one passage. We have to look at all of what the New Testament says about it. But in 1 Peter chapter 3, verses 18 through 22. It says this, for Christ also suffered once for sin, the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh. But notice what it says, made alive by the Spirit. That's called regeneration, to be made alive. By the Spirit. By whom also he went and preached to the spirits in prison, who formerly were disobedient when once the divine long-suffering waited in the days of Noah. No, this is the illustration of Noah here, waited in the days of Noah while the Ark was being prepared. prepared in which a few that is eight souls were saved through water. What is he saying there? Saying that Noah and his family were saved physically, not saved spiritually. We think, by the way, every time we see the word saved in the New Testament, it's talking about spiritual salvation. It isn't always talking about that. Sometimes it is, sometimes it's not. In this case, it's not. We're actually talking about a physical salvation. The floods came, many, many, many people were killed, and animals were killed. In fact, many, everyone was, uh, except the animals and the and the uh the family of Noah that were saved physically on that ark. they were saved. This is an illustration, he says, verse 21, there is also an antitype which now saves us. He says baptism. He's not talking here about physical baptism. We know that. It says not the removal of the filth of the flesh, but the answer of a good conscience toward God through the resurrection of Jesus Christ. who has gone into heaven and is the right hand of God, angels and authorities and powers having been made subject to him. So that what the Spirit does as he comes and makes us alive, he baptizes us, places us into the body of Christ, cleanses us as Christians, so that we can be in right standing with God. Hebrews ten twenty two says, Let us draw near with true heart and full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience and our bodies wash with the with pure water. So physical baptism It symbolizes the spiritual baptism that has already taken place, the work of the Holy Spirit at salvation in the life of the individual that has already taken place. So finally, number three, baptism tangibly signals the body of Christ. It tangibly signals the body of Christ. Now folks, we need to realize that we live in a culture that is extremely individualized. We are in an individualized culture. We think that everything is kind of for us. We pick the restaurant and the restaurant's for us. We pick the one we want. We go to lunch and we do the same thing. We go home, we say what's for dinner, and we figure out what we want. It's all kind of focused in on us. There's an individualism that is us. But the church is not intended to be that way. Unfortunately a lot of people the way they choose a church even it's sort of uh like a restaurant. How will how can it b best help me? How can I best affect me individually But we have a different picture in the New Testament. We have the picture of a of a communion with each other. We have a picture of a culture of people together in the body of Christ. God, in other words, I'll put it this way, God did not intend for us to be discipled alone. We cannot grow in the way that God desires for us to grow by ourselves Completely by ourselves. We need each other. And we need not only each other, we need in our discipleship to help others. In fact We grow when we help others, when we teach others, when we work with others. You ever taught a lesson and realize, boy, I got a whole lot more out of that lesson than I think the people I taught to Happens all the time. This is the body of Christ. And baptism is a way of signaling to the body of Christ that this person has professed Christ as their Savior and it and they want to be discipled and it is our responsibility as a church to be involved in their discipleship. Now before we get too far into this, I want us to understand first of all what this what baptism is. is not. Baptism is not necessary for salvation. I'm going to be clear about that. I hope nobody goes away saying, well, I need to be saved in order to be right with God. You do not. I mean I didn't you need to be saved. You do not need to be baptized. I need to be baptized in order to be right with God. We see this scripturally all over the place We see this in Acts chapter or in Acts chapter 3 and Acts 26. We see this in Romans 4. It says, Now unto him who works the wages are not counted as grace but as debt, but to him who does not work but believes on him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is accounted for righteousness. Of course we know Ephesians two eight nine, for by grace are you saved, and that now of yourselves is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Perhaps one of the best illustrations, and you probably know it, is the thief on the cross. The thief on the cross truly came to Christ. Christ said, You will be with me in paradise, and yet he never had the opportunity to be baptized. So that we need to understand. It is not a matter of our salvation. Nor is it a matter of assurance of our salvation. You are not necessarily going to gain more assurance of your salvation because your baptism But baptism is to be done in the name of Christ and of the Father and of the Holy Spirit It is a symbol of a death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. Colossians 2. 12 says this. Bury with him in baptism wherein also you are risen with him. through faith of the operation of God who hath raised him from the dead. We are buried with him and we are raised with him and this symbolizes that. Baptism is very much like a wedding ring. A wedding ring does not make somebody saved, but a wedding ring symbolizes that you are. You are a wedding ring doesn't make somebody married But a wedding ring does symbolize uh that you are married. Um so it so that if somebody said to me, Well, I don't I'm married, but I don't want I don't want to I don't want to have a wedding ring. I would begin to sort of say, well why? Now there might be a good reason, maybe there's a medical reason or something why they don't have a medic uh a wedding ring that's There's probably reasons. But if they said to me, well, I don't want anybody to know I'm married, well that would be suspect. So it's the same way with being a Christian. If someone is a Christian, wonderful. But if they say, well, I'm a Christian, but I don't want anybody to know I'm a Christian. That is suspect. Have you really truly come to Christ if you do not want to participate? in baptism, which again are one of the three, only one of the three method methods mentioned for discipleship in the Great Commission. Matthew 10 says it this way, because baptism is our confession of our faith. Matthew 10 says it this way, verse 32, therefore whoever confesses me before men, him I will also confess before my Father who is in heaven. Whoever denies me before men, him I will also deny me to deny before my Father who is in heaven. So so baptism baptism is a symbol that we are saved. I want us just before we move into this time of communion and baptism, I want to give you five ways that baptism I I gave just kinda gave this some thought. And I wanted so so we've got this method of baptism for discipleship. Why is this so how does it aid discipleship? I want to give you five five things that I came up with. Number one Baptism provides opportunity to clarify the gospel. When someone comes to me and says, I would like to be baptized, I am very, I try very hard to make sure that they are clear on the on the nature of the gospel. I want them to explain to me the gospel. They need to be able to articulate what the gospel actually says. And they need to affirm that they believe and have accepted the gospel. Oftentimes, if it's a young person that I'm baptizing, I'll have parents in the room as well. I want to know from the parents that they have given evidence to them that they truly are, they truly do know Christ. They've seen fruit in their lives. So baptism provides that opportunity to clarify the gospel. Number two, baptism signals the church of their corporate responsibility. When we baptize somebody, church, Bethel Baptist, it is our responsibility to realize that we need to have a part, we need to contribute to the discipleship of people that are being baptized. So it signals our corporate responsibility. If somebody grows up in a church, for example, and isn't baptized, it is very nebulous as to what our responsibility is toward them. We want to see them come to Christ. Until they make a profession of faith publicly, it is hard to know where you know we want to do the best we can, but it's very hard to know uh where they are spiritually. Number three Baptism sets the stage for appropriate accountability. It sets the stage for appropriate accountability. It just makes you aware. You're making a pledge, so to speak, a pledge of like you pledge allegiance to the flag. You're pledging to Christ that you are a follower of Christ. Baptism examples gospel conversion. It's a wonderful testimony. Some of you I think are here today because your friends are being baptized, which is wonderful. It's a wonderful testimony of what God is doing. And in a few minutes, you're going to to hear the testimony of two young men who God has been working in their lives to bring them to a saving knowledge of Christ. Examples, gospel, conversion. And number five, baptism is a tangible act that authenticates a commitment to Christ. It is a way of showing publicly that I want to follow Christ. I want us to get leave with three thought-provoking questions. Number one, I can't help but ask this question as we close this. Number one, have you come to saving faith? This means nothing, absolutely nothing, if you have if if someone has not first understood their sin, their need of a savior, And they and understood that Christ died to pay the punishment for their sin so they could be in right standing with God. This doesn't mean anything And if you are here this morning and there has never been a time where you have placed your faith in Christ. You don't know where you stand with God. You don't know for sure if you're a Christian. Let me encourage you after the service, come and talk with me. I would be More than happy to help you understand how you can know for sure that you are in right standing with God. The Bible says these things are written that you may know that you have eternal life. The next question I have, you say, yes, I have done that. I have trusted in Christ as my personal Lord and Savior. The next question is simple: have you been baptized after coming to Saving Faith? Ha and and and and in in this order, uh there was several years ago um I uh somebody came to our church, this is quite a few years ago now. And uh they had been baptized as a as a baby. We didn't really talk about that. That's not biblical, by the way. Um they had been baptized as a baby. And then they came to Christ after. And in talking to them, I asked them if they had been baptized, and they said yes as a baby. And then I showed them from scripture, similarly to how I did today. Do you see that the scriptural pattern is you need to be first saved and then you're baptized in that order? And by God's grace they saw that and then I was able to baptize them after salvation. Have you been baptized after you have been saved? Very important question. And and let me just encourage you to say, well, um I have questions about that. Come and talk with me. I'd be glad to help you through this, understanding this as well. Number three, church. This is to Bethel Baptist Church. Some of you are friends. And it's wonderful to have you here. But for our church, do we realize our responsibility in discipling those who profess Christ in baptism? This is very important because as they are being baptized, they're also going to be joining our church. And it signals to us that we do have a responsibility in discipling those. We're of course coming alongside, in this case, Brad and Susan, they're parents. Parents, come alongside them, but we want to see, we want to be actively involved in Luke and Ethan's discipleship. Do we realize our responsibility there? These are questions that I hope that we will ask and be mindful of as we go into a time of communion and then a time of baptism as well. In a few minutes we are going to uh before we baptize Luke and E. Ethan, in a few minutes, we are going to uh spend some time um just celebrating what Christ has done for us in in a in his death on the cross, his shed blood and broken body on the cross for us. The Bible tells us that there are three reasons why we do this. First of all, we do this to show our unity, 1 Corinthians chapter 2. ten. That we what unifies us as a body of believers, we are unified around the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. There are all kinds of other things that that we uh don't agree on and and have differences of opinion on, but what we all must agree on and be unified in is who Christ is and what he has done on the cross for us. Number two, it's in remembrance. It brings from the back of our mind into the forefront of our mind the wonderful sacrifice that Christ made for us. on the cross. And number three, number three is actually it says that we do show the Lord's death till he comes. In other words, we it it we preach. We are preaching the gospel. We are proclaiming the good news of the gospel as we partake of the Lord's Supper together. In fact, in the first century, these were the two things that identified the church so that even non-Christians, we have extravagant writings in the new in the first century. Non-Christians are actually looking and seeing that these things are happening and knowing that they believed in Jesus as the Son of God, Jesus as the perfect sinless sacrifice who died to pay the punishment for their sin. If you are, if you don't know the Lord as your Savior, you have not been been scripturally baptized, we would ask you to withhold. But if you know Christ as your Savior, you've been scripturally And you are you do not have to be a member of our church, but you do but if you're a member, if you're a good standing of a local church, let me encourage you to uh you're welcome to partake with us. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you this morning and we praise you and thank you for who you are. We thank you for this method that you have given us. to um to show, to profess, to confess uh that that we know you and are following you That you are our Lord and Savior. And we pray this morning that as we look ahead, first of all, to our communion time, that it would be a wonderful time of celebrating the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. And also of baptism, as Luke and Ethan come later be baptized, we pray, Lord, that all of this would be done for your honor and glory. And we do pray that if there is anybody here that doesn't know you as their Savior, that today they would understand their sin, their need of a savior, that they would inquire about it, and that they would be saved. We pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. All right. We're going to sing just the first verse of uh Born to Die, and then during that time, if you uh um Deacons and elders, if you could quickly make it up here, because it's going to be just one verse, then we will begin our communion time together. Born to die in number two twenty-five. three to remain so night Christ was born Jesus God born as the sky I were free for the place where he lay fell a shadow golden gray of a cross backwards. Bumblecking born to die upon Calvary. Jesus suffered my center. To the market born to die upon Calvary, he was wooed that I might Father, we come before you our hearts are full of We have just read in your word and heard preach from your word, and the amazing truth that all this is made possible, that we can be brought into the family of God because Your son paid the ultimate sacrifice. We thank you, Lord, for the offering of his body, that he can be our substitute, and that we no longer are under your wrath, but we are considered Your children. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Sounds well, uh someone's uh doing kind of and sound exploring. Swell, shortly, but function to So those good and fails, but From 1 Corinthians chapter 11, Christ spoke and he said, Take eat. This is my body which is broken for you. Do this in remembrance of me. Let's partake together. Heavenly Father, we come with grateful and thankful hearts. For what you have done through your Son, Jesus Christ. And we are grateful and thankful this morning for the sacrifice that you have made at the cross, shedding your own blood. And dying on that cross in our place, and being buried and rose again to newness and life. And we are reminded this morning of this sacrifice. And how you have set us free and you have brought us back into a right relationship with your Father. And we are thankful and grateful this morning In Jesus' name. No, I'm going for fish from the five. Reading again from First Corinthians chapter eleven, it says, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. This do as often as you drink it. And remembrance of me. Let's partake together. Alright, let's let me have you stand and we're gonna sing two verses of our song and then we'll have you sit back down after that for the for the baptism. Jesus suffered my sin to forgive, born to die upon Calvary She will be right. Laid aside heaven's fame in exchange for the cross Of course for my day, suffered loss for my sin, for the cross He was wounded and I was set free for to die upon Calvary He was worked for my sin to forgive, born to die upon Calvary He was wounded that I might live. All right, at this time uh we're going to have I think we'll have Luke first, and so you'll come up, give your testimony here, and then come on over. Oh, I'm supposed to turn this on. That's my fault. This is my testimony. That's good. Alright. I was born into a Christian home with two God loving parents. I was raised in the church just as my parents were commanded to by Proverbs 22, 6, train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old, he will not depart from it. There was never a time in my memory that I doubted that God was real or who he was or who he is. All I had heard since I was a little kid was about the saving work of Jesus on the cross. But I never understood that that was actually applied to my life. Like the Corinthians in 1 Corinthians 2 14, which reads, The natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God. For they are folly to him, and he is not able to understand them, because they are spiritually discerned. I thought that church and God were just a separate part of from the rest of life. I went to church, went through the motions and came home on Sundays. It was just something we did, was what I thought. Eventually I had gotten to an age where I completely understood the gospel, but I was unsure of my salvation And was relying on my own effort to gain salvation, which Ephesians two, eight through nine explains is not right. For by grace are you saved by faith, through faith, and that not of yourselves, it is It was not until one night when I was in about sixth or seventh grade, can't exactly remember. That I was in deep thought about my eternal des destiny. I was struggling and decided to re-explain the gospel to myself. So I went through all the parts And this took like two hours. I went through all the farts at the end and realized what it really meant The verse John 3. 16 was the most helpful for understanding it, which says, For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life. I realized that nothing I could do would ever be enough, and that faith in Jesus is the only way into salvation, as Romans 10, 9 through 10 tells. That if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart one believes unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation It was then that I put my faith in Jesus and He saved me. Since the moment of salvation, God has given me a desire to please Him, just as Paul said we should in Corinthians 5. 9. So we make it our goal to please him, whether we are at home, in the body, or away from it. Going to church isn't just going through the motions, it's worshiping God with his people Like it's described in Hebrews ten, twenty-four through twenty-five, let us consider how to stir up one another with love and good works, not neglecting to meet each other, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another with all the more As you see the day drawing near. Prayer isn't just asking God for things and trying to get through it. It's talking to my Savior, my God Every day things are not just everyday things are not just about what will make me happy, but what will bring glory to God. With the mindset of First Corinthians ten thirty-one. So whether you eat or drink or whatsoever you do Do it all for the glory of God. There isn't much change in the things I do or the places I go, but the motivation behind all of it are completely different. I'm sure I am not the only person who has ever gone through the motions of church. There's no benefit in faking it. You are the only missing out on the grace of God It is amazing that God, that the God who created all things wants to have a relationship with you. So don't reject the offer. There will be a day when it is too late to ask for forgiveness, and all will be judged, because everyone will be judged by God. But only true believers in Christ will be held accountable for their sins. Well only true believers in Christ will not be held accountable for their sin, as said in Ecclesiastes twelve fourteen. For God will bring every deed into judgment, including every hidden thing, whether it is good or evil Don't be insert. Know where you will go for eternity, because the Bible clearly states in 1 John 5. 13, These things I have written to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, in order that you may know That you have eternal life. Amen. You can leave that there. That's fine. You can take them off. He's taking the socks off. It's slippery. What's your what's your name? He doesn't need my hand. He's a basketball player. Alright. Hold your nose before you. Hold your wrist Holy Spirit, buried in the likeness of his death, ways to walk in the units of life. Luke is also coming for church membership and so if I could have a motion from the floor. Oh I he's already been baptized. You heard his testimony. I mean he you agree with our doctrinal statement of the Constitution, your dad went over that. Okay. Um I should be clear because somebody asked last time I did this. He is not of voting age yet legally, but when he is then he'll be able to vote. But until then he's He's a member of our church, which is great. And a motion from the floor to accept him into our membership. Is Joey around? Joey, just pick somebody. And uh and pick a second. And all in favor say aye. Like sign opposed, motion carried. Welcome welcome to our church as well. You've already been here, but welcome. membership. All right, Ethan. Is Joey around? Joey? Just pick somebody. And uh pick a second. And all in favor say aye. Like sign opposed. Motion carried. Welcome. Welcome to our church as well. You've already been here, but welcome. Before I was saved, my life revolved around myself. Um I pretty much did what I wanted, but the happiness I had never lasted and I felt empty. I knew as a sinner, um Romans three twenty-three says, All of sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and was condemned to death in hell Romans 6. 23 says, for the wages of sin is death. But I wanted to have fun now and worry about my spiritual life when I was older I had heard the uh gospel more than I could count before I was saved. When I was eleven, someone was talking about how they wished that they would have used their life for Christ. um when they were young. I decided I didn't want to waste mine. And I also knew that um you don't have another day promised to you So um I still want to do other stuff, but I remember that only what's done for Christ who lasts. I confess my sins. Romans ten nine says If you confess your with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, you will be saved. And place my trust in Christ. The only reason I could do this is because of Christ's life. He was sinless, the perfect sacrifice. He died on the cross to take away the punishment of sins and rose so that we can live eternally with him. Um since my salvation, Christ has changed my life, so I find joy in the Lord and try to glorify him because that's what we're here on earth to do. Alright, hold your nose. Alright, Ethan, I now baptize you in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Holy Spirit, buried in the likeness of his death, raised to walk in newness of life. Ethan is also coming for church membership kind of a um he's been baptized, he's we've heard his testimony. You agree with the d our doctrinal statement? Good. All right. Um can I have a motion from the floor to accept him into our membership and a second. There's all right. Um all in favor say aye. Like sign opposed. Motion is carried. Ethan, welcome to as a member of our church as well. All right. Um I have a motion from the board to accept them to our membership. and a second thank you. All right. All in favor saying let's stand and sing the last verse of our song Born to Die. All right, um I have Deus Lord evermore may thy cross I adore As I follow the path to countries of thy death, I forsake my ambition, I forsake all my will. I surrender as I cross thy door as I fall off and die upon me. Oh kind of suffer I say to my heart and I forsake all my law to die a floor I do as I fall Um let me encourage uh Uh you to hang out for a little while in the lobby to Wow. I thought the rapture was gonna happen or something there. Alright. Anyway Hang out in the lobby for a little while until uh Luke and Ethan get out. I'm sure they won't take that long to get changed. They're boys and don't have hair and all you know all that When they have hair but not long hair. Anyway, and uh and uh greet them and and and um and congratulate them and um and that would be a good thing. And there's something I'm oh, Michelle, could you take pictures of them with their parents? Would you mind? I was meant to ask you before and I didn't, so no I did. So anyway. All right. Let's go ahead and close in prayer. Let me ask um Uh Terry, you're right there. Would you close us in prayer? You got a mic the mic is coming. And thank you. Well we praise and thank you for added to your church. Praise. Salvation is still the baptism, the desire to lost the Lord Higher Says of Christ. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for For streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.