Well, we mentioned in Sunday school today a very helpful passage in Ephesians chapter five. And in Roman, and in Colossians chapter 3 there, we have the same effects. But if the spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Jesus from the dead will also give you life, your motor bodies, through his spirit who dwells in you. Then we see the next phrase, we are heirs of God and joint heirs of Christ. And notice what it says here, and rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. I think that's the main thing that I come away from this. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. We shouldn't live any longer therein. the Spirit of God, being filled with the Spirit, returned from Jordan and was led by the Spirit in the wilderness. need to be motivated by fear. He was adopted by an Egyptian, actually, so maybe they had uh concept understood the adoption. to concentrate fully and solely upon your word, that you may speak to our hearts. Romans eight thirteen particularly. And we said, that means there is no more guilt and no more insecurity and no more sense of rejection and no more defeat. We're going to see that the Spirit of God causes us to experience our relationship with the Father. the demands of sin and all those kinds of things. Now this is a this is a small, a short verse, but there is a lot here that we need to understand. It's talking about something else. In Romans chapter 7, verse 6. so that we should serve in newness of the Spirit and not in the oldness of the letter, talking about the law. Look at 8. It's the same word. and sing in m making melody in our heart to the Lord. When we are thankful, when we are worshiping, when we have a submissive spirit in our hearts That we can be under the influence of the Spirit of God is if the Word of God is dwelling in us richly The flesh desires against the spirit, and it says, and the spirit against the flesh, or the spirit desires against the flesh. uh intend to have it up on the screen as well, but Galatians chapter 5, verses 16 through 26. Let us not become conceited, provoking one another and being one another. That's how he leads. That's why Scripture talks about the Word of God. and an acceptance of the other. You follow after the desires that do please God, and you cultivate that desire, that taste, if you will, and you reject the other. In fact, all of us had earthly fathers, and so therefore all of us had had things that we had to sort of adjust when we're thinking about our heavenly father. And we won't get into all of that. For this my son was dead and is alive again. And when he is still a great way off, his father saw him and had compassion and ran and fell on his neck and kissed him. And what agreement has the temple of God with idols? Fear. And Mephibosheth comes and he's lame, he can't even walk. And in 2 Samuel 9, verse 7, it says, So David said to him, Do not fear, for I will surely show you kindness for Jonathan, your father's sake. uh in the Jewish uh under Jewish rule. his firstborn son or maybe he didn't have a son. actually there were seven seven different kings, five of which are called the good emperors, the five good emperors. the equivalent of father, so you have instead this word Abba. I want you to notice how a very parallel passage treats this. God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law, to redeem those who were under the law, that we might receive the adoption as sons. And testifying to our spirit that we are his child. in Christ, I am not not lying. And freedom and uninhibited kind of access to God, but also the future It's actually saying children of God. we can experience. perseverance, character, and character, hope. sin and not uh choosing not to kill sin that that inhibits us and keeps us from experiencing the assurance of the Streaming our service. Father, you are the all-powerful, almighty God, the holy God, the righteous God. that we can now come before you because of what your son has done at the cross on our behalf. Free from the law of sin and death. For it is not subject to the law of God, nor indeed can it be. Um how many have you done that before? This is like I don't think we could do all of them. Because you can actually do an entire series for a long time on Romans eight. that we need to rem remember is that we do have to realize we are not in a state of condemnation and we need to set our minds attention. from the obligation and indebtedness of our flesh so that we are able to kill sin and experience the life of the Spirit that God wants us to. Romans 6 helps us to understand the importance that we are, that we we must not be, we we must resist sin, we must not be enslaved to sin. Spirit, the leading of the Spirit, the assurance of the Spirit, the guarantee of the Spirit. And so we have to be careful about understanding this concept of walking in the Spirit and being led by the Spirit. You've got the source of the flesh, which is the source of the desire for sin, and the source We actually have to be very careful about that. of the Spirit of God, which is which gives us, is the source of Scripture calls it here, life. Romans six twenty-three, for the wages of sin is death. that it might appear sin was produced, has produced death in me through what is good, so that sin through the commandment might become exceedingly sinful. And death. which is the source of death. And then look at Romans 8. But there is the sense in which we then, verse 13 of Romans 8, we begin to experience the life Well, how does this happen with the Spirit of God leading us? But we have in that text, Ephesians 5, 18 through 21, we have this concept of being filled with the Spirit. That is, the Spirit of God uses the truths from the Word of God to then influence us And as a result of that, you are worshiping and thankful and grateful. are there. is in conjunct, it works together with the filling of the Spirit of God. In Romans and in Galatians. Uh contentions, jealousies, outbursts of wrath, selfish ambitions, dissensions, heresies, envy, this is a long list. And those who are Christ have crucified the flesh with its passions. You have desires to do the wrong thing, and there's a list of them, a long list of things that, some things that seem really bad and some things that don't seem so bad, but both of them are are all both of them come from these desires of the flesh, jealousy and envy and uh hatred and all those good all those kinds of things. You have kids that are in their two their their two-year-old that don't like anything. is very much connected with us following after the desires of the Spirit, which are those scriptural desires, those wanting to please God that we talked about before. We've got a movement here to talking about being sons of God and adoption and God being our father, all of these words that tell us about this relationship, the Spirit of God. The love of a father or there is something within their their experience growing up that they are missing We have Luke 15 verse 24 says, For this my son was dead and alive, he was lost, and is found. pursues his son and he goes out and he he embraces his his lost son. that the Son has with the Father. With his son. What he is doing is he is contrasting between the slavery, the spirit he says of slavery, of bondage, slavery and adoption. treatment. And that's where this concept of adoption really took form. who wanted who was not uh content for whatever reason with with the progenitor of his est of his estate, uh his maybe He would become the de facto in um primary inheritor of the estate. So that it was all settled. certainly had writing by that point, but for whatever reason they wanted this to be very binding and very well established and there would be no question about it afterwards. kids were little our kids are really little they can't form words very well and so the word dada or papa is easy to say off of a young child or even baby's lip. Who witnesses to our spirit that this adoption whereby we cry, Abba Father. We are the ones that are crying out, Abba Father, and the Spirit is witnessing that. the Spirit, even so we ourselves grown within ourselves, eagerly waiting for the adoption, the redemption of our body. testifies of that, and you can look ahead to the reality that you are an heir of God. so that we can know and rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. You have the Spirit now, and you will, and the Spirit of God will actually resurrect you the same way it did Christ. you, the Holy Spirit within you that gives you good desires. Glory. That the righteous requirements of the law might be fulfilled in us who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the spirit. He is not his. But if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, and you will live. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit, that we are children of God. Heirs of God and joint errors with Christ, if indeed we suffer with Him, that we may also be glorified together. So um I was we were we started at the top of Shenandoah Valley, uh the Shenandoah State Park there and we came to the first And then like a little bit well there was another overlook and we stopped at that one and I started to realize there are a lot of overlooks in uh in Skyline Drive. They're like not to miss. as you go down. making sure that you see the whole picture, but also taking time to look at the overlooks and make sure that we really we really flesh out these vitally important truths that we have here for the Christian life And I'll just remind us of some of these. And we saw the very first verse that we are not under condemnation. Verse 14. experiential passage. But what is it talking about? And although I think the emotions are vault involved on some level, it is not just some feeling that you get to be led by the Spirit in newness of life. And then if you'll flip back and look at Romans chapter 7, verse 6, it says, But now we have been delivered from the law, having died to what we were held by So you have this idea of the newness or the newness of life or the newness of the Spirit. spiritual life that we receive from the Spirit. of the Spirit. So we have this major hindrance that causes us to not experience, though we have it, we can't experience the life that God wants us to live through the Spirit It doesn't mean that he speaks into our ear something audible. Jesus was under the, he was filled by the Spirit, and therefore he was led by the Spirit, he was actually led by the Spirit into the wilderness to experience the temptations of Satan there. dissipation. We know that we are under the filling, under the influence of the Spirit of God. I say then, walk in the Spirit. So that you uh so that uh these things are contrary to one another, so that you do not do the things that you wish. Catch it. Verse 19, now the works of the spirit are the works of the flesh, rather, are evident, which are adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lewdness, idolatry, sorcery, hatred I tell you beforehand, just as I told you in the time past, that those who practice such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. Pretty familiar with verse 22. Love and joy and peace and long-suffering and gentleness and goodness and kindness and faith. It actually makes us want to do what God wants us to do. goes down uh uh uh meets somebody from a landlocked state who's never tasted any sea sea seafood before. and rejecting and turning away from those desires that don't please God. causes us experientially to know the relationship that we have with our Father. I actually think the make the main point of the story is the Father and the Father's response to the Son. that then we he we are to be the people of God. of rejecting sin and separating from those who are uh who are characterized by sinfulness. He will be a father, a protector, a provider. We are, as it were, grafted into that so that there is no more perfect relationship. And then one of the most amazing verses to me in all of Scripture is found in John 17. to the Father and the Son of God. But you receive the spirit of adoption by whom we cry out, Abba Father. Now I've got to tell you, there is a lot in that verse. The Christians who were in Rome would have immediately grasped what we were what he was talking about, and we will not immediately grasp it without understanding what's going on here and understanding some of the background It was very complex and very multifaceted. And denied and actually their masters had the power of life and death But of love and of power and of a sound mind. You've received the spirit of adoption. So this really is a contrast between fear and love. and will restore you to all the land of Saul, your grandfather, and you shall eat bread at my table continually. But we take it a step further when we get into Roman adoption. And so they assimilated this concept of adoption, but they further developed this concept. But under Roman law, the boy had to sever all ties from the natural family, and he would actually literally take on the name. As though they never existed. Now here's something else that's interesting. In order for this transaction to take place, you ac actually required seven reputable witnesses. That there had to be seven witnesses in order to identify, I mean if you think about it, they didn't, I mean, they certainly You see, uh several of the emperors apparently had reproductive issues. He comes to his father and he says, Mark 14, 36, Abba Father, all things are possible for me. Describes it that way and the translators spell it out that way so that we see the kind of word that's being used here. This basic word tells us that God is not a distant ruler in transcendence, but one who is intimately close. of his spirit into your son. Now you it could be, it's possible it could be translated another way, but every modern translation I looked at, it translates this way, so that the subject is the Spirit of God that does the crying of Abba Father. Now, that's not the way Romans look at look look at look at Romans. assurance, a knowledge that we are truly the child of God, as the Spirit, not through audible words. But as the Spirit cries out, Abba Father, we experience through his witness the truth that we truly, as an assurance, we truly are. a child of God. For I know that whom I have believed and am persuaded that he is able to keep what I have committed to him against that day. So not only does the adoption include this real present relationship whereby we can experience the intimacy and closeness and It's more than just a feeling, but there is an experiential assurance from the Spirit of God that assures us that we are children. Now the adoption of sons is he's going to go on to say in Romans chapter 8 verse 23, not only that, but we also have the first fruits of To be able to cry out to God. that to come to the Lord. that we have. invite you to come and talk with me. Spirit. by sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh on account of sin. You know how sometimes you go someplace and you go, oh, we kind of missed it by a day or two or a week or whatever, but we hit it right on. Headed south on Skyline Drive. We said there look there's like a ton of overlooks and we want to go hiking too and we were explaining what we want to do and all that and and uh I so I finally said to him, are there certain overlooks that you just Some of you might be wondering why are we dragging our feet through Romans 8? We are really fleshing out these overlooks. not see the whole picture. That is our role to do that, to kill the flesh or to kill sin. us. Ultimately, our goal is that we are experiencing the life of the Spirit. that we what ha what it looks like to feel like that as though we are experiencing the indebtedness of the law and being under the law. You can't do that in order to be led by the Spirit. I think in order for us to really understand this, we actually have to go back and recover a couple of very important truths. In fact, if you go back to Romans chapter six, verse four, it says, Therefore we were buried with him through baptism into death, that just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we shall walk because of sin. That tells us something about what this means. That it tells us there, let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. or the desires of the flesh. That that can I say it this way that shapes are case buds for righteousness. You talk to some people and they'll say, um, I I I um I just don't like that. She loves like certain she loves crabs, she loves crab cake, she loves all the things you know that Marilyn is known for. of his own wealth, his own um of his own household. and I just began to think about it. and you in me. It's actually a combination of quotes from 2 Kings 21 and Isaiah 52. The concept of adoption, I think we do find in the Old Testament on some level. cr common and very well-established idea in the inscriptions of the laws of the Greek Empire when it was established. Usually it's going to at least be divided among the closest heirs, and it's going to take forever to do that, so don't put yourself in that position. actually 192 A. And uh in other cases they were just simply unsuitable for to take over. Uh you are you're probably familiar with this term abba father. And we find it illustrated in Scripture when Jesus goes before his father before his death. of a relationship that is uninhibited and free. Of God. And you follow after the desires of the flesh. a a I will say it this way, an informality, an uninhibited freedom. And are you rejecting and turning away from those desires from the flesh? If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. And Father, I'd like to lift up those who are unable to be with us this morning. Amen. who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit. But you are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if indeed the spirit of God dwells in you. A couple of weeks ago my family went to uh Shenandoah Valley and uh got a chance to take in the fall uh leaves. We I took an extended application there to help us to understand how some of what our role is in killing in killing uh sin. And then we saw in verses 9 through 13 last week that the Spirit gives life and guarantees hope and frees us That we get the opportunity, because of the work of the Spirit, to experience relationship. Particularly our relationship with our Heavenly Father. are the sons of God. by the Spirit of God. Now, I have to tell you, in my Christian experience, I have never had the Holy Spirit audibly speak to me, or I hear the Holy Spirit like in my head or anything like that. But if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, it will then allow you to live. of alcohol, but be instead under the influence of the Spirit of God. influence. Do you see in the passage it tells us, first of all, you have the source of the desire from the flesh? Your flesh, your sin nature has has as its a source, you have desires to sin. And then you have, on the other hand, the source of the Spirit of God, which is the source of right things that truly please God. Because somebody says, oh, so I just got to get to I get what I want. And the son said to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven. That's the love of the Father toward us. Now, what does Paul mean by this? Anywhere from one-third to 50% of the people are actually slaves, the of the of the citizenship are actually enslaved. Because the concept of adoption is not necessarily there are some things that are parallel to the kind of adoption that we have today, but not everything is And we have Naomi who adopted Ruth. And then later on in in that chapter, in 2nd Samuel chapter 9, verse eleven, it says, According to all uh Zeba says to the king, according to all my lord the king has commanded, his servant, so will your servant do. But there isn't a lot of legal precedence for this in the Jewish thinking, in the Jewish culture. No word is more common in Greek inscriptions of the Hellenistic time, the idea like the word in native Greek. He cries out, the son cries out to his father, Abba, Father. This to cry out. So in that text, you have the conscience and the thinking that are involved in the bearing witness. And the conscience in that case is doing the bearing of the witness. Children of God. And I think that's why he sort of moves from this idea of a son to children. And number three, do you place your hope in the future guaranteed inheritance that we have a lot to develop? Even to bring you into that place where you are a son of God. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. For those who live according to the flesh, they set their minds on the things of the flesh. For to be carnally minded is death, but to be spiritually minded is life and peace. Therefore, brethren, we are debtors not to the flesh to live according to the flesh. But if the Spirit of Him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Christ from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his spirit who dwells in you. Romans eight is like the entire thing is these is like these overlooks that I don't want to miss Because of righteousness. So we have to be meditating on the Word of God. that are biblically true, that we know to be true, so that we can follow not the desires of the flesh. But instead the desires of the Spirit of God that work its way out in our lives to produce The key is our relationship with God. Of God. And when he comes back, I think the main point of the story is actually not the s not the the younger son, and frankly, not even the older son. And he says, my son was dead and is now alive again. A father to you, and you shall be my sons and daughters, says the Lord Almighty. And one day after Jonathan had died, one day, um David is David's thinking about his friend. Now he did give uh he did give Mephibosheth all of Saul's land so that that could continue. uh to which he one does not belong by nature. Then errors. that in Jewish law you had for the firstborn a double portion. Except I will just simply point this out. In the future glory of God. But we really would love to meet you in person. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. Because of we are in Christ Jesus. On pleasing God. And that really that we definitely don't want to see that as a necessary thing to be led by the Spirit. of being under the influence of the flesh. If we live in the Spirit, let us, in other words, if we're indwelt by the Spirit, if we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit. The fact is our desires, we have two sources of desire, and this being filled with the Spirit, being under the influence of the Spirit has The truth is there are some that did not have a very loving father. As has said, I will dwell in them and walk among them. It was so integral to the economy of the Roman government that uh and the Roman and the Roman population and everything that went on there that you have At least in some instances, that the slaves themselves were property. You remember Bishop Phibosheth? That is left behind by Jonathan. Establish his very heir to the throne once he died. On one hand, you I mean the relationships could not be any different from each other. Even so we, when we were children, were in bondage under the elements of the world, but when the fullness of time had come, But a son. This witness of the Spirit, we see a little bit more of what it means by looking at Romans chapter 2 verse 15. So there is somehow an experience of assurance that affects our thinking This is a pattern that Paul is making. It moves. Poured out in our hearts by the Holy Spirit who was given to us. You can come to God today so that you can have the relationship with God that He wants you to have. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. For you did not receive the spirit of bondage again to fear, but you received the spirit of adoption, by whom we cry Abba Father. We've got to flesh this out. Now, there is so much in that one statement, by whom we cry, Abba Father. Chapter 5, verses 2 through 5. But what does it mean? How you are actually led by the Spirit of God. But we can we can grow in our desire for pleasing God and doing right and our and I I and here's the key. The presence of God, the indwelling of God, is connected to the relationship that we have with God. What does it mean for us to be the sons of God, to be the children of God? And think of this word. He says verse 16, for you did not receive the spirit of bondage again to fear, but you received uh it's actually right there, again to what? But he who fears has not been made perfect in love. It's interesting that there is actually no Hebrew word for adoption in the Old Testament. Of his new family. Crying. Guarantee of the redemption of our body. things that are going on in our life this week. There you have it there very clearly. The law combined with sin brings, it produces death. 2. The word lead or led here is an interesting word. The same results are there. And I think that the key is found in Galatians chapter 5. When I was when I was first dating Elizabeth, she she lived in a landlocked state. But he he wants us to understand some things about f him being our father. He says, you are no longer under the spirit of slavery, but now you are under the spirit of adoption. And and he contemplates, is there and he apparently made a promise to his friend that he would take care of his family, and he begins to inquire, is there any is there any family? That there was free just total freedom in that kind of relationship. Let's go together in the Lord in prayer. And Father, we thank you that you love us. Then we have the Spirit of God. Luke chapter 4, verse 1, it actually says that Jesus being filled with the Holy Spirit, being under the influence of the Thy word is have I hid my heart that I will not sin against thee. The love of the Father toward the Son and the Son toward the Father and the relationship, the fellowship that the one has to the other. This relationship, this assurance. But others that endured very harsh abuse. Now here's what's amazing. One person said, commentator said, an everyday infant sound is applied without inhibition to God. It says, and because you are sons, God has sent forth the Spirit of His Son into your hearts. Do you view your relationship with God as one of close intimacy? But it is no question by means of the Spirit. Look at what it says, Romans 8. Now what's interesting is actually the emperors between 96 A. Take this cup from me, nevertheless, not what I will, but you your will be done. It's talking about that and with that assurance comes this intimate closeness So uh I said, well, we can better go by the visitor center and figure out how to do this. It's going to really help open up our eyes to the experience of our relationship. Matthew 10 verse 18 says this. How does the Spirit of God lead us? On one hand, it is fear that motivates the relationship. You will be brought before governors and kings for my sake. It's incredible. But be filled with the spirit. But there's another kind of fear. Usually I think dada comes before mama because I think dada is a little easier. Now, I want us to notice something. Are your desires being cultivated by the Word of God? And follow after the desires of the Spirit, so that we can please you. And then we're going to see it is through the assurance of the Spirit, and then we're going to see it's through the guarantee of the Spirit. Led by the Spirit. Now, I hate to say this, but the fact is we will always have, this side of heaven, have a taste for the one. I pray, Lord, that you would help us in the days ahead to follow after the desires of the Spirit of God as we you as we meditate on the Word of God and cultivate the Word of God in our lives. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. So three takeaways, three questions. Let's pray together. We need to yield ourselves to instrument as instruments of righteousness. For the law of the spirit of what? And we know we are under the spirit influence when these things are happening. The motivation of a slave, even in that day, was the motivation of fear. And this becomes an illustration for us to understand how we are adopted into the family of God. Now, with all of that in mind, understand the difference. And there it says, who show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience also bearing witness, and between themselves their thoughts accusing or else excusing the words. 10. I think I can adjust that. And you have this Abba which is the same idea. And we pray these things in Christ's name. But but um I don't want to go that slow. He leads through our spirit-filled, scripturally informed desires. Most of you are familiar with the story, of course, the prodigal son, he wants to leave his father, take his inheritance now, go into the world and do his own thing, his own way. And this overlook requires us to actually n have some background So if you think of this as being property and your master having the ability to put you to death or not, We confess to you, Father, that often it is actually our following after the desires of the flesh and following after sin. I'm curious. And it is in conjunction and by means of the Spirit that we kill sin so that the life of the Spirit then can come through and we can experience that life. See, that is a motivation, folks, that God does not want us to have. And by the way, I highly recommend that you get that one so that you know which one to hit. And we'll begin by looking at the leading of the Spirit. What does it mean to be led by the Spirit? Remember the relationship that David had with Jonathan? My conscience also bearing witness, bearing me witness in the Holy Spirit. We came to the first overlook and like, okay, well we better stop there. I mean Romans 8 is a flow of thought. In fact, would you take your Bibles? But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. And you see in Psalms, David crying out to his father, I cried to the Lord with my voice, and he heard me from his holy hill, Sailah. We are looking at Romans chapter 8, beginning in verse 1. Well, I think we need to understand a few things. It really is not something that can be perceived by the physical senses. There are literally desires that come from the Spirit of God to follow after the things of God. Sometimes there were people that were very well skilled that were slaves, professionals like teachers and even government officials, apparently, that were actually slaves. And if a son, then an heir of God through Christ. With sons of God, now it changes to children of God. And if Christ is in you, the body is dead because of sin, but the spirit is life because of righteousness. But we don't have it this way where it is just established that way, that if you are a son, you will receive the primary inheritance from the Father. Now we are going to develop this more next week, but I just want to say a couple of things. That may be part of his point. Father, we come to you and we praise you for the truths of your word in this text. But how do we now experience the work of the Spirit in our lives? We've seen this in Romans 5. And if Christ is in you, the body is dead because of sin, but the spirit is life. Now hope does not disappoint because the love of God has been poured out in our hearts by who? The Spirit is life. 13. Well, first we need to understand this concept of slavery. Okay. But in Luke chapter 15, you have this story of the prodigal son. He is under Roman rule. This is what it means, folks, to be in the Spirit, to experience the Spirit of God, to know that we are Like you don't want to miss those overlooks. And we're thankful in our hearts for all things to God for the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. He actually is talking about the fellowship that he has, this perfect relationship In fact, very likely part of the the agreements that took place in this adoption process was the the the father would deal with the the new father would deal with all this, the adoptive father. D. Sometimes we say that we are being led by the Spirit when really we're actually being led by our own feelings. So that if you're filled with the Spirit, it is because you are under the Word of God. Now Paul is going to then elaborate on this relationship next, and it brings us to verse 15 and 16, where we see the assurance of the Spirit. It says, Through whom also we have access by faith into this grace in which we stand Are you placing your hope there? I praise you and thank you for your love and for the Spirit's work in assuring us of who we are and assuring us of the freedom We saw earlier it says that those who are the children of God walk in the Spirit. I say then, walk in the Spirit, and you shall not fulfill, and this is going to be important, you will not fulfill the lusts What do you think of when you think of God being your father? The same kind of love. He's a fun name to say. Who's doing the crying there? The source of spiritual life is the Spirit of God But he says, I in them and you in me, that they may be perfect in one, that the world may know that you have sent me, and have loved them as you loved me. Because fear has torment. This adoption is so binding and so secure. And that's what it means to experience the Spirit. So um so in fact you really, really can't. God desires for us to walk in the newness of life. I'm like, boy, you haven't had you don't like seafood? And what really helps us is what it says here, what he highlights as the motivation behind this enslavement. And so instead he would find a boy to fill that role. And the word before that is the subject. And um and if you have any questions about how to have a relationship with God, I would certainly encourage I would certainly invite That is the we are freed to be able to do that. I mean, does God literally does the Spirit of God like take our hand and pull us? , they began to actually use this adoption to set up their own heirs on the throne. 2 Timothy 1, verse 17 says, For this reason I also suffer these things. Would you just take your Bibles real quickly and turn to chapter 5? Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. For if you live according to the flesh, you will experience the very death of the Spirit. See, what happens is as we as we allow the Word of God to dwell in us richly, as we meditate on it, it actually changes our hearts A lot more than I wasn't than than uh me before I did it. See, as we are under the influence of the Spirit of God, because the Word of God is in us, So we have some examples of that. In 1 John 4, verse 18, for example, it says, there is no fear in love. There's a lot of excitement, a lot of things going on. Let's do this together. And of course, when we come to Christ, we are regenerated by the Spirit of God. And the idea there was that the a person would be granted full rights and privileges of sonship in a family. For what the law could not do in that it was weak through the flesh, God did. In order for this transaction to take place, according to the sources that I read, according to And yet we are called the children of God. He is of no practical use to King David Read the Psalms, and that's what you see from David, a man after God's own heart. That we're really taking a good look at them. If we look at verses 1 through 8, we first looked at our freedom in the Spirit. Romans seven thirteen. Very important. And apparently there was. I mean of the spirit. Heavenly Father, we come this morning with grateful hearts and thankful hearts, Father. Okay, we've seen that before. The truth of the matter is if I couldn't it'd be okay, it wouldn't be a deal breaker. Later on in the passage it says this, and bring the father says, Bring the fat calf here and kill it, and let us eat and be merry. He was lost and is found. And we see verse 15, it says this, for you did not receive the spirit of bondage again to fear. So to being filled with the Spirit, to be under the influence of the Spirit of God, which we have talked about before, and to be led by the Spirit is really the same thing. I can just do what I want. There are some cultural things going on here that when Paul said these words And then he says this. And in Romans chapter 9, verse 1, you have the same word, I tell you the truth. I don't think that's necessarily uh the main point. We find actually this pattern in chapter 8, verse 11. Are they being cultivated by the Word of God? You have worship and thanksgiving and submission, the same effects. Well, let's hope their taste buds can be shaped a little bit. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. It's not something that you could be b perceived by the Spirit the senses. You're like, yeah, but that doesn't really give me the exact answer I'm looking for. There's our word again. There's no fear in love. The word abba, our our translation would be papa or daddy. 14. They had a hard time reproducing. How does Romans say it? So we're seeing over and over and over again. We need to know the Word of God in order to be under the influence of the Spirit of God. I think if you take your Bible, well, actually I think it's up on the screen. For you are the temple of the living God. And so that brings us to verse 17: the guarantee of the Spirit. It is because of the Spirit pouring out love to us now that we can then have hope in a future glory Amen. Look at Romans chapter 7, verse 6. Okay, well how? See, when we really experience this relationship, and that's why from here on out And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. It means to bring or direct or to carry away. Okay, I think embedded in this text is the key. It was primarily based upon a economic and social status. Are you killing sin, as we said? Nevertheless, death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over those who have not sinned according to the likeness of the transgression of God of Adam, who is a type of him who is to come. Jesus told his disciples, you will be brought. All deaths and obligations were completely settled. On the other hand, it's love that motivates the relationship. And you've loved us before we even knew you, Father, and before we even loved you. Why are we going so slowly? It can't mean that. All the way through Scripture, we have the importance of the word of God. In Galatians chapter 4, verses 1 through 7, it says this. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. So we went to the visitor center and sure enough But I I really do I I come to Romans eight and I want to slow it down enough that we are we are That is the source of life. There's a bunch of quotes in here that Paul puts together to help us to see that there is this there is this indwelling, that we're the temple of the living God. All those all those fruit of the Spirit I mean, there is an overlook that is this beautiful, grand, glorious, gorgeous overlook that we don't want to miss. You have on one hand you've got in slavery where you are property, and on the other hand, you are a son and you gain property. Right? It is this this name that was spoken by a very, very young, young child that would not have been able to say Number one, are you being led by the Spirit of God? We stopped at the overlook and it was, you know, it was nice, it was beautiful. What does it mean to be led by the Spirit, or even earlier to walk by the Spirit? And I'm led by the Spirit of God because I do what I want. There was this and then he would be calm, just by by definition of adoption Follow the desires of the spirit. So we've got to we're trying to strike the balance between And then it says this, for the flesh lusts or desires against the spirit. And in fact, prior to the Roman Empire ruling, the Greek Empire rule That it says that is the Spirit of God Romans are the same thing. The same level of love. 2 Timothy chapter 1 verse 7. So then, those who are in the flesh cannot please God There are entire books written on one verse of Romans eight. He will be a father to us. And important takeaways from that passage How then what is good become how then what is good become death to me? So they go together. And you can't have one without the other. And Father, that we will be changed when we leave here from when we came in. But uh Pharaoh's daughter adopted Moses. Probably the best Old Testament example of adoption is Mephibosheth. His name was Mephibosheth What's the subject? Some are traveling, some are uh shut in, not able to get out. How do you do that? Like and I thought to myself, I think that can be changed. And he said, in fact there are, and he had this entire map, basically, of all the ones that you don't want to miss. If you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. So he has the full rights of sonship, even though he's not naturally born to a father, a particular father. And so a king would actually by adoption God wants you to come to him. We're fleshing them out. We need to be killing sin or can't sin will be killing Of life in Christ Jesus has made me free from the law of sin. You have this love of the Father where he goes out, he sees his son in the distance, and he The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. How does he do this? Verse 14. If you think of Moses's, Moses was adopted, not uh And the Romans were assimilators. It is the Spirit of God that does this, that works alongside of us to accomplish this. It's not talking about the Holy Spirit actually speaking audibly to us. It says that we are children of God there. I think this is so key. For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has made me free. This is an experiential word. Don't be under the influence of wine. I mean it's just a problem. And in John 17, verse 23, Christ is talking, he's praying to his heavenly Father. In some cases, they their kids died off uh because um they were attacked by enemies. So it it really means to bring, to direct, to carry away. That we are speaking to one another in Psalms and Hymns of Spiritual Songs. And then you have, on the other hand, what a verse that we know It's not because they're we they like us better. And are you following? I pray that you would help us this morning to set aside all the cares and and uh He condemns sin in the flesh Father, we ask that you would help us to set that aside this morning and help us What does it mean to actually be led Verse 17, therefore come out from among them and be separate, says the Lord. The godly desires, the spirit within you. And we are so thankful and so grateful this morning. It's the source of death, spiritual death. But he says alternatively This is David's friend Jonathan's son. And it was often used for a man If you are here this morning and you've you've never really experienced the work of the Spirit in your life Some people are probably saying, why are we going so quickly, actually? And Romans seven we saw that we are no longer that being It causes us to desire what God desires And I mean it is true that some things you just don't like as much as you try you don't like In fact, there one scholar says this I mean you'd be there all I don't think you could do them all in a day. There's therefore now no condemnation to those that are in Christ Jesus. And this word cry is the same idea. I want you to notice that it actually changes from sons to children. And if children, then heirs. We're not free just to do what we want. I want you to see this. So what does it actually mean to be led by the Spirit of God? That is, the Spirit of God dwells in us. The Spirit of God adopt you are adopted now, and the Spirit of God Galatians chapter 5. Paul wrote them both, and he means the same thing. And you ladies are going, man, I'm glad I can be included in this. But those who live according to the Spirit, the things of the Spirit We want to actually come to a place now, we understand our position in Christ, we're freed from the law, we're all those kinds of freed from sin There's this parallel passage in Colossians chapter 3 I'll just remind us of The Word of God, meditating on the Word of God And so we have, we are joint For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, these are the sons of God. So first we have this sin It says that their hearts were knit together. But there is somehow a sense in which the Spirit of God is crying out, Abba Father. So you have this long list of results. And then he gives them all manner of And we are to join into that relationship that the Father has. Perfect love casts out fear because fear involves torment. This is during the Nerva and Tonine dynasty. Now if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, For as many as are led by the Spirit, these are the sons of God. Is that what happens? I want it I want us to see what this says here in Rome and in Galatians chapter 5, and I think it's going to really help us. I will be their God and they shall be my people. Slavery in the Roman times was different than the slavery that we have in the history of our country. But in ro under Roman law, what seems to be the case as a whole is that undergirding the whole thing was this idea Now we need to really understand what this word adoption means, on the other hand. This is not easily explained, but I will simply say this is an experiential Now I am out of time to explain what it means to be heirs of God and joint heirs of Christ. If you read in English, those of you grammarians out there, you'll notice that there are two prepositional phrases. The love of God is poured out in our hearts by the Holy Spirit. This is a combination, you have to do the thing this together. But if you live according to the flesh, you will die. And um and I actually don't recall ever actually just driving down Skyline Drive. That's what it means then to be filled. And the more you focus you just you you But I had a s had a feeling that over time, and you know what? So this is this is this was established and really happened. Because the carnal mind is enmity towards God, against God Now the danger of doing that is that you can The Spirit brings life. I thought this is a this is a deal breaker. They absolutely can. You have loved me, that he says, as you have loved me, we love them. And that's what moves us then to this. And we get a hint at this. There is there there is and he is saying you have gone from being enslaved to being adopted. Just flip over a few pages and look at chapter at verses 2 through 5. Now, go down to Romans 8. Folks, the only way I mean it's not taken by the hand, it's not audible. You know, there's a serious problem, serious incompatibility when somebody from Maryland He says, there's a contrast here, and you are freed from the enslavement so that you are no longer no longer needed It is, of course, as you know, a term of affection I think the main point is Let me encourage you to do just But um so And as we get into this text, we're going to see more of what that is. You go to Romans chapter 4 and 5, you see our position in Christ, who we are in Christ. You can't hear uh or or smell or feel with the uh The Word of God is becoming a part of you. Kills the fatty calf, if you will, and all that. So David essentially treated him. It's the spirit. And we see in verse 17 then, and if children, if children There is a future glory that we can We're always going to have a taste for sin on some level. And we have in that passage This is a word of affr uh of affection It says in 811 I'd like to take a minute to thank you for It says, do not be drunk with wine in which is dissipation. Are you yielding to that those desires? In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. We first see it in Romans 6, 4, that we are to walk in newness of life Why? Do not touch what is unclean and I will receive you. How do we experience it? You could turn there. And do you see the word there? There are many, unfortunately, that did not experience the We kind of have that in this country, sort of. There is now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus Is that is that what it means? And I'll just mention it here. And we are submissive one to other. 2 Corinthians chapter 6, verses 16 through 18, I think really helps us with this. They would like to include all kinds of things in their culture. Nevertheless, I am not ashamed When we come to Romans 8 That's why I said so many things before I even said desires. This was mentioned yesterday in the men's retreat. Oh, that was free. And if you remember, in the Garden of Gethsemane, And we can not only have the hope, but experience the hope of the glory. And we see here that we are those who are led by the Spirit We have already seen in Romans that you have essentially two sources. Envy, murders, uh drunkenness, revelries, and the like of which You do see some of that going on which is a a helpful illustration for us. But in Roman law, you actually have equal portions that are given to heirs There has to be a closeness This is what really Romans 8 is going to begin to drive at. We are brought to life. I don't mean in the sense that the fear of the Lord in the Old Testament, that is a kind of You are all-wise, all-knowing, creator and sustainer of all life. Because it is your your your taste buds can be shaped. But remember, Paul is not in the Jewish culture. So they had these seven witnesses, reputable witnesses, that had to witness to this. And Luke And not only that, but we also glory in tribulation, knowing that the tribulation produces perseverance and perse-produces perseverance. And then notice what it says, verse 18, but if you are He was lost and he is found. D. That's the assurance that Paul had. I mean, this is such a binding thing. The Spirit is the source of life. I actually uh But we even have Mar Mordecai that adopted Esther Number two. May the Lord richly bless you. This passage is a very We're free to be able to set our mind's attention on pleasing God. We come to Romans 8 and we see here But I still haven't actually told you yet. And they were denied civil rights, and 130 A. It's because it's just easier It means to be under the Spirit's That we are freed from the condemnation We are the temple of the living God. God has not given us the spirit of fear. He's not willing that any should perish in all that come re but all that come to repentance. No, it can't mean that Now I want you to notice. You're meditating on the Word of God. What's the next word? And maybe you caught it by now, but I think it has to do with desires. We praise you for who you are, Father. I've mentioned it before a couple of weeks ago. Like I f you know she What do you think of the idea of fatherhood? You know when Thank you. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. And what is the Spirit doing? I mean maybe you could, but you wouldn't enjoy them. Unconditional faith in the Father is thus taken seriously And we just lift them up to you that Father we ask that uh you will guide and direct them if they He says, notice what it says, these are the sons. It says, by whom we cry, Abba, Father. Now, I want to be careful with this. Even in the Old Testament, this is actually a quote from the Old Testament Do you view your relationship that way? He says this. But then look at verse 18. They were as close of a friend as you could possibly imagine. And we're thankful this morning. How is it that I know the Spirit's leading? You could even say fruit. Apparently this was a very You learn to have a distaste for the one. It was not based upon race or ethnicity. The Spirit of life. You kill sin. We ask in Jesus' name It's in the context. Really, what we have primarily is a 2. You will live. What bring what we we know that we are being under the influence of the Spirit of God. I mean, if you have no will in this country You're knowing the Word of God You know you could shape what you shape your taste buds. Look really carefully at the text. We hope to see you soon. The the it was actually peak season, it was right at the right time, thankfully. First of all, we're going to see that it is through the leading of the Spirit. Certainly not, but sin You cannot be under the law and under the Spirit and bled by the Spirit at the same time. It'd be like And desires. I've never had that before. Against such there is no law. What's the next word? And I started thinking to myself, I don't think I will be what? Although I have to admit that there's certain kinds of seafood she still doesn't like Notice what he says here. Therefore you are no longer a slave. It is life. Look at verse 6. He cried out to his father. It is called the Exchange. That love is there. And he says, I in them. Some people don't think so It says this And you It says this. How does that happen?