Let's bow our hearts before the Lord. Heavenly Father, we are so grateful and thankful for the deep, deep love wherewith You have shown us and loved us. We are thankful, Father, and we are grateful. And we are thankful this morning for your word. And Father, as we prepare to come to this time when we learn from your word and hear from you, Father, I would lift up to you those who are unable to be here this morning And I think of those who are not feeling well, and I pray, Father, for your hand of blessing. To be upon Jim Sr. in particular, Lord, as he has gone through his treatment this week, and I pray that each day you will strengthen him and and enable him, Lord, to be able to withstand the um pain and the sickness that comes with that and you would bring him back to good health real soon, Lord. Um for all those who are traveling, I pray, and those who are listening, Lord, through live stream. I pray for all of our hearts to be prepared this morning And I pray for uh brother Jim as he is not feeling well this morning that Father you would just give him the the power and the uh wisdom and the ability, Lord, to bring your message to us, Lord, and give him clarity of thought and speech I pray that you'll uh enable him, Lord, to be able to set aside the feelings of the sickness and all and just p empower him to bring your word to us and prepare our hearts, Lord Prepare our hearts and our minds. Help us to set aside all of those things, Lord, that we have brought in here on our minds this morning from the week. And I pray, Father, that you would reveal to us the truth of your word, and that our hearts and our minds would be stayed upon it, and that we would meditate upon it And as we leave here, we will be changed more and more into your image from being under your word. And we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. We'll be reading this morning from uh Matthew chapter nine, verses twenty-seven through thirty-four. Matthew nine verses twenty-seven through thirty-four. When Jesus departed from there, two blind men followed him, crying out, saying, Son of David, have mercy on us And when he had come into the house, the blind men came to him. And Jesus said to them, Do you believe that I am able to do this? And they said to him, Yes, Lord. Then he touched their eyes, saying, According to your faith, let it be to you And their eyes were opened. And Jesus sternly warned them, saying, See that no one knows it. But when they had departed, they spread the news about him in all the country. And as they went out, behold, they brought to him a man, mute and demon-possessed. And when the demon was cast out, the mute spoke, and the multitude marveled, saying, It was never seen like this in Israel. But the Pharisees, he cast out demons by rulers of demons. Have you ever in your life just taken time to sit back for a few moments and say, What am I doing? What am I doing here? What am what is my purpose? What is my mission? What is my goals? I think I hope that all of us actually have times like that in our lives. Sometimes we're so busy just doing the next thing, living by the tyranny of the urgent that that we uh we we're not really thinking about purpose and mission and what God wants us to do. You know the secular the secular philosophy is arrange your life and in such a way that will bring you the most happiness possible That if you have no um no accountability to the to a to a to God or to uh any other kind of higher power or anything like that, then the mentality is that that I need to I need to build my life and arrange my life in such a way that it will bring me maximum happiness, maybe maximum security and those kinds of things. So that's the the the secular world's way of thinking about it. For for the Christian though, we are intended to be people of mission. God intends for us to be people of great purpose. And the way that we determine what that is, the way that we determine the purpose and the mission. is actually, the way that we determine it is actually by looking at Jesus' mission, at what his purpose was. Now, when Jesus came to this earth, he was born to die. We know that. But there were three and a half years on that he lived on this earth that in addition to preparing people for the time when he would die and rise from the grave and be and ascend He was doing something else. He was showing the very essence of the kingdom, and he was on a mission to do that. And in doing so, he was actually intended to set his example. to set an example for us. Do you remember in the book of John that John says that the that it could not be contained all of the things that Jesus did while he was here on this life in three and a half years. In other words, Jesus lived the fullest life you could possibly imagine when he was here on this earth. Some of us live full lives, some of us don't live as full lives, some of but you look at somebody's some people's schedule and you go, wow, that's a really full schedule. Well Jesus very likely did more than you have ever done or ever will do in three and a half years And it and the w and and and books cannot contain all of it. Well that what that means is actually that what was written down for us, like when Matthew includes these different healings of the blind men here and the casting out of demons, they're really, really important And what our our responsibility is when we're looking at these different things is to ask the question, okay, what does God what is God teaching us? What is Matthew trying to get across about the nature of Jesus' mission when he was here, and that helps us then to know what our mission is in the world as well. There are particular things that Jesus did in, for example, pronouncing judgment on the nation of Israel and things like that that really have no bearing on what we are to be doing today. But much of what he did, there are there we see the the course of his mission, and we then can understand more how to emulate him. As followers of Christ. So we see God's Christ's kingdom mission in this passage. And we're going to see it in three different areas. We're going to see that he restored physical sight to spiritually insightful, physical insight to the spiritually insightful. He dealt with spiritual opposition in 32 through 34, and then he called followers to his mission. In 35 through 38, he called followers to his mission. Let's look then first at the fact that he restored physical sight to the spiritually insightful, picking up in verse 27. It says, when Jesus departed from there, two blind men followed him, crying out and saying, Son of David, have mercy on us. And when he had come into the house, the blind men came to him. And Jesus said to them, Do you believe that I am able to do this? They said to him, Yes, Lord. Then he touched their eyes, saying, According to your faith, let it be to you. And their eyes were opened, and Jesus sternly warned them, saying, See that no one knows it. But when they departed, they spread the news about him in all of that country So we have two blind men. They follow Jesus into a house and they call out to Jesus and they say, Son of David, have mercy on us. Now this this is pretty significant They use this proper title of son of David. And they do they they they express a sense of humility and they don't come to God, they come to Christ demanding, they don't come to Christ expecting they don't come to Christ as though they deserve something, they say, have mercy on us. They come to Christ humbly. Now there were droves and droves of people all around all the time Jesus. uh uh with Jesus. Um and he did he form performed many, many miracles. But it's interesting why he would choose these two men. Well these two men did follow him into the house And they called out to him and they said, Son of David. Son of David was a term that was kind of a proper term that you wouldn't expect. Matthew emphasizes this several times in the book of Matthew. Matthew. This term son of David is a term that would cause the Jewish mind to go back to the time of David. And particularly to go back to the Davidic covenant when when a covenant was made by God to David. Now let me give you a little bit of background. During the time of is of Jesus, There was still, even after 400 years of silence from the prophets, there was still this anticipation that someday some Messiah would show up and would conquer the Roman Empire that they were under and would free them and give them their nation back as God had intended in the Old Testament. They were constantly looking for this. They were watching for this. That was sort of the culture of the day. They were zealots that would come And they would say that they were they were going to uh uh uh evoke a uh a revolt against i uh the Roman Empire, and the Roman Empire had to be very concerned about putting down these revolts. Uh the that kind of a thing. That was the that was the the the the the atmosphere, if you will, during that time When these people, when these two blind men called out son of David, they were calling out, they were saying that day that Jesus was to be the fulfillment of the Davidic covenant. It was a very, it took a lot for them to think of this. Uh uh So in 2 Samuel chapter 7 verses 12 through 16 it says, when your days are fulfilled and your rest with your fathers I will set up your seat after you, who will come from your body, and I will establish his kingdom. He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. I will be his father, and he shall be my son. If he commits iniquity, I will chasten him with the rod of men and will with the blows of the sons of men But my mercy shall not depart from him. As I took it from Saul, whom I removed from before you, your house and your kingdom shall be established forever before you. Your throne shall be established for ever. Now you take that passage along with other passages, and at the point that Jesus came to this earth in the first century, there was no proper ruler that was sitting on the throne of David. The Roman Empire tried to uh put up uh Herod as a as a as what they so that they could have their prophecy fulfilled, but Israel did not recognize him as the true son of David And so this was really an expression of faith on the part of these two blind men. And very likely these blind men, as well as All of Israel went to the synagogues on a weekly basis and they heard from the scribes the readings of the law. But many people, when they read, they heard from the readings of the law Very likely just sort of checked out. They didn't really think through the law and put things together that would have been good to put together. For example, in Isaiah 29, 18 it says this, in the day, in that day, when the Messiah comes The deaf shall hear the words of the book, and the eyes of the blind shall see out of obscurity and out of darkness. In Isaiah thirty five, five it says, Then the eyes of the blind shall be open, and the ears of the deaf shall be unstopped. Then the lame shall leap like a deer, and the and the tongue of the dumb sing. For water shall burst forth in the wilderness, and streams in the desert to Verse 742, Isaiah, to open blind eyes, to bring out prisoners from the prison, those who sit in darkness from the prison house So these blind men very likely listen to things like 2 Samuel and the Davidic covenant that said that the David would always sit on the descendants of David will always sit on his throne And the fact that when the Messiah comes, he would heal the blind. And that's why when they called out to Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me, Jesus turns to them and he says. Do you are you really trusting in me like you say you are? Are you really putting your faith in me the way you say you are? And they say, yes They had taken the truth from Scripture and they had come to the conclusion because of the, probably because of the j miracles that Jesus had previously done. that they could be part of what Jesus is doing in having their own sight to be um to be uh restored to them. And so Jesus says, well, not in proportion to your faith, but because you have faith, he touched their eyes, and they were This is very consistent with with the kind of people that Jesus chose to heal. He didn't choose to heal or to or to fix the glaring problems of the of the religious leaders. He didn't come to try to minister to the prideful or to the people that thought that they uh they uh were that deserve something. No, he came to the people that would call out, have mercy on us. We know our need. Matthew, well, I'll remind you what Matthew 9, 12, and 13 say. And Jesus heard that he had said to them, those who are well Have no need of a physician but those who are sick. But go and learn what this means. I desire mercy and not sacrifice. For I did not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. He says, I desire mercy and not sacrifice. I'm calling sinners to repentance. Keep that reference in mind because as we go on here, we're going to see that this becomes a very consistent theme in Jesus' workings as he performs various miracles. But then he does something that's interesting. He warns them and he says to them with great emotion, apparently, that's what this word means. With great emotion, he he's Almost he sternly scolds them and says to them, Do not tell anyone what I did here. But they didn't listen. They went out and they told people what he did there. Now what's interesting is that Matthew doesn't really record any opinion about what they did. He doesn't say Well, they shouldn't have done that, and this was terri wrong for them to do. He doesn't even say exactly why Jesus told them this. There's he just states what Jesus said And then he states what the blind men did. They didn't obey. Doesn't even say why they went out and did exactly what Jesus told them not to do. Very likely it was enthusiasm. They got their their eyes were uh healed. I mean it's a pretty big deal to be able to see again. And when somebody asks you how did this happen, it would I guess it would be hard to to say um something other than what had happened, I guess. But we don't really know why they went out, except that probably it had to do with uh enthusiasm that overrode their need to obey Does that ever happen with us, by the way? Do we ever have exertions of enthusiasm and we overstep lines of and we go into areas of disobedience because of our enthusiasm? That may have been what happened here. Why did Jesus give this warning? It's not the only time he does this. Several times, I think about five times in the Gospels, he gives this warning to people. Don't Don't go around and tell what I'm doing here. And yet there are other times, like in the next section that we're going to look at, there are other times where multitudes are marveling at what he did. I think part of the answer we're going to actually find in Matthew chapter 5. In Matthew chapter 5, in verse 36, it says this. But I have a greater witness than John's, for the works which the Father has given me to finish, the very works that I do bear witness of me that the Father has sent me. You see, when Jesus came and performed these various miracles, Jesus had a very intent, a purposeful reason in doing so. Jesus was loved people and had great compassion on them, and we see that, and he healed out of compassion. But there was a much bigger picture as to why he was healing people this way It was really to bear witness of who he was and to bear witness of who the father was two people. He was it was really to authenticate his ministry. And in Matthew five, or John five rather, you actually see several different witnesses. The Holy Spirit is a witness. The Word is a witness. The miracles that He did is a witness, and there are other witnesses there as well. The miracles were intended to be a witness of who Jesus really is. And so that that God's people, Israel, could make this connection between the Old Testament prophecies of what said what the Old Testament prophecies said would happen actually did happen and were fulf fulfilled in Scripture so that they would come to the Messiah and they would trust in Christ. That's why he was doing it. And he didn't want, what we know is that Jesus didn't want people to be distracted by the miracle itself. For example, in John chapter 6, verse 26 and 27 it says, And Jesus answered them and said, Most assuredly I say to you, you seek me. Excuse me, you seek me not because you saw the signs, but because you ate of the loaves and were filled. Do not labor for the food which perishes, but for the food which endures to everlasting life, which the Son of Man will give you, because God, the Father, has set his seal on him Jesus is concerned that he's feeding the thousands there in Matthew 5, Matthew 6 rather, and he says, You're seeking me because of what I can do for you, because of the miracles I'm performing not really seeing who I am because of the miracles that I'm performing. And very likely, at least part of what he's saying to these folks is Don't go out and spread this around so that people come to me just so I can give them miracles. I have more of a purpose here that I must fulfill in what I am doing. And that is that is uh essentially why very likely he told them uh what he was doing here. It does give us some level of application for us And that w in our mission uh to seek the to to to to do the same as Christ did and to preach the gospel that we're going to see the gospel of the kingdom and to teach and to and to make disciples and to do the things that God called us to do, we can we can meet the needs of others and help with the needs of others, and so we should We just learned in Sunday school the importance of uh meeting the needs of the poor. When we do that, we actually are meeting Christ's own uh we we are we are doing it as under Christ. And so We should do that, but always in mind of the greater picture, of the greater mission, not getting caught up in meeting the felt needs of people that we miss the spiritual, eternal needs that they truly have. And another application here is is kind of uh apparent, and that is Do we are we like these there's a way we shouldn't be like these blind men and and being too enthusiastic and overriding clear things that are unbiblical, uh clear clear things that are you know they're are are stare their ob obedience. Uh But on the other hand, there's a sense in which we ought to um we ought to wrestle with the scriptures in the same way that they apparently did. To not check out when we're reading Scripture, to think through the truths of Scripture, and then to have the God-given wisdom by the work of the Holy Spirit to be able to see how to apply these things in our lives as Christians, not in a way to impose things that aren't there, but we ought to be that the Word of God is living and powerful, and we ought to be Constantly on a daily basis thinking through the truths of Scripture to apply them to our lives on a practical level meditating on them and thinking through them and applying them to our lives as apparently these two people did Now, Jesus, he gives sight to the spiritually insightful. But now we move and we see that he deals with the spiritual opposition. He dealt with a spiritual opposition. In verse 32, we pick up and it says, And they went out. Behold, they brought to him a man mute and demon-possessed. And when the demon was cast out, the mute spoke. And the multitudes marveled, saying, It was never seen like this in Israel. But the Pharisees said, He casts out demons by the ruler of the demons. What's going on here in this passage? Obviously, we have a totally different situation. We have the multitudes are all around. It's not in a house this time, very likely. The multitudes are all around. They're observing what's going on, and Jesus Jesus goes and he is going to uh deal with a man who is mute. He can't speak. And the reason that he can't speak apparently is because he is demon-possessed. Now we know that Jesus did a lot of this Remember Matthew 4. 24, it says in that passage that those who were de uh that his fame went throughout all Syria, and they brought to him all sick people who were afflicted. with various diseases and torments, and those who were demon-possessed, epileptics, and paralytics, and he healed them. So he this was something that he did apparently very frequently So why does uh Jesus and or why does Matthew include it here? And he's going to include it another another couple of times in Matthew as well. Why does he do that I think what he does, the reason this is included is because of the response, primarily because of the response. You have a clear contrast in response from the two different kinds of people. You've got the contract, you've got the crowds, the multitudes, and what did they do in response to what happened? Here's a guy who who had never spoken a word to anybody And they had somehow made the connection, very likely, that he was demon-possessed, and by all accounts, that's exactly what was the case. Jesus was able to cast out the demons, so he started speaking all of a sudden. I mean h have you ever uh been like been in a situation where someone's not talking for a long time and then they they talk? Um you know when you're when your uh your kids, you know, for A couple of years the first you know first well not you know until they start speaking their babies and stuff and of course they make a lot of noise, so I'm not sure that's the same. But anyway, um It's a surprising kind of a thing and they are marveled and they they put this connection together and they say They've never seen this kind of power before, and they're marveling at it. They're just amazed by it. They're in awe by it But you have a very another real contrast here with these uh with these um uh the the the religious leaders, what do they do? Well they make up an excuse. They say, well, he must be doing it from the power of the leader of a demon. He must either be the leader of the demons, or he must be doing it from that power, not from divine power Now let me ask you a question. Why would you have so two so completely different responses to this particular miracle? Why would that be? And I want to suggest to you that it's because two different groups of people believe in two different ways because they wanted to believe differently. It really is true that people believe what they want to believe. If you just think about your life and your experiences, that's the case. The people, the Bible actually says the Jews require require a sign, and the Greeks seek after wisdom. There was this desire among the Jews to see signs, to see marvelous things, to see miracles. And so when they saw this miracle, they marveled. They wanted to see this kind of thing And they recognized it really as some sort of divine power that perhaps they didn't understand, but they were in awe of it. They wanted to see it, and so they saw it On the other hand, the religious leaders, you know why the religious leaders very likely didn't see they viewed it a totally different way? You think perhaps it's because they were threatened? I think it was because they were threatened and they were fearful. They didn't want Jesus to threaten their authority They didn't want Jesus to threaten their power, their status. They were proud of their status. They were proud of their authority. They were proud of their power. And they did not want Jesus to threaten that And so they believed something entirely different. They believed that this was from the power of the devils Uh-uh and uh this is not the only time that's mentioned, it's mentioned in other passages as well. Um and uh and Uh and th this idea is other times as well. Matthew 9 3, they said some of the scribes went with them and said, This man speaks blasphemies. They they really did not want to attribute anything that Jesus did to being from God. Why? Because they they didn't believe it because they didn't want to believe it. It really is true that people believe what they most want to believe Folks, that's why that's one of the reasons why I think that when Jesus went out, he reached the people that knew their need You can't reach somebody that doesn't know their need. You can't reach somebody that's already full of their own pride. Why don't people come to Christ? It's because of pride that people don't come to Christ. People that are humble before the Lord, people that have reached a place where they they got nothing, they can't depend on themselves anymore. Those are the people that Jesus now looks to and wants to and is able to reach. And we're going to see that even more clearly in a few moments. There are several implications that we can see from this passage, from this portion. It's also interesting that Jesus repeatedly shows that he is more powerful than the enemy. This is something he wants to show everybody. This is something the multitudes see. They see that the power of God is more powerful than the power of Satan And this is a great comfort for us as Christians as well, because the reality is we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against the principalities and powers and the rulers of the darkness of this world. We, you know, say it was very clear in Jesus' day that he was dealing with demons, he was dealing with the prince in power of the air, he was, he was dealing with that. But you and I, we're dealing with the same thing today. Don't be deceived by the fact that you can't, you're not necessarily seeing, you know, apparent voices from demons, those kinds of things. We are dealing with uh we are dealing we are in a spiritual battle battle today. We number one need to be aware of that But number two, we need to recognize that Scripture says, greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. Jesus repeatedly shows us that he is more powerful, and we should be very thankful for that. So this is the nature, remember, this is the nature of the mission of Jesus and the essence of the kingdom of God. He is bringing sight to the insightful. He is He is showing he's dealing with spiritual oppression. He is showing he is more powerful than spiritual oppression. This is the kind of thing that he is doing to show the nature of his kingdom. And finally, he now is going to call his followers to his mission. He's going to call his followers to his mission. We pick up in verse verse 35 there, and it says, When Jesus went about all the cities and villages teaching in their synagogues, preaching the gospel of the kingdom and healing every sickness and every disease among the people. But when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion for them. But notice why Notice notice it's not because they're sick. Now, it's in other places it says that he had compassion for people because of their sickness. But in this particular case, notice what it says, because they were weary and scattered like sheep having no shepherd. Then he said to the disciples, The harvest truly is plentiful, but the labors are few. Therefore, pray the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest Jesus now is in the verse in verses 35 and 36 we see this active ministry that Jesus is having with his disciples. And there's a real summary that we can see, and I think in seeing Jesus' ministry practiced here in verses 35 through 36 It helps us to see the kind of ministry that you and I should have as individuals, but also that you and I should have, that we should have even in our church. There are five characteristics that we see here as a summary. of the ministry of Jesus. Number one, we see that it was very active. It was very active. He went about all the cities and villages. He was going all over the place. He went from city to city. He went from village to village. It was an active ministry. Number two, it was gospel-centered. He preached and taught the gospel of the kingdom. He was very focused on what he was preaching. It was a gospel-centered ministry. It also focused, it was teaching and preaching focused. That was the main, before it mentions uh that he healed every sick sickness and disease Prior to Matthew mentioning that, he put up front the thing that was the priority and that was central to his ministry. It was the teaching and the preaching of the gospel, of the gospel, of the kingdom. What characterized Jesus' ministry even more than the miracles and the signs, even though that was much more sensational, much more probably interesting. The thing that characterized Jesus' ministry more as a focus was his teaching and his preaching. It was charitable. He did heal every sickness and every disease. And by the way, every sickness and every disease does not mean everyone. It means every kind of sickness, every kind of disease. Doesn't mean that that literally there was d it you knew for three and a half years the whole area was diseaseless and sicklessness sickness. I don't know how to say that. Anyway. Um probably because I'm sick myself. But anyway, um but uh so so uh uh but it was every kind of sickness and every kind of disease among the people. And number five, and we'll flesh this out more, he was compassionate. He was compassionate. Just look at that list. Does that characterize our ministry? Our ministry as individuals, our ministry as as our church, are we active? Are we gospel-centered? Are we teaching and preaching focused? Are we charitable? And are we compassionate? This is the kind of ministry that God wants us to have, I think, very clearly in this passage. Let's pick up then on why he was, he he was, the Bible says he was moved with compassion because he saw the multitudes. The word compassion there is a word of great emotion. It's the Greek word splognitzumai. Um when we were when I was in Greek c class, I always we always liked saying that word splognitzumai. I don't know why, but it just has a fun to say. That's why I remembered it and can still say it to this day. But anyway, um th uh he was moved with compassion. Um this is a g a term, you know, when we when you when you think of who Jesus was on this earth, please don't think of Jesus as sort of a a person who is some sort of cold, calculated um man. He was a man of sorrows, acquainted with grief. He was a man of great passion. And we see clearly from this verse that he was a man of compassion And in fact, you see this mentioned several times throughout the Gospels. He was moved with compassion. He was moved with compassion. In this verse, it tells us why he was moved with compassion in this particular case. He says, because they were weary. They were weary. The people that he was rubbing shoulders with in all these different cities. They were weary. Sometimes this word can be translated distressed, harassed, bewildered, or even confused. And it says they were scattered. That can be translated desperate, helpless, or worn out. This is how he viewed the people. that he was ministering to. They were just desperate, they were worn out, they were distressed, they were harassed, they were bewildered. He had great compassion on them. The word weary is going to be used again in Matthew 11, 28, where it says, Come unto me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. He wanted people to come to him. And he wanted to provide for them the rest that they needed for their weary souls. That is the kind of Jesus that we should know from what we see in the New Testament. in the Gospels. And it says that they were scattered and desperate and helpless. This kind of terminology is used in the Old Testament for the nation of Israel. It's interesting that in 1 Kings and in 2 Chronicles, you have a description that's given to Ahab about what's going to happen to the nation of Israel because of the sin of the kings. They are going to be scattered, it says, because of all of the failure of leadership in Israel. In 1 Kings chapter 22, verse 17, it says, then he said I saw all Israel scattered on the mountains as sheep that have no shepherd. And the Lord said, These have no master. Let each return to his house in peace. In Isaiah four fifty-three it says, All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned every one to his own way, and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. In Ezekiel 34, verses 23 through 24, I will establish one shepherd over them, and he shall feed them. My servant David, he shall feed them and be their shepherd. I the Lord will be their God, and my servant David a prince among them. I the Lord have spoken. This is a prophecy of Jesus. Jesus, in saying these words, he is referencing the Old Testament He's referencing the prophecy that some would come and shepherd the scattered flock of Israel. Jesus is looking out with all after rubbing shoulders with all these different people, and he is saying, I will be their shepherd. In Matthew 26, 31, it says, All of you may be made to stumble because of me this night. I will strike down the shepherd. The shepherd of the flock will be scattered. So Jesus looks on them and he sees them as sheep. It's a great description of people, isn't it? It's a great description of the nation of Israel, but there's a sense in which it's applied, it is applied to all people. All people are like sheep that have no shepherd. And all people are sheep in need because of our sinful, our sinful ways. We ought to be viewing ourselves and others as sheep, confused, astray, and we all need a shepherd And Christ, in his mind and his thinking, desires to be that shepherd. Now Jesus switches illustrations. Because after having great compassion on the masses of people that he is seeing, and seeing them all as wandering, confused, weary sheep He now turns to his disciples and he uses the illustration of a harvest that he says is ripe under harvest. He says verse 37. Then he said to his disciples, The harvest truly is plentiful, but the labors are few. Therefore pray the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers. Endu his harvest. It says, the disciples then, the harvest is truly, it's plentiful There's uh there's the the there's a ripe crowd there. There's a ripe harvest ready to be uh ready ready to be harvested. Now what was Jesus saying when he was saying this? Isaiah 17, 11 is going to help us with this. It says, In the day you may make your plant to grow, and in the morning you will make your seed flourish. But the harvest will be a heap of ruins in a day of grief and desperate sorrow. He's saying that there's this harvest when there's grief and sorrow. We see more of what's going on here in Joel 3, verse 13. It says this. Put in the sickle for the harvest is ripe. Come, go down, for the winepress is full, the vats overflow, and then it says something that really gives us the key. For their wickedness. is great. Let me just let me read that again. Come go down for the wine pre uh I'll start from Put in the sickle, like do the harvest, use the sickle, harvest this crop. For the harvest is right, come go down, for the winepress is full, the bats overflow. Why? For their wickedness Is great. Why is the harvest ripe? Because the wickedness is great. Jesus looked at the wickedness of the people. He saw that they are weary of their own wickedness. He saw that they are weak from their own sin He saw that they were wandering and confused by their own sin, and he said, they're ripe unto harvest. Now let me ask you a question. When we look at the wickedness of the world, when we look at the wickedness of our country, when we look at the direction that our country is going. Do we have a fatalistic approach and we go, oh man, I just can't, we'll just kind of hide and cower in the corner until Jesus comes. Or do we actually say the wickedness shows that the harvest is ripe? When we see wickedness, do we s have this fatalistic attitude, or we say, no, actually, that shows us Jesus' perspective on wickedness was that the harvest is ripe. And then he says to the disciples, but the laborers are few. Do we see the sin sickness in this world? Do we see that the reason that people are despondent and confused and depressed and struggling and And like sheep having no shepherd, the reason that people are this way, and if you don't see that people are this way, you're not looking very hard. But people are. They're wandering around purposelessly trying to find their own happiness, trying to uh have uh fulfill their own dwarf dreams, trying to make something of their lives that will be of some sense of happiness This is the way they're living. They're living in sin and despondency and wickedness and they're weary and they're struggling. And we ought not look on our world with some sort of self-righteousness. Well, how terrible are they? No, we ought to look at the wickedness and the weariness of the world, and we ought to say it's right. And the harvest. Then Jesus looks at the disciples and he says, But the laborers are few. What's the problem in the world? Well, the problem is wickedness. What's the problem in the world? Well, the problem is sickness. What's the problems in the world? Well the problems are sin and the fallenness of the world. But you know, maybe the greater problem is that the laborers are few. Now I've heard this preached all many, many, many, many times in missions conferences. But this doesn't have anything directly to do with missions. I'm not saying you can't use it as an application for missions. But folks, there's no reason that this should always be applied to missions and shouldn't be applied to us. This should be applied. He's turning to his disciples, his followers, the people that follow him. And he says, pray the Lord of the harvest that he would send laborers into his harvest. We should not immediately think, okay, that means Zimbabwe. Or Africa, or something like that. That is not how we should immediately think. Now, if God sent you there, great But everywhere there's wickedness, there's a ripe harvest. It's actually a false idea that in some other areas they are more reachable than other areas. You'll see that in sometimes in missions conferences. Sometimes missionaries even will try to say that kind of a thing. They'll sort of say, well, those people are more reachable there, and those people are less reachable there. Everyone is sinful. And all there's none that seeks after God on his own. We are all depraved, and we are all not going to follow after Christ. Well it's not like you got some that are really interested and some that aren't. Nobody's interested Apart from the working of the Holy Spirit of God in their lives. And so we need to see the witness of the world and see that they are ripe under harvest. That's our the question is, number one, are we laborers? And number two, are we praying for laborers? And that doesn't mean praying for mission. Sure we should pray for missionaries. I'm not saying we shouldn't. But I think sometimes this gets preached only in mission conferences and like never as and not as often as it should uh as the a general course of church life where we should view our area, we should view our world, we should view our local area as an area that is wipe of the harvest. Ripen to harvest. And it certainly is, is it not? I mean I don't know of too many other places beside you know more ripe than Maryland. Sometimes. I mean you see some of the things that's happening in our legislature, some of the immoral things that are being considered in our legislature, this area is ripened to harvest. So where are the laborers? We ought to be laborers in this harvest, and we ought to pray for laborers for this harvest. Matthew 28, later on in the book of Matthew, he's going to give us our commission. It says, go therefore and make disciples of all nations. Baptizing them in the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all things that I have commanded you. And lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the age. Now that passage, I'll just remind us something about that passage. It says, go therefore and make disciples. Well the word go is not a command. The word go is not even a verb in the Greek. The word go is actually modifies, make disciples. Now the reason that that is important is this. This is also actually misused sometimes in missions conferences. We need to go. The Bible says to go. No, actually the Bible says make disciples. The w it actually could be translated, as you are going, make disciples. Now I'm not saying, believe me, if the Lord's called people, I love missionaries. I have lots of friends that are missionaries. I'm very much Focused on missions. But folks, this is a command for all followers of Christ. As you are going, wherever you go, as you are going, make disciples Be laborers as you are going. This is something that all Christians should be. And we ought to all feel feel the need to follow this command, to make disciples of all nations And that is our the goal of our church is to make disciples, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. We ought to pray that God gives us the opportunity and the ability to make disciples in this area. There are three things that I just want to conclude in wrapping all this up and asking a few questions here. Number one, do we desire the wisdom to be able to take the truth of Scripture and apply it to everyday life? Do we see Scripture as sort of this distant thing that we know we ought to listen to, and we know we ought to read, and we know we ought to pay attention to? But it's not something that we have any wisdom to really on a day-to-day basis apply this to our lives. Are we thinking biblically? That's essentially what I it seems that happened to these blind men. They started thinking biblically and putting things together and realizing that Jesus was the son of David, and that he they could be healed by them and by him, and that's why they went and did what they did. Are we thinking biblically the way that these men did? And number two, do we remember who is opposing us and are we are we re we reliant on Christ to deal with them Scripture says, greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. And finally, are we laborers? And are we praying for those are we praying for laborers? Are we laborers ourselves? Do we see Anorino County? Or if you're in Howard County, Howard County, or if you're in Baltimore County, Baltimore County, are you are you seeing your neighborhood, your area As white unto harvest? Are you a laborer in that field? Do you see your vocation as a laborer in the field? You see your neighborhood, your book. Are you a laborer in your field? The field certainly is white under harvest. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and thank you. for your truth from your word. Thank you for all of these reminders as we look at the life of Christ. We see his ministry, we see his focus, his intention, his purpose, his methods. And we see his heart of compassion. I pray, Lord, that you would give us the same heart of compassion, that we would have the perspective of being instead of being just annoyed. with the wickedness of this area, that we would actually see it as a needy area in need of the gospel. And that we would choose to be laborers together in the work of the gospel in this area for your kingdom and for your purposes. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. To have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon