Call to worship this morning. Let your mercies come also to me, O Lord, your salvation according to your word. so shall I have an answer f for him who reproaches me. For I trust in your word, and take not the word of truth ut utterly out of my mouth. For I have hoped in your ordinances. So shall I keep your law continually forever and ever. And I will walk at liberty, for I seek your precepts. I will speak of your testimonies also before kings I will not be ashamed. I will delight myself in your commandments, which I love. My hands also I will lift up to your commandments, which I love. I will meditate on your statutes. Let's pray together. Father, we praise you and thank you for the privilege that we have this morning as a body of believers, as a church family, to worship you. We thank you for the dependency that we see from David as he is speaking of your word. He He prays to you and begs you that you would not take your word from his mouth. And then he says on a couple of occasions there that he loves your statutes and your word Father, I pray, Lord, today, that you would help us to truly love your word, that we would be completely dependent upon it. That we would understand it and receive it as our necessary food for our souls. Father, we confess before you that oftentimes we look to other things uh and other people and other situations and other other issues, other uh things in our lives, and we depend upon them rather than p putting proper place on your placement of dependency on your word So I thank you, Lord, that your word is so dependable because it reflects your very nature and who you are. And I pray, Lord, that even this morning as your word is preached, That we all would be receptive to your word, that we would be changed by it, that we would truly worship you in spirit and in truth. And as we sing of the different hymns that we'll be singing, Lord, may we focus on the message of those hymns. May we really worship you. And Lord, I am many very much aware of many cares and Many struggles and trials and difficulties and losses that are represented in our midst this morning. And I pray for each one, Lord. And I pray, Lord, that you would just be with them. I look forward to our prayer meeting service tonight where we can really flesh out some of these prayer requests and bear one another's burdens in this way. But this morning, Lord, I pray that we would take those burdens, we would take those losses, we would take those struggles, we would lay them at your feet, and we would put away the distractions that so easily uh cause our focus to to come off of you and that we would really focus on you this morning. You are worthy of our worship and our praise and we pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen. Good morning. Wonderful to be in the house of the Lord this morning. Let's bow our heads and go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you at this hour and just give praise and honor and glory to you. You are so worthy. And we are thankful for your word this morning as we get ready to go into it. And I pray that you would reveal to us the power of your word and what it is that you want us to learn. Help us, Lord, to set aside those distractions and those cares and wonders that we had this week and help us to concentrate on this next hour upon your word. And Lord, may we be changed more and more into your image from sitting under your word, listening and applying in Jesus' name. Amen. We're going to be looking in the book of Habakkuk this morning and And if you would follow along, we will be in chapter one. This is a uh book of three chapters, and uh I'm only doing part of it this morning, and uh if the Lord wills, and uh necessary down the road we might try to finish the book. But this morning we're going to be in chapter one, verses one through chapter two, verse one. I better get my glasses on here The burden which the prophet Habakkuk saw. Now this is the prophet's question to God O Lord, how long shall I cry and you will not hear? Even cry out to you violence And you will not save. Why do you show me iniquity and cause me to see trouble? For plundering and violence. Are before me. There is strife, and contention arises. And therefore the law is powerless, and justice never goes forth. For the wicked surround the righteous, therefore perverse judgment proceeds. And the Lord replies to Habakkuk. Backup. Look among the nations and watch. Be utterly astounded. I will work a work in your days, which you would not believe though it were told you For indeed I am raising up the Chaldeans, a bitter and hasty nation, which marches through the breadth of the earth to possess dwelling places that are not theirs They are terrible and dreadful. The jud their judgment and their dignity precede themselves. Their horses are so swift they are swifter than leopards, and more fierce than the evil. Wolves. Their chargers charge ahead. Their cavalry comes from afar. They fly as the eagle that hastes to eat. They all come for violence. Their faces are set like the east wind. They gather captives like sand. They scoff at kings, and the princes are scorned by them. They deride every stronghold, for they heap up an earthen mounds and season Then his mind changes and he transgresses. He commits offense, ascribing this power to his God Then the prophet has another question. Are you not from everlasting? O Lord, my God, my holy one We shall not die. O Lord, you have appointed them for judgment. O Rock, you have marked them for correction. You are of a purer eyes than to behold evil and cannot look on wickedness. Why do you look on those who deal treacherously and hold your tongue when the wicked devours? A person More righteous than he. Why do you make men like fish of the sea, like creeping things that have no rule over them? They take up all of them with a hook. They catch them in their net and gather them in their dragnet. Therefore, they rejoice and are glad. Therefore they sacrifice to their net and burn incense to their dragnet, because by them their share is sumptuous, and their food is plentiful. Shall they therefore empty the net and continue to slay nations without pity? I will stand my watch. And I will set my face on the rampart. I will set myself on the rampart and watch to see what he was saying. say to me and what I will answer when I am corrected. Have you ever questioned God about things in your life? Have you ever looked at our country and our nation and wonder, what is God doing? Why are we in such a What is going on? Even in our families, we have families that are struggling. Have you ever questioned God? You've been praying and praying, and it seems like He's not answering It seems like he's not concerned. And then again you may be praying for I think of the church today and the church overall and all the things that we see going on in the professing social called churches. And we wonder, God, what are you doing? We pray and we pray for revival in our nation and we pray for a great awakening. And yet it's silent. Things are getting worse. And we wonder. Sometimes when we pray and ask God for a specific prayer, He answers in a way that is so far away from what we would ever think. thought and thought that he would answer it in that way. And have you ever do you remember the uh movie Sergeant York? Remember that movie? There was a line in there that caught me and the line was God works in mysterious ways. How many of you believe that God works in mysterious ways? He does work in mysterious ways. His ways are so much higher than ours, and his thoughts are so much higher than ours. And so I think w what I want us to grasp this morning Is what is going on in Habakkuk and his heart and his life. So if you've been wondering and praying and not getting an answer, I know personally people People in here who have prayed and said they can't understand why God hasn't answered their prayer. And you know, I also know that a lot of times we pray And it just seems like things get worse instead of better. And so I want to take a look at Habakkuk this morning. And this is where Habakkuk Habakkuk finds him Now he is not angry at God. He has not uh took his faith away from God. He's not grumbling and complaining. He's asking a question And one of the things that I want us to learn this morning from this text, when I get into the introduction here, I'll explain why. I want to talk just a minute to give you a An introduction about the book of Habakkuk. Habakkuk, the name means to one who embraces or one who clings to. And the lesson we find here this morning in Habakkuk, Habakkuk is clinging to God regardless of the confusion about God's plan for his people. And we're going to find this out. Nothing is known about Abakuch. He's a prophet, except what is written here and inferred in the book. We know nothing about his lineage. We don't know anything about his parents or anybody else. But he has evidently uh been known as a great prophet, even though he's in the minor prophets because he only had three books. Not that he wasn't less important. But it's also thought by some that he may have been a high priest. We don't know that because it doesn't tell us that. But because of the end of the book is why people say Say that and we're not gonna be in the end today. But nothing we know about him. He was a contemporary of Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and Daniel and Zephaniah. And the time period probably, Habakkuk's bitter lament here in verses uh chapter one, verses two to four, may reflect the time period that was shortly after the death of Josiah in 609 In 2 Kings 22, 23, Josiah found the book of the law in the temple, and he wanted to restore If you remember your history in the Old Testament, the two kings before him, most of the kings before him, were very evil and very wicked. And do you know that Josiah took reign? eight years old. He was eight years old. Can you imagine if we voted a president in at eight years old? He may do well. But anyway, just just give me a little history here. And Josiah, they were renovating the temple and they found the book of the law. Law. Now, isn't that a fine place to find the Book of Elaw? In the temple. They weren't going there much with the evil kings. But anyway, they find it, and so he wants to restore true worship. to Judah. And so we see in Jeremiah 22, 13 to 19, that God the king's reforms were quickly overturned by his successor, Jehoiakim. This is where we are coming to. Now, Jehoiakim was a very evil king. He reigned evil. He caused the nation to plunge back into her evil ways. And how quickly we fall. How quickly we fall. Here was Josiah bringing everything back, and all of a sudden you get another man in there, and how quickly we fall. This causes Habakkuk to question God. There was silence and apparent lack of punitive action toward his covenant people And so Habakkuk comes to God. He saw that justice had essentially disappeared from the land, and violence and wickedness were pervasive and unchecked. This is what he was seeing. And this causes Habakkuk to cry out to God for intervention. But he was perplexed because he couldn't not hear anything from God. God was not answering him and he was this would tell us that he was praying continually. So it's not wrong for us if we aren't getting an answer to continue to pray. He continued to pray. And we find here that this uh uh question as to why he knew the covenant, he knew God, he knew the uh Judah was uh his covenant people. They knew and he knew that they would be punished for their sins. So he was kind of looking forward to God just coming in and bringing a revival and kinda getting everybody down on their knees and come back to uh Christ, I mean back to God and put their faith and trust in him And worship him again. This probably was the mindset of Habakkuk. But this causes him to cry out to God again. And he's perplexed now, and he's wondering why God's not answering his prayer. Have you ever been there? Why are you not answering my prayer? But God's reply comes. And it confuses me Habakkuk all the more, bringing a second question. And in chapter 2, verse 1, Habakkuk ends up standing and watching and waiting for God Reply to his second question. So let's begin and look in here at his first question. In chapter 1, verse 2, it says, O Lord, how long shall I cry? And you will not hear, even cry out violence, and you will not save us. Why do you let me see this iniquity? Here we find him crying out to God And we all have experienced this, haven't we? Haven't we had times that we cried? I mean, I'm thinking even now, I pray a lot about our nation. And I pray for God's revival to bring a revival and all these things we pray about the situation, and yet nothing seems to change. In fact, it even gets worse. And sometimes the situation does get worse. And this is what Habakkuk is finding So Habakkuk was concerned about the moral condition of Judah, their nation. Here's what was going on. Listen closely to what's going on here. The people had turned their back on God. Are you following me? The people had turned their back on God. They had forsaken the law of God. And it resulted in violent crimes becoming common place. The laws were then slacked. There was a breakdown in the judicial system and true justice was not being served. So the forces of wicked prevailed over the righteous, and therefore wrong judgment proceeded. Did you hear this? that's going on. Does that not sound familiar to you in our day? So, we can see Habakkuk's reason for being perplexed. And I remember in Psalm 73, it kind of reminds me of the psalmist there. If you have your Bibles, you could turn there just for a second. I'm not going to read the whole thing. But in Psalm 73, it starts out, truly God is good to Israel. To such as are pure in heart, but as for me, my feet had almost stumbled. My steps had nearly slipped For I was envious of the boastful when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. We have to be careful, brothers and sisters. That we don't get caught up in what we're seeing in the world. And here he almost stumbles. And it goes on down, and you come down to verse 11 and says, And they say, how does God know And there is is there any knowledge of the most high? And he says, Behold, these are the ungodly who are always at ease. They increase in riches. And surely The Psalmist says, I have cleansed my heart in vain, and washed my hands in innocence, for all day long I have been plagued and chastened every morning. If I had said I will speak thus, behold I would have been untrue to the generation of your children. And when I thought how to understand this, you know, when we think about what's going on, how do I understand this? How do I take this in Behold, it says, it was too painful for me trying to understand it and trying to figure it out. And he says, this is really good. I want us to listen Until I went into the sanctuary of God, then I understood therein. Brothers and sisters, it's great that we are here together this morning in God's Word. And if we are struggling and having issues with things, the best place to go is God God's word. Because we know God is true, we know that He is sovereign, we know that uh His character never changes. And so as we think about this now and what we see happening in Judah has been recorded. We can be reminded for our own selves here. But when we see Habakkuk Cook's reason for being perplexed, I want you to listen to the Lord's reply. Now he's thinking he's gonna come and bring a revival and change everybody's hearts and they'll get repenting and be away with their sin and come back and worship God. Listen to what God says Look among the nations and watch, and be utterly amazed, for I will work a work in your days, which you would not believe, though it were told you. What is it that he wants him to do? He wants him to look at the nations and watch. Why does he say that? At this time in history You had Egypt was a very powerful nation, and uh there were other nations that were very powerful. But what happened was he God now is orchestrating here and he's raising up the Chaldeans who are Babylon and he's raising them up to be a powerful nation. We learn here that God is the one doing this. God is the one orchestrating it. So when we think about things that are going on in our world today, you think that Russia just decided to go down and go in in and try to destroy this land down there. God is in control. God is orchestrating. And so when he talks about watching the nation, Assyria was the most powerful nation at that time. time and they were wicked and they had their uh capital was Nineveh and remember they had already taken over the northern ten tribes of Israel and so here comes this powerful nation Chaldeans, evil and wicked people also Couldn't find the city afterwards. And so we see this big nation, and he's telling them, watch these nations, watch what's going on. And so then he says, I'm going to work A work in your days that you would not believe. Listen to what he says. For indeed I am raising up the Chaldeans, a bitter and hasty nation Which marches through the breadth of the land to possess swelling places that are not their own. You see, this is God's sovereign plan. I didn't read through everything just this morning. moment. But he describes them very deeply and he comes up there to verse eleven. He said, then they change their mind. They think, the Chaldeans, that they are the ones that have the And they're the ones, it's their gods that's doing this, it's not God, but it is actually God that gave them this power to do this. It is a judgment being brought on. And so, who are a ruthless and evil people, God uses this to invade Judah. They are known as self-assured, self-sufficient, self-defiled, and deadly people. Now you can just imagine when a backuk gets this answer. What do you think his thoughts were? What? You're bringing an evil people, more evil than us, to come in and take over those who are more righteous than they are? He's questioning, he's thinking, and he's now again confused and perplexed. This probably did astound the prophet beyond belief. He would never have thought God would bring a wicked nation in to overtake them. And so I want to just take a second here. A lot of times What would it be like if we were praying for our nation and God gave us an answer like that? That someone more wicked is going to come in. and take over your nation, what would you do? What would you think? What would you say? One thing I love about Habakkuk, which we're going to love. This man was a godly man. And uh a lot of times when these kind of things happen, we have to trust the character of God We know him. We know that he loves us. We know that he is almighty, all powerful, he is sovereign over all things. He is eternal. He has saved our souls. We know him. And when we can't understand the answer a lot of times we don't. When it comes completely different than what you thought, we have to trust in his goodness and his character. And I think about uh we were having a discussion one time I was teaching at another church and the discussion came up about children and uh whether they go to heaven or not. And when they're if they die, uh young and all that, real young. But the the only answer that I think was good for that was to trust God's character. I don't know what happens to a young baby, I really don't. I know what David said, and that's good too. I mean, but I do trust God. I trust him his character. And he is loving and he is kind and he is merciful and full of grace. So here you go. He's now perplexed. And this brings up a second question. Habakkuk's thinking, and I'm I I can just imagine that. I mean I can't imagine if we were praying for revival in our nation and all of a sudden God says there's a nation coming This was a judgment. And so here we find the second question from Habakkuk. And it's found in verse 12 through 17. But we're going to look at just a couple of the lines here. He comes and he acknowledges God here in the second question. I want you to notice that. He's acknowledging God, who he is, and he loves him and knows him. He says, Are you not from everlasting? O Lord, my God, my holy one, we shall not die. O Lord, you have appointed them for judgment. O Ruck, you have marked them for correction. Then he goes on to say You are you are of purer eyes than to behold evil and cannot look on wickedness. Why do you look on those who deal treacherously and hold your tongue When the wicked devours a person more righteous than he? That's the question. But what I like was he acknowledges his God. He knows his God. And he's not angry at God. He wants to know why this is the way it is. I know uh I've asked that question myself. Why why was it answered this way Lord, I thought I had the best idea how this should go if he needed help. But he didn't need help. And I it didn't cause me hate God didn't cause me to go complain to Joey or anybody else. I mean it it's it's something that we have to accept. And so Habakkuk Habakkuk I always do that wrong. Abac accepts of God's judgment and declared his confidence in the Lord. That's what we find there in verse twelve. He accepts what God said. Okay, you're gonna say But he also here, though he could not fully comprehend a perplex uh Answer that he got. The sovereign workings of his righteous God, he expressed his complete faith and trust. Listen to what he said there. He said, Oh Lord, you have appointed them for judgment. O Ruck, you have marked them for correction. And what's he say? You are of pure eyes than to look on behold. So he recognized his here, and he is, though he's perplexed and why God's doing it this way, he expressed his complete faith and trust. If we had that happen to us when we were praying to God for revival, would we stay firm and faithful to God? He as he rehearsed the unchanged. Character of God as eternal and sovereign and holy, holding firm to what he knew of God. This is important for us. That He is good. Do we hold from knowing God's goodness and His character when we don't understand things when we pray and don't get an answer. Or we pray and we get an answer that doesn't match what we thought it should be. This is important. This is What we see here. He's clinging to God. And Under the faithful hand of God, he realized that the Chaldeans were coming to correct Judah. Not annihilate them by the grace of God. If you notice what he says, he says, O Lord, you have appointed them for judgment. Okay. They're bringing the judgment that he was actually praying for, but in a whole different light than what he was expecting. But he says, O Roth, you have marked them for corrupt He knew that God wasn't going to annihilate because he knows he always keeps a remnant. He remembers his character. He always keeps a remnant of his people. And so we see Habakkuk here, trusting and knowing and believing and understanding that God wasn't coming to bring those wicked people in to annihilate them, but to correct them. That's always a good thing to remember. The perplexity of his thoughts was that if God is too pure to behold evil, Then how can he use the wicked to devour a person more righteous than they? Only God is righteous, right? Only God is righteous. But the I think the question is legitimate. You would wonder why God would bring someone more evil than Than those that are his. So, would not the use of the Chaldeans result in even greater damage to God's righteous character He's thinking this stuff through. And Habakkuk draws attention to the evilness of the Chaldeans, like God didn't know, and that they attribute their gain to themselves, their military might, and not to the sovereign God. This was his mindset. Well God, you're using somebody much more wicked than us, and they actually are not going to worship you They're going to worship their gods. They're going to worship all of their might and power they had to come in and take over. I think about even today We are a very powerful nation. We have a lot. We've been blessed richly. We probably have a lot of the best warfare anywhere. Are we trusting in that? Are we trusting in our power and our greatness as a nation that nobody could come and take over this nation? Keep in mind God is mysterious and he works in mysterious ways. And just not saying that God's going to do this, but I think about it, what if God did that. Well that what was that? What if that's his answer for us? How will I handle that? And so here he's bringing this to God's attention. And we are reminded of what God said here in ver in chapter one, verse eleven, which will bring God's judgment upon the chapter Remember when he said, then his mind changes and he transgresses. Transgresses. He's sinning now. See, God's the one that's giving them the power. And the direction and the ability to come and do these judgments. But in their mind, it's their power. money, everything they have, and they like wiping out nations 'cause then they get their food, they get all the all the uh booty from that, and so they're very prideful and they think, you know, we're pretty good Good. We are great. And so we're reminded that what God said there. He says he commits offense ascribing this power to his God. So that's what was going on with the church. Now we're not going to get into today what exactly uh is going to take place, but we Lord willing Maybe another time. We will get into that. But as he ponders all these things, he concludes here that he will wait patiently. For God's response to his question, and what I will answer when I am corrected. Remember over in verse 3, I mean uh verse 5, he says, Look among the nations and watch. Be utterly astounded, for I am going to work a work in your days which you would So he asked the first question, that's the answer he got. Then he comes with the second question, because you God is using such an evil people to come and bring judge judgment on them, but yet he acknowledges God, he knows his character, and he knows that it's going to be a judgment for correction, not annihilation. He will always keep a Remnant. So he comes here to this point and he ponders all these things. So he decides, he says, I will s in chapter two, verse one, I will stand by watch And set myself on the rampart and watch to see what he will say to me and what I will answer when I am corrected. And so this kind of is where we're going to stop today in this passage. But there are some things that I want to bring out to you. And I have a couple questions that I have that I want to to ask you. And in the future, after he sits there and waits on the rampart, we're going to see Different things, but Habakkuk's confusion transformed into a joyous song when we see the end of the story. And there is no better place for you and I to rest than in God's sovereignty and his character and his will. Does your happiness depend on easy days and pleasant weather? Are you happy one day because everything's going well? Are you concerned about what's going on in your nation? Are you concerned about what's going on in the church in families. We have churches that are teaching so much untruth and it's just amazing that God hasn't brought judgment. How do we pray for those churches? How do we pray for our church? Are we a praying church? And these things all have to be considered. And I don't want my happiness based on a good Good day or nothing's going wrong. But the uh I was listening to uh John MacArthur and he made the point that Uh suffering always comes first before glory. And he used Christ as the example. And we know from Scripture that we are going to suffer while we are here Here as a believer. And in that suffering, we should be growing faithful, more faithful, more faithful, as we see God doing more things in us. Do you question God's goodness and love when life becomes unexpectedly confusing and difficult? I was praying this week for dear friend. And the answer didn't come out the way I thought it hoped it would. But one thing I know about my dear friend He is trusting in the character of God and will move 'em. And that's uh my hope for all of us that we will trust in God's good character. Do you doubt God when you cannot figure out what he is doing? You ever had that happen? Yeah, I I you do some deep thinking sometimes. And when I think about I I I bring up my nation all the time because it's Such a drastic change that has happened in the last year and a half, two years. And I think about that a lot and I think, you know, what What is God doing here? I mean, we're supposed to pray for our leaders and we're supposed to pray for our country. And one of the things that came to me, I am so thankful That we have still the privilege to come freely here and worship God and grow from each other and help each other and lift each other up and pray. and uh just learning. And when I think about what's going on with Habakkuk, his faith is going to grow from that first question to the end of the book. You're going to see See how his faith was growing through it because the more he trusted God and his character, though he didn't understand, his faith became more stronger. And that's the same for you. and I. How will you choose to reconcile what you don't understand about life with what you do know about God? God. How will you choose to reconcile that? You know about God. You know a lot about God, a lot more than most people. I'm I was impressed when we were working with the children in BBS and how many of 'em knew these scriptures they memorized and we would ask them, what does that mean? And they could That's what we want our children to learn, not just to get a bunch of verses down and win a prize, but that they understood what the verse meant. And this is very good. And it causes us to be able to grow in our faith. We have a calling to pursue in loving and serving God. and others. How will you struggle honestly and rejoice expectantly along with Habakkuk this week? Concluding application. God always works on his time. He sometimes works in ways we do not expect. We are learning this fear. So we should not be dismayed. We should not be uh down trodden or going complaining that God isn't Doing this and God isn't doing that. But God is always at work and He sometimes works in ways that we do not expect. Habakkuk. We can come to God with our questions. Sometimes people are afraid when you say, Have you ever asked God? question God. It's something that not that you don't understand. Not necessarily scripture, but something going on that you don't understand. Can you can you question God? I don't know man But here we can come to God with our questions in faith and asking with willingness to be content with the answer. Are you content with the answer that God gives you? Even if he never appears to answer it at all. That's waiting, being patient. Humility, trusting God and His character and His goodness. Trusting in God's unchanging character as eternal, sovereign, holy, keeps our faith firm and keeps it. Growing. I want you to notice a couple things about Abakhook. Abakuck was never bitter. He was never bitter towards God, nor was he resentful. to God, nor was he depressed, nor did he doubt God would answer him. He did not complain to everybody else about what God's not doing These are things we can learn from. It was not bitter with God. In the scriptures, we are told to come to God boldly And in Hebrews 4. 16 it says, let us therefore come boldly to the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy. So we know that we can go to God. We can go to God with our questions. And I like Philippians 4, 6 and 7. This was a Memory verse that we did. It says, be anxious for nothing, but in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. concerned when we get worried and we think about things that are going on in the world, things that are going on in our marriages, things that are going on in our families, things that are going on in the church, things that are going on in Our neighborhood Take them before the Lord. Trust Him. Let Him grow you. And I find in Revelation 4. 11, I love this, it's God It says, Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power, for thou hast created all things. For thy They and for they there. Sorry, I have a mistype there. Pleasure, they are and were created. God has created all things. He's created He's created everything. And so we need to glory in him. And there will be suffering before glory. Numbers. The Lord opened a donkey's mouth to speak And the donkey and Balaam's conversation. This is the strangest thing, isn't it? God can work in mysterious ways. He can have a donkey talk to Balaam. That's strange. It would be strange if your dog talked to you or your cat when you wasn't understanding. But I I was surprised too in that that Balaam didn't realize he was in a conversation with his donkey and his donkey was talking to him. But that is the thing that we talk about God being mistaken. I hope that this will cause us to have a closer desire with God and His Word. This is why it's critical and important for us. to be in God's word constantly and trusting in Him. When you have times that you pray and you feel you're not getting an answer or you didn't like the one you did. Just Trust in God and his good character. He knows best. And that's all. I'm going to close in prayer Heavenly Father, we thank you this morning that you remind us of your sovereignty. And Lord, though we find it perplexing sometimes when we see how you work and move and how you use everything. Because it is yours. You are the creator and sustainer. You own it all. Even us. Help us, Lord, as we come into situations where we don't get the answer we would like, but we keep our faith. in our trust in you, knowing that you are good and kind and loving. You are holy and righteous and just. You are almighty, all powerful, all wise and all Knowing. You would never do something that is wrong. All your ways are right and true. Help us to get this in our hearts and our minds. And Lord, if there be anyone here today that uh may not understand and know you at all. I pray God that your spirit will work in them as they have heard your word this morning and that we would realize that we can have this relationship that Habakkuk had with God through your Son Jesus Christ and what he has done at the cross on our behalf. And Father, I thank you for your word and pray that in all things may you You be glorified and lifted up. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.