Twelve. Psalm one oh three 8 through 12. The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in mercy. He will not always strive with us, nor will he keep his anger forever. He has not dealt with us according to his sins, to our sins, nor punished us according to our iniquities. For as high as the heavens are high above the earth, so great is his mercy. Mercy toward those who fear him. As far as the East is from the West, so far has He removed our transgressions from us. Let's go, Lord, in prayer. Father, we come to you and we praise you that you are that you are such a wonderful God. You are merciful and patient and you are compassionate Compassionate. You do not execute and if in any way possible, you do not execute jud justice on judgment and wrath upon us Because of your son, because of the gift of Christ and what he did in satisfying your just demands on the cross. And so that sacrifice that Christ made allows you to stand both as judge and as justifier Father, we thank you for the wonderful plan of redemption, for the gift of Christ, for the fact that we can have access or do have access to you because of Christ. We have an eternal relationship with you because of Christ. And if there are people here that they're struggling with their understanding of the gospel, they're struggling with their understanding of the gospel Of whether or not they truly know you, I pray today would be extremely helpful in going through your truth from your word I pray, Lord, for those of us who know Christ as our Savior as we go through this text in Romans this morning later on, that it would help us and encourage us to really know why the cross is sufficient. To do what you said it will do. And so we thank you for that. We pray that as we worship you this morning, we would do so in a way that pleases you. We pray these things in Christ's name. Good morning. Stand with me as we sing the Lord together, number three thirty six, redeemed. Reading three I mean God, my life will be prepared, but all the one I think I can violence in love with you. As we continue singing together on Christ I stand number three three eighty on Christ I stand. Uh, I'll join the right. I want to ground it making time I wake the. Oh my god, it's got to be a sea space I press on his changing grace in every time and story death by your common. I bright the style about that. All other ground being belt. Well you thou promise now may I be found trending the world for this Then you want to come like this, all the round is taken his hand. Stay with me as we continue. worshiping the Lord together. We're going to sing the song of the month from last week. Consider him. If you can stand with me, consider him. He left his throat to bear a drama taking the arsenal. In black and dark he fake his death tomorrow. In brightest black he rose in black is all Comes better who's better and marble. The body from the kids, but they learned that we spent this. Reflected on what he came to say without pain in the good light again. So I still have to do it. All those who want to be like Jesus Christ are now like they' Think of the cross, in your trusting man. In my alone, the cross is to the cross I said I'm called all of us before. I said I'm not a fighting chair. Ah maybe break as we want that make up that slide. I pray my king of God to you We have to be My grace will be hold for the Lord to me. I think I know what I think we're going. Let's pray together. Father, we come before you today and we thank you. For the rich truth that we have been able to see in your word already, and to see in the many songs that we have sung, we praise you for your grace. It is it is that kindness and that favor that you show us that we by no stretch of the imagination do we deserve. The grace that you extend to us through your Son in offering salvation, and that daily grace that you extend to us as you enable us to Walk the path that you have set before us in your word, that the grace that you Extend to us to help us through decisions, through trials, through difficulties with friends and loved ones, difficulties with those we might even consider enemies Lord, we praise you for your amazing grace. Without it, we would be lost We would be on our on the path to hell and an eternity separated from you. And without it, we would be hopelessly confused about how to navigate this life. And hopelessly in unable to do it. And so we thank you for these things. We praise you. As we consider and look at the text to come and Pastor Jim preaching, we pray, Lord, that you would make your grace and your truth all the more relevant to us. That we would see how magnificent it is. And we would, even those of us who perhaps have been saved a long time, may we see it afresh. May we see it in a new light. May it impact us in a new way that we would serve you and love you better for it. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Reading from the text today, Romans 3, Romans chapter 3, verses 25 through 31, encourage you to read along with me as we Read through the text Romans three, twenty-five through thirty-one. It says whom God set forth as a propitiation by his blood through faith, to demonstrate his righteousness. Because in his forbearance God had passed over the sins that we that were previously committed. To demonstrate at this present time his righteousness, that he might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. Where is boasting then? It is excluded. By what law? Of works? No, but by the law of faith. Therefore, we conclude that a man is justified by faith apart from the deeds of the law. Or is he the God of the Jews only? Is he not also the God of the Gentiles? Yes, of the Gentiles also, since there is one God who will justify the circumcised by faith and the uncircumcised through faith. Do we then make void the law through faith? Certainly not. On the contrary, we establish the law. I'm curious, how many of you, when you were a child, badgered your parents with questions, asked a lot of questions of your parents. You're just one of those kids, one one of those annoying little kids that would ask call all kinds of questions of your parents. I'm curious. What's that? Still still still asking questions. Okay. Anyway, um I was that way. I asked I was constantly asking questions. My I'd ask questions of my mom and she'd say, Go ask your father, and my father would answer every one of them For a long time, like ants long answers to every question that I had. But anyway, um, and um and so I did learn a lot that way and forgot probably more than I learned But um I also like to take things apart. How many of you all like to do that? You get a toy, something, and you take it apart. And uh I get a remote control car and I take the thing apart. And I'd remember getting you remember those Walkman's with the with the cassettes that you put in? And those are those are like hot stuff back then. And and I'd take the thing apart and figure out how it worked. And uh at first I wasn't able when I was younger I wasn't able to put this th the things back together, but I always knew my dad could, so he'd I'd pick things apart and he'd put them back together. Jim, why did you do that? Anyway, I put it back together and then I eventually got a little older and I started being able to take things apart and put them back together myself most of the time, but always knew that my dad now I'm taking things apart and my dad's not there to put it back together. together. Anyway, um cars and things like that. But um i i uh some of us are very are very inquisitive on how things work. Like how does something work? How many of you have ever seen the show How It's Made? Have you seen that show? It's interesting. I mean, they could take a pencil. And say and and you're looking at how all the different steps to how it's made or those kinds of things. Let me ask you a question. Have you ever considered how does the cross work? Or why? Why does the cross work? In other words, we all know that the cross, that Jesus died to pay the punishment for our sins, he died for us. so that we could have a relationship with God. Most of us know that. But why? Why does that work? And that's really what our text is talking about. Why doesn't the Buddhist way work, or the Hind or Hinduism work, or why doesn't one of these other religions major religions work? Why doesn't Islam work? Why what is it about the cross that actually works to make us right with God? That's really the question that's being asked here in this text. And hopefully as we go through it by the end of it, you'll have a better understanding of how the cross actually works. We're going to see that the cross works in four ways. First, we're going to see it satisfies God's justice in verses 25 through 26. And then we're going to see it excludes self-glory. It satisfies God's justice. It excludes self-glory. It extends, thirdly, God's universal offer. It extends God's universal offer, and finally, it upholds God's righteous standard. Why does the death of Christ work? Because it satisfies God's justice This is um you know this is helpful for us to really delve into the inner workings of why the cross works. It satisfies God's justice. It excludes self-glory. It extends God's universal offer. The offer goes out to everyone, and it upholds God's righteous standard. Let's begin then to look at how the cross satisfies God's justice in verses 25 through 26. It says, whom God set forth as a propitiation by his blood through faith to demonstrate his righteousness. Because his forbearance, uh because in his forbearance God has passed over the sins that were previously committed. To demonstrate at the present time he is righteous That he might be the just and the justifier of those who has faith in Christ, faith in Jesus. So, how here's a just give you a picture. If you can imagine a judge, And there's a courtroom and there's a defendant and there's a prosecutor. And the prosecutor is prosecuting the person. And the the the defending attorney is lousy, just not good at all. And so the judge is up there and he well knows that the person being prosecuted is actually innocent. But but the defending attorney is doing such a terrible job, the judge really wants to go down there and put the other hat on and defend this guy. Well that doesn't make any that can't happen. You can't have a judge also be a defending attorney. You can't have somebody be a defense and the judge at the same time But in a sense, and that illustration breaks down really quick, by the way, it's just so you know, but in a sense, God is both the judge And he is the defending attorney. He is, and we'll see this in a minute, he is the one who justifies us. He does both roles. Why can he do this? It's because of the cross. So let's look at it. We see this word propitiation. God set forth as a propitiation by his blood. What does it mean, the propitiation? This word propitiation, when the Jewish people who read this, they would have immediately thought of the mercy seat in the Old Testament. In fact, in Hebrews 9, verse 5, this exact word is translated mercy seat. In Hebrews chapter 9, verse 5, it says this, and above it were the cherubim of glory overshadowing the mercy seat of the seat of these things we cannot now speak in detail. So this word propitiation means mercy seat. So what is the mercy seat? If you recall from the Old Testament You have the sacrificial system, and once a year the high priest would go into the Holy of Holies, and he would sprinkle blood from the lamb that was sacrificed on what was called the mercy seat. The mercy seat was the place on the Ark of the Covenant, you had the two cherubim on either side, the the the the bronze cherubim or breath brass cherubim, maybe they were gold actually. Anyway, a cherubim on either side. And in the middle, you have the presence of God. That was the place of the Shekinah glory, the presence of God there. And once a year, the high priest would go in and he would sprinkle blood on the sacram on that mercy seat. To show that the presence of God and to maintain the Shekana glory, the presence of God, being in the midst of the whole nation of Israel. So the mercy seat pictured something. Now, some uh in Leviticus 16, 15 through 16 says it this way, and he went in and sprinkled it on the mercy seat and before the mercy seat. So he shall make atonement for the holy place, because the uncleanness of the children of Israel and because of the transgressions for all their sins And so he shall do for the tri tabernacle of meeting, which remains among them in the midst of their uncleanness. Now, some people actually say that this should be in this text translated mercy seat. You could actually say that he is the mercy seat in this passage. But that's really not the case because we actually know from Hebrews chapter 10. that Jesus is described not as the mercy seat there, but as the sacrifice, as the offering. Hebrews chapter ten verse ten, but that uh that will we have been sacrificed through the offering of the body of Jesus Jesus Christ once for all. Later on verse 12, but this man, after he had offered one sacrifice for sins forever, sat down at the right hand of God. So Jesus is the sacrifice and shed his blood on the cross for us. So what does this idea of propitiation mean? We've got a picture now of the blood being sprinkled so that the presence of God could remain with Israel. They could have access to God through the ceremonial practices of the Old Testament. But propitiation means much more than that. Propitiation has to do with the averting of the wrath of God. Now, for some reason, there has been great, there have been theologians that have gone to great lengths to say that, no, that is not what it's talking about in the passage. That we don't like to think of God as a God of wrath. But the fact is, in Romans chapter 1, verse 18, you can't get around it. It says, For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness. There is no question that the wrath of God is conveyed on those who don't know Christ. That is the case because of sin. So this word propitiation satisfies the just demands of God so that God's wrath is averted. This is good news Remember, we've already seen over and over and over again how the wrath of God abides on us. John chapter 3, verse 36. Says this, he who believes the Son hath everlasting life, but he who does not believe the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abides on him. 1 Thessalonians 1 verse 10 says it this way: that Jesus, who delivers us from the wrath to come. So the good news is that the sacrifice that Jesus made on the cross averts the wrath of God because it satisfies the just demands. of God. This is really good news. Well how? It is by his blood. We see that in the text Also in 1 Peter 1, verse 18, it says, Knowing that you were not redeemed with corruptible things like silver and gold from your aimless conduct received by tradition from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ as a lamb without blemish and without spot. It is by the blood of Christ His shed blood that we are we now can have access to the glory and the presence of God. And Paul then reminds them of his, of God's forbearance. Do you see that in the passage? It says, because of the forbearance of God, he passed over the sin, sins that were previously committed. He's talking, he has a mixed Jewish and gentile audience he's speaking to. But he's appealing to the Jewish people, and he is pointing out that God, over and over again in the Old Testament, was patient with them, was forbearing. We see this from Psalm 78. Which says in verse thirty-eight, but he being full of compassion forgave their iniquity and did not destroy them. Yes, many a time he was a very good thing. He turned his anger away and did not stir up all his wrath, for he remembered that they were but flesh, breath that passes away and does not come again. Did God judge Israel ultimately in the in the Old Testament? Well, there are several times that He did. The Babylonian captivity and coming and coming to Israel was a judgment on Israel and actually a punishment. to Israel, but ultimately desire as a desire to chasten them and restore them back to himself. You have times of that in the Old Testament, but bait but but you have lots of sin, lots of idolatry And God is actually, though he is a God of wrath, he is a God of judgment, he is also a God who is extremely forbearing and patient with them But Paul tells the folks on Mars Hill in Acts chapter 17, he says this. Verse 30, truly talking about the Old Testament, these times of ignorance, God overlooked. But now commands all men everywhere to repent. See, God raised up Jesus as the propitiation, the sacrifice that satisfies his just demands. And God's intention is for everyone to see it and repent of their sins and place their trust in that sacrifice. So that they can be restored, they can be rightly related to God. So that in the text, God is both the just And the justifier. What did the cross do? How does the cross work? It allows God to remain the judge. He remains just And yet at the same time, through Christ, he is able to declare us righteous. He is able to justify us. So that the wrath of God does not rely, does not abide, does not have to abide on us. But there is a condition here in the text, it has to be by faith. And we'll see that uh in a few moments. 1 John chapter 2, I think, is a very helpful text in putting all this together. It says this verses 1 through 2. My little children, these things I write to you so that you may not sin. And if anyone sins, we have an advocate. Okay, there's that word, our defending attorney, our an advocate with the Father. Who is that? Jesus Christ. The righteous. That's a very important phrase there. We have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ, the righteous. And he himself is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. So Jesus as the righteous, the one who lived a perfect life and lived out complete righteousness. was able to die in our place and take our punishment from us so that we could be rightly related to God, so that Jesus could both be judge and the justifier. Not only that, the cross excludes self-glory Romans chapter 3 verse 27. Pick up here. Look at what it says. Where is boasting then? Notice what he says. It is excluded. Glorying, boasting, giving getting credit, it's excluded. By what? Law of works? No. But by the law of faith. He He contrasts the law of works and the law of faith. And he says it's not by the law of works, it's not by the principle of works you're saved, it is by the principle, the law or principle of faith that you're saved. Therefore, we conclude that a man is justified by faith apart from the deeds of the law. Why? So that no one can boast. Now, I'll just kind of give you an illustration to sort of help us understand this. Imagine being a ghostwriter. I assume everybody knows who the ghostwriter is. You've got some famous person that their name will will sell a book and your name won't, but you're actually the writer and you're a really good writer, and so because you're a good writer you're the ghostwriter for the famous person so the so that the book will sell. And that happens all the time. But when you do ghostwrite for this famous person, he goes out on you know a tour advertising the book and everybody marvels at his writing ability. They don't just talk about the book and what it means and what the message is or what his life was about or whatever. They're asking questions. They're like, how did you learn to write so well? You you have superior writing ability. It's like you really are an excellent writer. You've been a basketball player your whole life and suddenly you can write so well. And finally you're the ghostwriter and you're going, What in the world? And finally you with which you break your contract to do this, you come out and you say, he didn't write that, I wrote that. I get the credit because I'm the one who wrote it. See, for the Christian, that can never happen. See, we're saved in such a way. God constructed this plan of salvation in such a way That we can never come out of the woodwork and say in any way that it's of any credit of our own whatsoever. It is all credited to Jesus. and his work on the cross. God designed it that way. It's not by the works of the law, it's by faith. Now, why did God do this? He did this for a very, very important reason. Do you know the thing that tripped us up in the very beginning with Adam and Eve? Do you remember that? Satan comes to Eve. And you remember what he says to Eve, that's in Genesis chapter 3, verse 5, for God knows That the day you eat of this, you know, this forbidden fruit, you eat of it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be what? Do you remember what it says? You will be like God, knowing good and evil. Do you know what Satan tempted Eve with? Self-glory. That you might be able to glorify yourself instead of glorifying God. See, God created us to glorify him. He created us in his image to reflect his glory, to reflect his character. And as Satan had already done in glorifying himself and saying, I will ascend to be like God, he now takes that same temptation gives it to Adam and Eve and says, will now you get to, now you can glorify yourself and become like God. And that's sin. That's what sin is. And so God devised a way So that there literally would be no credit whatsoever given to us, but that salvation would come entirely by the credit of God Himself entirely. And this is consistent with his creation. He created the world to glorify himself, and he now is redeeming the world to glorify himself Colossians says this for by him all things were created that are in heaven and that are in earth, visible and indivisible, whether thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created through him And for him. Did you know that you are saved for him? You're saved to glorify. Oh, but I get to go to heaven. Yes, it's a fringe benefit. But the purpose that God saves you is so that you can come into right relationship with him. And you can be restored to do what God created for you to do in the beginning. That is, to glorify him. That's why he saves you. Psalm one nine one fifteen one says it this way, not unto us, O Lord. not unto us, but to your name give glory because of your mercy, because of your truth. So, who gets to be justified? It's not of us. Has nothing to do with us, in fact. There's no self-effort involved. We can't take credit for it at all. So who gets to be justified? Well, the text is going to tell us. The cross extends God's singular Universal offer. Look at what it says in verse 29. Or is he the God of the Jews only Is he not also the God of the Gentiles? Yes, the Gentiles also, since there is one God who will justify the circumcised by faith and uncircumcised through faith. Now here's what he's saying here. He he creates an argument that is just gonna be um gonna be extremely compelling to the Jewish reader. See, one of the things that every Jewish person was taught at a very, very early age is that there is only one God. Deuteronomy 6. 4, Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. This was something that they would say at feasts. This is something that they would rehearse to each other, our the Lord our God, the Lord is one. And they understood themselves To be of a people that are of the one and only true God Paul establishes this. He says, you understand that there is only one God. And then he says this. In fact, he starts off with these rhetorical questions. Is God only the God of the Jews? I mean, let's think about it this way. Just think logically. God created everyone, right? He is the creator of everyone. How could he be, if there's only one God, there's only one option, how could he be God only of the Jews and there is no option for the Gentiles? It is illogical. And so it is the cross that allows God to be the God of everyone. becomes equal at the foot of the cross. Since there is one God One will justify this. And he says both the circumcised, talking about Jewish people and the uncircumcised. Now, really, this should not have been a foreign idea for the Jewish people. Because if you go back to the Old Testament, are there times where Gentiles came to Christ? One of the most notable times when the Gentiles came to Christ is Jonah. Do you remember Jonah in Jonah? God sends Jonah to the Ninevehes. The Ninevites are Gentile people. Their rank in their behavior, they're sinful And Jonah doesn't want to go to them. Do you know why Jonah doesn't want to go to them? Well, I don't like the Gentiles. Yeah, it was worse than that. Do you know why uh Jonah didn't go, well they're not going to listen. Actually, no. Jonah does not go to the Gentiles because he thinks, uh does not want to uh uh go the other direction. Because he thinks they won't listen. He's afraid they will. Look at what Jennifer 4. 2 says this. So he prayed to the Lord and said, Ah, Lord, Was not this what I said uh what I said when I was still in my country? Therefore I fled previously to Tarshish, for I know that you are a gracious and merciful God, slow to anger and abundant loving kindness one who relents from doing harm. He understood the character of God. He understood that God is a compassionate God and a loving God, and if they will repent, he will forgive them. These are Gentile people. He understood the heart of God. And so he didn't want to go. You have other examples like Ruth and Rahab and Naaman. So by the time we get to the New Testament, and Christ is lifted up. We have Paul telling Timothy, for this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior, who desires all men to be saved. and to come to the knowledge of the truth, for there is one God and one mediator between God and men, the man, Christ Jesus, who gave himself a ransom for all to be testified in due time. So that Christ can be Christ is the Savior of all. So What about the Jewish people? And what about the law? We've talked a lot about the law. What about the law that was given to the Jewish people? This Old Testament law. What about Moses? And what about these, the Ten Commandments? And what about all of this? Does that mean by the cross literally makes this uh nullifies it completely? Notice what he says of the passage, verse 31. Do we then make void the law through faith? Does it void it? Does it void the law? What does he say next? Certainly not. It does not void the law. This word, certainly not, is mentioned several times in the book of Romans. May it never be so Said this in Romans 3. 4. I said this in Romans 3. 6. Certainly not. He's going to say this later in Romans six. He ca and so no, that is not the case. Notice what it says here. It says instead, on the contrary, we establish the law. We establish it. It's not that it's it's not voided, it's not nullified, it's not made of no effect, it's established. How then is the law established? And here's how it's established. If you can think, I'd illustrate it this way. If you can think of a CEO, that you're a CEO of a major company, you're paid a lot of money to make your company successful. I mean that's the goal. Your pay and you will your job will rise and fall on the success of your company. That's what a CEO that's what happens with a CEO. They paid a ton of money to do it. For example, I look it up. In 2023, Boeing CEO, David Calhoun His total compensation was $32. 8 million in one year. It's mind-blowing. How do you avoid all those taxes? Most of it was paid in stocks. Now, um that's a lot of money. And so I imagine you're getting paid, you know, $32. 8 million dollars to make the company successful You might want to know what success looks like. Right? I mean, you know, that that might be a good thing. If they just say, oh, just make us successful, that's not very helpful. But instead, most companies, they have metrics they go by. They have, for example, a certain amount of revenue that needs to be brought in by in in the next year. Or the net worth of the company, or there might be other specific metrics that they're going by that would then cause Success to be defined in a very specific way. This is what the law does. The law provides metrics. for what is righteous. What is true about the character of God? And and God's whole plan of salvation establishes the law in two ways. First It shows we can't fulfill it. You can literally take the metrics of the law, the sp even just the Ten Commandments, and you can list the Ten Commandments, and you can know by very specific metrics. That you fall short of the glory of God. It's not just the general phrase, all of a sudden it comes short of the glory of God. Yes, that's true. But why? Because of the because you have lied. You have lied and so have I. You have stolen and so have I. You can look and see specifically that you are going to fail. James 2 10 says this way, whoever shall keep the whole law and yet stumble in one point, he's guilty of all. So that, according to Galatians chapter 3, verse 24 Therefore, the law was a tutor to bring us to Christ that we might be justified by faith. It's basically the law is there for us to go, I can't do it. I can't match up to that standard. I never will. It can't happen. But the law is established in another way. And this is very important as well. The law is established. By specifically showing that Christ did fulfill it. Okay, we can't, but when Christ came to earth and lived a perfect life, he did fulfill the law Matthew chapter 5, verse 17 says this, do not think that I came to destroy the law of the prophets. I did not come to destroy, but to fulfill. And so when Jesus came and he lived his life, he lived his life. perfectly keeping all of the metrics of the character of God in the law. So that when he dies for us, when he died for us, we can look at his life and we can say, he's qualified and more importantly God says he's qualified to be able to be that perfect sacrifice to take our sin on himself so that we could have our sins forgiven. The law serves an extremely important purpose. It's not nullified. It's not voided. The Bible says it's established by what Jesus did for us. That's why Jesus, by the way, couldn't just come and die. He had to live a perfect life. That the three and a half years of life, well the the 33 years, actually, the three and a half years of ministry, the 33 and a half years of life that he lived was extremely important. So that he is the second Adam. He did what the first Adam failed to do. And so he establishes the law. Now, I want us to think through these points. Very important here. These four points. The gospel satisfies the justice of God. Why does the cross work? The cross works because it satisfies the justice of God. Number two, it excludes any self-glory. Number three, it extends a universal offer. And number four, it upholds God's righteous standard. Now what we have seen I'll tell you what I'll tell you what we haven't seen in this passage. The cross makes me really wealthy. The cross makes me feel better about myself. The cross makes me, you know, solves all my problems, it heals all my sicknesses. That's not what we see in the passage Because of this reason, what you see as you go through this passage is this. The cross is all about satisfying God, not us. It is God it is God focused, not man-centered. Now this is so important for us to understand. In fact, when we present the gospel, it's important for us to present it in this way. There are some people that come to Christ for very selfish motives, selfish reasons. And that might be the problem in their discipleship. God saves you not for you, he saves you for him. For his glory, but he also does save you for you. Why? Because of this, because God created you to glorify himself. Okay, in other words, God is salvation Causes you to get back into compliance, and actually we're growing in our whole lives through this, get back into compliance So that we can do what we were created to do in the first place, to glorify him. We can't apart from the cross, but we can with the cross. And so we have to trust him. See, there's something else in the passage that I want to make point out. Did you notice how many times faith is mentioned in this passage? Many times. Verse 25, through faith. Verse 26, justified by the one who has faith. 27, the law of faith. 28, man is justified by faith. It's all over the place. Next verse verse 30. Who's circumcised by faith? The uncircumcised are through faith. Do not make void the law through faith. I mean faith is all through this passage. The key is trusting if the key is faith. So why is that important? It's important for this reason. To come to Christ, you need to understand that God wants you to be related to Him He wants you to be able to be in right relationship to him so that you can glorify him. That means then that it's going to require you to live the life that God wants you to live rather than living the life that you want to live Now, you can't come to Christ by living the life that you want to live. That won't work. That's self-effort. But understand that the purpose that God saves you Is so that he can do what he wants to with you. So that he can make you what he wants you to be, ultimately in the image of Christ one day. And you know what that requires? It requires faith. It requires us to begin by faith, and frankly, for Christians, it requires for us to live by faith. See, living by faith says, Lord, I will do whatever you want me to do and go wherever you want me to go. However best it will glorify you. That's faith. There's some people that they've thought about Christianity. But they've said, you know, I want to live my own life. I want to do things the way I want to do them. Christ and I'll accept Christianity at the end of my life after I've done the fun things that I want to do. Have you ever heard that kind of thing before? They missed the whole point. Instead, God desires for us to say, no. Lord, I will submit my life to you in faith and trusting you. Have you done that before? Have you come to the place where you understand your sin and your need of a savior, and have you trusted Christ to be your Savior so that So that he can make you what he wants you to be. You're a Christian. And we see here the Bible says we not only need to come to Christ by faith, we need to live by faith. We need to live The best life that we can live is not one where we get what we want. It's one where God gets what he wants. And that is the best life we can live. It's literally what God wants us to live, which is going to be the best we can live. And so will you trust him by faith? If you're if you're here this morning and you say, no Um, I don't know where I stand with the Lord. I don't know if I really have access to God The way that you speak of it. I don't know if I've really placed my dependence upon what Christ has done for me on the cross. Let me encourage you, come and talk with me. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know For sure that you are a child of God, that you can begin to live the life that God intended you to live. That you the wrath of God can be satisfied. So that you can live a life that glorifies Him, that is the most meaningful, fulfilling life that you'll ever live, because it's lit because it's literally the life that God desires for you Let's pray together. Father, we come to you this morning and we praise you. We thank you for the truth of your word We thank you for that the cross really does work. It works. It does exactly what you intended it to do. It saves sinners. It brings people into a right relationship with you. And I pray, Lord, that if there is anybody here today that doesn't know where they stand with you, I pray today would be the day that that you would work in their hearts, help them to realize that living for self is a life wasted That they have the opportunity to literally live the life that you intended for them to live as a created being and created to glorify you. And help them to come to Christ. I pray for the rest of us, Lord, that those of us who know Christ as our Savior, help this to be a reminder to us that we walk by faith and not by sight. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Gunam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, may the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.