Well, good morning. Would you bow your hearts with me as we go to the Lord? Heavenly Father, we come with grateful hearts this morning. We are so thankful because of who you are. You are worthy of all praise and all honor and all glory. You are a gracious God, a merciful God. You are holy, holy, holy. All of your ways are right and true. And Father, in your holiness and in your greatness, You reached down to us. And you showed great love to us by sending your only begotten Son, Jesus. to die on the cross, taking the sin of the world upon himself, that we might become your children by placing our faith And our trust in what He has done at the cross on our behalf. And we're thankful and grateful this morning that you raised him from the grave and he is now seated at your right hand, interceding on our behalf. We thank you for the privilege to be able to come before your throne through the blood of Christ. And Father, we lift up those who are unable to be here today. Lord, and we ask your continued blessing upon them and that Father they can be able to Hear your word this morning, and we just ask God that your good hand would be upon them, your spirit would be working mightily in them. We ask for protection around them and provision for them And we ask for those who are not feeling well that Father you would sustain them and comfort them and bring them back to healing. And Father, they could be with us again soon. And Father, we thank you for your word this morning, and may you take all the chatter and all the noise that we've been involved in this week and help us to set it aside this morning. That we would hear you hear from you and that we'd be led by your spirit. And I pray for Pastor Jim Lord and I pray for him that you'll give him strength. And sustain him as he brings forth your word, Lord. And that uh our ears would be open and our hearts and our minds would be focused upon you and your word. That in all things you would be glorified and lifted up, and that we would be changed different from when we came in than when we go out from what we've heard in your word. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen We are going to be reading Scripture this morning from 1 Peter 5, verses 1 through 4. 1 Peter 5, verses 1 through 4 The elders who are among you, I exhort. I am a fellow elder and a witness of the suffering of Christ, and also a partaker of the glory that will be revealed Shepherd the flock, which is among you, serving as overseers, not by compulsion, but willingly, not for dishonest gain, but eagerly nor as being lords over those entrusted to you, but being examples to the flock And when the chief shepherd appears, you will receive the crown of glory that does not fade away. So on the heels in First Peter on the heels of Peter addressing the entire church about the issue of suffering and persecution and how we should respond and what God is doing in his overall plan. He now turns his attention particularly to elders. He says he's now going to address elders. It says, the elders who are among you, I exhort. So formally this is written to me and to Enrique because formally those are the two people that this is written to, but you'll notice that this was inscripturated for all to read. It's not like Peter said, okay, let me set send a separate letter to the to the elders. This is incorporated into the the writings for all people to to read and to glean from, even though it is formally written particularly to the elders. And I think there might be a couple of reasons for that. As we go through this, you're going to see, I'm going to be referencing church leaders and pastors and elders a lot as we go through this. You're going to see what what exactly Um I'm supposed to be doing and and reminded of what I'm supposed to be doing and what elders are supposed to be doing. Uh and so there's a and and I think you'll be able to pray for me. a little better, more intelligently, perhaps. Or be reminded to pray for me and for for Enrique. And beyond that, there's going to be application for all of us, as all of us are leaders in different ways. But he is, Peter is addressing particularly elders for this reason. During persecution and suffering and when the world is going crazy, The brunt, a church leader's pastors usually get the first brunts of persecution We we saw that, didn't we, even through even through the pandemic when uh one pastor up in Canada was the the they didn't go after the church, they went after the pastor of the church. uh and put him in jail uh for for preaching if you remember that situation. And that is typical. O even in the first century you have pastors like the ch Church of Ephesus. Polycarp was in prison. Most of the apostles at one time or another were in And and so you have the leaders of the church that are getting the first brunts of persecution, and they're there's, you know, they need to be encouraged. This passage is actually to encourage church leaders, to encourage elders, to encourage pastors. The other thing that that goes on during times of suffering, when it becomes hard to assemble, when it becomes when there's a cost to gathering together. And by cost I don't mean oh I gotta get up a little earlier. I mean cost as in in you might your you know your life might be at risk if you go assemble. Or you might end up in jail if you assemble. Those kind of things. When there's a real cost Unfortunately, what happens is some Christians don't, they they defect. Or some prof I should say this way, some professing professing Christians defect from the faith. They leave the faith. Or they leave the assembly, but by doing so they end up leaving the faith. They can't live up to the cost of discipleship that is that it that clearly comes about when persecution occurs uh in a church setting. And I wanted to re remind us really that that the United States over the last several hundred years have has lived in a bubble where we have not experienced a lot of persecution in this country, but over church history, the majority of chur of the chur church throughout church history has uh experience some level of persecution. And and even if we don't have and I mean it certainly could be coming here, there's no question about that, coming faster than we want to admit. But even if we don't have persecution now, there is there are uh difficulties and troubles and problems that our particular culture impresses on us that very frankly makes it hard to be a church leader. If you recall It used to be, you know, fifty years ago, maybe a hundred years ago, that being a pastor in this country, people saw that as a as a positive thing if you were a pastor. They would sort of see that at you know in a positive light. But that is that is largely becoming not the case anymore. Where it's almost a negative like negative thing. I get all kinds of looks when I tell somebody I'm a pastor. Sometimes if they have any you know any uh sort of church connection then they're then they're not negative negative about that. But some they're like, why would you do that kind of a thing? Even when I was growing up, actually, I had some of my unsafe family and said, Why would you waste your life on something like that? You could be a lawyer or or anything, you know, something something that really means something. And uh and uh and so that's the kind of thing that that you'll you'll hear you know that pastors uh do face today. In fact, I was looking up some statistics and I was quite amazed by some of the things that that are our going pastors are going through right now In fact, 90% feel they are inadequately trained to cope with the ministry demands, and 90% of pastors said that the ministry was completely different than what they thought it would be like before they entered the ministry. Actually I would agree with that. I it is different than I thought it would what I thought it would be when I entered the ministry. Seventy percent of pastors constantly fight depression, and 50% of pastors feel so discouraged that they would leave the ministry if they could, but have no other way of making a living. 80% believe pastoral ministry has negatively affected their families, and 80% of spouses feel the pastors overworked and feel left out and underappreciated by church members. 70% do not have someone they consider a close friend, and 40% report serious conflict with a parishioner at least once a month. Fifty percent of the ministers starting out will not last five years. Fifty percent. And I would just say uh these statistics hold true in my experience. Most of I I I think easily 50% of the men that I went to seminary with are no longer in the ministry. I think that's probably easy. Uh one out of every ten ministers will actually retire as a minister in some form. One out of ten. Ten percent. 40,000 new churches begin each year while seven I'm sorry, four thousand rather, four thousand churches begin each year while seven thousand churches close. Pastors can easily get cynical uh because the people because they're working with people. I mean that's the reality of your dealing with when and I think that's the thing that that many pastors when they go into the ministry they they have a certain m mentality about the ministry but the reality is you're working with people. I remember when I was interning under my mentor uh one of my mentors anyway, he said, Jim, the thing you're going to have to watch out for is you don't you can't get cynical. Don't get cynical in the ministry. Because the reality is people are hard headed. Frankly, pastors are I'm hard-headed too. Uh we are. We don't listen very well. And that's why God likens us to sheep, by the way. And I'm one of those sheep. And I'm hardheaded and I'm dumb. And you are too. That's a great message, right? Like I can go home now, actually. Alright? We don't listen to the word of God very well. And we don't heed it as well as we ought to. And so it can become very, very discouraging to be in the ministry. And yet, God, uh Paul, or I'm sorry, Peter here and God, of course, wants pastors to be encouraged. So how are you going to encourage, how is Peter going to encourage pastors as they face a time where it's difficult for them to be a pastor. How are elders going to be um going to be encouraged? Well, we're going to see three things here in this passage. First, he's going to motivate them biblically. We're going to see biblical motivation in this passage. Then he's going to remind them of their responsibility. And then he's going to inspire them with a prospect of eternal rewards. He's first going to motivate them biblically. Here's biblical motivation. Remind them of their responsibility and inspire them with the prospect of eternal reward. So first by motivating them biblically. So he's going to do that in the ver first verse here. It says, 1 Peter 5, verse 1, The elders who are among you, I exhort. And I am I who am all am a fellow elder, a witness of the sufferings of Christ, and also a partaker of the glory that will be revealed. He first tells them he's an elder. Now, Peter, we know was an apostle, right? He was one of the twelve apostles. He says in this passage that he's an elder. He's going to use the word shepherd in the next verse, and he'll also use the word bishop or overseer in the next verse. In fact, this passage is how we know that they are all the same office. The pastor, elder, overseer, bishop. All of those are the same office. They're not different offices. They're the same office, and we see the word elder most frequently used in the New Testament of all the words. And Peter is saying, as an apostle, I am also an elder. He's saying that very likely to demonstrate something that the peop that the people, the elders that he would be speaking to would need to understand, hey, I'm speaking from personal experience. I know what you're going through. Frankly, one of the things that pastors struggle with and deal with is is a kind of a loneliness where they don't they feel as though nobody really understands what they're going through. Nobody really can can identify with what they're going through except other pastors And there is a sense in which whether you're a mom with small children or a pastor or a whatever other uh uh uh unique uh uh uh position, role you fill, I I I would never be able to pretend that I know what it's like. You know, if a mother is is talking to me about her small children, the struggle that she has on a day-to-day basis, never would I say, yeah, I know exactly what you're going through 'Cause I have no idea what you're going through. It looks really hard to me. In fact I'd rather be a pastor, pretty sure. But uh but um but y I don't know what you're going through, but there's a s and there's a sense of l uh uh uh e uh with these different hard things that we do where there's a loneliness that happens. People don't understand. They don't know what you're going through. That's why sometimes it's really good to get together with other pastors. Uh but uh but Peter is saying here, I'm an elder, I know what you're going through. There's a lot of things that we could say about this, about the ol whole idea of being an elder. the use of the word elder in scripture. We won't take the time to go through that. It's used throughout the book of Acts. I will just point this out to you that it functions in the New Testament as a plurality most often. In fact, every time the word elder is used in the New Testament is it is uh nearly every time, if not every time, it's plural. And so it is if the Lord provides more than one pastor in a church, it's why we have two elders. here and would would would welcome more if the Lord provides. The Lord provides qualified men, it's ideal to have more than one elder. In James chapter five verse fourteen, when someone is sick among you it says, let call for the elders plural of the church. In 1 Timothy 5, verse 7, it says, the elders plural who rule wealth be counted worthy of double honor, especially those who labor in the word and in doctrine. In Acts fourteen twenty three it says, for when they have up had appointed elders, plural, in every church. By the way, that's one of the most clear passages that tells you it's not elders in all churches, it's elders in every church, which which really indicates that it's plurality of elders in individual churches. That's Acts 14. 23. So that's really what God's ideal is. And I just sort of mentioned that, understanding what the elder bishop pastor role is. Now there is a distinction in Scripture between a pastor, a senior pastor, and an elder as well. For example, in first and Timothy. Timothy and Titus and other people they were they were senior pastors. They were laboring in the word. which was a distinctive role of a of an elder who was a pastor who preached the word on a constant basis. And so there is a distinction there in Scripture as well. Now all that to say that he says there is I am also an elder and he says to them to this, I uh uh Peter says, I'm in a unique unique position because I'm an elder. But I also witnessed the sufferings of Christ. I was with Jesus when he suffered. I know what that looks like from a personal level, but I also am a witness of the sufferings of Christ. And uh and then he says this, we're gonna uh uh there in fact the term sufferings is very frequently associated with the glories, and he says, and a he says a witness of the sufferings of Christ And a partaker of the glory that will be revealed. And over and over, Peter has this correlation between the sufferings of Christ and the glory that will be revealed. It says it in 1 Peter 1. 7, again in verse 11, again in verse 21, and again here in 1 Peter 5. 4, and it will say it again in 5. 10. Over and over you have this this correlation between suffering And glory, suffering and glory, suffering and glory, suffering and glory. And you remember what we said the last couple of times we were in 1 Peter? We said that God uses life's suffering to prepare us. to be glorified with Christ. Do you remember that? And God is working in our lives to bring us to Christ's likeness. And the only way that's going to happen is if we go through sufferings. Now, I want you to notice this. He is now going to take that principle and apply it particularly to church leaders. What's he doing? He's saying this. He's saying, church leader, you're going through a unique kind of ministry suffering. But just like everyone else, including you, are going through sufferings of life, and I'm going to use them to grow you and make you Christ-like. I'm going to use your ministry sufferings the same way in your life as a Christian. This is actually an extremely important thing for a pastor to understand. He does go, a pastor does go through through unique ministry trials that most people will never really grasp, will never really understand. And sometimes pastors get a little bit of a victim mentality. I know nobody else ever gets that, but but sometimes pastors will sort of say, oh man, I got you know the ministry is so hard, it's so terrible, it's awful. And sort of feel like why um you know, why do I gotta keep doing this? And sort of feel like they're a victim of people. And if you get into that mentality, then they're you're gonna have a hard time appl doing what God wants you to do. And what Peter is actually saying is you've got to understand, a pastor, a leader has got to understand that the suffering of the ministry or the trials of the ministry, the unique challenges of the ministry God is using those in your life to grow you to be more like Christ. That is extremely important for every ministry leader to understand. So that you do go through trials that are unique to being in the ministry, but the the outcome is the same as everyone else. to make you more Christ-like. And actually I would also apply that to the pastor's family and Ellers' family. I'd apply it this way. There are certain challenges that the family of an elder or pastor has to go through. There are certain things that are struggles and challenges. They're in a fishbowl like nobody else is. There are just challenges that have to happen. And it's very easy for a pastor to sort of resent the ministry because, as we read, 80% of them feel like their families are being negatively affected. And what a pastor actually has to do is he actually has to realize, no, actually God in his sovereignty has placed me into the ministry. He's placed my family as a team of people helping me in the ministry. And God is actually going to use the ministry for their good as well to grow them as well. And He has to have that perspective. If he does, then he everything in the ministry is for my good and for God's glory, and everything in the ministry is good for my kids and my family, too, as long as God keeps me in the ministry. It puts a new perspective on everything that I will I need to be faithful in serving the Lord, faithful in ministry. And my family needs to come alongside me and be faithful in ministry in such a way that we all know that this is for God's glory, and we're all going to grow through this no matter what the challenges are. And when you have that perspective, you don't resent the ministry anymore. And I think if if pastors will get a hold of that truth, frankly. You'd have less people being resentful of the ministry. And and you'd have less than maybe maybe the the it wouldn't be fifty percent would fall out in the first five years. In some cases, maybe they wouldn't go in the first place, and maybe that's part of the problem. Because as as somebody told me in our our church, you've got to be called or crazy, and I think that's probably right. So as we move on to the next text here, I want us to notice then. So secondly, how are they encouraged? Well, he reminds them of their responsibility. Notice. In verses 2 through 3, he says, he gives two commands here. The first one is shepherd the flock of God which is among you. Chapter 5, verse 2. Shepherd the flock of God. It's the word poyman in the Greek, it's the word shepherd. Shepherd the flock of God, which is among you. Now there's a couple of things that it's that a point. I'll make one observation. That is, it says, Shepherd the flock of who? God's flock. Whose flock is it? It's God's flock. It's not the shepherd's flock. He's the under-shepherd And that's important to understand. Elders are stewards of God's flock, not their flock. It's not my people, it's God's people. And occasionally I'll hear a pastor say that, my people. And if you're saying it the same way, you might say as a father, my family, I can live with that, but it's really better to say it's God's people that I've been entrusted with. And so he says, shepherd the flock of God. Well, what is the idea? What does Peter mean when he uses the word shepherd? And we we find actually exactly what he means, I think, in John chapter twenty-one. Will you take your Bible and turn there for a moment? John twenty-one Remember, it's Peter speaking here in 1 Peter, and Jesus had some very clear things to tell Peter when Jesus was on earth. And we'll pick up in John 21, and we find this account where Jesus approaches Peter and he says to Peter something very precise after his resurrection. John 21, verse 15 through 17. Remember, Peter is denied Christ three times. Christ did die. He rose from the grave. Now he's meeting up with Peter again. And he says this in verse 15. So when they had eaten breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me more than these? And he said to him, Yes, Lord, I know that I love you. He said to him, Feed my lambs. Now that word feed is a different word. Word means feed. That's what it means. To give food to. Feed my lambs. He says, if you love me, feed my lambs. And then he says, verse 16, and he said to him again, a second time, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me? Okay? And what does he say? Yes, Lord, I know that you love you. And this time he says, and in the New King James it says, tend my sheep. It uses a different word because it is a different word in the Greek. Okay? But it means the same. It's that word here, shepherd, shepherd my sheep. So what do you have here as a correlation? How is it? What is the primary way that God that God's shepherd shepherds the sheep The under shepherd, shepherds, the sheep. It's by feeding. The number one role of the pastor is to be in the pulpit feeding the sheep. And you find that also where it says that the elder is kind of worthy of double honor, especially those who labor in the word and in doctrine. What the sheep need more than anything else is to be fed. And God says to Peter, if you love me, you're going to feed my sheep. And he says to pastors and elders, if you love me, you need to feed. You need a shepherd by feeding. And that's why some of the translations it has the word feed there. It's not the word feed, but it's basically what God wants us to do. to feed God's people through the preaching of the Word of God. But it's not just feeding God's people. There's more than that. And the second part of what he says, the second command here, he says, serving as overseers. Overseers. Or it really could be translated overseeing. It's a verb there. It's the verb form of overseer, which is overseeing. To oversee. God says, not only should you feed and shepherd my people, but you need to oversee them. What does it mean here when it says oversee? Well, the word overseer is also throughout the New Testament to talk about the shepherd. In fact, in the 1 Timothy chapter 3, it says, if a man desire the office of a, and it's that word, overseer, it's the same word here. If a man desires the office of an overseer, he desires a good thing. Well, the overseer is a very broad term. It basically covers everything. It means, just uh in a sense, that the pastor is not just a chaplain. Pastor is not just one who preaches the word and counsels and then he doesn't do he doesn't have any involvement in anything else. Everybody else leads in different ways. And you know, there's some p churches that will do that in their in in how they approach things. They'll sort of say, Well, you preach the word and we'll handle everything else and you you're not supposed to do anything else. No, actually that's not what scripture says about the pastor. The pastor to be leading in all he's to be overseeing everything. Overseeing all aspects of the ministry. That's why he actually says in one place to Timothy, he said, you should be ministers, which is actually the word deacon. So even though the pastor is not a deacon, he can do some of the deaconing work. It's not so much that he can't lift a hand to do anything except preaching. He is to oversee. But particularly in this context, it seems to be indicating something else. The way this word is used, it's actually only translated this way, one other time in the New Testament, this way. And it's found in Hebrews 12, verse 14, where it says this Pursue peace with all people and holiness, without which there which no one will see the Lord. Looking carefully lest anyone fall short of the grace of God. It is the role of the pastor to shepherd the flock in such a way that he is watching carefully. He's looking, the elders, that's why it's not ideal to do it alone. It's better to do it in a plurality. He's watching carefully lest someone would fall away. He's looking carefully lest someone would would would fall away from the faith, would falter in the faith. He's watching carefully To be honest with you, this one I think is harder than preaching the word in the sense of knowing how far I I should put go as an as a as an elder. How far should I go into meddling with somebody's life? How far should I go into being an you know am I a busybody if I ask too many questions? Or am I being nosy or out you know, what should I you know Th those things are always you know a struggle for me. I'm seeing things I'm concerned about, how do I approach it? What's the best way? Do I just keep it to myself? Do I pray about pray about everything? That's number one, that's for sure. But the Bible actually says in Hebrews 13, verse 17, Obey those who have rule over you and be submissive, for they watch for your souls. As those who must give account, let them do it with joy and not with grief, for that would be unprofitable for you. So God calls the elder to watch out for people, for his flock to look out for them. When I was in seminary they likened the the the role of the pastor to a sheepdog. He's not the the shepherd in the sense of a chief shepherd. He's the sheepdog look looking around and making sure that that that the sheep are staying together and the sheep are being fed properly and they're doing all you know those kind of things. He's a sheepdog. I kind of like that illustration. So he's supposed to watch carefully. Oversee, to watch carefully, and to feed the flock. Now, then we have several things, several ways that he's not supposed to do this. He's not supposed to do this in a couple of different ways. Would you notice what it says in the passage? It says verse 3 Nor, first of all, not by compulsion, but willingly. Number one, how should he not be doing this? He should not be doing it by compulsion, but he should be doing it willingly. Now this word compulsion is only here in the New Testament. It's no other place. And I was, you know, I was reading I was I said, well but it I you know the way I study I'm looking at the words and I'm looking okay where how also they use in other places in the New Testament and there's no this is used only here. And then I said, well, maybe I'll get a little help with willingly, and that's only used once in in uh in another place in the New Testament. These are all very unique words. So, what does he mean when he says compulsion? Don't do it by compulsion. Don't do it out of forced obligation. Don't do it feeling forced. And then the contrast is, but do it willingly. Well in Hebrews 10, verse 26, we have the only other place that the word willingly is used. And it says, for if we sin willingly after we re we receive the knowledge. So willfully, willingly, it's the idea of doing something deliberately, doing something intentionally. And what God is telling elders to do is that they need to lead intentionally. They need to shepherd intentionally. It needs to be deliberate. It needs to be willingly. But don't do it in a way where you feel as though you're being forced to. Like it's somehow you can't do anything else. Now that's that's interesting. Because I think a lot of pastors unfortunately do pastor that way. They feel as though they can't do anything else. They feel as though they are just They're just in this and there's nothing they can do about it. And God is actually warning warning them not to do that. Peter's saying, don't do it that way. Well, why is that? I mean just think practically. Why is it that somebody that God would want to warn us about serving in a way where we feel obligated and forced to do it? Because if you feel that you are forced to do something and there's no inward desire to do it, what's going to happen? You're going to burn out. You're not going to last very long. No wonder pastors are only lasting, fifty percent of pastors are only lasting the first five years Because the ministry's hard and there's suffering and there's difficulty and if you're not careful, you can get into a mode. I can get into a mode Where I just feel like my I gotta do this. I got no choice. I'm forced to do it. I don't really wanna be doing this. And and it and if you you can have feelings like that, I hope, because I do occasionally, but if you get into that mindset Like this past week I had 102 temperature and I'm studying and I'm going I'm reading this and I'm going I'm really doing this because I feel obligated and I had to sort of wrestle with myself on this a little bit. But if you have that mindset generally, if that's your my if that's a pastor's mindset, he is he is going to be a skeleton of what he should be. As a pastor. So God warns them about this. Not by compulsion, but willingly And then it says, not as lords over God's heritage, not as lords over who got whom the Lord has entrusted to you. Don't lord over them. So God says, watch, uh be aware. Help them, not Stray away and be uh mindful. But on the other hand, he says, do not be lords over God's heritage. Do not Do not lord over them. The role of the ministry is not one of privilege. It's one of responsibility. It's not one of status. It's not one where I'm here and everybody else is down here. God says, don't do it that way. God, Christ is the Lord, and you are a shepherd, an under-shepherd of Christ. who is a steward, a servant of Christ, who is to be watching for the souls of people and feeding the people, but don't do it in a way where I am pulling rank all the time. If a pastor is pulling rank over all the time, for example. Well then you know there's a problem. If he's constantly saying, Well I'm the pastor, just do it the way I say. Well then you know that there's a problem. The only time I've I don't recall ever doing that that often. One time I did it, I said it jokingly. And it didn't go over well. This is not in this church, as a previous pastor. And I was I was really halfway joking. And I said, We're doing that way because I'm the pastor, and I said so. And I was halfway joking and some people took it very seriously. That was a mess. But anyway, so I've never said it since, I don't think. Um But on the other hand, um Uh what's the idea here? Well the idea here is that a pastor is to, a shepherd is to lead, not push behind. He leads from ahead. Not pushes from behind. Does that make sense? So it says, not as being lords over God's heritage, but being an example to the flock. He goes ahead. And leads by example, and people are to follow. That's why Paul said, follow me as I follow Christ. So a he is to lead by example. He is one who is not a privilege of you do what I say, not what I do. No, I'm going to do this for you and I'm going to show you and would you come along? And and and really there's a sense in which a pastor should never ask somebody to do something he isn't really willing to do himself. That's the kind of servant leadership that is talked about in this passage, and something that we need to be mindful of. uh not lords over gods and heritage, but being an example of following. Now I'm not saying that a pastor or elder should never exert authority. You know when an elder should should exert strong authority? I'll tell you, there's three three instances. I've said this many times When it's when it's on biblic when something's going on, it's a biblical, moral, or ethical issue. When it's a biblical, moral, or ethical issue Do then suddenly I get real strong on it. And I say we're not doing this because the Bible says we should not do it. Or the Bible says we are doing this and we we better do it Or that is immoral. I'm not moving. I'm not moving on this. It's immoral. Or that is unethical. I'm not moving on it. That's when when you have the Word of God as your basis. See, this is the only real authority. for the pastor. The elders are this is the authority. So you ought to have really good footing before you say my way or the highway. It really ought to be it's this word's way or the highway. And in those situations, then a pastor and elder should be very strong and very authoritative according to what God's word says. Secondly, uh thirdly, rather, it says, not for dishonest gain, but eagerly. Don't do this for dishonest gain. Now, there's all kinds of passages that I could go over. Paul talks about how he was careful not to do this in 1 Corinthians chapter 11. Verses 7 through 15, you could look at that where he went to the church of Corinth and he said, I didn't even ask you for any money at all. I served you faithfully, and there were actually other people that supported me so that I could serve you without expecting anything from you. And so he was very careful not to do that. I I I read you know, I look at this and it says, not for dishonest gain gain, but doing it eagerly. The idea is doing it because you really want to do it. And I think I think there's a lot of things I could say about this, but I'll just point this out. Certainly, there should be no dishonesty when it comes to what the pastor receives uh in his compensation. It should all it should all be very upfr up front. And we are here, by the way. The other thing I think that is important here is this. I'll illustrate it this way. When I was in a different church, I was pastoring in a different church. Um the just a clerical error, I I got a uh I was supposed to get a paycheck and I didn't get it on time. And um so I just you know went through I went through Sunday and preached and I called the treasurer on Monday. I said, Hey, I I think I'm missing a pay I I think I was supposed to get a paycheck. And he said, oh man. He looked at the records. He said, oh man, I sure I you know he said, yeah, I'm sorry, uh I really I I messed up on that. We don't want to w we we definitely want you to be able to we want you to preach next Sunday. And he was he was actually serious. He wasn't joking. At first I laughed, ah yeah, yeah, funny. Uh he wasn't s he wasn't joking. Uh they had had a previous pastor who actually when he didn't get a paycheck wouldn't he just didn't show up in the pulpit. Now folks, that is not see see The Bible tells God's people to to pay the one who's laboring in the Word. It says that. But on the other hand, the role of the pastor i if if you don't do this please, but if you don't give me a paycheck If if you don't give me a paycheck, I'm still going to be in the pulpit. Okay. And so and so um and so the m the mindset, the the motivation for serving the Lord is I'm going to serve the Lord and do what God has called me to do and by the way I I'm I need to get paid for it. Not I'm getting paid for it first. That ha you know if you work a job You could say, if I'm not getting uh if I'm not getting paid, I'm not working that job. That's perfectly fine. I would expect anybody of that. It's different when it's in the ministry. If for some reason I couldn't get paid, I would still be the pastor here. And so that mindset has to be the mindset of a of a pastor, which is different than the mindset I wrote down just very quickly, I the point that Peter is making with all this is Elders, pastors, you need to want to be where God wants you. You need to desire. It says in 1 Timothy 3, if a man desires, that's a strong desire to be in the ministry. If he desires the office of a minister, if he desires the office of a bishop, he desires a good thing. This is to want to, to really desire, to love it. And I personally, just by way of application, I took some time and I said, you know, I need to make sure that I'm cultivating a love for the ministry. That I think about that. I think that's part of what Paul was saying when he told Timothy to stir up the gift. I think what part of what he was saying was You need to cultivate this God-given desire. And I wrote down, this is just personal that I'm sharing with you. I wrote down five things I love about the ministry. These are just practical things. I said, I wrote down number one, I love the process of discovering truth from God's word, delivering it to God's people And seeing God use it in people's lives. I absolutely love that. I love every part of that. I love the fact that I get to dig into God's word and study it. And it is hard work, by the way. It's not easy. I love the fact that I can dig into God's word, harvest the truth, present it to you, and then watch God's people use it in their lives to glorify him. to see it chang in people's lives to change them from the inside out. It's a slow process actually. But I I love that about the ministry. I I number one I uh number two I put I get a front row seat to watching the Holy Spirit apply biblical truth and change people's lives and transform families. I get a front row seat to that. There are there's counseling that I do and and uh and um interactions that I have with people in our church and just in the ministry that yes, it's gut-wrenching. It's hard and it's their sin abounds and their struggles and their problems and that's the hard part of the ministry. But the other side is sometimes I get to see the gospel applied in such a way where it transforms a life. Where it changes a person's outlook, where it they grow, where they get past this, where God uses it. And I see it on an intimate level that other people don't get to see, frankly. And that that just thrills my soul. That keeps me going, I'll just let you know. Uh when I see that. Number three, I love pe I love the people I'm called a pastor, and I'm thankful that I believe most of them love me as well. I put most just in case somebody doesn't, but anyway. Number four, I love the fact that my family has a place of ministry to keep them from getting self centered. Honestly, I'm I'm glad that my you know a family if they don't have a place of ministry they're gonna get self-centered, they're gonna think it's all about them. And I want my family to be serving in the ministry with me because they realize it's not all about them. And I'm glad that my that my family has a place of ministry. Number five, I'm often I often get a s a front row seat when l love is expressed from one another in the body of Christ. I don't know, I'm sure I don't always get the front row seat, but sometimes I'm aware of how one person in the body of Christ is showing love and meeting a need in the other by the other body of Christ. And they're not necessarily telling me I'm just hearing about it from somebody or something like that. It's not like everybody's coming in and saying, look what I did. That's not that doesn't really happen here, thankfully. Uh no, I just see it and I'm aware of it and I'm I And I get to see that. I get to s you know, I think there's some people that you know, sometimes uh people sort of get the impression that, oh, are we really showing love to each other? Well, we can always do better in that, but it does happen, I'll just let you know, and I get to see it On multiple I I love that about these are things I love about the ministry. See, that's important for any pastor and any elder i to to understand that these are things that I l that I I gotta I gotta wanna be here and love the ministry. There's a lot of problems and a lot of hard things and people don't listen very well and all kinds of things that can be really difficult. But those are the things that we have to cultivate so that I'm not doing this just because I feel forced. I'm doing it because I I love the Lord and I want to do his work in serving the Lord. So finally, then, how are we to be encouraged? How are leaders in the ministry to be encouraged? Number three, by inspiring them with the prospect of rewards. By inspiring them with a prospect of eternal rewards. And we find that in verse 4. It says this, and when the chief shepherd appears, you will receive the crown of glory that does not fade away. When the chief shepherd appears, you will receive the crown of glory that does not fade away. Now, I don't have a lot of time to go into a lot of detail on this. But I'll just say this first of all, when it says the chief shepherd appears, that's obviously Jesus Christ. He is clearly the chief shepherd. That means that every pastor is an under-shepherd. He is looking we are all to be looking forward to the time where the chief shepherd appears. That that's talking about the coming of Christ. We're looking forward to the day when the coming of Christ occurs. And we're anticipating for faithful preachers, for faithful elders, that they will receive a crown of glory that doesn't fade away. Now There is some debate as to whether or not this is a particularly special crown that only elders get versus one that everybody gets. And you could go either way with it in scripture. I tend to say that it's not a special crown. I think it's it's my crown that I'm going to get for being faithful to do what God's called me to do, just like you're going to be faith get a crown for being faithful to do what God's called you to do. But here is here is here is what he is here's actually the point of what he's saying. The point is that last phrase that fades not away. You know what he's actually pointing to, this whole idea of a crown? He's actually referencing the Olympic Games. And back in the yes, the Olympic Olympics go back that far. The Olympic Games, they would actually use they would have a crown of leaves. You've probably seen the Roman the Roman crown with leaves that are that that's and they would put those on people that won in the Games And what he is saying is you're going to get that that crown of leaves will fade. But the crown that you're going to get is eternal. It's an eternal reward. And there's actually a lot of mystery to what the rewards that we are going to get are. There's a there's a lot that's said and there's all and there's some mystery as well. But the one thing that is clear is this, that God desires for us to be faithful so that when He comes He can give us an eternal reward. In other words, he says, go through temporary suffering now to gain an eternal reward into the future. We just went through the Olympic Games, didn't we? Some of us watched them sometimes. It's amazing the sacrifices that that these athletes of gold. a medallion that actually is temporal. Okay, it's it they last you know their whole lives, but that's just their lives. And they will sac they will sacrifice, you know, in many cases everything. In fact, I was reading, in some cases, they'll sacrifice their families. In fact, they will do some unvery immoral things actually to be able to do what they're sacrificing everything for a temporal reward And what God is saying here is, you ought to be faithful, why? Because you are you can sacrifice everything. for an eternal reward. That's why God says again, Romans 8, he says, that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared to the glory that shall be revealed. And that is the case both for the believer, the church member, as well as the church leader, the elders. Now all of this brings us to a final conclusion. Number one, four things that we can learn from this. And I hope, actually, if I could just say it this way, I hope that This gives you a little bit more of an insight into what pastors go through. And I hope that actually you'll know how to pray for me a little bit more and tell it and uh Enrique. uh a little more intelligently how we should be uh executing the ministry, what we should be doing, what struggles we have, what things we you know pray, pray that God increase and increases and main you know and helps me with my love for him and for the ministry and for people and all that. Those things are so important. Number one, Christian leaders must realize that God uses ministry suffering to prepare them for the glory of Christ. Just like he uses life suffering to prepare us for the glory of Christ, he uses ministry suffering to prepare them for the glory of Christ. Number two. Christian leaders must continually cultivate a sincere, God-given desire for the ministry. You know the truth of the matter is if a pastor has a sustained hatred for the ministry, he needs to get out of it. That's just the reality. If he really doesn't want to work with people, if it's a day, fine, I get it. If it's a two if it's two days, okay, I get it. But if you're going for a sustained amount of time and you really just don't want to work with people, then get out of the ministry. On the other hand, cultivate desire, a love for the ministry, of God-given desire for ministry. Number three Christian leaders must avoid improper and fleshly motivations of greed and power. If somebody is being a pastor for money or for power, they are in the wrong business. Have no business being in the ministry for those reasons. And number four, Christian leaders must constantly submit themselves to the chief shepherd's will for his sheep Christian leaders must constantly submit themselves to the chief shepherd's will for his, Jesus', sheep. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and we I would say with the Apostle Paul, thank you for putting me into the ministry and forek into the ministry here as an Albert. And I pray, Lord, that you'd help us to most formally apply these things to our lives. There are many principles that we can all apply to our lives as Christians. Being faithful to what you called us to do and not having improper motives for serving you. Father, I pray, Lord, that you would uh You helped me to desire the ministry, to love the ministry, to love serving you, to love serving your people. Help me to grow in that. I know many people, many pastors, my senior, who that desire waned over time. I pray, Lord, that you and your spirit would would uh continue that in my heart. uh and in Rick's heart as well. Lord, I pray that you would uh you would work out these things in our lives. And I pray, Lord, that um that we would kind of be the kind of leaders and I I I would just pray for the leaders of this nation, for the pastors all over this nation, all over this state and I think of many of my friends um who s who go through various struggles I pray, Lord, that we would be encouraged by Peter's by Peter's exhortations for us, and that we would continue in the ministry until you return. Looking forward to the day where you'll come. And when you come, you'll bring us a crown that's eternal because we've been faithful to you. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. To have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon