Father, we thank you and praise. You for uh that love that we just sang about. And um the demonstration of that love and the sacrifice of He did not go because he was compelled to, he went willingly. According to your will. But certainly out of love for us, so that we could behold his love. And also so that we could have his righteousness applied to our account, so that we could be right with you. Anticipate the message that will very clearly, the text anyway, will very clearly teach us how to be right with you, what is needed to be right with you. I pray, Lord, that it would encourage us and challenge us. It would clarify for us. I imagine there are people here in this, even in this. In this room this morning, some who perhaps struggle with their confidence and their assurance of their own salvation. I pray that you would work in their lives. And there may be others, Lord, that are actually confident in something other than what your word says to be confident in. There is a there there are they think that they are all right, they think that they are safe, but perhaps they are not. There are others in this room, perhaps, that know you, certainly there are those who know you Know you, and there may be some who know you and know they don't. I pray that in every situation this morning you would work In our lives. Encourage us, teach us, challenge us, clarify for us And also, Lord, may we glory in the gospel of Christ this morning, as Paul did. It was what he lived for. And what he died for. And I pray that we would do the same. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. We're going to read just four verses this morning. That will be our text this morning for our morning message from Romans chapter three, and we'll be reading verses just twenty-one through twenty-four. Romans chapter three Very important words as we begin verse 21, but now The righteousness of God apart from the law is revealed, being witnessed by the law and the prophets. Even the righteousness of God Through faith in Jesus Christ to all and on all who believe. For there is no difference. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. What makes a good, healthy, close relationship? Think of your relationships. Your maybe relationship with a spouse or relationship with your kids or relationships with your parents. What makes a good healthy relationship? Think about go back, some of you are going to go back several years to when You were before you were married and you were before you were engaged and you were dating. What in the beginning stages of relationship, what needs to be established for that relationship to go well? Two things, I think. One is mutual interest, mutual love, mutual affection for each other. There's nothing worse than a relationship where one likes the other person, the other person doesn't. Um you know, the old days when in junior high where you you know you you you like somebody and you send them a note and say check yes if you do and check no if you don't I think it's a good idea. That way you got clarification, you know. I mean Uh so a mutual love, mutual of affection, mutual interest in each other, and the other is trust, mutual trust, mutual confidence that there is a trust in the relationship. Those two things are absolutely necessary in order for there to be a close, healthy relationship. And the same is true when it comes to Our relationship with the Lord. For example, our relationship with the Lord, somebody might think that they're saved. But they're not actually right with God. So God's relationship, his view toward them is not the same as their as their view toward them. him. Or um many know they're saved. They have assurance that they are saved and God's uh God's attitude toward them is the same as their attitude so you have a good confident close relationship. But then there are other two other categories. There are some who actually think that they are right with God, but are not. They believe that they're right with God, but they're not. Paul has been dealing with these kinds of people. Jesus dealt with these kinds of people. They're called self-righteous people. People that had confidence in their own selves on some level thought they were right with God, but in fact Confidence in self, you are if you are confident in yourself, you are definitely not right with God. And yet there are still some And that are right with God. They actually have come to Christ. They're right with God, but they struggle with doubts. They struggle with the the there's just a lack of assurance in their lives. Did you know that's possible? You know it's possible to actually be right with God, to have trusted Christ as Savior, and yet to struggle with assurance. This passage is going to greatly help people that are either they're they're say they they think they're right with God and aren't. Those are people that are self-righteous, or those who maybe be con they may be confused about them some things Usually the lack of assurance in a person in life means that there's something not quite right in their thinking, something that they're not really getting when it comes to the gospel. Paul, we've come to a place now where the Apostle Paul is going to really hit the very bullseye, the very Center of the gospel. He has gone at length to explain the gospel. This passage is about the gospel, but now he comes to a place Or he's really going to flesh it out for us. In fact, Lloyd Jones says this about these two words, verse 21, but now He says that these are that there are no more wonderful words in the whole of Scripture. There are no more wonderful words than all of the words of Scripture. But now. Well, why are these such wonderful words? Do you remember back in Romans chapter 1, all the way back in chapter 1? We found that the theme verses in for the whole book of Romans is in Romans chapter 1, verse 16, where it says, For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God to to salvation for everyone who believes. For the Jew first and also for the Greek. Verse 17. For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith, as is written, the just shall live by faith. Paul's desire for the people that he is writing to, and frankly for all of us, is that we would understand how to be right with God. Essentially, that's the gospel. The gospel is the righteousness of God conferred on somebody. Given to somebody, applied to somebody. And the passage here, the the the uh in Romans 6, uh chapter 1, verse 6, 1617 It says it is by faith that that happens. But Paul then has to take an extended amount of time, starting in verse 18, all the way through chapter 3, verse 20. To explain the hopeless, lost condition of everyone, that everyone is hopelessly lost because of sin. In verse 18, it says, For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who suppress the truth and unrighteousness. Verse after verse, chapter after chapter until we have gotten to where we are now, he emphasizes the importance of understanding that you and I are hopelessly lost in our sin, that we are headed for eternity without God And in fact, the majority of the world is blinded to that. Completely blind. Can't see it. They're actually blind in their own unrighteousness. Then he begins to explain this, explains how everybody is without excuse, and because the world shows that there is a create creator, because of the creation, there is a creator. He begins to explain this in Romans chapter 1. In Romans chapter 2, uh it talks how about the evil, Romans chapter 1 talks about the evil of people and how People can get into vile affections and all kinds of sinful things. Romans chapter 2 then he says, but the self-righteous are equally sinful. He explains how that is true as well. Until we pick up in Romans chapter 3. And I'd like you to notice verse 10. In Romans chapter 3, verses 10 through 20, which we saw a few weeks ago now, and I want to reread these because we've really got to make sure we understand them, at least a few of these verses. Where it says verse 10, there is none righteous, no, not one. There is none who understands. There is none who sees They have all turned aside. They have together become unprofitable. There is none who does good, no not one. Actually skip down to verse uh eighteen. There is no fear of God before their eyes. Now we know that whatever the law says, it says to those who are under the law, and every mouth may be stopped, and the world may be Therefore, by the deeds of the law no flesh will be justified in his sight, for by the law is the knowledge of sin. He really has got that, he's driving this point home that we are that everyone is hopelessly at lost, unable to follow the morality of the law. It should stop them in their tracks, stop them in their in their objections to it And therefore, by the diesel law, no flesh will be justified in this sight, for by the law is the knowledge of sin. Lloyd Jones says this. No man can be a Christian without realizing his utter hopelessness. Now catch this. You may be listening today and you prayed a prayer sometime. You said something, you know, you had something Some sort of experience. But notice what he says. No man can be a Christian without realizing his utter hopelessness. It is n of no use To talk about coming to Christ if you do not see your hopelessness and your helplessness. You cannot just come to Him For help or something else. There is but one reason for going to Christ, and that is that you realize that no flesh can possibly be justified by the law in the sight of God. There are people who will say, well, I've come to Christ and I've accepted Jesus and you must accept Jesus and you must come to Christ. But why are you coming and what are you coming for? There must be an utter, complete understanding of your sin, your hopelessness, and your helplessness. In order for you to then be able to say, verse 21, but now You see, there's got to be a contrast. You can't be walking along and just kind of going along and thinking you're fine, come across the the idea of praying to Jesus for salvation, you say, yeah, I can do that too, and just keep going. No, you have to understand that you haven't been in Jesus all along. You're born into sin, and you are utterly hopeless and helpless And you're turning the other direction and you're saying, but now and going the other way. This but now is an extremely important word. Can I ask you a question this morning? Are you living a butt-now life? Are you do you have but now thinking? Now, what do I mean by that? Perhaps your conscience bothers you about your guilt or about uh you feel like you're being accused, your heart is com com com accusing you of sin or um of failing God, you need to say, but now But now. Or you're being tempted. Satan is tempting you to sin. Or your flesh is tempting you to sin. And you say, but now. You're struggling with assurance, struggling with guilt, struggling with temptation, you need to be able to say, but now There's a difference, there's a change, but now when you experience self-doubt, you're You're wondering about whether or not you really your faith is really strong enough or you really have done enough. No, there needs to be this contrast between Between moving into sin or moving, living in sin, living in helplessness, realizing you're hopeless, and turning the other way, and now but now. And we have to live that way the rest of our lives. So how do we do that? How do we think this way? How do we live this way? The passages, these four verses are going to teach us how to do that. And we're going to see essentially how to be right with God. How to be, how is God's righteousness applied to us? That's what this passage is teaching. In fact, you'll notice in the verse it says, but now the righteousness of who? The righteousness of God. And then if you look at again, verse 22, even the what? The righteousness of God. This passage is teaching us how to be right with God. How can we have the righteousness of God applied to us? And we're going to see three things in this Passage. We're going to see that God's righteousness is not through legalism, but from the law. It's not through legalism, but from the law. We're also going to see that it's not exclusively of that is it is exclusively obtained, but available to all. It's exclusive and yet available. So Not legalism, but from the law, exclusive, and not uh but not exclusive, but also available And completely free, but extremely expensive. Completely free, but extremely expensive. Say, well, what how how these things seem to be con- you seem to be contradicting yourself. This seems like double talk. Not through legalism, but from the law, exclusive and yet available to everyone? Completely free and yet extremely expensive? I mean how how this doesn't make it It will as we go through this. In fact, uh understanding this as we go through this is going to really c hopefully clarify your thinking when it comes to comes to this simple question. How does someone become right with God? And then really also, if you are a Christian How can I live, go back to that truth that I have become right with God so that you can live in assurance? Knowing that you are right with the Lord. Let's begin by looking at the fact that God's righteousness is not through legalism, but from the law, not through legalism. First we'll see that it's not not through legalism. Notice what it says in the text. But now the righteousness of God, it says, apart from the law is revealed. It's apart from it. Now, what does it mean apart from the law? I think he's referring to the word law in Romans and in the New Testament can be used in different ways. And he is essentially saying that you cannot look at the Old Testament law, you cannot obey the Old Testament law and come to Jesus. You can't, through obedience to the law, come to Christ. And the reason that that is, is because if you were able to do that, you ultimately would boast in yourself and not in Christ. Any faith that allows you to boast in self and not in Christ is a false faith. Or boast himself with Christ in addition. It's a false faith. So we see here we see here that it is apart from the law. Now, I want us to make sure we really understand this concept of righteousness. Twice in the text we see this idea of God's righteousness and And then he even says, even righteousness from God. See, the righteousness that we're talking about, God's righteousness, is not the same as man's righteousness. They're two very different things. So let's just take for a moment and think about the righteousness of God. The righteousness of God, number one, is sourced in God. It's sourced, you can never, there is no God's righteousness cannot come from a human being. It is sourced from God. Isaiah 43 three eight says this, Rain down you heavens from God, and let the skies pour down righteousness. Let the earth open, let them bring forth salvation, let righteousness Spring up together, I the Lord have created it. There is a kind of righteousness that is of God. It's sourced in God. Secondly God's righteousness is different than ours because it's different in essence. It's perfect. It's flawless. It's sinless. It's completely without sin. Hebrews 4. Hebrews 9. 28 says that Christ will appear a second time apart from sin. sin for righteousness. This is a flawless righteousness. And finally, it's unique in its duration. This la this righteousness doesn't end. It lasts forever. It's flawless. It's sourced in God, and it lasts forever. Psalm 119, 142 says, Your righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, and your law is truth. This is the kind of righteousness that God desires to apply to you, or has already applied to you. This righteousness is apart from the law. If you think of this being apart from the law, the righteousness this being apart from the law, I want us to think just kind of picture uh uh pilgrim's progress. How many of you read Pilgrim's Progress? I out Outside the Bible is, I believe, the most important book. to read outside the Bible. Um number one most important to read. If you haven't read Pilgrim's Progress, then you need to read Pilgrim's Progress. It is so helpful in understanding understanding the truths of the gospel and living the Christian life, it's absolutely, I see, as really almost essential to the Christian life. So in Pilgrim's progress, Christian is he he opens up the story opens up, he's a pilgrim and he's got a burden. Remember the burden? He's walking around with his burden, doesn't know how to get rid of his burden, talks to different people about how to get rid of his burden, can't get rid of his burden, and fast forward quite a bit, he gets to the foot of the cross and his burden is released. See, what the what the demands of the law do, what the demands of of trying to live righteously, self-righteously do is it weighs us down. It burdens us. We are burdened by obligating ourselves to self-righteousness. We are burdened by it. And the problem is, as I've already said, the problem is that there is confidence in the flesh. Paul dealt with this. He dealt with this before he came to Christ. He says in Philippians chapter 3, verses 4 through 6, he says that I might have confidence in the flesh. He had confidence in the flesh before he came to Christ. Christ. But then he has no confidence in the flesh after he comes from or comes to Christ. What happened? There was a but now in his life. We see the same thing in Galatians chapter 5. In Galatians chapter 3, we have we cannot be justified by the law in the sight of God, because the Bible says the just shall live by faith. And then but we we see this as well on the other hand. Look at verse chapter 3, verse 21, the second part. It says Being witnessed by the law. It just says it's apart from the law, but it is witnessed by the law and the prophets. And actually, it's using the word law in a in a bit of a slightly different way. The word law here and the prophets, when you link those two up, the law and the prophets, it's really Referring to the Old Testament. Christ said this several times. The law and the prophets. He used that phrasing, and so does Paul. The law and the prophets are a reference to the Old Testament law, the first five books of the of the Old Testament as well as the prophets. It's really speaking in general of the entire Old Testament. Jesus said this, he said in John chapter 5, verse 39 You search the scriptures, for in them you think that you have eternal life, and these are they which testify of me. He says you the scriptures testify of me. Do you remember when Jesus rose from the grave and he comes to the disciples and they and and uh and they don't know they don't recognize And he opens up their eyes, and it says in uh in Luke chapter 24, verse 27, and beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded to them in all scriptures the thing. things concerning himself. And we have examples of this throughout the Old Testament. See, this is not a he said, she said gospel. This is not, I Googled it and I saw some fly-by-night blog that told me that this is the way things work. That's not the gospel we have. Understand that the gospel we have, the good news of the truth of the gospel, how we become right with God, has been protected and curated and developed and inspired throughout throughout 1400 years to originally write the Bible with 40 different authors and then protected for thousands of years and preserved, we have a uh an authoritative based um source for the gospel. And we that's where we find it's not, well, somebody had a dream sometime and they heard from God that this is that this is what the way things work. No, no, no. I mean there are religions based on that, but not that, not scripture. Or somebody had sort of this, you know, he He was uh uh endowed by God to do this or that and and and a bunch of people got around him and said, Well you must be of God, or he claims to be a prophet, or any No, no, no. This is the gospel is from the truth of the Word of God. It can be trusted, it is reliable. And it and it witnesses, it testifies of Jesus. us. I mean think think for example, there are so many examples of this in the Old Testament, starting from Genesis 3. 15 all the way through through uh Malachi. But think of Isaiah 9 6. For unto us a child is born, and unto us a son is given, and the government will be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, the Mighty God, the Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace Or Isaiah 53, 6. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned every one to his own way. And the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. That we read that, we go, we know that's talking about Jesus. But the Jewish person who read this For the first time, perhaps prior to Christ's coming, would read this and probably not have a clue what it's really talking about. And yet it testified of Jesus. In other words, we have the gospel, the righteousness, how we become right with God is extremely verifiable and And I mentioned this for this very practical reason. One of the doubts that Satan uses in our mind, and what we'll do We'll place in our minds that wreaks havoc with our assurance is this. What if this isn't the right religion? All these other religions in the world, all these other faiths in What if I got the wrong one? You ever had that kind of doubt? I have. That kind of doubt in your mind? Well what if what if this is just one of many, you know, I grew up in in a Christian home and maybe I'm just totally deceived and maybe that one of these other ones. are right instead. No, that this is there is there are there are unique tenets about our faith that that are foundational to it and one of it is is how scripture came about that gives us a strong Well, we move on now. We understand how it's not applied. It's not applied through obedience to the law. It's not applied applied that way. through understanding where it comes from, but now we see that it is exclusively obtained but available to all. It's exclusively Obtained, but available to all. Notice what it says here next. It says, verse 22, look at it. Even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ. to all and on all who believe. Okay, so now it says, reminds us again. I mean, Paul is like, I want you to understand what we're talking about here. We're talking about the righteousness of God. He wants there to be no mistaking about what he's talking about. So he says, even the righteousness of God, how does it come? What does it say? It says through faith in Jesus Christ. Now that is an extremely important phrase. phrase through faith in Jesus Christ. Did you did you know that in recent days there are some people that are they are m interpreting that another way They're interpreting it as through the faithfulness of Jesus Christ. They're not admitting that it requires faith to come to Jesus Christ. And they are in error because they're doing this. This is uh when we think of the faith of Jesus Christ, faith in Jesus Christ, I want us to think of a key. Most of you have keys, right? My truck it is it does have a key, but you don't have you like it you can keep it in your pocket. You get in the car and you push the button. I actually lost my keys the other day. You know where they were? In my truck. You know why? Because I don't need them. Anyway. It's it's it's uh um it's really something. But before there was that there were actual keys, and we still have those of course. Uh most of you have keys that you put into the ignition and you gotta make sure you have the right key, right? You can't have the wrong key. Uh if you take your house key and you try to put it in the ignition of your car, you're gonna have a problem. You're not gonna be able to drive the car. So when we think of faith in Jesus Christ and this concept of faith, we need to let's think of it as a key that you put into The right thing. And we're going to see in a minute what that looks like. But we first need to understand what this faith is. What is saving faith? Did you know in Scripture, in the in in the Gospels. There is a place in John chapter 2 where they said they believe in Jesus and Jesus said, I don't believe their belief. He didn't believe it. He didn't accept their faith. He didn't believe their belief. Did you know that there is a kind of faith that is not saving faith? And there is a kind of faith that is saving faith. See, you've got to get the right key. If you don't have the right key, you're not going to be able to drive a car. And if you don't have the right, if you don't understand what saving faith is, you're not going to be able to So what is saving faith? Saving faith is complete depending on dependence upon Jesus. Saving faith involves, first of all, the intellect. It's not only the intellect, but you must there it must include the intellect. In other words, you must understand certain things about the gospel. In other words, somebody can't just have just sort of a I I just accepted Jesus with no understanding of the gospel. And they're saved. There is this easy believism that is something that we have to be very careful about. John chapter 10, verse 9 says it this way. If you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, you will be saved. The reason it says it that way, confess with your mouth, is because it's saying, it's talking about saying the same thing God says. In other words, in order for you To be able to articulate something, you've got to understand it. One of the best ways to know whether you understand something is to see if you can explain to somebody else, right? If you can't explain it to somebody else, the problem might be that you really don't understand it. And so that's what it's saying there. You've got to be able to understand it. Romans 10, 16 says it this way, verses But they have not all obeyed the gospel, for Isaiah says, Lord, who has believed or report? So then faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. Faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. But also, faith, true faith, includes emotions and the exercise of the will. Both emotions and the exercise of the will. Romans six seventeen says it this way. But God be thanked that though you were slaves of sin, yet you obeyed from the heart the form of doctrine which So, yes, you need to understand the gospel, which you're going to, by the end of this today, you'll understand it, hopefully. Or at least the explanation will be there. But you so you have to understand it, but you you not only have to understand it, it involves the whole person, so it's going to involve the emotions on some level, but it also is going to involve the will. You are going to have to choose Choose Christ as your Savior. One seventeenth century English minister said it this way. The sound convert takes a whole Christ and takes him for all intents and purposes. Without exceptions, without limitations, without reserve. He is willing to have the dominion of Christ as well as the deliverance by Christ. He saith with Paul, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? So true saving faith is a utter total dependency on Christ. Excellent illustration. If you lean on a chair halfway, you don't have faith in that chair. It's not until you actually sit down in a chair, put all of your weight on the chair, then you are putting your total deposit And it's the same way with saving faith. If you are halfway leaning on yourself and halfway leaning on Christ, that's not saving faith. And part of the thing that is going to help us to understand this is to understand any And catch this folks because this is really important. It's not the faith that saves you. Did you catch that? Faith doesn't save you. Now, this is going to be a relief to some of you. Because some of you, that's your problem. That's the struggle you're having. You're wondering if if your faith is good enough to save you. Well, guess what? Your faith isn't what saves you. Imagine you're driving a car and you go a long distance. Let's say you go a thousand miles. I'm gonna actually I'm gonna be flying Caitlin to Pensacola this fall instead of driving because I'm old and uh I used to drive all the time but now I don't like driving. So we that's not the only But anyway, so we're flying to Pensacola. But if I were driving, and I used to drive a lot to Pensacola and back, many, many, many, many, many times times uh back and forth uh a thousand miles and I didn't always have a very reliable vehicle vehicle. I was doing it back then. I had the first the first vehicle I had, the first uh car was a uh foreign Ford Crown Vic and I didn't change the oil ever. You know why? I just lost about a quarter week and I just kept putting it in and it just kept coming through. Never needed a change Pretty sure the uh it would they didn't have um the you know the the emissions testing back then. But anyway, so I would just drive drive that back and forth. Uh so um so imagine I get to I get to school and it's a good ride and everything goes well and somebody says, Hey you made it to school on you you know Uh uh that's great. And I say, you know, the reason I d I did I I managed the school with no problems at all was because I had a great key. It was just the best key I've ever had in my life. I mean, this is a great key. The reason that I made it thousand miles is because this key Do you have a key like this? Could your key get you to school like this? You know what somebody would say to me? You are uh weird. And dumb. That key is not what you rely on to get you uh transportation. It's the car that you rely on to get you transport. The key only does only gives you access to the car. That's all it does. And understand that that's the case with faith. Faith gives And what is our faith in? It's in Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is the one that saves you. It's not your faith Now the reason that that's so helpful is to understand that total reliance on Jesus Christ means that you don't have to question whether or not your faith is good enough. The question is, are you entirely relying on Christ or not? Are you relying partially on self and partially on Christ? Okay, then you have a problem. Then you don't have saving faith. But if you're relying entirely on Christ to save you, Then you have saving faith. But it's also, and by the way, it is the only way. There is only one key. You can't do it through good works. It can't be through self-effort. It can't be that you're good enough. And that is a real problem. But understand that this on the other side. It's exclusively obtained by faith, but it's also available to all. Notice the next part of this text. It says To all and on all who believe, for there is no difference. He's going back to this whole Jew and Gentile debate And the Jews thought that they had, you know, they had a in with God basically, and that the Gentiles didn't, and And he went to great lengths to explain that, no, actually all are equally fallen and sinful before God. And he's reminding of this. There's no difference between Jew or Greek in the gospel. It's um it's kind of like this this is important because it's kind of like uh understanding the The eligibility of coming to Jesus. Some people really struggle with this, by the way. You ever talk to somebody who you talk about the gospel and they say, Look, if you knew what I did If you just understood how sinful I am, you would not be thinking that I could ever be right with God. You ever talk to that? You just don't know And you tell them, no, it's every sin. Christ died for every sin on the cross. It's the blood of Christ. No, you just don't know. So Paul goes to great lengths to explain that everyone is eligible. I remember years and years and years ago I bought a house up in Pennsylvania and uh I didn't have you know I never bought a house before. I did have established credit and the first thing that they did said look if you're looking around for houses you need to get what pre-approved so I went and got pre-approved I and I actually had a much better credit score I uh uh and they would give you a way more house than I ever should buy was anyway, that was weird. But um but don't d by the way that's for free but You know, just because they say you can pay that much for a house doesn't mean you should pay that much for a house. Anyway, but I was pre-approved. I was eligible to buy a house up to a certain amount Well, because of the gospel, everyone, all people are equally eligible. Now that's important for us to remember. Your neighbor, your co-worker, no matter how bad they are, no matter how unnatural their desires are, no matter what is going on, I mean They are eligible. We are all equally eligible to come to Christ. Sometimes as Christians, we kind of think some segment of the population isn't as eligible as others. But that's not what Scripture says. There is no difference. We are all equally it is all it is available to all of us. We are all equally, we are all equally eligible to come. Why? Actually, it's because we've all sinned. Look at what the text says. For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. This is actually a quite interesting word phrase. You know the phrase. This is not the first time you've heard this verse. more than likely, Romans 3. 23, for all have sinned and come sure of the glory of God, but you have have you ever given it serious thought? What does it mean when it says all have sinned? Well it's actually what's interesting about it when you put these two together, all have sinned and come sure short of the glory of God. What's interesting about it is the first phrase in the Greek is in the airist tense. All have sin. It's the st a state of being. All have sinned. The second phrase is actually could be translated, are falling short of the glory. Are falling short of the glory. Okay. What does it mean that people are falling short of the glory of God? What does that mean? Have you really thought about it? Yeah, we understand all of sin. That's easy. But but what why is that a problem? How does this cause a problem? It's interesting this are falling short or have fallen short. It's also used in a place in Luke chapter 15 in the story of the prodigal son. Of course you remember Remember the story of the prodigal son, he decides to take his inheritance ahead of time and go out and spend it on lavish living. And when he has finished, doesn't have anything to show for himself. It says in Luke chapter 15, verse 13. But when he had spent all there arose when he spent all, there arose a severe famine in the land, and he began to be in want. Why? Because he spent all, he had nothing. So what is he talking about when he's talking about the glory? Well, in the book of Romans, we see this word glory is associated with honor and immortality and peace. I won't take the time to look at these passages, but in Romans chapter two, we see it several times in Romans chapter two, verse seven and eight and verse ten. And God's desire is actually for us to be at peace with God by bringing us back into This is what it says in Romans chapter five. Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom also we have access by faith into this grace in which we see the world. And rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. Why can we be at peace with God? Because we look forward to the day where we'll be Well, what is this glory of God? In fact, God's desire for us is all to one day, if we know Christ our Savior, to be glorified. Romans chapter 8, verse 30. So what is the glory of God? We find the answer in 2 Corinthians 3, verse 18. It says this We all with unfailed vase behold as in a mirror the glory of the Lord. are being transformed into the same image from glory to glory just as by the Spirit of the Lord. For our and then later on in the next chapter for our light affliction, which is but for a moment, is working for us a far more exceeding weight of glory. It's referencing a time when ge when Moses was up on the mount on Mount Sinai and he s he saw as best he could, he couldn't see all the glory of God, but he could see partially the glory of God because he was in the presence of God. That's what this verse is talking about. It is saying that all have sinned and cannot be in the presence of God. Now Here's what I want us to get. Why did I go through all those passages? Because we need to understand that is what we're missing, that is what we need, that is why we're hopeless, but it's also why we're eligible. Why are we in a hopeless state? Because we are not in the presence of God. We are falling short of the presence of God. Why are we why what why do we have great need? because we don't aren't in the presence of God. Why do we have no peace because we aren't in the presence of God? Why is this world in no not in peace? Because it's not in the presence of God. The presence of God produces the peace of God. We are hopeless because we don't have the presence of God. But now we can be in the presence of God. We have access to the presence of God because why? Of faith in Jesus. God. And finally, verse 24, we are it is completely free, but extremely expensive. It's completely free, but extremely expensive. What a wonderful truth here we see in verse 24. It says that the righteousness of God is given freely to us. But being justified freely by His grace. We are justified freely by the grace of God. What is this word justify? What does justification mean? I this look, there is an e there I don't know of too many terms More important in the entire Bible to know than this term justification. You need to know what this means. If somebody asks you, what is justification, you need to know what this is. Justification means to be be declared righteous. It's a legal term. If you think of a courtroom and you think of you think of a judge And a judge declares the person that is on trial as innocent or as exonerated. He's making a declaration God declares us righteous. Now that's not the same as make righteous. Justification does not mean he will make you righteous. It doesn't mean that he has made you righteous. It doesn't mean that. Our constitution when we come to Christ doesn't change. We are still sinful. We still have a sin nature. It is not that we are suddenly become righteous. No, but it means, but what it's saying is that we are declared righteous. by God. Romans 4. 3 says it this way, Abraham believed God, and it was counted unto him for righteousness. It is a judicial legal standing. And by the way, it has nothing to do with you. Again. We see the same thing. It's entirely based upon what Jesus did, not what you have done. So for us, the Bible says it's free. freely by his grace, this justification. And it results, as we have seen, in peace with God. Notice also, it is not future, it's present. No, look, look, look at what it says. It's not that we are justified in the future. Verse 24, being justified freely by his grace. He doesn't say you will be justified. See, there are some people that that's what they think salvation is. That somebody comes to Christ and um and they think, okay, well, in the future, I will be justified. In the future, I will be before God. God will justify me. No, that's not what it says in the text. It says, be justified. As soon as we place our faith in Christ, we are declared righteous by God now. It is a present reality. It doesn't happen later. It happens now. In fact, we know this because actually over in Romans chapter 5, it's a few chapters over, it says it this way, therefore, having been justified by faith. Now it puts it in a different tense to help us to understand that this is an established condition that for a Christian having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. Now, folks, this is very different, extremely different than the Roman Catholic view of justification. In fact, they do not like the biblical definition of justification. It is what it is exactly what Martin Luther protested against, essentially. Was this idea? He read the scriptures and he read Romans, he read this these verses. And he realized that by faith you could be justified now. No need for for the priesthood, no need for sacraments, no need for the forest. for anything that now here and now you could be declared righteous by faith in Jesus Christ alone. That's justification. And the Bible says it's freely by his grace. Well what is grace? Grace is unmerited kindness toward us. It is the kindness of God that justifies us. But on the other hand, as though, even though it is free. It is not, it is very costly. It's not cheap. Free, but not cheap. G. Campbell Morgan was explaining the concept of the freeness of salvation to a coal miner one day. And the coal miner said, No, this is so a ma so great it can't be free. I can't possibly be that I would ever be able to um to obtain this without it costing me something. It's just too valuable. Well, they happen to be standing in a quarry, apparently, and he said uh and G. Campbell Morgan sort of looked around and said to this man He said, you are in this quarry. How did you get down here? Did you have to pay to get down here? And the man said, no, I didn't have to pay to get down here. So it was free for you to get down here. Yeah. He said, well, how it was then actually an elevator that brought them down to the quarry. He said, but my company did pay a great price to have this uh uh elevator installed so that it could be free for me And that helped this man in a very simple way to understand that something can be free, but at the same time be very costly. What did it cost? It cost And that's what we see in the passage. We have on one hand the freeness of the grace of God, but notice what it says being justified freely by his grace through the what? Through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. What is redemption? The word redemption means to be purchased back or to be bought back. It was first used in the classical Greek. It was first used in the loosing of an animal. The redeeming In fact, in Numbers chapter 18, verse 15, it's the freeing of the firstborn is mentioned there. in that text. Later on it became used as synonymous with the idea of a ransom payment For a slave or a prisoner. So by the time Paul uses this, it really it's talking about a ransom payment. And Mark chapter ten, verse forty-five says it this way. For even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give his life a ransom for many. 1 Timothy 2 verse 6, who gave himself a ransom for all to be testified in due time. 1 Peter 1 verses 18 through 19. 19 knowing that you were redeemed with corruptible things like were not redeemed with corruptible things like silver and gold from your aimless conduct received by tradition. from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ as a lamb without blemish and without spot. It is the blood of Christ. As he shed his blood on the cross and died for us, it is the payment that was made so that we could be purchased and redeemed. be freed from our sin and be brought back to Christ, so that the righteousness of Christ, and we'll get in more on this later, the righteousness of Christ could be applied to our account. And so it is completely free, but extremely expensive. This is why we can say with the hymn writer, Praise my soul, the King of Heaven, to his uh to uh his him thy tribute bring Ransomed, healed, restored, forgiven. Who like thee his praises ring? Praise him, praise him, everlasting king Praise Him. Ransom. Healed. Restored. Forgiven. So we end this way. A couple of very, very important questions. Critical, actually. Number one, do you view yourself as hopelessly, sinfully lost, and not right with God? Or have you viewed yourself that way? When you think about being a Christian. Maybe you say, yeah, I'm a Christian. Well, before you were a Christian, did you view yourself as hopelessly, sinfully lost and not right with God You cannot be a Christian until you realize your own sin, your own lost condition. Number two Will you depend not on self at all, but on Jesus' ransom payment to rescue you from your sin? Will you depend on on Jesus' ransom payment to rescue you for your sin. This is the key. Key is faith depending in the right thing. What is it? Jesus as the payment as and who he is and what he did in dying and shedding his blood on the cross to pay the punishment for our sin so that we could be rescued from our sin. And that's it. You say, I you know, I I don't know. I'm still wrestling. I'm not sure of whether or not I have gone like had a but now kind of experience. I I'm not really sure. Let me ask you this question because I think this will help Are you this is the third question? Are you grateful for the grace of God? Are you grateful for the grace of God? Or have you been? It's possible that you were grateful for the grace of God and you have gone away from the Lord and your fellowship with Him, you're You've strayed away from your relationship with the Lord, and so you're not grateful anymore. But are you, have you experienced at some time grateful Gratefulness for the grace of God. See, here's why this is important. If someone is really hopelessly lost, when they find the true way, gratefulness is an It is the result. It's going to be the result. We love him because he first loved us. When we realize his love for us on the cross, we Love him in return. It is a natural result. So true saving faith is going to bring us from hopelessness and helplessness to a place of gratefulness for the grace of God. Are you grateful for the grace of God? Or have you ever been grateful for the grace of God? You say, um, I've I've prayed a prayer before. I've done this. I I've professed to be a Christian. But I don't know if I've ever actually been grateful for the grace of God. Well then go back to the other two questions. Have you ever been hoped seen yourself as hopelessly, sinfully lost, and not right with Christ? Have you ever seen yourself with And if you've lived your life and you're just going along and you think you're a good person and then you just kind of add Christ to it, that's not saving faith. You must first understand you are sinfully lost and not right with God. Then number two, will you depend? Depend upon the pain That Jesus made in shedding his blood on the cross so that you could be what? Right with God. You could be justified, declared righteous by God. These are three very important questions. If you're not sure, if you're just you're not you're not clear about this, you're struggling with your insurance, you're struggling with whether you're not you're truly safe. Please come and talk with me. Or talk to somebody else you're comfortable with. We'll be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can how how you can know for sure that you are a child of God, that you, that you, that you can, you can know today that you are declared righteous by God. God, being justified freely by his grace for the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you this morning and we praise you. Lord, these are truths that many of us have known for many years. There is not necessarily a lot of new things here, but it is so important to have it clear in our minds Minds. Father, I pray that you would take the truths that we have rehearsed today and reviewed, and you would cause there to be a real clarity. When it comes to how someone comes into right relationship with you. Lord, we need this for ourselves, for our own assurance, and we need And then if there's somebody here that doesn't know you, this is a way, this is the way for them to come to a right And so we pray, Lord, that you would use this in our lives, and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.