Let us pray one with another. Father, we are grateful once again to come together as a church body and sing praises to you who are Are ultimately and completely worthy. We know, Lord, that you are worthy of our worship, worthy of our praise, worthy of our service and commitment to you In your word, we have countless examples of individuals that you worked with who found that you were completely faithful Faithful in their lives, faithful and true. You made promises, you kept promises. Nay, many of them saw your promises come to fruition. We thank you, Lord, that we too have been given many promises in Scripture. Scripture talks about the promise of our salvation and our eternal destiny. We know, Lord, from your word. That when we place our faith in Christ, you have promised to forgive our sins, to cleanse us from our unrighteousness, to provide for us a righteousness that is not our own, but comes from you. And when we are clothed with that robe of righteousness, we now are accepted by you. And we have a home waiting For us that you will dwell in and you will dwell among us, and we will be your people. Such phenomenal promises, Lord, we are not worthy of. Lord, I pray even as As we have considered and sung about our devotion to you, Lord, I ask that you would help us As we are your people to be more devoted to you, to consider Jesus and to want Him And have him above all other things, all worldly pre pleasures, all things that are so inferior to Christ. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to identify those areas and those things in which we want to take Jesus' rightful place in our hearts And that we would not allow that to take place. Help us to yield to your spirit. Lord, we do consider today as well several folks that can't be with us. For the buttells. We ask that you would uh watch over them in this time of illness, that uh that you would uh work these events that are in their life uh for your good and for their good. Uh that um you would teach them much through this and that you would bring them back to health and back To us soon. We ask now also, Lord, for your help as we go to your word. Such profound truths and great truths that we can study and see in it every day. I pray, Lord, that your word would have your desired impact on our lives today, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Reading today from Matthew 6, the text will be verses 19 through 24. Please read along with me if you will, beginning verse 19. Scripture says, Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal. But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. The lamp of the body is the eye. If therefore your eye is good, your whole body Will be full of light. But if your eye is bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. If there is a light that is in you is darkness, how great is that darkness? No one can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will be loyal to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon. So Jesus has been teaching his disciples what it looks like to be a disciple. And we've gone through the Beatitudes and through various clarifications of what is righteousness. Now we come to an extremely practical section of Scripture that deals with the issue of money and material wealth and finances and those kinds of things. And Jesus is going to uh sh just show exactly how different the values of a of a follower of Christ are from the values of someone who is not a follower of Christ. Perhaps this uh perhaps you heard this past week of uh the fact that Twitter has been taken has a new owner. Uh Elon Musk is now the owner of Twitter Twitter. He is the known as the richest pretty much the richest man in the world. He has the high highest net worth of anybody in the world. Two hundred fifty billion dollars roughly is his net worth. And he bought uh he bought Twitter for like over forty billion dollars because he wanted to tweet without having any um any any any issues. You know, it's a pretty high class uh expenditure. Anyway, um Elon Musk is an interesting fella. Uh he obviously is not working to earn a paycheck anymore. When you have two hundred and fifty billion dollars, I'm pretty sure that you have Um but he still works extremely hard. He works he ha he he s designates his his days in five minute segments meant to get as much done as he possibly can throughout the duck throughout the day. He makes sure that he's sleeping seven hours a day. Outside of that, he is extremely productive managing four different businesses at the same time. And when you get into what he actually believes, it's quite interesting. He is an agnostic. He believes that there really is no way to know for sure that There is a God, and in fact, it's actually pretty unlikely, he says, that there is an an ultimate authority that is looking over us and evaluating us. Instead, what he really believes he and you ask him what his goals are, he hopes to die on Mars. In fact, he actually says his goal is to be able to assist in colonizing Mars. That's that's really his goal in life because in doing so, because there's so few uh there's there's there's a limited reserves of fossil fuels in the earth that if we're going to really sustain as As a as a human uh if the human race is going to sustain over millions of years into the future, then it's going to need to be saved by getting more reset uh resources from other places. And the next best option is Mars. And so he is on a mission to save humanity. Literally. This is, I mean, if you if you look at his interviews, that's that's That's what he says. It's interesting that Elon Musk uh he he's he's obviously moved beyond uh you know accumulating money to something that is beyond that. He has a philosophy that that feels that he wants a purpose that's beyond just getting money. And that and there's a certain reason I think that he does this. He's totally off on how he's doing it. But he a certain the Bible actually says that God has placed within us it can Eternity in our hearts, that the human being knows that there is more to life than just what we see here. And the human being knows that there is more of a purpose to life than just surviving And accumulating wealth and getting money and having pleasure, there's more to life than just that Ecclesiastes chapter three verse nine says this What profit has the worker from that he uh in which he labors? I have seen the God given tasks with the sons of men are to be occupied He has made everything beautiful in his time. Also, he has put eternity in their hearts, except that no one can find out the work that God does from beginning to end. The work that God does from beginning to end, the eternity past to eternity future, is undiscoverable by human intellect. It's undiscoverable by just being really, really smart. It's revealed only in the Word of God. And what this passage is going to teach us ultimately, what Jesus is saying Is that the disciple of Christ needs to make a choice? He needs to make a choice between serving God and serving material things. He should choose serving God over serving material things. And he begins this, and the question of course is why? Why must he choose And we're going to see in this passage three different ideas. We're going to see, first of all, he must choose it because we invest in what we value. Number two, our hearts are affects our lives. Our hearts affects our our lives. Affect our lives. And finally, we can only serve one master. So we begin by looking at the fact that we invest in what we value. We invest in what we value. We pick up in Matthew chapter 6, verse 19, it says this. Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal. But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break in He says, Don't lay up for yourselves treasures on earth. Now this is an interesting Interesting phrase, the first phrase here, don't lay up for yourselves treasures on earth. The word lay up there and the word treasures is actually the exact same word in the the original language, just one is a verb form and one is the is a is a is a noun form. In other words, you could literally translate this, don't treasure for yourself treasures. Or you could say, don't treasure things that you need to lay up. They are sort of interchangeable terms. Don't value valuables. is essentially what it's saying in this text. Don't treasure treasures. Well then the question obviously becomes, what is a treasure? It says, don't store it up. The idea is don't accumulate those things that the world considers to be things that are a great value, great treasure. In 1 Corinthians 16, verse 2, it says, On the first day of the week, let each one of you lay something aside, storing up, the idea of storing up something. Well, what is he talking about? What is it? What are those things that are treasures? What are the things that we are not supposed to see as valuable, even though the world sees them as valuable. He says, first of all, where raw where moth and rust doth corrupt, where moth and rust corrupts, and where thieves break in and and steal. So he is obviously not just talking about dollar bills. He's talking about material things where moth can corrupt. What is that? What does moth corrupt? Well it's clothing. In the first century, clothing was the status symbol. Today, perhaps, if you own a Tesla, that's the status symbol. Um, or some other kind of vehicle. that a car is a status symbol. Maybe a house is a status symbol. Well back then, clothes, very expensive clothes, showed to everybody else that you were wealthy. They were valued because of their status. And Jesus says, don't value clothing because moth can corrupt it. Or rust can corrupt. Well, what is rust? Rust corrodes things and corrupts things, and pretty much that's anything that material just about in some way or another can be corroded over time if left in the elements. So that really includes all kinds of different material things. And where thieves break in and steal. If it's not corrupted. and moth isn't going to eat it, then those valuable things that a thief would want to steal, those are included as well. Anything of value that could be that would want to be stolen. He says, don't value valuables. That's what he's saying. The world values these things, but don't value them. Now, let me mention a couple of things of what this is not saying, first of all. Number one, he is not saying don't enjoy material things. He's not saying that. In 1 Timothy 4, verses 3 through 4, and by the way, this is why you always need to compare Scripture with Scripture, not just take one isolated text. But in 1 Timothy 4, verse 3 and 4, it says, Forbidding to marry and command uh commanding to abstain from foods which God created to be received with thanksgiving by those who believe and know the truth. For every creature of God is good, and nothing is to ref to be refused if it is received in thanksgiving. Talking there about food and other kinds of material things, those are things that we are to receive with thanksgiving and enjoy, and that's not wrong. So it's not saying you can't enjoy material things. There are there is a kind of Christian thinking or supposedly Christian thinking that Thing says that you need to be isolated from everything and you just need to get in your own little uh cocoon and then you'll find true holiness. And the Bible tells us that a co if we can thank the Lord for it, then it's something that we can enjoy. It's also not saying you can't save money. In Proverbs chapter 6, verses 6 through 8, we talked a lot about this in Sunday school the last Sunday. It says, Go to the ant, you slugger, consider her ways and be wise, which have no captain over ruler, provides her supplies in summer, and gathers her food and harvest. So he uh the the the ant gathers and and and saves in times of plenty for times of famine. So saving doesn't say it doesn't mean just it doesn't mean laying up for yourself treasures does not mean that you can't save money. It also doesn't mean that you can't um that you that you somehow can't s uh save money to provide for your family First Timothy chapter five verse five eight says this, but if anyone does not provide for his own, and especially of those who are of household, he has denied the faith and is worse than unbelievers. These are the kinds of things that the Bible teaches very clearly that we ought to be good stewards with our money. We ought to use the money that God gives us wisely. But we shouldn't overly value those things that the world sees as you oftentimes most valuable Now there's a story that Jesus tells about to explain this. It's found in Luke chapter 12, verses 13 through 21. He says in that passage, he says Take heed, verse 15 of that passage, take heed and beware of covetousness. Covetousness is wanting what God has not provided. Take heed, beware of covetousness, for one's life does not consist of the abundance of the things he possesses. Your life does not consist of that. Then he spoke a parable to them, the ground of the certain rich man yielded plentifully, and he thought within within himself, saying, What shall I do since I have not room to store up my crops? So he said, I will do this. I will put down more my bar I will pull down my barns and build greater and uh there I will store up all my crops and my goods, and I will say to my soul, soul, you have many goods laid up for your for many years. Take your ease, eat, drink, and be merry. But God said to him, Fool, this night your soul will be required of you. And whose then whose will those things be which you have provided? So he will he who lays up treasure for himself is not rich toward God. We to lay we we can have this false sense of security in money and the accumulation of wealth, we can see it as our paths to ease as our path to an easy life. And God says, no, your soul one day will be required of you. The soul is the thing that is most valuable and most important. So in applying all of these different things, there are several principles that I think we need to learn from this so far. Number one, God does not want us to value material things. Why? Here's why: because they are temporary. Everything that you can see and touch and feel, it's temporary, all of it. The soul is not temporary. The soul is eternal. God is eternal But are the physical things of this life are all temporary, and we must be careful about valuing it In Psalm forty-nine it says this, For he sees wise men die, likewise the fool and the senseless person perish, and leave their wealth to others Their inner thought is that their houses will last forever, their dwelling places to all generations. They call their lands after their own names. Nevertheless, man, though in honor, does not remain remain He is like the beasts that perish. This is the way of those who are foolish and their posterity who approve their sayings. Later on in the passage it says this do not be afraid when one becomes rich, which the glory of his house is increased, for when he dies he shall carry nothing away. His glory shall not descend after him. The person that lives for wealth and the accumulation of wealth and the accumulation of material things and or the enjoyment of material things, the person who lives for that is ultimately going to die as a beast, the Bible says. Just like a beast dies, he's going to die as well. He can't carry anything with him. And if he thinks he's going to leave a legacy behind, no, more than likely that legacy is just going to be forgotten in a matter of days, weeks, months, years. So don't live for these things. Why? Because they are temporary. Number two, God does not want us to trust and depend on wealth. He does not want us to trust and depend on wealth. In 1 Timothy 6, verse 17, it says this, command those who are rich in this present age not to be haughty Nor to trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God who give us richly all things to enjoy. Let them that do good, that they be rich in good works, ready to give, willing to share. And then thirdly, and we actually see that in this passage as well, God does not want us to associate wealth with status. He says, let the rich in the present age not be haughty. If somebody has a large net worth, God warns them, particularly a Christian who has a large net worth, and God does give some pe some Christians. Large amounts of money. They have a a large net worth. They ought not see themselves as a greater status. In the first century this is a real temptation. I think it's a temptation today as well In the first century, when you were blessed of material things, they actually saw you as more spiritual because they said, well, you must be unusually blessed of God because you have more spiritual things than the average person. And the person that was really poor, they would assume that that person was not as blessed as God. And Jesus warns people of this: do not think that way. The fact is, there are evil people that are rich and there are good people that are poor. So don't measure your self-worth or your status by how much money you've accumulated at all. It should not be factoring in in your life. You're not better because you're rich or worse because you're poor. And by the way, you're not worse because you're rich and you're not better because you're poor. Don't be haughty over these things. Don't trust in them. Don't depend on them. This is what God is telling us here in His Word. He says instead, okay, that's all negative, right? Here's what you're not supposed to do. But what is the positive? Here's what he says. Lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven. Lay up for yourselves or treasure treasures in heaven. Lay up for yourselves those things that are treasures in heaven. Well, what is he talking about? Do you realize as we have gone through the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus has very frequently talked about rewards. Do you realize that? Many, many times. Matthew chapter 5, verse 12 is the first time we see it where it says, rejoice and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven. For so they persecute the prophets who were before you. Your rewards in heaven, just a couple of just a chapter prior Well, what were those rewards in heaven? We discussed way back then that the rewards in heaven are those things where it says, for example, Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are the poor in spirit. Blessed are the the poor the the pure in heart for they shall see God. You've got these present tense and the Beatitudes, and you've got these future rewards there. You've got the future rewards laid out for you. Those are the things, if you look at that list, those are the things that God says are more important. Seeing God is more important. It's most important. than the things that are material. He uses the word reward again, Matthew chapter 5, verse 46. For if you love those things who love you, what reward have you? In Matthew 6. 6, he uses the word uh uh again and talk about praying in secret that the Lord will may reward you openly. In Matthew 10, 42, which is not in the sermon of the mount, but later he's going to talk about rewards. He's constantly talking about rewards. And then when we move to Paul's description of rewards, it says this, in 1 Corinthians chapter 3, verse 12 through 15. He says this, now if anyone builds on this foundation with gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, straw. Does that sound familiar to you? Each one's work will become clear. For the day will declare it, because it will be revealed by fire, and the fire will test each one's work of what sort it is. If anyone's work which is has built on it endures He will receive a reward. If any one's work is burned, he will suffer loss, but he himself will be saved so as by fire. God tells us that the things that we do in this life, you have either the either either the potential of gaining physical reward or spiritual reward. And God wants us to focus in our efforts on those things they're spiritual. And I just want to say this as well. This can happen as you are working in your vocation. There are some Christians that say, well, the things that you do in the church, those are the spiritual service things. The things that you do in your work, those are the things that I do for money. And they sort of segment their lives that way. And that is not what God intended. That you know that if God has called you to be a plumber, you can Store up for yourselves treasures in heaven by being a faithful plumber. You can store up for yourselves treasures in heaven by being a faithful electrician or carpenter or whatever else you're doing that God has called you to do. If you are faithfully doing that, if you're doing it as unto the Lord and not under men, the Bible says whatever you do Do heartily as unto the Lord and not unto men. If you eat or drink or whatever you do, do all to glorify God. So all that we do, if we're doing it for Him, which we can do, it's the potential is there. When we're faithful in those things that He gives us and we do those things the way that God wants us, we are storing for ourselves treasures in heaven, those things that will please the Lord. God wants us to focus on those things. And then he says here this. He deals it with us this way, verse 21. This he really gets down to the heart of the matter in verse 21, and then we he fleshes it out in the following verses. He says this, for where your treasure is. There your heart will be also. In other words, he says, now this makes sense, doesn't it? What you value, there's where your heart is. He makes a connection between the value, what you value, and what is in your heart. And he also makes this connection where your treasure is, where you place your efforts. where you place your emphasis, where you place your focus, that tells you where your heart is. Now he's going to reverse this in a minute, but just let's understand this in the beginning. If you want to know what heart you have, look at what Your focus is. If you want to understand where you are placing your, what you're accumulating, what you're laying aside, what you're focusing on, that tells you what's in your heart. Um somebody said uh if you look at somebody's bank account, if you look at all the all of what their expenditures, you're gonna that you're gonna see what's in their heart. And yet nobody wants that, right? I mean I don't think you know if you imagine employ uh uh employing somebody or uh interviewing somebody and they say, well just bring your bank statement with you. I want to see what's in your heart, so bring your bank statement with you. How many of you all would go for that? I don't think probably anybody would. But the truth of the matter is if you go down and look at your bank statement, it's going to reveal to some degree what is in your heart. And if you went through your bank statement and you re read all the different expenditures or your credit card or whatever it is that you're using as uh to spend money and you look at all the different things Would you be able to say in all of those detailed areas, okay, I did this ultimately for the Lord. I spent this ultimately for the Lord. And you say, well, can't we have some fun? Sure, but do it for the Lord. You can actually enjoy things and do it thankfully as under the Lord. And if there's something that you can't enjoy Because you can't do it as unto the Lord, then the Bible says, whatsoever is not of faith is what? Is sin. So we really can look at the expendit not that every expenditure has to be like buying Bibles, but if you look at the expenditures in your in your bank account, you ought to be able to say, okay That was for providing our family. Okay, that was that that expenditure was, okay, I did I did enjoy, I did that, I enjoyed it, and I And I did it out of enjoyment and I can genuinely have a good conscience say, I thank the Lord for that. Okay, that expenditure was to give to somebody else. Looking through and saying Why you spend what you spend is going to reveal something about your heart. Because where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. But now what Jesus is going to do is he's going to turn it here. He's now going to say, so the issue is the heart. How is it that you make sure that your heart is right? In other words, how is it that your desires are what they're supposed to be so that you actually do store up the right things? He's saying essentially that if you looked at your bank account and read through your bank account and looked at it and saw all those kind of things and you say, boy, these are not things that would really please the Lord. These are not things where I have the right motive What's the problem and how do you deal with the problem at the very heart of the issue? He's going to explain it here. And so we pick up, number two, is that our heart affects our whole lives. Look at what it says in verse 22. The lamp of the body is the eye. If therefore your eye is good, your whole body will be full of light. But if your eye is bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is in you is darkness, how great is that darkness? Jesus here is now going to draw an analogy. He uses the concept of the eye allowing light into someone's life. What is he talking about here? Well, it's going to be helpful for us to understand what the Bible has already said about the connection between an eye and the heart. And the Bible does make this connection. In Psalm 119, in fact, would you take your Bibles and turn there? Psalm 119. For just a moment, I want you to see the connection that the psalmist is going to make between the eye and the heart. Notice what he says here. Picking up at Psalm 119, verse 10. He says this verse ten My whole heart See the word heart? Have I sought? What is sought? To see. My whole heart have I sought you. Oh, let me not wander from your commandments. Look then at verse 18 of the same psalm. Open my what? My eyes that I may see wondrous things from your law. Then look at Psalm 119, verse 36. Go all the way down to verse 36. Incline my heart to your testimonies and not to covetousness. He praised this. Incline my heart to your testimonies. Testimonies is another word for the God's word, is what he's talking about there. Incline my heart to the Bible, to the Word of God. Lord, would you incline my heart this way and not to covetousness wanting what you haven't provided Turn away my what? My eyes from looking at worthless things. And revive me in your ways. You could insert there, you know, YouTube or TikTok. Worthless thing. Not everything on there is bad. I guess I gotta make that disclaimer. There's some things valuable on YouTube. I know. But how many things do we look at that are worthless? That absolutely do have no real value whatsoever. Jesus, uh the psalmist says, turn away my eyes from looking at worthless things and revive me in your way. Look at Psalm 119, 148. Go down several more verses. My eyes are awake through the night watches, that I may meditate your mind on the Word of God. Folks, there is an inseparable link between the eye and the heart. The eye affects the heart. And what he is saying here is that if your eye is affecting your life in a wrong way, it's going to affect your whole life. And if your eye is good, it's going to affect, it's going to give light to your whole life. In other words, I I explain it this way Your eye affects your heart, and your heart affects your whole life. Now, let's just flesh this out for a minute. What is the heart? The heart in the New Testament here, the heart is that source of desire, of what you want. That's what the heart is. The heart is where you find what you want. Now, the world tells you this. I gotta find out what I want. I gotta search what I want There is a I read I read recently or heard recently that there are there's more people after high school taking a gap year. You know about this gap year before they go to college? Why are they taking the gap here? Because I need to discover what I really want. The Bible does not describe want that way. According to the Bible, the way the Bible described it, your heart is not God. To where it determines what you want. Your heart is shaped so that your desires are shaped to be what they what either you want to be or what they what God wants to be. The desires are shaped according to the word of God. They're not discovered. We understand that? The world will tell you, I need to discover what's in my heart. God says you need to shape what's in your heart. And do you know how you shape what's in your heart? The Bible tells you right here, your eye. what you're focused on, what your vision is, what you're looking for. That's why it said just previously in the Sermon on the Mount that if a man looks on a woman with lust in his eyes He hath committed adultery unto her already in his what? In his heart. The eye affects the heart That means, folks, that if you want what God wants, you're going to have to look and focus on the right things. Your eye will affect your heart and will shape your desires. That means then that it's really important what we focus on. Because it will affect your very life. And what Jesus is saying here is that you need to focus and direct your attention and your focus on things above, not on the things of the earth. And that's exactly what Colossian tells us. Set your affections on things above and not on the things of this earth. For your life is hid with Christ in God. Your eye feeds your heart, and your heart directs the entire life. Here's something that's very important. I was taught this by a uh pat one of my uh pastor growing up I was under him uh uh for a while and he he had um he was a ex Marine And uh uh he he was a guy that he just had a lot of horse sense about him. Okay? You know what I mean by horse sense? He just sort of saw things pretty practically. And and he would s he'd say this all the time. He'd say, Jim, what I've learned in the ministry is people do what they want. And I'm thinking to myself, well duh. Like back then I mean well uh that's not profound. Like people will do what they want. And you know the longer I live, the more I realize it is really profound. It's really true. In fact, I would go so far as to say that you will always do what you most want to do of the options available. You will always do what you most want to do of the options available to you. You will always do them. So how do you deal with that? You deal with it by shaping what you want. Because what you most want is what you're going to do. You say, well, there's times I do things I don't want to do all the time No, actually not. You most want to do them. You may want to do them because you feel guilty. You may want to do them because you feel compelled or you feel like you have no other choice or whatever. But ultimately, what you most want to do is what you will do. That's why the Bible actually tells us to commit our ways to the Lord and our thoughts will be established. Our eyes Are going to affect our hearts. And so if you want to have a focus on spiritual things, you must learn to shape your desires by what you focus on. Now, he then moves finally to this. He says, why is this so important? It's so important for this reason. Because we can only have, we can only serve one master. Look at verse 24. No one, no one, absolutely no one, can serve two masters. For either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will be loyal to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon. You cannot serve both. Now what is he saying here? He's saying quite a bit. First of all, we need to understand what he's talking about when he talks about a master. They would have understood this a lot better than we do today on its face The master is one who had was able to give the servant absolute direction. The servant would depend on the master for sustenance for food, for clothing, for life, for provision. And in return, the master would be able to direct the servant exactly where he wanted them to go. It was different than an employee an employer kind of a relationship. It was much more of an authoritative relationship. And he says here, you cannot serve two masters. You can only have one master. Now, I do need to mention, he says he uses the word hate here. He's not talking about a psychological kind of hate. where you have animosity or you have um disdain for somebody or hate you know hatred in the way we think of it. He's talking about rejection. He is saying that ultimately you can only serve one master because you're going to have to reject one to be able to serve the other. The Bible says this. A double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. If you want someone who is unstable, it's one who is attempting, he can't do it, but he is attempting to serve two masters at the same time. And so he's double-minded and he's shifting from one thing to another. And the Bible says he is absolutely unstable. You want to see an unstable person? Have one who is trying to serve two masters. You can't. Jesus says here, you cannot serve two masters. He says also here that you cannot serve God and money. In Matthew chapter 10, verse 34, it says this Do not think that I have come to bring bring peace. I do not come to bring peace for the sword. For I have come to set man against father, a dog a daughter against mother. A daughter-in-law against a daughter mother-in-law, a man's em enemies will be those of his own household. He who loves father and mother more than me is not worthy of me And he who loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. And he who does not take his cross and follow me is not more worthy of me. He who finds his life will lose it, and he who loses his life for my sake will find it. What is a master? A master is that person whom which you are ultimately serving. There is an ultimate in life. There is a final in life. Who is the final? Or what is the final? Who is the ultimate? What is the ultimate in life? This is not saying you can't love your family, but you must love God more than your family to be a follower of Christ This doesn't mean that you can't love and enjoy certain things, but God must be the ultimate in life. There are three implications that I would want I'd like to make here. First is this. Number one, you and I are created to serve a master So we will serve something. Something will master over you. These folks that say, I want to be free, I'm just here to be free, and I want to be free from master. I don't want any shackles. I don't want it. They don't know what they're talking about. You can't do it. It's not possible. We're created for someone to master us. The world will master you, your friends will master you, your heart, your own self will master you, but there is something that's going to master you. You cannot serve, there is no such thing as just total autonomy and freedom. That does not exist. You m it this implies here, you are created to serve something. We're just built that way Number two, you can only serve one master. You ultimately can only live for one master. And number three, money, mammon, money, and material things have a strong pull to be our master because of what it offers. Why is money so d would you agree with that? I mean if you just think if you just think about life, if you just think about how much money drives How much people give their life and attention toward money. Why does Jesus, out of all the things he could single out, why would he single out money and actually all material things Because there's a sense in which folks money has it offers things. Now it can't actually fulfill what it offers, but here that here are the things. I wrote down a few things. Security Money offers security. Money offers position. Money offers pleasure. Power, purpose. Now I want you to think of that list. Security, position, pleasure, power, and purpose. I'm sorry there's one S in there. The rest are P's. But anyway, security, position, plus somebody's going to come up with a P and give it to me later, I know. All right. Security, position, pleasure, power, and purpose. Who offers all of that? God does. If you look at God's word, he offers all of that. He offers you security. In him. He offers you position. In Christ. You're accepted in the beloved. He offers you pleasure. In his presence is fullness of joy. He offers you power through him, and he offers you purpose in life. Money offers, it's the counterfeit of God. This is why it says in 1 Timothy chapter 6 verse 10. For the love of money The living for money, the serving money, is the root of all kinds of evil. For which some have strayed from the faith in their greediness and pierced themselves through with many sorrows. You and I have that there's a warning here. A disciple of Christ can be strayed and pulled toward money because it offers those things that ultimately God is offering. But it does so in a way that is counterfeit. And then there's one final point that I'd like to make. And this may be the most probably is the most important point of all. Jesus here is talking about the effect of the gospel on the life of an individual. He is saying essentially that the true gospel will produce a master-servant relationship The gospel will produce a master servant relationship. Now, it's not saying that you need to somehow, in your own strength, become a servant. You can't, actually. God is actually calling people to do what you can what they cannot do. And if you were to attempt in your own strength to place yourself in s in servitude to God as as your man you can't do it. But I want us to understand this There are many, there is much teaching in the world, and in our country particularly, that suggests that the gospel serves us. That the that it the gospel leads us to where God serves us rather than we serve God. God helps me. God services me. God gives me what I need. And what actually happens, this is a false gospel, what actually happens when I think that the gospel is a tool for me to get God to do what He wants to do for me to get God to do what I want him to do in my life, you have a false gospel The gospel will not bring God to do what you want Him to do. The gospel will bring you to do what He wants you to do. And understanding that difference is absolutely vitally important. There are many people on television, there are many preachers. will say that if you'll do this and you'll do that, then God will give you, you have enough faith and God will give you this and God will give you that and and and and be careful of all that God's goal for you is that you do what he intended you to do, and that is to serve him. And by the way, that's the best life you can live, is to live in service to him. That's your best life now. So here's the question. What do you value in life? Three questions actually. What do you value in life? Where are you placing your focus? Actually, that will determine what you value. You say, well, I don't know if I'm really valuing serving the Lord the way that He wants me to. I'm not maybe I'm not understand you know I I don't know if I value the right things. Well where's your focus? Where are you placing your focus? How is your eye shaping your heart? Where are you placing your focus? And number three, who's your master? Who's your master? This is why, folks, we said at the very beginning that what Jesus Jesus is teaching is you must choose to serve God rather than material things. things. And I would ask you this question, and the truth is, you can't you can't make that decision on your own. You can't in your own effort just come up with some some way of m mass doing that as you know, okay Lord, I'm just gonna do what you No. This is actually something where you have to realize you fall short and can't. The very first step to coming into a relationship with God is to realizing your sin. To admitting your sin, that your sin is an offense against God. That your sin separates you from a holy God. Then you must understand this. But Jesus loved you so much that he came to earth. And he lived a perfect life that you can't live, that qualified him to be able to go to the cross And take your sin on himself, who his own self bore our sins in his own body on the tree, scripture says. Took our sin on himself. And died in our place. We deserve, the Bible says the wage of sin is death. But the gift of God is eternal life. The wage of sin is spiritual death, that's separation from God. But Jesus went to the cross, died, was separated from his Father for us, took our sin in himself, paid the punishment that we should have paid. Rose from the grave three days later. And the Bible tells us that if we will receive that, as many as received him, To them gave you the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. Have you have you received Christ as your Lord and Savior then? The Bible tells us this, first John, these things are written that you may know that you have eternal life, that believe on the name of the of the Son of God, you can know for sure. Do you know? If you don't, let me just encourage you to do this. After the service, would you come and talk about it? with me or somebody else you're comfortable with, we'll be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you will spend eternity with the Lord. Not based upon your own self-effort, but based upon the efforts of Jesus Christ as he died on the cross for you and for me. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and we thank you for your word this morning. We thank you for your truth. And we confess before you, Father, that we often are double-minded in attempting to serve you and mammon at the same time. And I pray, Lord, today, that this would cause conviction where needed. To cause us to make sure that our priorities are aligned in a way that pleases you. But ultimately you are the one that we are serving. You are the one to whom we live. Help us to heed the warning as disciples of Christ that we not stray from the faith and greediness. And really accumulate on ourselves great sorrow. Lord, as we look as we enter in now to this time of communion where we are gathered together to celebrate what Christ did for us on the cross and dying to pay the punishment for our sin. We are so grateful, Father, for this. And we can with one voice declare to you that we affirm what Christ did for us. And we pray, Lord, as we do that today, that you would be glorified and honored and pleased. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God. according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, Or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. Or email us at infovcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.