And so we will begin to worship the Lord together by looking at Psalm 34, and we'll read verses 1 through eight of that psalm. I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise shall continually be in my mouth. My soul shall make its boasts in the Lord. The humble shall hear of it and be glad. O magnify the Lord with me, and let us exalt his name together. I sought the Lord and he heard me and delivered me from all my fears. They looked to him and were radiant, and their fear faces were not ashamed. All right, their ferret faces were not ashamed. This poor man cried out and the Lord heard him and saved him out of all his troubles The angel of the Lord encamps all around those who fear him and delivers them. O taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man who trusts. In him. Let us go to the Lord in prayer together. Father, we are grateful this morning and come to you with thankful hearts. For the fact that you do speak to us through your word. You shower us with your truth in the pages of this book We thank you, Lord, that you have not left us in the dark and hidden yourself from us, but instead have revealed yourself to us. We thank you, Lord, that we can reach into your word and study it and be molded by it and shaped by it and be changed by it. We thank you that we do not have to go through this Christian life in the dark. And wondering and guessing. We praise you, Father, that we can continually look to you We ask, Lord, and pray for your guidance. Truly, Lord, as we were just singing about your church and you speaking to us, your good hand has been upon us There is not a shadow of a doubt, Lord, that you do guide your people here. You do work in our midst. We've seen it. We thank you, Lord, that we have many works that we can look to, works that you have done that we can look towards. In the future, because of what you've already done in the past. And Lord, we thank you because it strengthens our faith, it strengthens our trust. It causes us to understand more fully what sure foundation you are. And Lord, in a moment we'll we'll hear from your word preached. And I do ask that you would speak to us through that. We pray that you would use the The pages of this particular book of the Bible in Habakkuk to enlighten our eyes and our hearts and our spirit. Help us to know you more, help us to see you better. Help us to gain a more accurate view of who you are. We pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen. Reading from the book of Habakkuk, chapter 2, 1 through 20. Read along with me if you will. Habakkuk chapter 2, verse 1 says this. I will stand my watch and set myself on the rampart, and watch to see what he will say to me. And what I will answer when I am corrected. Then the Lord answered me and said, Write the vision and make it plain on tablets that he may run who reads it. For the vision is yet for an appointed time. But at the end it will speak and it will not lie. Though it tarries, wait for it. Because it will surely come, it will not tarry Behold, the proud, his soul is not upright in him, but the just shall live by his faith. Indeed, because he transgresses by wine, he is a proud man, and he does not stay at home, because he enlarges his desire as hell, and he is like death and cannot be satisfied. He gathers to himself all nations, and heaps up for himself all peoples. Will not all these take up a proverb against him and a taunting riddle against him and say, Woe to him who increases What is not, how long? And to him who loads himself with pledges, will not your creditors rise up suddenly? Will they not awaken who oppress you? And will they become their booty? And will you become their booty? Because you have plundered many nations, all the remnant of the people shall plunder you, because of men's blood and the violence and the land and the city, and of all who dwell in it. Woe to him who covets evil gain for his house, that he may set his nest on high, that he may be delivered from the power of disaster. You give shameful counsel to your house, cutting off many peoples and sin against your soul. For the stone will cry out from the wall, and the beam from the timbers will answer it. Woe to him who builds a town with bloodshed Who establishes a city by iniquity? Behold, it is not of the Lord of hosts that the peoples labor to feed the fire. And nations weary themselves in vain. For the Lord will be filled, for sorry, for the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord, as the waters cover the sea. Woe to him who gives drink to his neighbor, pressing him to your bottle, even to make him drunk, that you may look on his nakedness. For you are filled with shame instead of glory. You also drink and be exposed as uncircumcised. The cup of the Lord's right hand will be turned against you, and utter shame will be on your glory. For the violence done to Lebanon will cover you and the plunder of beasts which made them afraid, because of men's blood, and the violence of the land of this city, and of all who dwell in it What prophet is the image that its maker should carve it? The molded image, a teacher of lies, that the maker of its mold should trust in it, to make mute idols. Woe to him who says to wood, Awake, to silent stone, arise, it shall teach. Behold, it is overlaid with gold and silver, but in it there is no breath at all. But the Lord is in his holy temple. Let all the earth keep silence before him. Good morning. It's wonderful to be together in the house of the Lord this morning. Uh thinking about the book of Habakkuk. It's a wonderful book. If you've never read it, I would encourage you to do so. There are so many things that we see in this book That can encourage us and give us better understanding of who God is. But the central theme of the book comes in Habakkuk chapter 2 verse 4, and I just want to start there to let you know that this book is centered around this passage. He says, Behold the proud, his soul is not upright in him, but the just shall walk and live by his faith. Just a little preview. I know I was in this before, but I just wanted to refresh your memory and give you a little preview. And I titled this Trusting the God Who Rules Time and Eternity. We don't always look at God in this manner of being sovereign over all things. We say it we talk it, but I'm not sure we always recognize it in different situations that we come upon in our lives. The preview of this book is that the Book of a Bakhook was written in the final days or decades of Israel's southern kingdom of Judah and Jerusalem before the Babylonian captivity. And it was a time of injustice and idolatry and wickedness. And Habakkuk addresses God with his struggle and his perplexity. Habakkuk was holding on to the belief that God is good. Even when the evil in the world is overwhelming. Do we have this faith and this thought in our lives Are we holding on to the fact that we know and believe with all of our heart that God is good, even in the midst of all the evil and the wickedness we see? We see here a poem of lament, similar to the book of Psalms. The poet lodges a complaint that draws God's attention to the injustice and suffering in the world and calling for God to do something. This is the way lament psalms are done in poems. Understanding this lament form in this key of understanding this book Chapters 1 and 2a are framed as a back-and-forth argument between Habakkuk and God, in which Habakkuk launches two questions And God gives two answers. Question number one, or his complaint, was: life has been horrible in Judah. And he even asked God, why are you allowing me to see this wickedness and this evil? But life was very uh horrible in this time. And the reason it was horrible was that the Torah Is neglected, resulting in violence and injustice, and is being tolerated by Israel's corrupt leaders. And Habakkuk cries out constantly to God to do something But it seems that he gets no reply. Now I want to land here just for a second. When you take God or God's word out of our nation or out of your um life, this is what will take place. And I really um It made me think a lot about our own nation here when I think about this. The more that we turn our back away from God And here it was Israel turning away from or the Torah, which was God's word. We turn away from the Bible and we put it on the shelf. What's going to result? is violence and injustice and evilness. And not only will that result, but the leadership will tolerate it. And if you look at our own nation today, we can see evidences of this taking place. But there is hope in this for the believer. So here we see he's crying out constantly and uh and God didn't seem to be answering him. But all of a sudden, God responds He is very aware of the corruption, and he is summoning the armies of Babylon to bring them down to bring judgment on Judah. Just like in Micah, where he talks about this, and I think it was in Ezekiel or Isaiah, I'm not positive, God says he will use this terrifying empower to devour Israel. Why? Because of their injustice and their evil and their idolatry. So God is the one. Who is bringing this country, Babylon, down on Judah? What happens here is that God is giving them the power and the ability to be a great nation to come and bring he was using them for judgment on Judah. And what happened was once they started getting big and powerful they started changing that it was them who was doing it. So God was not the one in their minds that was doing this, but it was their power, their smart thinking, their doing that's doing this and giving them this power. And so the question and complaint now that uh God just answered just causes another question for Habakkuk. And I think we would probably be the same way He states that Babylon is even worse than Judah. They are more corrupt. They are more violent. They treat humans like animals. In uh gathering them up like fish in nets, it says. And they devour nations and people groups in order to build their own empire. And here is Habakkuk's question. How can a holy, good God Use such a corrupt and evil nation as your instrument to bring judgment on your own chosen people. Now I want to remind you, if you have your Bibles, turn back to Deuteronomy. I want to show you the just justice of God in this whole thing. When we think about that, it does seem rather odd that God will use a country more wicked to come down on the people that He has chosen as His people But if you look in um I can better get my glasses on here. These words are a little more smaller than what my wife typed up. Thank you, Joey. She made large print, she's smart. In uh Deuteronomy twenty-eight We all remember this. This is the blessing and the curses that Moses gives out before his departure. And I want you to listen for a moment. Is God just in what he's doing? Let's see. Now it shall come to pass in verse 1 of 28 Deuteronomy, if you diligently obey the voice of the Lord, your God. To observe carefully all his commandments, which I command you today, that the Lord your God will set you high above all nations of the earth And all the blessings shall come upon you and overtake you, because you obey the voice of the Lord. He said, Blessed shall you be in the city And shall you be in the country? And it comes down to verse seven. It says, The Lord will cause your enemies who rise against you to be defeated before your face. They shall come out against you one way and flee seven ways. God is telling them here, if you obey me and keep my laws and keep the Torah and all these things You're going to be blessed, and this is not going to be anything bad for you. Now you come to verse 15 the curses for disobedience. But it shall come to pass, if you do not obey the voice of the Lord your God, to observe carefully all his commandments and his statues, which I command you today. That all these curses will come upon you and overtake you. And I want to look at just a few of the curses to give us an idea here. He says in verse 33 of 28 A nation whom you have not known shall eat the fruit of your land and the produce of your labor, and you shall be only oppressed and crushed continually. You shall be driven mad because of the sight which your eyes see. And the Lord will strike you in the knees and on the legs and severe boils and talking about all these curses. And he comes back here and he says in verse 36, the Lord will bring you and the king whom you set over you to a nation. Which neither you nor your fathers have known, and there shall you shall serve other gods, wood and stone. And then we go to verse 58. In uh the same chapter. If you do not carefully observe all the words of the law that are written in this book that you may fear this glorious and awesome name, the Lord your God. Then the Lord will bring upon you and your descendants and extraordinary plagues and great and prolonged plagues and serious and prolonged sickness. Then we come to verse 64. When the Lord will scatter you among all nations, from one end of the earth to the other. And there shall you shall serve other gods, which neither you nor your fathers have known, wood and stone And among those nations you shall find no rest, nor shall the sole of your foot have a resting place But there the Lord will give you a trembling and fail heart and failing eyes and anguish of soul. So is God just in what he is doing here He has already told them if you would then obeying and doing as you were supposed to be doing, you would be fine. God's blessing will remain on you. But when you turn away from the Torah, God's Word and His law, and you turn away and start doing the things of the people around you, you're going to pay a heavy price. And that price is captivity of Babylon coming and taking over. And we've seen this through history when God um the northern kingdom was already on in captivity for their wickedness But I just wanted to bring that out so that we can understand that God's justice is just, even on Judah. And um who is his chosen people. Now Habakkuk here, as we saw in uh chapter uh two, verse one, he depicts himself as a watchman. on the city wall, waiting for God's answer that he may be corrected. And I like this because are we willing to be corrected when we are doing wrong? Are we willing uh willing to be corrected by God. Sometimes that hurts. So here is God's response to the second question about why he's using this evil nation to come down. God responds by commanding Habakkuk to get a tablet and write plainly the vision, which is for, listen, an appointed time. This is for an appointed time. And he says, though it carries Wait for it, because it will surely come. We don't like waiting, do we? What are we waiting on right now as believers? Are we not waiting for the second coming? Are we going to be like the proud and our heart not be upright in us? Or are we going to be the one whose just shall live by faith? We are to stay faithful to God as we are waiting for His coming. And I really like that He points this out here, and I was thinking about how do I handle this verse Which is the central part of the whole book when it says, Behold the proud, his soul is not upright in him, and the just shall live by faith. God says that the righteous shall live by their faith through this hope, through this vision. God desires that we live faithfully while we wait for Him. Now we know in Peter, I think it is, where the people were getting impatient and they thought ever since our fathers in this and that he said God hasn't come, where is he his coming? And uh of course we end up with the answer that God is patient, not wanting that any should perish, but all come to repentance. So we should never get the idea, because it's been delayed for thousands of years, that Christ is not going to come A lot of people don't believe that, and it's hard to believe it, but at the same time, it is an appointed time by God, not us. And I want to say this too. Our lives have appointed times We know that we all face death. We don't know when it's going to be, and it's never comfortable. It's never a happy time. But yet we know it's going to come because God is the one who is in charge. And I think of uh Brother Jim, God's timing and just everything that worked out there really does show God's goodness We hated to see him leave. I know I did, and I know the family did. But at the same time, he's where God wants him right now. And we can't question as to why God's timing is, because God's ways and thoughts are so much higher than ours. But he did use a lot of good things that we found in that time that Jim had left. And so we are waiting, and while we are waiting, we are to remain faithful. Jim Sr. could have been unfaithful and not been all worried about everything else, but he stayed faithful. to God through the whole thing. He wanted God's will to be done. And uh he wanted to be a good testimony and a good witness to others. This is what it means that we are walking by faith. The just shall walk by faith. So, the proud on the other hand, his soul was not upright in him. What does that mean? That means that he is living by his own means and his own wants and his own desires. He is a proud man. And we're going to look at the contrast as we are going through this. And one of the things that really stand out to me in this whole book is how God is so sovereign over everything. Everything. And He is guiding, He is directing traffic here. He's the one that brought Babylon down there. It wasn't that they uh all of a sudden decide they're going to go in and take over Judah. But God is the one that's orchestrating because he was bringing judgment. God says that the righteous shall live by their faith through this hope and this vision, and God desires that we live faithfully while we wait. The proud will not be doing that. So what is the vision? God says he will bring Babylon down. This is the vision. God says that violence and oppression of the nations creates a never-ending cycle of revenge and God will use this cycle to bring about the rise and fall of nations. We've seen that throughout history. Big nations would come up and they would be powerful for years, and then God brings them down. And the reason most of the time that nations are brought down is because of their injustice and their wickedness and their evilness and turning away from God. And I think about my nation here that we all live in. 50 years ago, God was very important in the life of people in this nation. in the schools, in the homes, in government even. And look where we are now. Several years ago we took prayer out of school. And all these things we see happening. So we should not be surprised as God's children that these things take place. Because the proud And so we look here now, and I want to bring this up about the vision here God holds all nations, all nations, accountable to his justice. And so we see here that Babylon will fall. Even though this looks like a terrible thing that they're coming and they're more wicked and they're going to do this and that, they will fall, and that's what God's promises. They were to wait for that. But I want to say this too. This is a lesson that we all can learn Throughout life, not just here in this particular scripture that we're looking at, but we should all be uh understanding how what it means to walk the just shall live by uh walk by and live by faith. And I think about This that the just shall live by faith. And that brings us now to the five woes promised by God. And this five woes describes the kinds of oppressions and injustices perpetrated by nations like Babylon, like those whose heart And his soul is not upright in him. This is evidence and we can see it. And each time God gives a woe, he gives a taste of what's going to happen to that woe. And here we find in the first woe, and uh it says that, woe to him who increases what is not his. How long? And to him who loads himself with many pledges, and it goes on. What we see here is unjust economical practices, basically. The wealthy charge high interest and taxes to build their wealth and to keep the poor in debt Now this is a nation that is so wicked, and it's coming in, and that's what it's going to do when it comes in to take over Judah, and that's what most nations do when they come in and take over. They are the power. They are the ones who have all the power and everything. And they they um build their wealth and it's called greed and pride. They build their wealth through crooked and unjust means And God says in verse 8, he says, a remnant will plunder you. You will become their booty. So, after they have their big day, Babylon, coming in, taking over and being rich and powerful and all that stuff, there's going to come a day That they are going to be taken down and be the plunder and become other people's booty like they were doing with Judah The second woe is similar to the first woe. It is a covenant of evil gains to build and fill their houses on high hills surrounded by high walls, etc. So stones and the wood will cry out, so beans will cry out of their injustice. And what I like about this passage excuse me These people are those leaders who are coming in. And when they come in, they are so evil and so prideful and so full of greed that they take advantage of the people that they come to. take over from. And he even put some to death and then speaks about that there. But uh I want to take you for a moment about this proud person that we're speaking of right here. If you have your Bibles, turn over to Luke chapter 12. And we see here Jesus Christ himself is giving a parable of a man like we are seeing here spoken of in Habakkuk. And if we look at verse 16, we're familiar with this parable, I believe, but I just wanted to bring it out. Then he spoke a parable to them, verse 16, chapter 12 of Luke The ground of a certain rich man gilded plentiful. And he thought within himself, saying, What shall I do, since I have no more room to store my crops? Well he comes up with this idea. He said, I will do this. I will pull down the barns and build greater, and there I will store my crops and my goods. And I will say to my soul, this is the proud man, I will say to my soul, soul, you have many goods laid up for many years. So, take your ease, eat, drink, and be merry. God said to this man Fool, this night your soul will be required of you. Then whose will those things be which you have provided? Verse 21 is the answer. So he who lays up treasure for himself and is not rich towards God This is the man he's talking about here. He's not rich towards God. Why is he not? Because everything is about himself. He wants the big house. He wants the big car. He wants the big truck He wants the big boat, he wants this, he wants that, and he'll take pictures of it and show everybody. He's so proud of his accomplishments and what he has. And God is nowhere in that because it's all about the rich man, the proud man. The proud man is his own God. And so we see here also in I want to turn to Matthew 2, which is a also a good passage about this. And for us. In Matthew 6, 19 through 21, do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth. Where moth and rust destroy, and thieves break in and steal. But lay up for yourself treasures in heaven where neither moth nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. So what is the God there? The God is their treasures. Whatever they're storing up and treasuring up is their God. That's what they worship. That's what they I mean I I think about When you uh if you're a a proud man and your heart's not right in you, you're not a believer. Everything is built around what you have done and you and I I see it all the time. We make uh statues of people, we take pictures of all we have and we're showing it to everybody. We're so proud of it. And what happens is all that we have accomplished there and all that we have is our God We worship it. We don't worship it like we do here singing praises, but we show everybody what we have. We want everybody to see what we have accomplished. The proud man So now we come to the third woe. We see now that the first one was unjust economic practices. And the second one was similar, is coveting even gain evil gains to build their own houses and all these things. Now we come to the third woe, and it's talking about slave labor Treating humans like animals. And in the third woe, let me get back where I was supposed to be here. To him who builds a town with bloodshed and establishes a city by iniquity And this is talking about when they come in and take over the cities and they build 'em up and uh they use slave labor. They use the people who are living there and some of 'em even are beaten and put to death because of the the way they work, they're not good enough. But they threaten them with violence. Violence. And they do not obey, bringing bloodshed and establishing their cities. And here we see verse 13 what God says. Behold, is it not the Lord of hosts that peoples labor to feed the fire, and nations worry themselves in vain? Here people are doing everything that they want to do for their own purposes, but in all Actuality, it's all for naught. They're going to lose it all. And God is going to come and judge that. And it says here, and nations worry themselves in vain. Now verse 14. It says the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters of the sea. Here we see God showing them that everything that they have is going to be destroyed and God's glory is going to be shown over all the earth, over all the world, all o everything And in contrast to the self-exaltation of the Chaldeans, whose efforts came to naught, God promises that the whole world and earth will recognize his glory. When he establishes his millennial kingdom, then we will see everything that glorifies God, and all that was done for our own glory and our own purposes is going to be wiped out. So what are we building on? What are we doing? How are we being walking by faith? What are we doing with what God has given us? It makes us think, doesn't it? I don't want to be doing and using what God has given me for things that are not for his purpose and for his glory. Building up those treasures in heaven, not on earth. We all struggle with it. All of us struggle with pride. We're no different. But we are saved by God's grace and we are given instruction. And what I love about God's kingdom is. We have the privilege and the opportunity to have His word, being warned of these things, and we also have instruction on how to handle it. And we know that we are under God's grace and mercy. They are not And uh so let's move on here. He says here that the fourth woe, this one is very prevalent. The abuse of alcohol drugs by the leadership, giving drink to his neighbors, that they may look on their shame and make them easy prey. It also brings them to shame, like the uncircumcised heathen. And we see alcohol and drugs as very, very prevalent in our day. And the problem with alcohol and drugs taken this way is abusive to the soul. And uh I I think of so many people who have lost loved ones through all these uh drugs and alcohol and things. I had a list I was gonna mention of the latest on how many people die from alcohol in accidents and so on and how many are loss of work and how much money. But I didn't have time to write it all down, so but anyway, we see this. It kinda reminds us here now when um when we're talking about the alcohol and uh that it puts us to shame. Alcohol will make you feel stronger. Uh drugs will make you feel stronger. It'll make you think you're invincible. And uh it comes to a point where I don't know if you've seen uh certain areas in Philadelphia and Los Angeles where people get so bad into it that they're just standing there numb. They can't even move. That's life for them. Isn't that sad? And yet nation's leaders allow it to be. They don't work on trying to get that solved They're all concerned about their stuff, their power, the proud man. So here we find that God says the cup of the Lord's right hand will be turned against you and utter shame will be on your glory. And I know that uh I I was looking at Revelation chapter 16, and I know that this is not specifically for this, but it also tells us something about what's going to take place. He says in uh sixteen of Revelation verse nineteen. Now the great city was divided into three parts, talking about Jerusalem, and the cities of other nations fell And Great Babylon was remembered before God to give her the cup of wine of the fierceness of his wrath. And this is kind of what God is mentioning here. So What the Chaldeans did to others was going to be done to them. This is kind of the whole series of woes that we see. Whatever they had done to others is going to be brought upon them. And this is God's justice. And in uh verse seventeen it talked about the abuse of the land and the animals, and it mentions uh the balance that was done to Lebanon. Lebanon had some beautiful, beautiful cedars Trees, we all know what they are. They're beautiful trees and the cedar wood is beautiful. Smells good. But they were devastating that Forest. And they were taking the animals and killing them for food and all this. And it kind of uh talks about that the violence done to Lebanon will cover you and the plunder of the beast which made them afraid because of men's blood, the balance of the land and the city and all who dwell in it. And uh so we see here when he's talking about that it was the abuse that they did in taking over those beautiful things that God created. And uh use them to build their big mansions and so on. So now we come to the fifth woe. And the fifth woe is about idolatry. It says, woe to him who uh where am I at? Sorry. Woe to him who says to Wood, awake. wooden idols, to silent stone, arise, and it shall teach. Behold, it is overlaid with gold and silver, and yet it has no breath in it. Pastor Jim spoke about this was it last week? We were talking about the uh idols and uh made of wood. And when you think about it, what were these people doing These proud people, they make idols of themselves. They make idols of whatever it is they built and they want everybody to see it. They lay it in gold and they put it on their shelves. Very prideful and they love what they have and what they are showing everyone else. And so this is building these idols that can do nothing for them. It kind of reminds me of Elijah uh and his words to the prophets on Baal at Mount Carmel. when they were s he was challenging them to bring down fire and he told them, Well maybe you should wake them up, maybe they're sleeping, or this and that because the wood and the stones and all that they were worshiping had no power, no nothing And uh this is what God is saying here. All these things that you are building and putting up as idols for yourself, they are all going to be for naught. And this is also the evidence of the proud man whose soul is not upright in him. Now we come to the part where verse 20, where it says, But the Lord in his holy temple Let all the earth keep silent before him. I was reminded of Pastor uh Matt uh sermon two weeks ago, where he came to this passage, he did the whole That was wonderful. But you come to this passage at the end. Be still and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations. I will be exalted in the earth. For you and I, as believers, those who are the just shall live by faith. This is a great passage for you and I. It's because we know in God's sovereignty that this day is going to come when He is going to return. So what do we do in the meantime? We be still and know that He is God. We see so much going on around us and around our nation. Maybe even in our lives, we have a lot of uh stuff going on And here, God says, Be still and know that I am God. I know that you are having this issue. I know what's going on in your government. I know what's going on in your home. I know these things I am sovereign and I am all-wise and all-knowing. God knows our rising up, our lying down. If you're having thoughts here right now, God knows your thoughts That can be scary, huh? You know my thoughts? True. He is that intimate, and that's how far high above us that he is. If we get a wrong view, we're gonna be in trouble But here, I like that I put that passage in there because it reminded me of Matt's sermon last week. Be still as a believer who's walking by his faith And know that He is God. Know that one day He will be exalted above the nations, and He will be exalted in all the earth. Even though He is actually exalted right now. To us He is. But to the proud they don't know that. In other words, don't panic. Just recognize his sovereignty over all the nations, trusting the God who rules time and eternity. This is where my title came from, kind of. I wonder if we have this view of understanding and living, knowing God's sovereignty over all things. I mean if you look at the news you would think there was no God. I mean and and you know we're gonna have this big red wave and all this stuff and nothing happen. If you follow that stuff, you're gonna go down with it. But uh you know, we have a God who is so much greater He is the one orchestrating. He is the one in control. I don't need to worry. In fact, I get to the point where I don't even like listening to the news They'll get your host built up or else they'll be cutting some mail down. It's it's just the world's ways. Let's move on. When we say that God is sovereign, what are we saying? We are declaring that his control of the universe, human history, and all outcome. He's in control of all of it It's hard to think that God is in control of human history because we don't see exactly what he's doing. But yet he is. And this here Everything that God causes or allows to work to accomplish His wise purposes and eternal plan. If we have that mindset and understand that God does not merely realign his plan in response to human events. He didn't realign his plan because Babylon was coming up. He was the one that orchestrated it. He gave him the power and the strength to do it because he was going to use them to bring judgment against Judah And his sovereign plan actually determines history. It's not the other way around. We think that God all of a sudden will change his mind because something's going on. No. It's already in his Will. Already what he has decided. I want to speak a little bit about the sovereignty of God before we end. The truth of God's sovereignty provides untold comfort to us, doesn't it? Don't we have a better comfort knowing that God is in control? The just shall live by faith. But it also raises honest questions as we are processing the evil influences that we see around us, does it not? Do we not think about that? Do it does it not raise questions to us? I mean, why is this happening? Why is that happening? Why did that go that way? We still have those thoughts, even though we're walking by faith, but we have them. And here's something that I was, I uh got from a commentary. It says a proper understanding of God's sovereignty. Deepens our understanding of so many other biblical truths. We've been learning uh in Wednesday nights, there's been so much there from other biblical truths that we are learning about God's sovereignty and who God is, having a high view of God, not a low view. God's sovereignty undergrids his power To save sinners. How could God save a wretch like me? My life before was completely ridiculously evil And wicked was all about me and what I wanted. I still struggle with pride, don't you? We have pride to struggle with. But To see his power to save sinners and orchestrate history and redeem my life and your life We see God's sovereignty that undergirds his power, that he is in control. He is the one who does this, just like he was the one who orchestrated for Babylon to come in and use them for judgment. He also chose you and I to be saved and be a part of his kingdom. And it this really solidifies his sovereignty and it undergirds his power that he has So my first principle was that faith grows when we learn to trust God's good purposes, transcend what we observe and experience in life. God always comes first. God's good purposes. I believe that God is good. And I think Habakkuk believed that God was good. He he knew that. And yet he was perplexed by what he saw. And I think we do the same thing. But our faith grows when we learn to trust God. And when things come and they go through your life and you're walking according uh to his spirit and you are living your faith out That grows the faith. And he talks about from faith to faith in the Bible, in New Testament. This here, as we have this belief and understanding of God's good purposes, that they transcend what we observe and experience. Maybe don't look like it here. But it is there, and my faith grows as I go through that. Habakkuk is a shining example of how the just shall live by faith. And chapter three will really put the icing on the cake of all that we're studying and if the Lord is willing that uh we will get to there one day. But the concept of God's sovereignty challenges our thinking Fallen humanity have longed to control their own lives in ways that they ultimately can't. Didn't we start there? Didn't we all start there? When I get twenty-one I'm going to do this. When I get twenty-five, I'm going to be doing this. When I get this and this and this. When you think about it, we have this uh we want to control our lives, but we ultimately can't. Excuse me. Many think that acknowledging God as sovereign makes people merely robots of the mercy of God's whims. Well, if God's sovereign, then we don't have a choice. I mean whatever he wants to do, he and then but what they forget here, this is wrong thinking. This is definitely wrong thinking. And Pastor says it's thinking thinking, which I agree. So it is wrong thinking because this wrong thinking does not accurately represent the benevolent and righteous. nature of God. He's not one. He wants to do good for us and he wants us to love him and trust him. And uh there's a warning here that I want to bring out. A life not anchored by the wise and purposeful control of Almighty God. You may see outward success, but it lacks lasting order, purpose, and clarity, like the five woes we just went through. My second principle is to refuse to recognize and accept God's sovereignty is like flying a plane without a pallet or a flight plan. In other words, we don't believe in God. We don't have His Word. We're just going our own way, which will lead to destruction ultimately. And there may be some here today that are not certain Am I truly living my life for God? Am I have I been justified? Do I know that I am going to go to heaven The third principle I have is when you recognize that everything God allows in this world and your life contributes to his eternal plan, you learn to rest in him. We should learn to rest in him. And what was the passage we talked about? Be still and know that I am God. Knowing that history and my own destiny And God's eternal plan are within God's control. And this produces peace, despite confusing circumstances. And I like John, I'm going to turn here real quick. I love in John 14, Jesus says to the believer He says, peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you. Not as the world gives, do I give to you. Let not your heart be troubled Neither let it be afraid. Isn't that beautiful? Isn't that wonderful? That we can have that hope and that comfort and that joy. And I want to speak also of uh Matthew, I mean uh John uh 15 Where he says in verse 9 through 11, he says, As the Father loved me, I also loved you. Abide in my love. Walk justly. That is you are justified and live your life by faith. And he says here, abide in my love. If you abide in my commandments, don't throw away the Torah, don't throw away the Bible. You will abide in my love, just as I have kept my father's commandments, and I abide in his love. These things, brothers and sisters, I have spoken to you, that my joy remain in you and that your joy may be full. These are such wonderful passages from God. Are we recording? Okay. Question. How has God's sovereignty provided comfort to you today? Have you thought about it? How has God's sovereignty comforted you today? Second question, are you Who are justified, saved by Christ's atonement, living by faith, and not by sight what you're seeing going on around you, in spite of all the evil and injustice You are seeing around you. Are you living and walking by faith? The last verse, 20 But the Lord is in his holy temple that all the earth keeps silent. Again brings me back to be still and know that I am God. And I will be exalted among the nations. I will be exalted in all the earth When it comes to waiting, uh back in when it told them to wait, when we are waiting for Christ to come, It is like a building during construction. Now I am I've been in construction almost all my life, so this really related to me But when a building during its construction, you cannot perceive what the finished product will look like until they remove the scaffolding and everything And so it is with God, who is working in our lives and in the world. We cannot fully comprehend and understand all that He is doing, but we are still under construction. Be still and know that He is God. Chapter three, next time, if the Lord is willing, really to me just puts the icing on the cake of this whole book. And uh I know that Matt was chewing it to bit the dude in the chapter, so he'd probably do a better job than I was. But uh I like uh it's actually gonna show how her back hook is a shining example of the just living by faith, which is the purpose and theme of the book of Habakkuk We see God's sovereignty. We see God's challenge of the one who is proud and his soul is not upright in him, and we see also that the just shall live by faith. So Maybe when I think about it, I want to give you a little taste here. Just a little taste. Am I running out of time? Okay. There's a little taste in uh chapter 3. And this is actually a hymn, a prayer, I believe, that was sung by Israel. But it says here in verse 17 of chapter 3, though the fig tree may not blossom, nor fruit on the vines, though the labor of the olive may fail, though the fields may yield no food though the flock may be cut off from the fold, and there be no herd in the stalls. The back hook says, yet, yet I will rejoice in the Lord. I will joy in the God of my salvation. The God of my is my strength, and he will make me my feet, like a deer's feet. And he will make me walk my high heels, continuing in faith is what he's talking about here. It's sure footing. I am Sure about my salvation. I am sure that God is going to lead me home. I will continue in faith. And here Maybe some of us are here today, maybe there's someone, and you're not really sure. You're not really sure where you are with the Lord. You're not sure that you have this assurance that God has saved you from your sin. Maybe you're having thoughts and fears about what you're seeing going on in our country, in our nation. Maybe you have personal issues in your life that you're going through. And you are not sure of what you believe about God, whether or not you have been justified by Him. In other words, not sure if you will go to heaven when you die. Are we waiting for the coming of Christ and walking by faith? Maybe you're not sure. If you're not, I would ask that you would uh Give us the privilege, uh Pastor uh Jim or Pastor Matt or myself or Enrique, come see us. We will take God's word and show you so that you can know for certain That you have salvation. The Bible says that we have written these things that you may know that you have eternal life. You can know that you have eternal life And if you have questions about that, I would encourage you to see one of us afterwards. And I do want to also say that those of us who are walking by faith Just remember, God is in complete control. And know that He knows our thoughts and everything about us. And He is in control. Thank you Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.