Love that hymn, don't you? When we go to the men's retreat and you hear all them men singing that That last verse just comes alive. Uh bow your heads with me together if you would go before the Lord Father, we are grateful this morning. You are God Almighty, all-powerful, all-wise, and all-knowing. You are the creator and sister Of all life. You are holy, holy, holy. You are sovereign over all of your creation. And we praise you this morning And give you honor and glory because of who you are. And Lord, though your ways and your thoughts are so much higher than ours, You bowed down and shared your love with us, who were unlovable. And Father, we are grateful for your son and what you have done through him at the cross on our behalf. have that we might have this privilege and this joy this morning to come before your throne. And Lord, we are grateful and thankful for the privilege privilege and the joy that you have provided. And Lord, we come uh with thankful hearts, Lord, for how you watched over us this week and how you protect us Protect us, how you provide for us, how you heal us up, and Father, you give us strength to get up in the morning to get around and Father, we're so grateful. We're thankful that we have the freedom that we have this morning to be here and worship you. And as Pastor Jim said earlier, Lord, I pray that you would help us to set aside all the cares and thoughts of our week, even this morning. And Lord that we We would worship you in spirit and in truth. And I pray, as your word is preached to us this morning, may you open our ears and our hearts and our minds To your word. And Father, may you instruct us that we may have the wisdom to apply in our lives what you are teaching us this morning. And we ask in Jesus. Jesus' name. Amen. We're going to be reading this morning from Matthew 6, 25 through 34. Matthew chapter 6, 25 through 34 I need my glasses. Get at this age, it's hard to see Verse 25. Therefore I say to you, do not worry about your life, what you will eat or what you will drink, nor about your body, what you will put on. If not, is not life more than food and the body more than clothing? Look at the birds of the air, for they neither sow nor reap Nor gather into barns, yet your heavenly father feeds them. Are you not of more value than they? Which of you, by worrying, can add one cubit to his stature? So why do you worry about clothing Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They neither toil nor spin. And yet I say to you that even Solomon, in all of his glory, was not arrayed like one of these Now, if God so clothes the grass of the field, which today is here and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe you? Oh, you of little faith Therefore, do not worry, saying, What shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or what shall we wear? For after all these things the Gentiles seek, for your heavenly Father knows that you need all these things. But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added to you. Therefore, do not worry about tomorrow For tomorrow will worry about its own things. Sufficient for the day is its own trouble. So last week we learned from Jesus that we cannot serve God and money at the same time. He said, don't treasure treasures. It's almost as though Jesus now anticipates sort of a problem that the disciples perhaps would have. But Jesus What about all of our needs? What about the future and all of the things that we're worried about? And so in response, Jesus says, verse 35, there, or verse 25 of this passage. Therefore I say to you, do not worry about your life. Warren Wirsby said this in a chapel message one time. He said, It is often said that we are continually being crucified between the people who are not aware of the people who are not going to be able to do that. Between two thieves, the regrets of yesterday and the worries about tomorrow. And if you really think about your life, the amount of time and energy and mental energy you put into Regrets about the past and worries about the future, those two things really can consume our lives Jesus' command to us is do not worry. Don't worry about your life. In Time magazine, uh a cover edition on June tenth, two thousand two It tells of a typical, perhaps somewhat typical day in the life of a mother. It's 4 a. m. and you're wide awake, palms sweaty, heart racing, you're worried about your kids. Your aging parents, your 401k, your health, breathing evenly beside you, your spouse oblivious. Doesn't he see the dangers that lurk in every shadow? He must not. Otherwise, he how could he, with all that's going on, have talk about uh calmly at dinner, talk about flying to Florida for a vacation Mothers really do have special concerns in their lives. Birth itself is a concern. Ongoing care, healthy growth, proper friends and influences. They are concerned about who their their spouses will marry, who uh whether their hand they'll be able to have handle responsibilities well, whether they'll be able to have jobs, and of course fathers along with that have the same kinds of concerns. They're concerned about their own failures as of as moms. I I can't tell you how many moms um I've talked to over the years that feel like constantly like they're a failure. And they're actually not, but they they feel like they are all the time. um or meant much of the time. Us men are just not that, you know, it's like we don't care that much or something. Um we do care, but like not that much. And and and so we, you know, we're kind of just kind of going through life and not really thinking and And mothers are sort of feeling like they're constantly failing, like there's not like it could always be more. There's always more they could be doing Mothers have a very hard job, don't they? And mothers are very often prone to anxiety and to worry. So are men too. I mean Christ was actually talking to his disciples here, but it's mother's day, so I figured I'd use mothers in as as a illustration more than fathers. Uh one commentator writes, A woman in the neighborhood is having a significant bout with worry. Her children have all c caused her a measure of grief, but they've basically good kids. a very good businessman. They have had significant financial problems in the past and now considering bankruptcy, they're not believers and worthy worry has consumed her. She rarely sleeps through the night. She talks incessantly about the bleak out outlook of their future and she now develop is developing high blood pressure and heart problems Her greatest need is to be able to let loose of her regrets about yesterday and relinquish her worries about tomorrow. Unfortunately, this is not an uncommon scenario, really among men and women. Anxiety certainly, I don't even have to give statistics, anxiety and worry absolutely is on the rise. It's common knowledge that that is the case. Now it's interesting in this passage, when you look at this passage, that three, not one time, three times Jesus repeats himself. Three times in the passage he says, do not worry, do not worry, do not worry. This passage, no doubt, is about not worrying. But it's interesting he repeats it in such a short amount of time so often. And it's almost I don't know for sure if this is true, but it's almost though as though he realizes that a warrior is caught in his own own trap of worry. And it's like he's got to repeat it three times. Don't worry. Don't worry. Don't worry. You ever been there? Worry and anxiety is a very serious aspect of life, and it's something that God commands us not to worry. He says He does not want his followers to worry. He wants us to be freed from this. So why should Christ's followers not worry? He's going to give us three reasons. One, we're going to learn that worry is pointless. Two, that worry displays weak faith. And three, that worry can't coexist with seeking God's kingdom first. Worry is pointless. It displays weak faith, and can't coexist with seeking God's kingdom. So we first see in the passage, worry is pointless. We pick up in verse twenty-five where it says, Therefore I say to you, do not worry about your life. what you will eat or what you will drink, nor about your body what you will put on. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing? Look at the birds of the air, for they neither sow nor taw nor reap, nor uh gather into barns, yet your fa heavenly father feeds them. Are you not more valuable do of more value than they? Which of you by worrying can add one cubit to his stature? So he says, do not worry about your life. Well what is worry? If we think of this term worry or anxiety, I think the King James says take it with thought, it's all the same thing. What is worry? Well, there are several times in Scripture that worry is used, and I want to mention a couple, about three. In Luke chapter 10, verse 41, we see that it is coupled with being troubled. Jesus says in that passage, Martha, Martha, you are worried and troubled about many things. So being troubled and worrying about the future are connected to each other. In 1 Corinthians chapter 7, verses 33 through 34, we find in that passage that the cares of the world are connected to the idea of worry. They're the same word, actually. And then we find in Luke 12, verses 25 through 27, about being anxious. It says, And which of you worrying can add one cubit to his stature? That's the same passage in and uh uh in Matthew here, it's reiterated there. If you then are not able to do uh able to do the least, why are you anxious, uses the word anxious there for the rest? Consider the lilies, how they grow, and it goes on in the passage. So we have worry is associated with trouble. Worry is associated with the cares, the responsibilities, the burdens of this life, and Worry and anxiety are essentially uh synonyms. Anxious expectation. So when we think about uh anxiety and worry, what is this? Well it's expectation of something in the future. To face something. This word was used in the prior to the New Testament. It was used in classical Greek to talk about cares and expectations of things and facing something in the future. It was said to disturb sleep. The frivolous try to deal with it by drowning themselves in love and drink And it is suggested in the classical time period that can it can only be released by the that we can only be released from worry by the sweet release of death. It's pretty morbid. But it is true that anxiety and worry is something that that most of us really struggle with and something And he says, Jesus says, therefore I say to you, do not worry about your life, particularly, he says, what you will eat or what you will drink. Don't worry about those things. Those things are the necessities of life. It tells us this in 1 Timothy 6, verse 8, and having food and clothing, and these things we should be content God says that he will provide both food and clothing for his children, and that we ought to be content, and that we ought not worry about those things. And then he says this in the passage. It's very interesting what he says here. He says, um uh Is not life more than food and body more than clothing? What is he saying there? Is not life more than food and body more than clothing? What he is saying here in that passage, there's some different views on it, but here's what he's saying. He's saying that God has given you your life. And God has given you your body. Isn't food and clothing less important than your actual body and your actual life. And if God is able to give you your life and your body, is he not also able to maintain those food things? with food and clothing. He's making an argument here. It's kinda like um somebody, you know, you have a c an auto make uh somebody builds a car And they build a car from scratch and they sell you the car and they say, hey, I will maintain this car forever. If you'll just bring it back to me, I'll maintain it. So you take the car and you use it and something goes wrong with the car, and you immediately say And you immediately say, um, boy, I don't know what to do. I I I don't know what to do. I don't know who can fix this. When the owner of the car just told you when he sold you the car, bring it back to me, and I know how to fix it Well how ridiculous it is is it that you would that that the that the builder of the car would not know how to maintain the car when he is actually promised and guaranteed that he would maintain the car that he actually built In the same way, God has given you and I life, He's given you and I a body, and He has promised that He would provide for that life and that body So why in the world would we question why would first thing goes wrong in our life, first thing that goes wrong in our body, and we go, oh no, what are we going to do? And yet that's exactly what we do. Jesus is giving us some very clear arguments, mental arguments, to help us with this this issue of worry. He says, look at the birds of the air. Don't they s uh they don't sow or reap or gather in barns, yet your father feeds them and they know he knows what they need. God he's saying that if you just look at creation, you know that by creation and looking around at creation and God's creation, you know that he can provide for the pe for what he has created. It's interesting that in Romans chapter 1 verse 20 it says, For since the creation of the world his invisible attributes are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead. You can actually look at the world and you could see the sovereignty of God, but if you look closely, you can look at the world and you could see the provision and the providence of God. Look at the grass of the field, he says. Look at the birds of the air. Birds of the air, God provides for all of this. The ecosystem, everything, God provides for all of this. And are you not so much more important, by the way, for those um ex extreme animal rights activists that might like to say that humans are not are are somehow humans are n are equal to animals. Jesus dis agrees with them. God provides for birds because he cares about them, but he says, how much more does he care about you as a human being? And he uses this as an illustration, the birds of the air, to show us that the creator is also the sustainer. The sustainer is also the provider. That is why we don't need to worry. You, he says, are much more valuable than they are. And then he says, on top of that He says this, picking up in verse 26. Are you not more valuable than them? Actually, pick up in verse 27. He says, Which of you, by worrying, can add a cubit to his stature? He's going to use another argument for why worrying is something that makes no sense. It's illogical. It doesn't make any sense. Now, there are two views on this. One view is it's talking about the disciples are short and want to get taller. And Jesus says to them, you can't get taller, you can't grow by 18 inches just by worrying about it. And if that's the view, that's true. You can't grow 18 inches by worrying about it. There's also another possibility, and I think a more likely possibility, that it's actually saying talking about the lengthening of life here. That who which of you can grow your life, can lengthen your life, and it certainly could be translated that way. Which of you can lengthen your life by worrying about it? And the answer is you can't. Either way, you take that view, the outcome is the same, actually. It's illogical and pointless to worry. It makes no sense. But folks, you cannot lengthen your life by worrying about it. In fact, can I say it's my opinion? The Bible's not saying this. You might shorten it. Heart disease, blood pressure, those kinds of things, uh the stress and strain and worry of life can have a toll and effect on our cells physically. And it's something that we need to be aware of. He's saying, he's pointing out through these strong arguments, worry is pointless. It makes no sense whatsoever. He says you can't lengthen your life by worrying about it. Have you thought about, uh if you think about this, how much focus are we on ex extending our lives. If you look at advertisements, how often do you see advertisements about age-defined products? Whether it's diet or food or skincare, everybody's trying to age-defy themselves. And that only lasts for so long because it always catches up with you And the reality is, as much as we may try, we cannot lengthen our lives. And certainly we cannot lengthen our lives. through worry. So worry is pointless, but also worry displays weak faith. Look at the passage and what it says here. It says, verse 28, so why do you worry about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They neither toil nor spin. And yet I say to you that Solomon that even Solomon in all of his glory was not arrayed like one of these. So So first he gives another illustration very similar to the bird's illustration. He says, look at the lilies of the field, look at the grass, look at those things, look at those things. that grow, the grass of the field, the lilies, they are beautiful. They are clothed well. With the grass, he says, uh it's thrown in the oven tomorrow, so it's obviously not worth very much In fact, if you think of the how, you know, w grass is pretty worthless. Like you cut it down and you bag it up and you put it away and or you throw it away and I mean it's not a high nobody says you know no no nobody buys stock in grass. Okay grass is just not very worth much. And yet God even even clothes the grass. And He clothes the lilies. He's taking care of all those things. He reiterates again, how much more valuable are you than all these things? And then he says this. He says, Now if God shall close the grass of the field, which today is, and tomorrow is thrown into the oven. Now catch this, and he's going to get to the root of the issue of worry, and I I just so appreciate how he does this. It says, Will he not much more clothe you what? What's the root problem? He says, O you of what? Of little faith. Now, he says this perfectly, of course, because he's Jesus and it's God's word. Here's what he doesn't say. He doesn't say, oh faithless. Now there are other times in Scripture he says, oh faithless. He says to the scribes and Pharisees that they're faithless. But here he doesn't say you're faithless. He says you have little faith And I want to make that distinction for this reason. Sometimes those of us who lean toward worrying, sometimes we actually add guilt to our worry. Because we're worrying about things, and we know we shouldn't be worrying about things, and then we realize we ought to trust God more, and then we think we don't have enough faith. And then we're guilty about the fact that we don't have enough faith to not worry. So we're adding guilt to the fact that we're already worrying and we're just really a mess. And Jesus doesn't say you're faithless. He doesn't say if you're worried, you have no faith at all. He says, oh you of little faith. In fact, Jesus is going to use this phrase several times in Scripture. He's going to say, oh you of little faith. And I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn with me and see these places. There's there's four that I want to look at. So I'd like they're all in Matthew, and I just want you to be able to flip your Bible or like do the thing with your thumbs, with your phone, and go from one to the other to the other with me. Would you do that with me? Matthew 8. 26 is the first place I want you to see. Matthew 8. 26, and I just want you to see with your own eyes this. Matthew 8. 26, he says this. And he said to them, Why are you, what's the word? fearful, O you of little faith. So he has associated, he's associated worry with little faith. Now he associates fearful with little faith. And I'm going to tell you that all of these things are associated with each other. So by looking at these things, we're going to really unpack What anxiety is, what worry is. And I'm going to tell you that worry, the root of worry is fear So fear is he says, oh fear uh why are you fearful, oh you of little faith? Then, by the way, what happened in that passage? The winds came, circumstances came that they could not control, and they became fearful right away. Let's go to the next one, Matthew 14, 31. Matthew 14, 31. He again is going to say to the disciples, O you of little faith. Not no faith. Not faithless, but oh you of little faith. And here's what he says in this passage, verse uh uh uh doubt uh uh verse 31 of Matthew 14. And immediately Jesus stretched out his hand and caught him and said, Oh you of little faith, why do you, and what's the word there? Doubt. So fear is related with little faith. Why does somebody else have why does someone have a little faith? Well doubt is. You ever had doubts? Boy, I would dare say that if we're honest with ourselves, all of us from one time or another have doubts. Fear, yep, that's us. Doubts, yep, that's us too. And fear and doubt does not mean the absence of faith, but it is, does mean that there is struggle in our faith. There is, we are, we have little faith. Now the next one is interesting. We're going to add to this by looking at Matthew 16. 8. Would you go there? Matthew 16. 8. The next one is interesting. Because it is actually, I think, in this passage, we've got these disciples that are actually reasoning among themselves. But I'm going to take this by way of application as an illustration for what I think happens inside us in our minds. Notice what it says in Matthew 16, 8. It says this, and Jesus, being aware of it, he rebuked him. He said, he said, be aware, he said, uh He said, Beware of the eleven of the Pharisees, that's the context of the passage. And they said, Oh, well we we we didn't eat bread and that's the issue here and they they misunderstood what Jesus was saying, so they felt guilty about it. And then they started talking about it There's sort of guilt involved here, and they started discussing it back and forth and talking about it forth. And what does Jesus say? Oh you of little faith, why reason among yourselves because you have brought no bread? Why reason among yourselves? There's this reasoning among yourselves going back and forth among them. And I'm just going to suggest to you that I'm Within worry and anxiety and fear and doubt, there is this internal conversation that goes on You would call it rumination, where you're analyzing, and those who analyze, many people who who are over-analyzers often tend to worry as well. And you're going over and over and over and over in your mind and you're having this sort of conversation in your mind but this but this this and this and this what about this what about this about this this all these things are running through your mind all the time what about this what about So how do we deal with the problem? If the root problem is little faith, then how do we deal with it? Would you take a look at next chapter over, Matthew 17? Now, this time we're going to look at a few more verses. We're going to start in verse 14 and move to verse 21. And you're actually going to see Jesus talk about faithless and also little faith here. Notice what he does here, picking up in verse fourteen, it says this And when they had come to the multitude, a man came to him kneeling down to him and saying, Lord, have mercy on my son, for he is an epile epileptic and suffers severely, for he often falls in the fire and often into the water. So I brought him to your disciples, and they could not cure him. Then Jesus answered and said, O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I bear with you? Bring him here to me. So he he names as a rule the the faithless generation of Israel, and it has been, hasn't it? I mean if you look at the leaders of Israel, the Pharisees and the Sadducees, they have been self-dependent and wholly non-dependent on God. So they are a faithless generation by the very representation of the leaders of the day. And he says, oh faithless generation, but then notice what he says here, verse 18. And Jesus rebuked the demon, and it came out of him, and the child was cured from the very hour. Then the disciples came to Jesus privately and said, Why could we not cast it out? So Jesus said to them, now, pause. The disciples were given power to be able to cast out demons at that point. They didn't have no faith. They were not part of that faithless generation that Jesus mentioned. What does Jesus say, verse 20? So Jesus said to them, Because of your unbelief. He says, You've got unbelief in there. For surely I say to you, if you have faith as a mustard seed, A small, a extremely small amount of faith. If you have faith as a mustard seed, you will say to this mountain, Move from here to there, and it will move, and nothing will be impossible for you. However, this kind does not go out except by prayer and fasting. What is Jesus saying here? Well, we're not going to go into all of what he's saying here, but I'll tell you this much. Jesus' emphasis is not on the amount of faith. He does not saying, well, you just if you have a lot of faith, you can remove mountains. He doesn't say that. He says if you have a faith as a grain of mustard seed, you can remove remove mountains. What was the problem with disciples' faith? The problem with the disciples' faith was the object of the faith. And what Jesus is saying is if you the emphasis that Jesus places is not on the amount of faith, it's on the object of the faith. And if you look at, for example, Hebrews chapter 11 at what faith is, faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. Jesus is trying to tell the disciples here that I, I am your object of faith, that if you will trust in me, I was able to do what you couldn't do. The object, how do you grow your faith? You don't focus on the faith, you focus on the object of the faith. You focus on Jesus. You focus on his provision, his work, his salvation, his gospel. You focus on the object of the faith. You can't grow your own faith. But you can focus on the object of the faith, and that's Jesus. So what does a life of faith look like? And that's what Jesus Jesus is going to address next. So would you take your Bibles and turn back to Matthew 6, verse 31, picking up verse 31. Number three Because God says worthy, worry and seeking God's kingdom can't go coexist. Worthy and seeking God's kingdom first can't coexist. Pick up verse 31 it says this, therefore do not worry, saying, what shall we eat? What shall we drink? Or what shall we wear? For after all these things do the Gentiles seek. For your heavenly Father knows what you need, uh knows that you need all these things. But seek first The kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these things shall be added unto you. Therefore, do not worry about tomorrow. For tomorrow will worry about itself. Sufficient for the day is its own trouble. He reiterates, don't worry. Again at the end of this portion, he says, Don't worry again But what he says next here is there he gives another argument. He says, for in these things, the material things of life, the treasuring of treasures, the clothing and the food. These are the things that the Gentiles seek after. Now that word the Gentiles seek. You see that word? He's going to say later He's going to say, seek first the kingdom of God. Now it's interesting. We've got these two words. The Gentiles seek. and seek first the kingdom of God. And they are the same word in the Greek, except there's an important difference. This one, the first time he says it here, the Gentiles seek. It is epizeteo, sorry about the Greek there. There's a preposition on the end of it that indicates that what this is talking about here is a complete pre-occupation with. It's like running after. It's the idea of totally consumed with. The Gentiles Those who are not following after Christ, the non-followers of Christ, he's using Gentiles here as a as a sort of an illustrative way in a sense. Those who do not follow Christ They seek fully and are fully consumed with the physical. And he says, do not do that The problem with worry. Worry is an indication. It shows that you're treasuring treasure too much. Anxiety and worry and those things, that's how an unsaved person in the world lives. He is living pursuing those kinds of things, the material things of life. And he's not pursuing God at all. And Jesus says to his disciples, you've got to live differently than that. And so he says, these are the things the Gentiles seek after. This word, there's a lot of things, times this word seek is used. to seek for lost sheep, to seek for lost coin, to demand uh certain things. There is this preoccupation with this idea of seeking after. And then he says this, but and notice what he says here Seek only. Is that what it says? It doesn't say that. Now that's interesting because Christ is perfect in what he says, right? And the Bible is perfect in what it says. And he says, seek first. He doesn't say seek only. In other words, he's not saying, okay, quit your jobs. You don't have to worry about you you don't have to even think about what you eat or what you wear or you don't have to think about anything. Go off, you know, in a cave somewhere. And seclude yourself from the world and just seek me. And you can live off the land or something. I mean, let's go off the grit. That's not what it's saying here. He says, seek, but there's a very, very important word here. Seek what? First. Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. We must As followers of Christ seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Now what does that mean? First of all, it means this. Kingdom, we'll just go back to its very basic definition, which I've mentioned many times before, is a reference to God's rule. He is saying that you must place yourself under the rule of Christ. The role This is just logical. If you're a follower of Christ, you're going to be ruled by him. And by the way, based on what we said last week, remember, you're going to be mastered by somebody. You're going to be ruled by somebody You think you're independent. You're not. Nobody's independent. We're designed to be ruled by somebody. We're going to be ruled by money, or we're going to be ruled by God, or we're going to be ruled by Some other kind of material thing So you're going to be mastered and ruled by something in your life. What's it going to be? And he says, seek first The kingdom of God, the furtherance of God's kingdom, the furtherance of God's redemptive plan in the world. The fact that one day God is going to come, Christ is going to come and set up his kingdom, and he is going to rule over all. We need to live in light of the fact that he's going to rule over all someday and he ought to be ruling over us today. And he says, seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Well, we have heard we have seen this multiple times here, haven't we? We've seen righteousness in Matthew 5, 6, the very beginning of the Sermon on the Mount, where it says, blessed are those who hunger and thirst for what? For righteousness, for they will be filled. Blessed are those who are later on verse ten persecuted for righteousness. Matthew 5. 20, for I say to you that unless your righteousness exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, you will know by entertainment. And we have noted in the past that this righteousness has to do with rightness with God. It's a relational term. That our focus, our first pursuit, our ultimate goal, what we are striving for and working toward and moving toward is the fact that God we want a relationship with God. We want to be under his rule. We want to live for a to know that we are in right relationship with God. Now you can know God and and have and be in good and right standing with God and in your position with God. And be declared righteous by God and be saved without having a good relationship with God. This is talking about the relationship. This is something you can seek And God says you need to seek his relationship, the relationship with God first. Now, what does that mean on a really, really, really practical basis? So you've got two people. Let's just set up a scenario. Got two people, same gender, same age, same vocation. Let's say they're both mechanics. They're both middle mid-40s. And they both work for the same company and they get paid the same amount. One is a follower of Christ and the other is not. The one who is a non-Christian gets up in the morning and goes to work. On his way to work, he challenges himself with the fact that he is going to make $100,000 a year, he's going to make $384 a a day And he hopes that by working hard, he'll continue to be able to see increases in his job, his salary, so that he can take care of his family, buy a nice house, get a cool car, have a nice retirement, and die. It's supposed to be funny, but I guess it's more morbid than funny. When he gets his paycheck, he's happy and he thinks, yep, I deserve this because I've worked hard and earned it. That is not how the Christian is to live. I mean it's doesn't sound all that bad, right? I mean like he's not stealing anything. He's not, you know, I mean he's just working a normal But a Christian is supposed to be different. So how's a Christian supposed to be lived? Same guy, follower of Christ, want goes to the same job, he works hard like the other guy does. He takes wants to take care of his family like the other does. He wants to steward his money and probably may buy a nice house and he may save for retirement. But when he wakes up in the morning, his attention is first directed to the end goal. His attention is first directed to God's kingdom. His attention is first directed to righteousness. To being right with God, to pleasing God with his life. When he gets in the car and on his way to work, and I know many people don't even do that anymore, that's but you just imagine When he gets in the car and go on his way to work, he's not thinking about the fact that he's going to make $380-some dollars to to uh to to to and that's why he's doing it. He's not thinking about that at all. Instead, he's thinking about the fact that today he wants to serve the Lord by being the best mechanic he can be for the Lord. Everything he does throughout that day, his goal is to please God with his day. So his not his mind's not on his pay at all. His mind is on the fact that what he is doing, he is doing for the Lord. He is doing all things as in the Lord, the way the Bible says, Colossians 3. 23, and wherever you do, do heartily as in the Lord, and not unto men. So that's what he's doing. At the end of the week, they both get a paycheck, but he gets his paycheck and he doesn't say, great, I deserve this, I worked hard. He says, no, this is God's provision. I served God my whole week, and God provided for me. My master is not my employer. My master is not my employer Now isn't it interesting that you could have you could very easily have two men the same age, with the same abilities, doing the same thing And yet they're seeking after two different things entirely. And one is seeking, if he's not quitting his job. He's not gonna not be a mechanic. He's not gonna not make money. He's not gonna even not buy a nice house. He's not necessarily gonna just uh squ uh not big say for retirement. But his entire goal in what he does is to seek first the kingdom of God. Can you imagine the blessings of this, the freedom that it brings? He gets he gets confronted with a compromising situation in his job. He can take a stand, why Because he know God he know he's not working for the paycheck, he's working for God, and God he knows God will provide for him. So he can take a stand when others would not Or his boss gets mad at him for something that he didn't do and he's falsely accused. And of course he's going to be upset at that, but he realizes that he is first and foremost Pleasing God, not pleasing his boss. He doesn't have to worry and have fear and anxiety over his job uh uh over his job what he's doing and over whether or not he'll have a job tomorrow and all those kinds of things. Why? Because his provider is God And he knows that God has always provided for him. And so he's going to serve God faithfully. And when the boss asks him to go beyond what he should do, because he needs to be with his family or he needs to go to church or he needs to do those things, when the boss asks him to do more than he should do Because he's serving God, he knows where the line is. Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. And all these things will be added to you. He then says this, and this isn't this wonderful. Jesus finally, the final words in this portion of the Sermon on the Mount, he says this. Therefore do not worry about tomorrow. Reminds us again, don't worry about tomorrow. Verse 34. We'll worry about because why? Tomorrow will worry about its own things. Sufficient the day is its own trouble. He says, don't worry about tomorrow because today you got enough trouble for today. Worry, by definition, is fear of the future. It's looking ahead of the future and trying to control what you can't control. Trying to have and having fear over what you can't do anything about. And Jesus says, don't worry because it doesn't make sense. It's pointless. Number two, you have little faith when you do worry. Number three, it's not consistent with seeking first, and by the way, today, sufficient today is the evil thereof Ecclesiastes 7. 14 says this, in a day prosperity, uh in the day of prosperity be joyful. But in the day of adversity, consider, surely God has appointed the one as well as the other, so that man can find out nothing that will come after him. He can't find out anything that will come after him. You don't know. And neither can I. So what do we do? We please God. We're good stewards with whatever God provides for us. And we trust him with what we cannot control. Three things just in summarizing all of this. Number one. Worry is sinful, pointless, and fails to fully trust God. Worry is sinful, pointless, and fails to fully trust God. Lord. Number two, the goal of the follower of Christ radically differs from the focus of the unbeliever. It's radically different. The functions of life may be almost identical in some cases. But the goal and the focus is different. And eventually it won't be identical. There are going to be differences, obviously. The follower of Christ pursues God's kingdom, submits to God's will, and receives God's provision one day at a time. The follower of Christ pursues God's kingdom Submits to God's will and receives God's provision one day at a time Moms, do you struggle with worry and anxiety? My desire and prayer for you would be that you would be released from that not through the sweet release of death but by choosing to trust Christ. Really. All the rest of us, the same principles apply. May we choose to seek first the kingdom of God. Here's what's awesome. them about this. If we will seek first the kingdom of God, it is the best life we can live for God, and it's the best life we can live for us. That's why when he says, seek first the kingdom of God, what? And his righteousness, and what? And what? And all these things will be added unto you. It'll all be added. That's the result. That's the provision. When you're seeking Christ, that's the provision. All these things will be added to you. So seek first the kingdom of God. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and thank you for your word and your truth. We thank you that you, that Christ commands us not to worry. And we admit before you, we confess before you, Father, that we are horrible failures at this. But I thank you, Lord, that you teach us in your word that this worry is not a matter of total faithlessness for the Christian. But it's one where our faith needs strengthened by focusing on the object of our faith. And that's Christ. Father, I pray, Lord, that you would help us to turn our eyes on Jesus, to look full in his wonderful face. so that the things of earth will grow strangely dim in the light of his glory and grace. May that be true of us today. And Lord, may this be a day where we can direct our attention the right way and to seek first your kingdom. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. Or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.