Let us pray together. Father, we come to you today, and as we have just sung, we say, echo again, even so, Lord, come. We thank you for the blessed assurance that we have this hope in our future. For those who do not know you, it is not a hope. And for us, it is not a hope in which we we wish or we Um we hope to one day see, but we have this confident expectation that you are coming back for us. to be caught up into the clouds, or even if we perish while on this earth, we come to see you face to face. And this hope does not disappoint. We know of a fact. It is written in your word, and all your promises are true. We thank you, Lord, for being a God who gives promises and reveals them to us, and that you are one who keeps your promises. We thank you, Lord, that uh that that while we wait for your coming And we wait to meet you, that you have provided for us many responsibilities. both in our personal walk with you and our responsibilities to one another and to those who don't know you. And we pray, Lord, that as we consider those responsibilities. That we would resist the temptation to do all of those in our own strength, for we will fail miserably. And we know that. And yet the flesh is so cunning. Our our carnal side is is so deceiving. And we fall prey to these deceptive thoughts. And Lord, I pray that you would help us guard our thoughts Help us to know when we are depending on self and depending on the flesh. Help us to be alert to the fact and to catch it early. And Lord, help us to know what it is to daily depend on you. Lord, there are Many uh who cannot be with us here tonight and uh or this morning rather and and some are are quarantining, some are physically unable And Lord, I pray that you would work in them and give a special measure of your grace to them today. That however long the season is of them not being able to be with us, that you would give them peace and encouragement today. I pray, Lord, that in all that we do today, and all that we experience, it would be to further magnify your name in our lives. And in our hearts. And as we are about to go to your word and hear the message preached, may your truth impact us in such a way. That we would we would look forward to your coming and it would cause us, it would motivate us the proper way. We pray this and in Jesus' name. Amen. A rather shorter section for me to read this morning. It'll be in chapter of 2 Peter chapter 3. Verses 8 through 10. And Scripture says this to us this morning. But beloved Do not forget this one thing, that with the Lord one day is as a thousand years, and a thousand years is one day The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some count slackness, but is long-suffering to usward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night, in which the heavens will pass away with a great noise, and the elements will melt with fervent heat, both the earth And the works that are in it will be burnt up. So Peter has just finished as we looked at last week. Reminding believers that the coming of Christ is going to happen, that the argument that these uh false teachers were making that God doesn't intervene And the world just really doesn't hold up with what we know from the Old Testament and what we know from history that God does intervene in the world and that's seen in creation as well as the flood. And now he comes to verses 8 through 10, where Peter is now going to really give us Uh God's perspective on his own coming. That's really what it is. We're going to learn God's perspective, and what we're going to find is that God's perspective is very different. than our natural perspective. Perspective matters. It matters a great deal in life. Yesterday I uh ran another 10K I'm not like addicted to ten K's. I I just ran another one because I paid for this one like a m a year ago or more and then because of COVID it got canceled. So we ran it yet last n uh yesterday morning and I d I actually did run the fastest, which is not that fast, but the fastest I've ever run. And I was really happy with my with how fast I run. It was a nine and a half minute mile, six nine and a half minute mile. miles and uh you know uh ten K. And uh I you know, I was really happy about it. I thought I really I was like, man, I you know, I felt good about it and it was fast and like man I can do this, this is great. Until I looked what place I was in. I was like, I mean this my perspective was like I was on top of the world until I Shh, you know, nine and half and then I realized I was like in seven hundred and thirty-seventh place. Totally changed my perspective. Like like it really put things in perspective. And I was sort of going, huh Okay, I really got to work on this if I'm gonna get in, you know, like I'd like to at least make a hundredth place or something anyway. Perspective matters. Uh uh a little three-year-old comes to you and says, Mom, I want ice cream And you give them some ice cream, they say, No, I want the whole carton. And they and you say no and they say you're mean. And you say no it's actually because I love you and they say no it's because you're mean. It's a different perspective, isn't it? And the truth is, when it comes to the coming of Christ, we naturally have a different perspective than God does. In fact, the unbeliever, or many those who question the gospel and question the Lord, and question if even if there is a God, they question the coming of Christ. They say Christ isn't really actually coming. And the very people that do that, they often will say as well that they they don't uh agree that there is a God because, or they question whether there is a God because how could a loving God allow all of the injustice in the world? And the answer to that question is the very thing they're questioning. The answer to that question is the coming of Christ. that God is actually in the process of bringing to culmination the judgment of the world. Well, He will not continue to allow the justice uh allow injustice and evil and pain and suffering to continue in this world. There is going to be a a time where that happens, and it's called in this passage the day of the Lord. And the very people that deny the j the coming of Christ are sometimes the very people that actually need to realize that it is the coming of Christ that answers the question When, how can a God allow all of this injustice? And when we look at God's perspective on this, we're actually going to walk away, both as believers and even the non-believer has the perspective potential of walking away and saying, wow, God's perspective is very different than my natural perspective. So what is God's perspective We're going to look at three things in this passage. First, we're going to see God's perspective of time. That's going to be in verse 8. And then God's attitude toward people. And then God's guaranteed fulfillment. God's perspective of time, God's attitude toward people, and then God's guaranteed fulfillment. So first we'll look at God's perspective of time. And he says in verse 8. That he says, do not forget this one thing. That with the Lord one day is as a thousand years, and a thousand years is as one day. He says, my beloved, those whom I love, my friends, he's sort of saying, I want you to really understand something that is very important. Don't forget this. When he talks about forgetting, it's the same word that was used previously in talking about these false teachers that were willfully forgetting. And it's really in contrast that he's saying, he's implying, that it is natural for us as Christians to sort of forget that Christ is coming again. We sort of, it's I mean if you a ask a Christian, they know that to be true, but they don't have it in their consciousness. They're not really aware of it day in and day out. They don't live in light of it. And Peter is saying, don't forget, don't forget this. Bring it to the forefront of your mind. Be conscious of it. Be aware of it. And some may doubt the coming of Christ because, you know, it's been a long time. Back in that day it hadn't you know, Christ would had come and only been, you know, a couple of uh you know, a few I don't know, thirty, forty years, something like that since he had he ascended uh somewhere around there. Well, uh now it's been two thousand years. And it's very tempting. I I've lived my whole life knowing and being taught and reading from God's Word that the coming of Christ. I'm forty-one years old, He hasn't come yet. Should I then say, well, God must be delayed? God must know. Is he really coming? Is it really happening? Well, Peter gives a perspective here that is very important. He says to God, a thousand years is as a day, and a day is as a thousand years If we look back today, we say Christ came 2,000 years ago, and in God's sense of time, it is a much shorter time than our sense of time. Now we can understand this. It's like the difference between riding in a car for three hours or going to an amusement park for three hours. One seems a lot shorter than the other, even though they're the exact same amount of time. Or on Christmas morning, a child can't wait for the kids to get up. And the parents are saying, I can't believe I gotta get up already. There's a difference in perspective. The time is the same, but the perspective is very different. And in light of eternity A thousand years in life eternity is like a day. It's not a lot of time. But for us, a thousand years is over ten times the average lifespan. Over ten times. And so for us, it seems like a long time. And Peter says, remember that to God a thousand years is as a day, and a day is as a thousand years. Now, there are some, our Omillennialist friends, and I say friends uh formally, I have good godly friends that are Amillennialists. They're not heretics. Uh they I mean anybody could be a heretic, but the all millennials by definition are not heretics. But they would actually, and some of them would actually use this verse to cite the fact that there is not going to be a literal thousand-year millennial kingdom, as it says in of the book of Revelation in Revelation 20, um, because see this verse says that. But this verse is actually a simile It says it's as a thousand years. It's not saying to God a thousand years is a day, and a day is a thousand years. It's saying it's as a thousand It's talking about perspective. It's talking about a sense of time. And so he is pointing that out here. We need to make sure that we have the right perspective. And the application here for us is this. Many of you have been saved for many, many years. You know some of you twenty years, thirty years, forty years, fifty years, maybe m even more than that. And in those cases, it is very easy for us to sort of put on the back burner, in the back of a m our mind the coming of Christ, that He could be coming at any time. And it and it could happen because in our minds it just hasn't happened yet Some may go so far as to doubt the coming of Christ because it has been so long over history of the coming of Christ. And yet, remember, God's perspective is different than our perspective. And we need to be mindful of the fact that Christ could come at any moment. In fact I just want to say this, that did you know that God put certain things in place, Christ particularly put certain things in place when he left To help us live for Him. And one of those things is the anticipation of the coming of Christ. And we're going to see that later on. So God's timing differs from ours. But why would God have so long? For us, it's been 2,000 years, and Christ still has not come. Why would God wait so long? Doesn't he see all of the injustice of the world? Doesn't he see the pain? Doesn't he see the problems? Doesn't he see the affliction? Doesn't he see the e Evil doesn't God see all this? And Peter is going to answer that question in the very next verse. It actually has to do with God's attitude toward people. It's his attitude toward people. It says the Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some count slackness. But what is his long what is his attitude toward us? He is long-suffering, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. It first says he's not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness. The word could be translated delay. He's not delayed in the sense that some people say he's delayed. It's not as though In an unplanned way, he's delayed. It's not like if, you know, you run into traffic, which I know never happens around here, and you're late for something that you've been delayed. Oh, I didn't realize the traffic is going to be here and it's here and now I'm delayed to this particular event. God's never delayed that way It's not like God didn't know of something that was going to happen and now he it's delaying his company uh his coming. God knows the end from the beginning. He has everything figured out God is not delayed in that way. But from our perspective, isn't it true, folks, from our perspective that it very much can feel like God is delayed. The word in the book of Habakkuk is the word tarry. And even in the modern translations, most of the modern translations, they either use the word slow or the word tarry because it's really the best word. Because God isn't delayed, but he is tarrying. He's not here yet. And so in Habakkuk chapter 2, verses 2 through 4 it says this, then the Lord answered me and said, Write the vision and make make it plain on tablets that he may run who reads it, for the vision is yet upon for an op a point of time. But at the end it will speak and will not lie. Though it tarries, wait for it, because it will surely come. It will not tarry. Wait a minute. It'll tarry. Well not tarry. What is it saying? Well, in a sense, from our perspective, God is delayed. But in God's perspective, he's not delayed. I I remember as a young man uh listening to preaching from the pulpit, and I I know preachers now that are dead that said they were absolutely convinced that Christ was coming in their lifetime. And now they're in there they they went on to be with the Lord. They're s absolutely have you ever said to yourself, oh the Lord's gotta be coming soon. He's gotta be coming in my lifetime. Well, don't be so sure it didn't come before. Yeah, but things are so bad. Yeah, that's what they said too. Okay. And if they saw now, they'd be like, oh, this isn't so bad. The reality is we don't know when the Lord is coming, but we know he's coming. And we know he could come at any moment. And we're going to see that in a few moments. I want us first, though, to think about this. Here's why he's not coming. When Christ comes, do you know what's associated with that? It's judgment. He's going to judge the world. He's going to condemn the world. He's going to destroy the world, actually, in the coming of Christ. And you know why Christ doesn't come? Because Christ is what God is patient. He is long-suffering. Do you know what God is doing? God is waiting. God really wants people to be saved. If you ever wonder why God doesn't, why Christ tarries, the answer to the to is in this passage. He is not He is long-suffering, He is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance He wants people to come to himself. He's tarrying because he is patient. Aren't you glad that he is patient? It's interesting that those who really question the coming of Christ think of God they don't like the description of the s of Scripture Of of of and they question the coming of Christ because he hasn't come. And sometimes they qu they don't like the fact that God is going to judge. That's why they don't They don't like the idea of the coming of Christ. And yet, the reason that he hasn't come yet is because he is so patient and long-suffering. And this is This is throughout Scripture. In Exodus 34, verse 6, it says this, and the Lord passed before him and proclaimed, the Lord, the Lord God, merciful and gracious. Long suffering and abounding in goodness and truth. That's Exodus. Do you remember when we went through the book of Exodus? You saw the holiness of God, you saw the justice of God, but boy did we see the patience of God as these complaining Israelites over and over didn't do the fulfill their end of the bargain, and yet God kept being patient with them. We get to the book of Nehemiah, and Nehemiah revival is happening. And they're reflecting on the character of God. In the book of Nehemiah, chapter 9, verse 13, it says this you came down also on Mount Sinai reflecting on Exodus. And spoke with them from heaven, and gave them ordinances and true laws, good statutes and commandments. You made known to them your your holy Sabbath, and commanded them precepts, statutes, and laws by the hand of Moses your servant, you gave them bread from heaven for their hunger, and brought them water out of the rock for their thirst, and told them And told them to go in to possess the land which you have sworn to give them, but they and our fathers proudly hardened their necks and did not heed your commandments. They refused to obey, and they were not mindful of your wonders that you did among them, but they hardened their necks, and in their rebellion they appointed a leader to return to their bondage. But you are God. Ready to pardon, gracious and merciful, slow to anger, abundant in kindness, and did not forsake them. God is that way. He is long suffering. He is abundant in kindness. He didn't forsake Israel after they forsook him over and over again. We have the same thing in Joel chapter 2 verses 12 through 13. And we get to the New Testament, we find the same kind of thing there in Romans chapter 9, verse 22. It says that if uh God wanted to show his wrath to make his power known, endured much long suffering, the vessels of wrath prepared for destruction. In 1 Timothy 1, verse 16, it says, Who whoever for this reason I obtain, that in me Jesus Christ might show all long suffering as a pattern of those who are going to believe on him for everlasting life. God is long-suffering. He's patient, and that is why he tarries. You ever wonder why? It's because God is so long-suffering and God is so patient. He's really, really patient, because all of us would be like dealing with all the problems, wouldn't we? God's more patient than you. He's more long suffering than you are. And that's why he tarries. Although of course he could come back at any time And it says here, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. Well, Scripture also says that God elects people from the foundation of the world. He predestines people, Ephesians chapter 1. So which is it? Is he not willing that any should perish but that all should come to repentance? Or has God chosen individuals? Well, I'm going to answer that question today. You're like, oh boy, this is going to be a while. No, I won't. I'm not going to answer it fully, because I can't answer it fully. actually, and you'll find that in a minute, because here's the reality. Any there are truths in Scripture, there are doctrines in Scripture that, in fact, probably almost every doctrine in Scripture, there is what God has revealed. And then there was there is what God has not revealed. And you have it's like a tree where you have the branches and you go down to the trunk and you you know you have the leaves, the branches of the trunk, and then it goes below the surface and you have a whole root structure down in there, but it's not revealed. And God says the secret things of this uh the secret things belong to Him, and the things that are revealed are for us to us to delve into Deuteronomy twenty one, nine twenty nine, my paraphrase. Um and so and so w any doc we I I just taught the kids too not too long ago on the Trinity. Well, the Trinity, there are there are things you can understand about the Trinity, and then it goes below the surface, and there are things you're never going to understand about the Trinity. And you just have to say, well God is God, and I'm not, and his perspective is different than mine, and it's not logical because there could really be three and one and one and three, and yet I'm going to simply believe what God says. And that's the case here That God has elected those before the foundation of the world, some to be saved, and at the same time, God is not willing that any should perish. And this the teaching that God has ordained some to be saved is all over the New Testament. It is so clear. In John chapter 6, verse 37, it says, All that Father gives will come to me, and I will and all the Father gives me will come to me. And the one who comes to me I will by no means cast out. In John 6, verse 44, it says, No one can can't come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him, and I will raise him up at the last day. It is written in the prophets, they shall be all be taught by God, therefore everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me In John 65 it says, Therefore I have said to you, No one can come to me unless it has been granted to him by my Father. In John chapter 10, verse 26, it says, But you do not believe because you are not of my sheep, as I said, as I said to you In Acts 13, verse 48 it says, And when the Gentiles heard this, they were glad and glorified the word of the Lord, as many as had been appointed to eternal life believed. In Romans chapter 8, verse 29 and 30, it tells us that for whom he did foreknow, he predestined to be conformed, the image of his Son In Ephesians chapter one verses four through five it says, Just as He chose us before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy without blame before him in love having predestined us to the adoption of as sons by Jesus Christ to himself according to the good pleasure of his will You can't get around the fact in the New Testament that God has chosen those to be saved before the foundation of the world, and it is a decision, it is a determined decision by God. You can't get around it. Except that you have this other verse that says, God's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. Well, how do you deal with that? Well, let me just say first of all this, that we don't need to go beyond what Scripture says. For example, There is there are some people that actually say it says in Ephesians that he choses chooses some by the good pleasure of his will. We don't know what cr we don't we know it's not a criteria of some how he sees some people that are good and he saves them. We know that's not the case. We're all sinners and our righteousnesses are as filthy rags. It's not as the basis of God saving anybody has nothing to do with a righteousness or goodness or betterness uh to uh uh uh of somebody. Has nothing to do with that whatsoever. It can't be. We don't know why God chooses the way he does. We just know he does by the p good pleasure of his own will. But some would actually suggest that he also sends people to hell by the good pleasure of his own will. And there is nowhere in the Bible that says that either. It doesn't say that he sends those to hell by the good pleasure of his will, and like he's somehow pleased to send them to hell. You don't find that anywhere in the Bible. In fact, the verse we're talking about is very clear that that's not his pleasure. Why does God send people to hell? Because of their own sinfulness and refusal to believe in Him. Their unbelief sends them to hell, Scripture says says. It is their own sinful depravity. That's the right basis for people, why people are sent to hell. Okay. Well, what do you then do with this verse that says he's not willing that any should perish, but all come to repentance? Well the- it's not the only time the Bible says this. It says in Ezekiel chapter 18, verse 32, For I have no pleasure in the death of one who dies, says the Lord God. Therefore turn and live. And we just learned that God is patient. with people and wants them to be saved. In 1 Timothy chapter 2, verse 4 it says, Who desires all men to be saved and to come unto the knowledge of the truth? God desires and wants all people to be saved. Well, how do you reconcile these two? And it's and it we have to come to this point where we we simply see that in the New Testament, the Bible teaches the desired will of God. And it teaches the decreed will of God. And those two things don't seem to really logically work together. They are, and we just now have gone below into service service. It's just like the Trinity or so many other doctrines in Scripture. We've just now gone below the surface and we say, well, I don't understand. How is it that God's determined will can be different than his desired will? I have no idea. And the Bible doesn't say. And I have to simply say God is God and I am not, and his perspective is different than my perspective And I can be thankful and thankful that God has chosen me and blessed by the fact he's chosen me before the foundation of the world, which is Paul's point in Ephesians 1. He says, blessed are those who have been chosen. It's a blessing of God because you wouldn't come on your own, I guarantee it. There's none that seeks after God. There's none that searches after him. You can't come to him on your own. God has to draw you. I can know that as a blessing of God. He chose chooses me, and by the way, because he chooses me, he keeps me. On the other hand, I can just be thankful that God delights in saving people. And doesn't want anyone to perish, but for all to come to repentance. He wants everyone to be saved. And even those two things though logically I sort of go, I I don't understand that. There are two rails on a like on a train tracks, two rails that if you look ahead, the two kind of c the two come together I just don't know how they come together. Maybe one day when we when we when we see Christ we'll understand that. But for now, that goes below the surface, and we just have to believe both statements that this is what God says. His determined will is different than his desired will. And I have to leave it at that and trust God. And there are many things like that in Scripture that we have to do. So God's perspective is different from us, and the point is simply this, folks, that God is a patient God. He is a long-suffering God, and he wants people to be saved, and that is why he tarries. And we can be thankful for the patience of God. But understand this. Unequivocally, without any question, guaranteed Christ is coming. And frankly, He is coming in judgment And the Bible says this. We move now to point number three. God's guaranteed fulfillment. It says, but the day of the Lord will come. It will come, folks. As a thief in a night, in which the heavens will pass away with a great noise, and the elements will melt with fervent heat, both the earth and the works that are in it will be burned up. God now talks about this subject called the Day of the Lord. Well, what is the day of the Lord? The Day of the Lord is in one particular commentary. Craig Keener is his name. He's really a considered to be a real e expert on uh on the old Old Testament and New Testament background. And he says this about the about this word. The day of the Lord is a familiar Old Testament image for the ultimate day of God's judgment, his final day in court when he settles the injustices of the world. That's the day of the Lord. In other words, if you think of a court, and right now it's like the court, this illustration will break down, but it's like the court is in recess or uh there's a final day Where everything is to be judged, is going to be judged, and that hasn't come yet. And we're waiting for the final day, but it will come, and that is what the day of the Lord is. The day of the Lord is that final determinative judgment of God as He settles the injustices of the world. And that day the Bible says will come. And it says this throughout Scripture in the Old Testament. It says it over and over again. The book of Isaiah talks about the day of the Lord. It says in Isaiah 2. 12, for example, it says, For the day of the Lord of hosts shall come upon everything proud and lofty, upon everything lifted up, it shall be brought low. The day of the Lord is going to it really isn't true, folks, that all sin comes from pride. And God is going to deal with the pride of man. He's going to deal with the pride of the earth. Joel 1. 15 says, Alas for the day, for the day of the Lord is at hand. It shall come as destruction from the Almighty. In Malachi chapter 3, verses 2 through 4, it says, Who can adore the day of his coming and who can stand when it appears? For he is like a refiner's fire and a and like a launderer's soap. He will sit as a refiner and a purifier of silver, he will purify the sons of Levi and purge as gold and silver That they may offer to the Lord an offering of righteousness, when the offering of Judah and Jerusalem will be pleasant to the Lord as in the days of old, as in the former years So the Old Testament describes this day, this final judgment, this reckoning. That's how the Old Testament describes it. But I want you to notice then folks that when you get to the New Testament and you have these New Testament letters written to Christians The writers, Paul and Peter and these others, when they're talking about the day of the Lord, they have a very different perspective In talking to Christians. They call it the day of Christ, which I think is the same thing as the day of the Lord, but the perspective is a very different perspective. For example, in 1 Corinthians 1, verse 8 it says, Who will also confirm you to the end that you may be blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ? There is this possibility of someone being blameless. At the day of Jesus Christ. In Second Corinthians chapter 1, verse 14, it says, As also you have understood us in part, that we are your boast as you also are ours in the day of the Lord. In Philippians chapter 1 verse 6 it says, being confident of this very thing that he who has begun a good work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ. And in Philippians chapter one, verse ten it says that you may be approved those things which are excellent, that you may be sincere and without offense until the day of Christ. You have a very different perspective on the day of Christ. Will there be judgment? Yes, but not condemnation for the Christians. Christian. You will have condemnation for the non-believer. The non-believer, it's like he will be laid bare. The non-believer will be judged for what he has done. There will be a judgment for the non-believer. For the Christian, though There will be a judgment, but it's not a condemnation. It's a time where the master comes and rewards the stewards. It's a time when the master comes and we are able to give an account of the things that God that we have done. For God. It's a hopeful time. It's a time where we where we're able to look back on our lives, and God will reflect with us on our lives and see what we have done for Him. And there is this hope that we will be without offense to the day of Christ. Now he says this about this day of the Lord. He wants the Christians, these Christians, to understand that it will come as a thief in the night. Peter says this. This was not original with Peter. Christ told his disciples this first in Matthew 24, verses 42 through 44. It says, Watch therefore, for you do not know the hour your Lord is coming. But know this that if the master of the house has known what hour the thief would come He would have watched and not allowed his house to be broken into. Therefore you also be ready. What's the exhortation to the disciple of Christ? Be ready, for the Son of Man is coming an hour you do not expect Christians, he's coming as a thief of the night. You can't anticipate it. You will not expect it. It could come at any time. And we are to live that way. 1 Thessalonians reiterates this, chapter 5, verse 2 through 3. It says, For you yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so comes as a thief in the night. For when you say peace and safety, then sudden destruction comes upon them as labor pains upon the pregnant woman, and they shall not escape. Revelation 3. 3 says this, remember therefore how you have received her, and hold fast and repent. Therefore, if you will not watch, I will come upon you as a thief. And you will not know what hour I will come upon you. And in Revelation chapter sixteen, verse fifteen it says, Behold, I will come as a thief. Blessed is he who watches and keeps his garments, lest he walk naked and they see his shame. In all of these passages, God says that what he has put in place is the sudden coming of Christ, and it's intended that way for us. God is making it sudden because he knows us. I'll just make it real practical. If you if you the we're getting to the age now, my wife and I, where we can leave and our kids could be home by themselves. And um I mean we uh they will call us fifteen thousand times sometimes to to see when we're gonna be home. That's an exaggeration, but you get the point. I don't think they're calling because they just want to wait to the last minute to straighten everything up before we get there. But I can imagine that that could happen. Can can you imagine I mean think about it. Can you imagine w I mean the difference between if you tell somebody I'm gonna be home at this time, well then then You know, our natural inclination is to do what we want in the last 15 minutes. We just try to do everything and get everything straightened up. But if we don't know When somebody's coming home. We don't know when the day of reckoning is. Then we need to be ready. Just always ready. And that is the way that God wants us to be. That Christ could come at any moment. What's he going to find you and I doing? He could come at any time. Now, he then says this the day of the Lord, basically, it's first of all, it's going to be sudden. And secondly, he says, for the Christian, we've got to understand this, it is literaco literal, physical, and real. It's going to be sudden, but don't it's not it's not some subversive thing that, oh yeah, it happened and nobody noticed. That's not what the day of the Lord is. It is going to be it's very literal, it's very physical, it's very real. And we see this by three statements that he says, three things that are going to happen during the day of the Lord. He says, number one, in which the heavens will pass away with a great noise. And there are many passages that I could go to talk to mention that. The Bible says over and over again, the heaven and earth will pass away He will not use water. Why? Because he didn't in the flood he promised he won't use water again to destroy the world the earth. But in this, but in this passage, but but there are many times where he says the heaven and earth will pass away. In every gospel besides John. Matthew, Mark, and Luke, twice in Luke it says heaven and earth will pass away. In Hebrews it says that the heaven and earth or that the earth, the f and the found the foundations of the earth and the heavens will uh will pass away as well. But God doesn't change. And in Revelation chapter 6, verse 14, it says, In the sky receded as a scroll when it is rolled up, and every mountain and island was moved out of its place. And there and then it says a great noise. Why does it say a great noise here in 2 Peter? It says a great noise because it's just emphasizing that this is not a quiet thing. This is not something, we think of the day of the Lord, it's not something that just is subtle. It's not. It's sudden, and it's very obvious to everyone that it's happening. And then it says this, number two, is it real? Why is it real? Well the elements will melt with fervent heat, it says. Now there are two two views on what the elements are. One view is it's talking about sort of the elemental things of the world of the earth, you know, like dirt and things like that. And that would be the most natural way to take it. But there are others that actually say, and it's a very viable option, and it's actually talking about It's still referencing heaven, not earth, and it's talking about the hosts in heaven. In Isaiah 34, verse 4, it says this, all the host of heaven will be dissolved And the heavens will be rolled up like a scroll, all their hosts shall fall down as a leaf falls from a vine, and as the uh fruit falls from the fig tree. from the heavens. And it's interesting, I read I read many, many commentaries on this because I was really trying to figure this out. And I I was looking at different I I look at the different lexical meetings and I w I spent a lot of time on this. And I finally came to uh uh D. A. Carson who who is kind of like my theological hero, and he says, either one is equally possible. And I was like, okay, uh, I'm gonna move on. So take it however you want. It's the planets, it's the elements of the earth, but either one, the f the the fire is uh they they're all gonna be burned up by fire. That's the point. And then also thirdly Uh uh both the earth it says and the works that are in it will be burned up. So b so it's clear, both the earth if it the other one wasn't talking about the earth, this is talking about the earth. The earth And the works therein is very talking about the deeds of people, they're going to be burned up. Now it's interesting that says that in Revelation chapter twenty verse eleven. It says, and I saw a great white throne and sat on it, and those whose fa whose face was uh in the heaven and fled away and I was there was found no place for them and I'll explain what that means in a minute. And in Revelation 21, one it says, Now I saw new heaven and new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away And there also there was no more C. So everything is burned up in this time. Okay? But there is also a, I won't go into a lot of detail about this, but there's a textual variant that uses the word exposed or found. that probably has to do with the works. In other words, the earth is burned up and the works are exposed. And that is a reference to the fact that the coming of Christ, the day of the Lord for the non-believer, his lie, their lives are going to be exposed. Their works are going to be exposed. Now, what does all of this mean? Let's wrap all of this up. Number one, non-Christian, there is an application for you. If you don't know the Lord as your Savior, or if you're unsure about whether or not you know the Lord as your Savior, Savior, understand that Christ's coming is guaranteed there is a future judgment. It will happen. And you will be part of it. Say, well if I die first, you'll still be part of it. Everything's gonna be part of it. The whole earth is gonna be part of it. The heavens are gonna be part of it. All this gonna be part of it. We're all gonna be part of it one way or the other. What part do you want to play? Now here's the awesome thing about it. Christ is going to be the judge, but he can also be your advocate. We have a scenario where the courtroom, the judge, can also be the advocate. What better what better advocate can you have than the judge? And the reason that Christ can be the advocate is that he already took your punishment for your sin on the cross. And so he can come, he can declare you righteous. Because he is your advocate. And the only thing you have to do is accept that by faith. The Bible says, But as many as received him, to them gave you the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. If you will believe today, God's not willing that any should perish, but all that come to repentance, and you have the decision and the choice to believe. He is your advocate, but understand if you will not accept him as your advocate, he will be your judge. Are you ready? Then those of us who have been awaiting the coming of the Lord for a long time when we're tempted to doubt, number two, we must remember that it hasn't come yet. Because he is patiently desiring the salvation of sinners. Just remember that. When we look around at the world, when we look at what's going on in the world, and we say, Glor, why aren't you coming? That's the hope of the believer. We understand that God is really patient and long-suffering and wants people to come to Himself. And then number three. Christian, this is an important question. Will you be able to rejoice when Christ comes? Will you? Not everybody will. Did you know that? Not every Christian will be able to rejoice when Christ comes. That's a sad commentary. Because it is the desire of God That we rejoice when he comes. It's the bridegroom that's coming for his bride. God wants us to rejoice. Can you imagine on your wedding day? The uh you know the bride coming down the aisle and she's crying and upset? That wouldn't work out too well. Listen, Christian, are you able going to be able to rejoice? Well, here's how you know whether you'll be able to rejoice or not. Philippians chapter 2 verse 16, holding fast the word of life. So that I may rejoice in the day of Christ, that I have not run in vain or labored in vain. Paul was very concerned about this. He had the day of the Lord in front of him. He had the time of reckoning in front of him. And he wants to be able to rejoice in that day. So he says, I want to be able to rejoice that I can look back at my life and say, I haven't run in vain I haven't run in emptiness. I haven't labored in vain. Christian, did you know there's a possibility that you could look back at your life and come before the Lord one day and you won't be able to rejoice because you've labored in vain? And I this is not condemnation. He will love you and accept you and you will be but but But there is going to be for some a sort of not a lack of ability to be able to rejoice. There will probably still be relief There will still be hope, there will still be thankfulness, but there's going to be a sense in which I did not, for some, that I did not live my life to serve God For it to mean something, I live for myself, some Christians will come to that point. Where they labored in emptiness and in vain. And a life, folks, a life lived for self is a life of emptiness. A life lived for self is a life lived in vain. Will you and I be able to rejoice at the coming of Christ? What will he find us doing? And I'm not saying this at all to give you a guilt trip. I'm I'm saying this 'cause I love uh love you and I really want this for myself too. I mean I was convicted by this. I'm going Uh am I living my life in such a way that when he comes, I'm not living in vain Now here's the wonderful thing about it. I see no reason in Scripture that you can't turn right now. If you say as a Christian that you look at your life, you say, you know, I really have, overall, I've been living for myself. I haven't been living for the Lord. I have really been focused on the things that I want in life, and not really focused on the things that God wants for my life. Then turn and change. And what is the motivation? Well, I love him. Because he first loved me and he saved my soul. That you don't have to fear if you know if you genuinely know Christ as your Savior. You don't have to fear the condemnation of God. But But now you get to live for him. You you have a life of purpose. One of the glorious things about being a Christian is I have a life that means something. That has purpose that extends beyond this life, like way beyond this life. In fact, James says it's a vapor. It's here today and gone tomorrow. So, what is your life? And what is my life? May we be able to say with the Apostle Paul. Holding fast the word of life so that I may rejoice in the day of Christ, that I have not run in vain or labored in vain. Now, I don't do this very often, but here's what I want to do. I would like to give you and I both just a few moments to reflect on this. Just quiet in quiet reflection before the Lord. And what I want to do is just give you a few moments in silent prayer before the Lord. And I want, I would just encourage you to ask this question: Am I living my life in vain? I think sometimes there is no quiet in our lives. There's not enough stillness for us to really ask the hard questions. We are running from one thing to the next to the next to the next. And I want to give you just a minute or two in the quietness of this moment to say, to just talk to the Lord. And ask yourself, ask the Lord, Lord, am I running in vain? Am I serving in vain? Am I not going to be able to rejoice when I stand before you? And if you're unsure about that, Then understand that you you need to reflect on God's love for you and you need to love him and serve him. Stop living for self. And live for Christ. There's only two choices on the shelf, living for Christ or living for self. I'm gonna give you just a few moments to pray before the Lord and then we'll we'll pray together. So we come to you this morning and We pray, Lord, that you would truly help us to answer that question. Will we be able to rejoice at your coming? It's our hope. I think all of us, it certainly in one sense, uh look to it as our hope. But Lord, we want to be able to rejoice as a bride who's prepared for the bridegroom. And I pray, Lord, that you'd really help us to give due consideration to whether or not we are really living our lives for you. Or living our lives for ourselves? Are we prioritizing our lives in such a way that we are truly pleasing you? May we focus on that and strive for that. And Father, I pray, Lord, that we would live mindful that Christ could come at any moment. I confess before you, Father, that I don't think about that enough I can go days without really considering whether or not uh really considering the fact that Christ could come any time, in any moment. When Christ comes, Lord, may He find us faithful. And we we need you for that. And we pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.