Let's bow our heads and go before the Lord before we hear the Word of God. Heavenly Father, we again come to you with grateful and thankful hearts. And Father, we come a lot of times with cares and concerns of the week or even of this morning. So we would ask that you would help us to cast off those cares and those thoughts. May you prepare our hearts for your word, and may it do what it is that you sent it to do, Father. And we ask that your Holy Spirit will teach us, that you will give us understanding, and we pray, Father, that you would also give us the wisdom to rightly live out this word of God. of yours for your glory and for your praise. And I thank you, Lord, for Brother Matt this morning, and I pray as he comes that Father you'll just open up his heart and just use him for your glory and for your praise. We ask in Jesus' name Amen. We are going to be looking at reading verses Luke chapter 9, verses 57 through 62, when I get my glasses out. Luke chapter nine, verse fifty-seven to sixty-two. Now it happened as they journeyed on the road that someone said to him Lord, I will follow you wherever you go. And Jesus said to him, Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests But the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. Then he said to another, Follow me. But he said, Lord, let me go first and bury my father. And Jesus said to him, Let the dead bury their own dead, but you go and preach the kingdom of God. And another also said, Lord, I will follow you, but let me first go and bid them farewell who are at my house. But Jesus said to him, No one having put his hand to the plow and looking back is fit for the kingdom of God. Good morning. It's great to be with you all this morning. I'd like to thank you once again for your hospitality to our family here. And for those of you who I have not met, although I have met most of you of you. Though it's hard to say with these lights. But uh uh for those of you who haven't met us, uh we are missionaries in Asia. church planning and leadership training and we've had the privilege over the last couple of months to live in the parsonage just across there while we're on furlough here in the States. Our family has an opportun have had the opportunity to do quite a bit with your church family Especially last week, my children absolutely enjoyed that vacation in Bible school. I was away, I was traveling, had some things I needed to do, just got back late Friday night. But I I've heard a lot of great things about the VBS and uh We have greatly benefited, especially from the Wednesday programs with the uh WANA during the school year, and uh we really appreciate your ministry to us while we've been back here in the U. S. Well, let's open God's Word to Luke chapter 9. You're probably already there, because Harry just read that. And before we start the message, let's open Dear Lord, thank you for your goodness to us. Thank you for the privilege of being laborers together with you. We know that's only possible because of your grace. Lord, we are sinners. We don't deserve your grace. Lord, we are we deserve punishment. But we know that you sent your son to die for us on the cross, that he rose again, and that when we put our faith and trust in you alone. uh we become your children. Lord, that's because of what Christ did for us, not for us. Lord, you are sufficient. We are not. Lord, thank you for that blessing and thank you for the privilege of, once we are saved, once we are your children, to have a relationship with you To serve you, to live for you. And Lord, today I pray you'd encourage our hearts, challenge us as we seek to follow you. In Jesus' name. Amen You know the story of Gideon, right? Gideon, not the most bold guy in the world. Kind of a chicken. But God wanted to use that guy and well there was a real problem. If you know the book of hi Judges, there's a cycle. It's a bad cycle. It was a Never-ending cycle. You know, there's these people of Israel, they're supposed to be God's people. And you know what they would do? They would forget that they were God's people. They would forget his commands, not follow them. They'd start copying the nations around them, worshiping idols and things like that. God would God is long suffering. And uh there would be some time there to repent, but they wouldn't. And so finally God would send an enemy And uh the enemy would oppress them. And that would go on for some time, sometimes for years and years and years. It took a while for Israel to realize, wait a minute, we're God's people. We should be following God. Maybe that's why life isn't going so well right now And so then they'd repent, they turn back to God, God would send a judge, and this is the judge, not like the black suit and like in where I serve that the judges have curly white wigs. Not that kind of judge. We've got uh the these are just like rulers, temporary rulers. God would raise them up. They would defeat the enemies. Life would get good again, the next generation would come around, they'd forget that they're the people of God, they would start rebelling, and the cycle would go around again, an enemy would oppress them, and at this time the enemy was Midian. They had been oppressed for I believe about forty years Midian was taking their food, which is not good when you want to eat, and uh feed your children and that kind of thing. And so this is bad. Life was getting very difficult. And the people of God turned back to God. They repented and God sent them a judge. Gideon. A timid judge. A guy who wasn't quite sure that he really ought to be the judge. And so the Midianites were coming. 135,000 of them. That's a large army. And Gideon, he tried to, you know, get a army together and it's hard to do because most of these people are farmers and don't have I mean they don't have weapons and that kind of thing. Here comes a hundred and thirty five thousand Midianite soldiers and here comes well Gideon and he has with him thirty-two thousand How do you like those odds? 135,000 against 32,000. Who's rooting for Israel? Start running. You're in trouble. These you got over a hundred thousand. You're gonna lose. You're gonna lose. And so I'm sure Gideon was praying. If I was Gideon, I would be praying. I would be saying, Lord, and this is a real problem. We don't have enough soldiers. They're outnumbering us by over 100,000. And we got not a whole lot of sorts. You know, we've got some sickles, we got some hose, we I mean this is not good God looked at the same situation that Gideon was looking at and went, You're right, this isn't good. Gideon, you have too many men. Now if I'm Gideon, I'm saying Lord, I think you got that backwards. No, I I don't have enough men. They have too many men. No, no, no. Lord said, go out there, Gideon, to your 32,000 strong army and say, if anybody's scared, you know, with the odds being over 100,000 outnumbered. If anybody's scared, you can go home. No problem No questions asked, just go. Gideon probably was hoping that all his soldiers were really macho men, that even though they were scared, they would definitely say, no, I'm staying here with you to the death. No, 22,000 guys left They didn't like those lot odds either. And so, can you do math? You got 32,000 minus 22,000. How many men did Gideon have? 10,000. Hmm. And if I'm Gideon, at that point I'm going to be praying, Lord, I don't have enough men. Ten thousand verses, a hundred and thirty-five thousand, we are going to lose for sure. Now of course God had told him And the reason why you I want to make sure that you don't have too many men was because, you know, if Israel wins, they're going to feel like, oh, our strength defeated the enemy. I want to make it, God says, I want to make it very, very clear who won this battle. God did, not Israel. But I'm sure Gideon's thinking, you're going to definitely need more than 10,000 men to beat 135,000. And so if I'm Gideon, I'd be praying, Lord, I don't have enough men. There's a problem, there's a real problem with these numbers. God looked at the same numbers. Gideon was looking at it, and he thought too, there is a problem with these numbers. Gideon, you still have too many men. Wow, I know God is good at math. He's perfect. But 10,000 versus 135,000? This is ridiculous. God said, we need to filter some men out. And so Now these guys, they're all not scared because we already, you know, we already figured that out. At least they're pretending they're not scared. So now here's the filter. Here's what we're gonna do. Take them to the river and watch them drink. Well, this is going to be fun. Watch 10,000 people drink at a river. And God says, pay attention to how they drink. I am certain that Gideon has never paid attention about how people drink when they come to a river. Well, he's watching them drink. This is exciting. This would make great TV, I'm sure. And so some of the guys, they would go down there and They'd kind of like just stick their head down there and just slurp the water right out of the right out of the the river. Now I've never seen this done, but actually this might be entertaining TV. I don't know. And they're sl slurping that right out the face right down to the river and they're slurping it up But other of the men where they come and they pick a little bit up in their hand and lap it up. The Bible says lapping it like a dog, but I've never seen a dog pick up water like this and lap it. But you know, but that's what it says. And so some were lapping, some were slurping, and God said, this is what you should do. All the lappers you keep, all the slurpers you send home. It's not exactly how it says in the rough translation. And so that's what he did. And unfortunately, 9,700 men were slurpers and went home. Now how many are left? Three hundred. Wait a minute. God has a big job to do. His people have repented. They've turned back to him. He is God. He needs to rescue them as he has promised. He had special promises, God and his people. There's a special covenant there. This is a big job. He needs men to do it. God's looking for men to do it. He's evaluating. He's filtering. But you know what? God isn't desperate. Today, God is looking for men and women who will serve Him, who will live for Him, who will step out and maybe even into missions. People who will step out and do things out of their comfort comfort zone. Maybe quite not quite there, but hey, maybe a Wednesday night, go out and take one of those cars and visit people who have come to VBS families and make a connection with them. That's a big step if you've never done it before. And yet it's quite easy to do. God's looking for people that he can use to represent him in their jobs, in their families, in their neighborhoods. But God isn't desperate. Today we look at a passage Luke chapter 9, and there's three men. Three men. Who God might be able to use. In fact, He's looking for someone to use. Turn to Luke chapter 9. You're probably already there. I told a story from Judges 7, but this is Luke chapter 9. Probably some of you figured out that story wasn't in Luke 9. But Jesus is walking along the road, headed towards Jerusalem. He's passing through Samaria, so Galilee, through Samaria, going down towards Jerusalem. And as he's walking there with his disciples, there are other people that are there. And he's going to run into three men. And these three men represent the way they respond to Jesus, they represent three kinds of commitment, three kinds of commitment that God cannot use. It's an interesting story. We just read the passage. But as you read this passage, maybe you were listening and thought, well, that's a little bit weird. I mean you read the first, the first Let me read through it real quickly here. He says, verse 57. Now it came to ha now oops. Now it happened as they journeyed on the road that someone said to him, Lord, I'll follow you wherever you go. Jesus said to him, Foxes have holes, birds of the nests, birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. Then he said to another, Follow me. But he said, Lord, let me first go and bury my father Jesus said to him, Let the dead bury their dead, but you go and preach the kingdom of God. And another also said, Lord, I will follow you, but let me first go and bid them farewell who are at home who are at my house. But Jesus said to him, No one, having put his hand to the plow and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God. We listen to that and we We hear these guys volunteering or being called and we're like, why is Jesus talking to them like that? I mean you look read verse fifty eight and it talks about, you know, Jesus says, Foxes have holes, birds of the air have nests, and you think That sounds kind of pathetic. I don't have anywhere to live. But that Jesus is not being pathetic in verse 56. You read verse 60, he says, Let the dead bury their own dead, and you're like, whoa, that's unfeeling. I mean if his dad's dead's about to die, I mean that that's rough. But Jesus is not being unfeeling when he says that. You read the end, verse 62, and he tells the third third guy No one having put his hand to the plow and looking back is fit for the kingdom of God, and you think, that's judgmental. I mean that's wrong that's really rough But Jesus is not being judgmental in verse 62 when he says that. So why does Jesus say what he says in this passage? That's the question we're going to seek to answer as we look through these three different Kinds of commitment. Jesus is walking towards Jerusalem. The time has come in his ministry where he needs men and women to step up, to serve him. He's going to, if you look in verse chapter 10, right after this passage. He says after these things, after he talks to these three men, the Lord appointed seventy. So he's gonna he's looking for seventy men. Possibly these three guys are candidates. who he can send out and preach the gospel, tell them that the Messiah has come, the Savior of the world is here. So he's looking for people. And he's got these three candidates Let's look at them one by one. Verse 57. Now it happened as the journey. Now I just read this. They're walking down the road, and a guy volunteers. He pops out of the crowds. He sees people following Jesus and he says, Lord, I will follow you wherever you go. Nothing wrong with that. In fact, there's a whole lot of things right with that. A whole lot of people had come and heard Jesus teach and never volunteered to follow him. A whole lot of people had seen Jesus do miracles proving that he was the Son of God. They hadn't thought to say, hey, I'll go wherever you go to. I'll follow you. Hey, this is a good thing. To volunteer saying, hear my Lord, send me. Kind of sounds like uh Isaiah. That's a spirit we should all have. Lord, use me. Take me. I will follow you wherever you lead me. That should be our heart's desire as Christians. But if this is good, why does Jesus start talking about foxes and birds? How does that even follow? Lord, I will follow you wherever you go. Foxes have holes and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. What what why does that even does that make sense? Says, Lord, I'll follow you. This is a good thing to say, but what if the guy didn't know what he was getting into? He's a bit naive. Just kind of got caught up in the moment emotionally. Hey, those guys are following him. I'm going too. But he has no idea what he's It's possible. Or maybe he's one of those guys that you've seen it. Some people are this personality and and and and they they they they're kind of like they're really enthusiastic up front But then the follow-through has a little bit of problem. You ever seen that? If you're the mother of one of these kind of people, it really does bother you, doesn't it? It's just a certain personality. That enthusiasm at the beginning is great. Other people are more kind of steady and not much responsible. Actually, it's kind of like there's two sons. Jesus told a pop uh a parable in another place about a farmer who had two sons. And the farmer goes to the one son and he says, Hey, go work in my field today. And the guy says, No, I'm not going to work in your field. But a little bit later he thinks, oh that's that was rude. I I should work in the field. Like my dad wanted me to do, so he goes out there and works all day. Does a good job. Father goes to the second son, and I might have these backwards of the parable. But he goes to the second one and he says to him, Hey, go work in my field today. And this son says, yeah, I'm going. I'm going. I'm there. I'm your man. That's, once again, rough translation And then he goes nowhere. He does nothing. Maybe our guy here in Luke chapter 9 is that kind of guy. Like he gets stirred up in the moment he says, Yeah, I'm going. I'm with you. And Jesus is warning him. If you make this commitment, it's gonna cost you. Maybe he's doing it to get something out of it, like wow, you know, this is Jesus Jesus. He's the king. If I follow him, I get in good with the king. I get a high physician. This is going to work out really, really well. I can make more money and get a bigger house. And Jesus says, I don't have a house. In fact, the foxes and birds are doing better than me. Why are you following me? Any of those could be an option. It could be a naive, it could be one of those no-follow-through kind of guys, could be He's doing it to get something out of it. And so Jesus puts up a filter there. He says, You want to follow me? It's going to cost you. Foxes, they have their dens. Birds, they have their nests. But I got, every night I don't have a place, I don't have a home. A place to lay my head at night. If you follow me, there's going to be cost. There's going to be sacrifice. In fact, it sounds an awful lot like another verse in the same passage. Look at Luke chapter 9 and verse 23. Luke 9, 23. Jesus had just begun warning his disciples. In fact, look back in verse 21. He strictly warned and commanded them to tell this to no one, saying, the Son of Man must suffer many things. And be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and be raised the third day. Then verse 23. Then he said to them all, If anyone desires to come after me, Let him deny himself the sacrifice. They're things that maybe you feel like it's normal for you to want and to deserve that you're gonna have to give up. This man said, Lord, I'll follow you wherever you go. And Jesus says, Watch out. If you follow me, if any man will come after me, let him deny himself. Give up your rights. And follow me. Jesus is going to suffer. Are you ready to suffer? Got to be willing to sacrifice. It's not just something you just jump light lightly jump into. Know what you're getting into. Look before you leap. He's not saying don't leave, but know what you're getting into before you do it. When I was growing up every Christmas, my family watched a black and white movie. And you all know, and you all now know what it is. Right? It's nothing about miracles, no. It's a wonderful life. My mother loved this movie. She watched it when she was young, and so we needed to watch it every year. And it does have an interesting, it's a very interesting story. Ask some very interesting questions. You got this guy, George Billy. How many of you have seen it before? Excellent. I try to use this illustration in Hong Kong and it's not gonna work. So you got George Bailey. Nice guy. Got his father. Nice guy. They're working helping other people. George's got huge dreams. He wants to go to college, he wants to build bridges, he wants to get rich, he wants to last till a moon. You know, I got a whole long list of things he wants to do. Does he do any of those things in the movie? He does not. First he gives up college to help his father. Then he gives up that job he was looking forward to just to keep on that keep that building and loan going. Gives up the idea of getting rich because he keeps giving stuff away. He gives up a whole lot of stuff. And you know that's a movie. It doesn't really happen. But that does happen in real life. People sacrifice for other people. Children sacrifice for their parents. parents sacrifice for their children. We deny ourselves for others. Because we have a relationship. We care about people. We love people. We give things up for them. But are we willing to give things up for God? Are we willing to deny ourselves, take up our cross, and follow Him Are we willing to not have things in this life? Because we value things that are eternal, things that can only be obtained through following Him This man here got caught up in the moment. Our first man in the passage, he says, Lord, I will follow you wherever you go. This man's commitment was shallow. He didn't quite know what he was getting into. So Jesus warned him, be careful, it's going to require sacrifice. Are you willing to sacrifice or are you guilty of shallow commitment? Jesus keeps walking down the road. And he sees another man. This man doesn't volunteer. In fact, Jesus looks at him and goes, Follow me. Well that puts you on the spot there. Jesus. The Messiah, the Creator, looks at you and goes, follow me. And that's a huge, that's a huge privilege, a huge honor, you know? Out of all the people in the crowd, Jesus looked at me and said, Follow me. How would you feel if Jesus did that to you? In fact, he does do that through his word to each one of us. He says to you, he calls you, follow me. Are you following him? It's a present tense that says follow me. You start and you keep on doing it is what the command means here. Start following now and just keep on going. Following this following implied preaching, because Jesus is going to say something a little bit afterwards and says, but you go and preach the kingdom of God. So part of this following involved being a witness for God. But look at this man's response. He doesn't respond as if this is some kind of honor or some kind of privilege. In fact, Jesus says to him, follow me, and he says, Lord, let me first go and bury my father. Now when we first read that we're like, well that's an excellent that's an excellent reason why he can't follow right now, you know. I mean if his father is sick, doing poorly, definitely got to take care of him. Doesn't the Bible say he who doesn't take care of his family is worse than an infidel? That's in 1 Timothy. Gotta take care of your family. That is a very, very important thing. God values that very highly But if God values that very highly, why does Jesus say in verse 60, let the dead bury their dead, but you go and preach the kingdom of God? God. Was he telling him, neglect your parents? Neglect your family. Just leave them all and go. We've heard stories about that, and that doesn't usually end very well for the children in that story. Is that what Jesus is calling them for to do? I don't think so. Let's look at it again He said to another, follow me. So it points him out. Hey, you. Got a mission for you. Does Jesus know his family situation? He does. Does Jesus know this man? He knows everything. He's got to know who it was that he said, follow me. But this man, he makes an excuse. It sounds like a really good it's a really good sounding excuse. It's a everybody around there probably heard him say it and thought, oh yeah. But you know, there's nothing in this passage that says his father is about to die. We don't have a whole lot of context here. But from Jesus' response, it looks like he's making an excuse. It looks like what he's saying. It's a very, very good-sounding excuse. Hey, I've got to take care of my family. Oh yeah, you can't follow him. You can't do what Jesus wants you to do. you to do now. No, no, no, no. You've got to take care of your family. Got to wait a little bit. He says, I'm Lord, he's not against following Jesus. But he says, but first let me Then fill in the blank with the excuse. It's possible he realized what the first guy didn't realize. The first guy didn't realize, hey, this is going to involve sacrifice. Maybe this guy heard that whole conversation and thought, you know, wow, if I wait till my dad dies, I'll get an inheritance. Then I don't have to give up quite as much. I can kind of finance myself here. It's not much not as much risk. So I'll wait till my dad. I will follow. I'm not against it I'm all fully on board with you, Jesus, but um let me wait until I get all my ducks in a row, and then I will follow you You know something about ducks? They don't like to be in a row. You ever watch a mother goose and the little ducks following them? They do follow, but they don't always it's always like ducks out of out of place And that's the way it is in life too. You try to wait till you get all your ducks in a row, till you follow Jesus, till you do what he wants you to do. But there's always one more duck to adjust. Are you following the Lord? Or are you adjusting ducks? This man here, I mean it sounded good. He made an excuse, and this excuse, I I've heard it says an excuse is a lie wrapped up in a reason. And that might be what we have here. And it was a very good-sounding reason. Sometimes we use something good as an excuse for not following God. Could be family things. Could be uh work-related things. It could be I mean everybody else could hear our excuse and our reasons and think, yeah, obviously that's legitimate. Yeah, that that But God looks down and he knows it's an excuse. God sees it even if we convince ourselves of the truth of our excuse. And so Jesus very directly probably shocks him when he says, let the dead bury their own dead, but you go and preach the kingdom. kingdom of God. Your father is not about to die, but there is something now that is much more urgent. Go preach the kingdom of God. Why is it so urgent in this passage? Okay, well because Jesus is about to die. We're coming towards the end of his his three-year earthly ministry. If he waits for his father to die, maybe one year, two years, three years, five years, you know, Jesus already has died on the cross and rose again. You kind of missed your window there Jesus says, there is something I need you to do now. Probably this guy didn't understand the whole big picture here We know that people didn't realize at the time, even Jesus' disciples didn't realize, even though Jesus directly told them they didn't realize that Jesus would die on the cross and rise again. But Jesus knew there was a narrow window. He needed to send people out. He needed, you know, these 70. We're going to go two by two and announce the king is here. Now is the time to make that prop proclamation. And this guy was making excuses. Good-sounding excuses. He was saying, Lord, I will follow you. I'm on your side. I'm not against you. But first. And this man was guilty of delayed commitment. First guy, it was shallow. He didn't quite know what he was getting into, it seems. Second guy, it's delayed. But first, let me Go. Isabel Kuhn was a missionary in China in the early 1900s. She worked with James Frazier and That generation just following Hudson Taylor. She was in Yunnan reaching a minority group there called the Lisu. And there were great needs, and many millions of people then, like today, that need to hear the gospel. And this is what she said about that situation. She said, This: I believe that in every generation God has called enough men and women to evangelize all the yet unreached tribes of the earth. It is not God who does not call. It is man who will not respond. And many times we don't respond to God's call Because we're making excuses. Lord, I'm with you. I'm 100% with you. I will follow you, but first. And we're not really following. We're adjusting ducks. Third guy. Another also said, look at this, verse 61, we have another volunteer. Excellent. Volunteer, here am I, Lord Send me. Here he goes. Lord, I will follow you. That That guy's not going, he's making excuses. Lord, I will follow you. But let me first go and bid them farewell who are at my house. Once again, that doesn't sound bad at all. That that but first I mean that's that's not bad. In fact, when I read that it kind of reminds me you You familiar with the story of Elisha when he gets called So Elijah shows up. This is in the Old Testament. Elijah shows up, he's an older man. His ministry is just about done. He needs to train a younger prophet to take his place. And so God sends them to Elisha, who is on a farm, and he's there with uh he's there plowing and he's got some oxen there. And Elisha says, Hey. I need you. Follow me. You're going to be the next prophet. And what does Elisha say? Elisha says, oh yeah, I'll do that. But first, let me say goodbye to my family. Sounds exactly like this passage. What did Elijah say to him? Ah, you are not very committed. Ah, no, no, no, no. If you do that, you're no he doesn't say that at all. Elijah says, Oh, no problem. Say goodbye, then follow me. In fact, Elisha doesn't just say goodbye. He goes home, has, you know, burns the uh the plow, uh k kills the oxen, has it for dinner with a big party, and then he goes. So the problem here isn't saying goodbye. God in this passage is not telling us to be unfeeling towards our family. That's not at all what's going on here. But Jesus sensed something in that condition that the man made. Once again, Jesus can see our hearts. He knows our hearts. He knows our thinking. He knows our reason, our motivations. He's God. And Jesus sensed in him divided loyalty. One foot here, one foot there, one foot following Christ, one foot not quite sure. And so Jesus warns him in verse 62. No one having put his hand to the plow and looking back is fit for the kingdom of God. He's warning him of divided commitment. In Matthew chapter six Jesus is very clear. He says no man can serve two masters, for he either he'll love the one and hate the other, or he'll hold to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God in money. You cannot serve God and fill in the blank. You can't be divided. God is looking for our single-minded, focused commitment to Him. Because He's worthy of our single-minded, devoted commitment to. him. He's God who made the world. He's God who sent his son to die in our place. Serving him is our reasonable service. It just makes sense when you think of his sacrifice for us. We should be willing to sacrifice for him. There should be no question. There should be no divided loyalty Once you put your hand in the plow, don't look back. Now what happens if you do that? I am not a farmer nor the son of a farmer. My dad's piano tuner. I don't know anything about plowing. Um I may I've seen it done. I understand the basic idea. I know nothing about tractors. Some people love those, but uh I I've never even even driven one. Back then they didn't have tractors, so I don't need to know anything about that for this passage. They use oxen, like Elisha And the idea was, if I understand correctly, they'd be behind the oxen. You've got two oxen like so, and he's he's back there holding onto the plow like this, and you've got to look forward. And because If you don't, if you start looking backwards like this, things aren't going to stay straight. Now maybe if you've got really good oxen, it they'll just do the job for you. But um but normally they're looking straight. They keep their eye on some fixed point ahead of them, maybe a fence post or something like that, and you keep looking this way and you keep going this way, you know, and it keeps the furrow nice and straight. If you're looking backward, things are going to get kind of zigzaggy. And that's going to affect the fruit, affect the field, the harvest. And Jesus is using this agricultural illustration that they would immediately understand. He says, no one looking back, no one having his hand put to the plow and looking back is fit for the kingdom of God. Don't look back, he says. No turning back. Keep your eye on Jesus, the cross before me, the world behind me Jesus warns them of divided commitment. And today He warns us also Hebrews 12 says, looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith. We need to keep our eyes on him. We need to be focused on him. Jesus is looking for people that he can use. He's looking for people like you and like me. He's not looking for perfect people. These men weren't perfect, but because of their commitment, as Jesus looked for these 70 to send out, he could not use these three men. Because of their problem of commitment, their shallow commitment, their delayed commitment, their divided commitment. He couldn't send them with the 70. Look at chapter 10, Luke 10, verse 1. After these things, after what things? After Jesus talked to these three guys on the road. After these things, the Lord appointed seventy others also. This word others in the Greek is a word that means other of a different kind. There's another Greek word that means other of the same kind, similar. This one's the one others of a different kind. A different kind of commitment He couldn't use these three guys. There was a great need, and today that need is also great. But God isn't desperate. He's looking for those Who he can mold and change and use. Are you one of those kind of people? Look what he says here. After these things the Lord appointed seventy other also and sent them two by two before his face into every city and place where he himself was about to go. Then he said to them, The harvest truly is great, but the laborers are few. Therefore pray the Lord of the harvest to send out his laborers into his harvest. There we have that famous mission's verse in the context of Jesus looking for people. And today he's looking for people to send. Yet these three men, though the need was great, God wasn't desperate. And these three men got filtered out. You know things about know something about filters. Filters don't catch stuff that you want. Once they're in the filter, you don't really want them. For example, you see the MM on the floor just before you vacuum it up. Maybe before that place maybe three-second rule, maybe you sit down that you would eat it. But after you vacuum it and it's in the vacuum filter, nobody's gonna eat it And if you do, you got problems. You don't want the stuff in the filter. Pool filter. I don't have a pool, so I don't know, but I hear that sometimes there's a lot of rotting leaves in there and maybe dead frogs and whatnot. Enrique would know. You want the stuff in the filter? I don't want that stuff. You throw that out. It's not usable. Don't get caught. In this filter Here of commitment. Beware of shallow commitment. So easy to do. Beware of delayed commitment. Saying, Lord, I will follow you. I'm on your side, but Maybe later. Beware of divided commitment. Lord, I I'll follow you, but first let me go. No, God is looking for our selfless, immediate, and single-minded commitment to a Look back at Luke chapter 9, verse 23. We saw it before, but actually these three kinds of commitments can be seen in this verse. In fact, the opposite of these three kinds of commitments can be seen in this verse. Then he said to them all, Luke 9, 23, if anyone desires to come after me, and I hope this morning this is your desire, to come after him, to follow him. If anyone desires to come after me, number one, let him deny himself Count the cost. Realize sacrifices involved. If you deny yourself, you won't be guilty of shallow commitment. Let him deny himself. That's number one. Number two, take up his cross daily. Each day, promptly, not saying, Lord, but first let me do that. No, no, no. If if we take up our cross daily, we won't be guilty of delay. Commitment and then what? Follow me. Follow him alone. Don't be distracted. Keep your eyes on him. Stay focused on him. That will keep you from divided commitment. Commitment means service. And God is looking for servants. Servants to serve in the local church. Servants to step up when there is a need. Service to step out and leave your comfort zone. And maybe Serve on a mission field. This last week I was in South Carolina. Our mission has training for new missionaries And uh the numbers of people going out now are are lower than ever before since COVID. Uh the harvest is great, the labors are few, and they're fewer than they were five years ago. Many missionaries are retiring, coming off the field, and the ones the young people that are coming in are n th those numbers are not near what the retirement numbers are. I've had pastors tell me before they get calls all the time for missionaries on deputation who want to schedule meetings. Now some churches are calling mission boards looking for people that they could bring in. Now I'm not sure that's always the case, but I've never heard that before. The harvest truly is great. The laborers are few. God is looking for people. He's not looking for perfect people. He's not telling us these things and giving us the story about these three men to intimidate us and make us think, well, I'll never be good enough. I'll never live up to that standard. That's not what he's saying. He's warning us, letting us know in story form, hey, beware of these pitfalls so that God can use you, so God can send you. He wants to encourage us. And last week, because I'm in the training there, I'm seeing um different people and you think, hey, who's mission who's going on missionary? Oh people went to Bible college, then they went to seminary, and then they just went straight to the you know straight to the missions. Actually We didn't really have many of those at all. We saw there a couple of accomplished electrical engineers, a nurse, someone who just retired from the military. We discovered that some of our missionaries there in an earlier life were professional cooks, which was really great since the cook that was supposed to be there got COVID two days before the camp. And so those guys suddenly were cooks In the camp. We got a businessman. We've got uh I I know one guy that was there. Well he's now he's an older missionary, but he was formerly a barber. God God calls people from all different walks of life at all different ages. It's not just people coming fresh out of college A lot of the people that were there at this training camp were in their 30s or maybe early 40s or some were older than that. God calls people at every stage of life He calls them to many different things, some to missions, some to just stepping up and being more involved in church. So that maybe somebody else can step out into mission. or into some other work God calls them to. God is looking for people. The harvest truly is great. The laborers truly are few, but God isn't desperate. He's looking for people Who are willing to deny themselves, take up their cross, and follow him. How's your commitment this morning? All of us, no matter what our jobs are, no matter how long we've been Christians, it's good for us to stop and think about our walk with God, our commitment to Him. Am I willing to go anywhere? Am I willing to like Isaiah to say, Lord, hear my send me? Am I willing to leave my comfort zone? Am I willing to give up anything for him? You've got to realize it's all his already anyway, but sometimes we get really attached to our stuff. Am I willing to do what God wants me to do when He wants me to do it? Or am I saying later? Am I willing to serve wholeheartedly with all my mind, soul, and strength? Because I love God with all my mind, soul, and strength. He was a missionary martyr, he and four other missionaries in Ecuador lost their lives in the fifties as they tried to reach a Stone Age tribe that had never had contact with the outside world. And he had no idea that that was going to be his fate Yet in his journal, he very famously wrote this: He is no fool who gives what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot lose. Following Christ does involve losing. It does involve self-denial. And yet the eternal rewards of following Christ, the fulfillment of following Christ is so much more than what we give up. You know, the things that we have in this world, we can't keep them. That's what Elliot's saying, and it's true. Nobody puts a U-Haul on the back of their hearse. I mean that that doesn't happen You can't take stuff with you. I mean the Egyptian kings, they tried it. He is no fool who gives what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot lose. What are you unwilling to lose? To gain for Christ? God's looking for people. He's not desperate. He's looking for you. Are you the kind of person that God can use? God looks at you today and he says, follow me. It's a privilege. It's an honor. And following him looks different in many ways. Our paths are not all the same. It looks different. But one thing that remains the same is that those who follow Christ are committed to him. They keep their eyes on him. They follow his leading. Are you doing that this morning? If you've never put your trust in Christ as your Savior, you are not following Jesus this morning. And probably you don't mind. That's not something that's been a priority because You don't realize that that is something that would be valuable. If you've never put your trust in Christ as your Savior, you do not yet have a relationship with God. He's not your Father In fact, the Bible says your sin separates you from God. There's a great gulf, a great gap between you and God. We're all born with this gap between us and God. We're sinners. The Bible says there's not a just man on the earth that does good and sins not. Nobody's perfect. But a lot of people don't realize that, well they realize that nobody's perfect, but they don't realize that that lack of perfection is a serious problem. God is perfect. He's holy And because we're not perfect, because we are sinners, we cannot be where he is. Our sin separates us from God. In fact, our sin makes us deserve punishment The punishment for sin, the Bible says the wages of sin is death, not just physical death, but eternal death in the lake of fire That's real. That's horrifying. And maybe if you've never trusted Christ as you save you, you think that's overkill. But it's not We've broken God's law. We've gone our own way. The Bible says all we like sheep have gone astray. We've turned everyone to his own way. But God knows that sin is That's serious. He warns us. He pleads with us. Don't go that way. He sent Jesus To die for us. We can't save ourselves. There's nothing we can do to earn favor with God. There's nothing we can do to make up for the sins that we've already committed. That deed is done. God knows that. So that's why Jesus came. He lived a perfect life, the perfect life that we could not live. And he died in our place. The wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. He died in our place so that he could give us the gift of eternal life For by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. God offers you the gift of salvation. It's grace. Something not earned and not deserved. He doesn't want us to boast and say, hey, I was good enough to be. get to heaven. Nobody can say that. None of us are good enough. We're all sinners. We all deserve punishment. But Jesus died for all of us. He is the propitiation for our sins, not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. He offers you salvation today. His death satisfies God's wrath. His death Took your punishment. And today he says, if you believe on me, if you believe that Jesus died for your sin and rose again, you will have everlasting life. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have everlasting life. That's a promise from God to you. Have you taken God up on that promise? Have you realized His love for you and sending His Son to die for you? Have you believed on him? Some of you have grown up in church all your life. You've heard this over and over and over again. Maybe I I I led a youth group. I assume that I assume too much. I assume that Teens growing up in church, they've heard the gospel, they've said they believe they really are truly believers, but some of them were not. And some of you here today may know all the right answers. But you know in your heart you have not trusted Christ as your Savior. You are not following Him. Don't be prideful. If that's your situation, repent Repent of your sins and truly come to know him as your Savior. God promises that he who comes to Him, He will not cast out. Believe that Jesus died for your sin. You can't save yourself. Believe he died for you to save you and that he rose again. God says whoever calls upon his name will be saved. Have you done that? Let's pray. Dear Lord, thank you for your word. Thank you for the warnings you give to us. Warnings about hell. And for those of us who know you as their Savior, warnings about pitfalls that we can avoid. Lord, help us to avoid these pitfalls we saw in the past of today. Help us not to be guilty of shallow commitment or delayed commitment or divided commitment. Lord, help us to keep our eyes and our focus on you. Work in us and through us. We know we can't be committed like we should be committed without your strength. And so strengthen us. Lord, every path is different. And yet you call each of us to follow you. And Lord, I pray that there's some here today that you're working their heart to uh to surrender to missions, to serve, to take a next step and serve uh they've served here in the church faithfully and they're ready to for you to lead them to another ministry, to serve, maybe to missions. Lord, I pray that you give them boldness to follow you wherever you lead. In Jesus' name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.