Heavenly Father, we are so grateful this morning. We're grateful for what you have done at the cross on our behalf through your Son Jesus. Jesus Christ. Father, we have the joy and the privilege this morning to come before you and just worship you in spirit and in truth. And Father, we have the privilege and the joy to be able And I pray for those Father who are unable to be here with us today. Maybe they're traveling, some are at home and cannot get out, Father. And we just lift them up to you and ask that you would bless them this morning, Father. Bless them and give them encouragement through your word if they are following along in the live stream this morning. And we pray that you would work in each of our hearts this morning, Father. Help us to set aside all those cares and all of those things that are going on in our life this week, that we can set them aside this morning. for the next hour. As we sit under your word, I pray that your spirit will enable us to grasp it and to understand it. And that desire we would have to apply it to our lives, that in all things you would be glorified and lifted up. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. We'll be reading this morning from Romans chapter 5, and we are going to be looking at verses 12 through 21. one. Play close pay close attention. This can be confusing and I'm glad you're preaching it. Follow along if you would. Romans 5. 12. Therefore Just as through one man sin entered the world, and death through sin, and thus death spread to all men, because all sinned. For until the law sin was in the world, but sin is not imputed when there is no law. Nevertheless Thus death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over those who had no had not sinned according To the likeness of the transgression of Adam, who is a type of him who was to come. But the free gift is not like the offense For if by the one man's offense many died, much more the grace of God and the gift by the grace of the one man, Jesus Christ. And the gift is not like that which came through the one man sin. For the judgment which came from one offense resulted in condemnation, But the free gift, which came from many offenses, resulted in justification. For if by the one man's offense death reigned through the One, much more those who receive abundance of grace and the gift of righteousness will reign in life through the One Jesus Christ. Therefore, as though as through one man's offense, judgment came to all, resulting in condemnation Even so, through one man's righteousness, righteous act, the free gift came to all men, resulting in justification of light For as by one man's disobedience many were made sinners, so also by one man's obedience, many were made sin Moreover, the law entered that the offense might abound. But where sin abounded, grace abound much More so that as sin reigned in death, even so grace might reign through righteousness to eternal life through Jesus Christ our So Romans chapter 5, the first passage, the first part of the passage, first part of the chapter that we looked at last week, was a very encouraging passage, verses 1 through 11. Actually it was two weeks ago. Um very encouraging uh passage from uh there that really talked about uh how faith works and standing in the grace of God and the And that our that we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. It was a passage that helped us to Kind of help us learn how to live the Christian life. Some passages are like that: how to live the Christian life. And there are other passages that tell us why it all works. It's kinda like if you go into a house if you buy a new house and you're looking at all the features of this new house and you get to see what kind of dishwasher it is and whether it has a convection of the oven or not and uh whether it's uh you know what the how many bathrooms it has and what what feature you know you're l exploring the house and it's fun it's fun to buy a new house and explore the house And to see all the different features of the house. Or like you buy a new car and you see all the different features of the new car, whether it has you know, heated seats or air air conditioning. Now anyway, um those kinds of things, all the different features, that's fine. But if you're in a house and a hurricane comes You don't care whether or not you have a convection oven or not. It doesn't matter. You want to know how that structure, if that structure is going to hold up. You want to understand how this thing is built and whether or not you need to flee or you could stay put because this is going to be able to withstand that storm. And the second half of Romans chapter 5, it really it's like that. It it helps us to understand understand how the whole thing works. It's not as in like not as it won't seem it is as relevant, but it won't seem quite as uh accessible and relevant as the first half of Romans 5 or certainly Romans 6 when we get into it. But it really does help us to sort of get under the hood and see the mechanics of the thing which ultimately is extremely helpful in our Christian faith. In fact, I loved Harry's illustration last week of uh of the tomato plant an eight-foot tall tomato plant. How many of you have seen an eight-foot tall tomato plant? I hadn't either. So I asked Harry to take a picture and we put it I put it up there to prove that it was an eight foot my my Harry was using an illustration uh last week and And and um and my kids were like, Dad, that's taller than you. Uh as as though that's the standard of everything. But anyway, so so you've got this eight foot long tomato plant. Well, you explained last week if That withstand huge winds have a tap root in them that go down really, really deep. But if you're a gardener or someone who has dug deep at all at any point The deeper you go, isn't it true that the more dense the soil gets? Especially where I live. I live on the on a hill on the uh on the south side or on the one side of the the the Tapscu Valley. Uh depends on where on the Tapesco Valley you are, whether it's south or north or west. But anyway, so it's the so you got you're on I'm on this hill and it's clay. I mean you go down a little while and you'll get some dirt and it's fine and you dig certain uh past a certain point, not like around here you hit sand. You hit clay where I'm at, where I live. And you still but you still gotta go down deep. If you're gonna put a post in the ground to build a deck or you're gonna build a something If you you gotta go down deep if you're gonna be able to go go up tall. Those of you who have been to my house, you know it's almost a three-story house It's tall. And why can it it's got to go down deep in order to get that tall. And that's the way it is when it comes to our understanding of the Christian faith. We we need to go down deep. We need to get the taproot down as far as we can go. Because when the doubts come, when the storms of life come, when the questions come and the problems come We will be able to stand firm if we are going deep enough into the soil. So this passage is going to do that. The question that this passage is going to seek to answer is why one man's death, Jesus Christ, why one man's death Is able to to save so many for all of eternity You'll notice in the text in Romans chapter 5, just look at verse 2 for a minute. It says, Through him also we have access by faith into this grace in which We stand. We are to stand in the grace of God. And then right before our text for today, I want you to notice Romans chapter 5. It's up there on, it should be up there on the screen. Verses eight through eleven it says, But God demonstrates his love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us Much more than having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. For if we were enemies we were reconciled to God through the death of his son. Much more, having been reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. And not only that, but we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received the reconciliation. We have been reconciled to God, the passage says, by the death of Jesus Christ. But have you ever asked why? How can the death of one man save so many? That really becomes the question How can the death of one man save so many? You ever asked that question before? I mean, some many of you have grown up in church. came came to Christ, you understood that Jesus died for me and that you're die you're if you believe in that, that you'll get eternal life, you'll uh you understand those things. But you ha have you ever asked, well why I mean we understand people dying for other people. Soldier goes into war, he sacrifices his life for the rest of us, right? We understand that. Or you could think of a par um a mom who who will sacrifice uh her her herself for her child's sake in a dangerous situation or a firefighter who goes into a fire to sac and sacrifices his life for someone else, something like that. We understand sacrificing a a a life for a life, but but this death of Jesus, this is way bigger than that This is way more expansive than that. This reconciles us to God. This is saves someone from their sin for all of time and eternity. This is not any normal dying for somebody else, but why does that work? I mean, how does it work? How can the death of one man save so many That's the question that's going to be answered here. The basic answer is this, and we're going to delve into this, but Christ's death reconciles people to God Because Adam's sin separated people from God. I'll mention that again. Christ's death reconciles people to God Because Adam's sin separated people from God. In other words, he's now everything is going to be based upon Adam, and Adam being the representative of the human race and what happened there. In fact, in the passage, you'll see five times the word rain is mentioned. Paul essentially sets up two kingdoms. The kingdom of Adam. And in a sense, that's what God did. God gave Adam a kingdom, and Adam lost the kingdom because of his sin. And Christ is given a kingdom, and of course he saves his kingdom because of his own death on the cross You have the reign of Adam versus the reign of grace, the reign of Christ. And we're going to see this contrasted in this passage. We're going to see this laid out. And it's actually because of the failure of the reign of Adam that Christ comes and he his reign works by his grace because of the death of Christ. Jesus Christ. Why? Essentially, the death of Christ reverses Adam's the effects of Adam's sin. Why is that? We're going to see four things in this passage. Number one, the origin, the first sin, affects everyone. That's verse 12 and verses 18 through 19. The first sin affects everyone. Number two, the effect: death rules everyone. Verses 13 through 14. So the effect of this first sin is that death rules everyone. Then we're going to see the solution. Christ's death beats original sin. It has victory over original sin. It is the solution. And we're going to see see this progression of how this works. And then finally, the result is that grace rules over sin and death. Grace reigns, or it rules over the reign of sin and death, so that those who come to Christ are reigned by grace rather than reigned by death. And we'll see how this works together. There's a flow of thought here that hopefully you'll get just by seeing this. And as we work through this, hopefully it'll be helpful. To you. The key verse, the hinge verse for the rest of it is all on verse 12. And we pick up there, and it says, Therefore, just as through one man sin entered the world, and death through sin. And thus death spread upon all men. So first we're going to see the source or the original sin. Original sin affects everyone else. And in this verse, we're going to see four important truths. This establishes the foundation for the rest of what Paul is going to lay out in this passage. Four important truths. And these are simple, except for the last one. The rest of them are simple. Number one. Sin entered the world through one man. Simple enough, right? Just as through one man sin entered the world. Of course that Sin enters the world through the first human, the first man, and that is Adam. By the way, I just want to mention that there are some that would actually name the name of Christ that would suggest that there is not a historical, that Adam was not truly a real historical figure. That is heresy. There is no way, especially after you study this passage, there is no way that you can conclude That Adam that the basis of Jesus' of what Jesus did is based upon there being a historical Adam, and from that from him sin entered into So this is something that you see from time to time. Be very careful about that. The gospel is actually going to break down if you if you Choose to believe that Adam was not a real person representing uh all of humanity. In first ch 1 John chapter 3, verse 8 it says this, he who sins is of the devil, of the devil who sinned from the beginning. Beginning. For this purpose the Son of Man the Son of God was was manifested, that he might destroy the works of the devil. And twelve times in this passage you're going to see, by the way, one man here. One man, one man, one man throughout this passage. This is clearly drawing a comparison between the one man, Adam, who sinned, and the one man, Jesus, who paid the punishment. And how one is better than the other and one over over rules or wins over the other. Number two truth, sin brought death This is also not hard to understand. For some it might be hard to accept. We see this in Genesis chapter 2 verse 4 Verses fifteen through seventeen. In verse seventeen it says, Of every tree of the garden of you may freely eat, but in the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat it you shall surely die. God told Adam, there is a command here, there is a law that you are not to eat of this fruit, and in the day you eat it, you'll surely die. He told him exactly what was going to happen. And sin brought death. We see that from this first verse. Death is separation. It means separation. And there are really two kinds of death in Scripture that you could say possibly three, but we'll narrow it down to two kinds of death in Scripture Death, which is physical death, that is the s the separation of the the soul from the body, it's physical death, and spiritual death, the separation from a human being from God. So both are rooted in this idea of separation. Physical death is mentioned, for example, in John 12, 24. Most assuredly I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls in the ground and dies, it remains alone. But if he dies, it would produce much grain. There's a physical death that occurs. But then spiritual death, and much of what we need to understand is is this we actually need to see both, that both are a result of sin. But spiritual death we know in Scripture in many different places. For example, Romans 6. 23, the wages of sin is what? Is death. Ephesians describes the spiritual death this way, having no hope and without God in the world, and being alienated from the life of God. Spiritual death is being alienated from the very separated from the very life of God. If you're separated from the life of God, you are in spiritual death. Ezekiel 18. 4 says this, the soul who sins shall die. Sin results in death. So we see then next, next truth, death spread to all men. Now, we could see this, we could observe this, right? Everybody physically dies. It's been said the only thing that's sure is death and taxes Uh w everybody dies eventually. And so we know this. The question is why do people die? And that's what's in debate in our world, and we'll look and look at that in a few moments. But death According to Scripture, the way that Scripture lays it out, you've got one man who sins, you have then sin brings death, and then death is spread to all men. Now the next phrase is an interesting phrase. It said that the in the New King James Version it says, because all sinned. Because all sinned. The truth, or fourth truth here that we need to see is that universal sin caused all to die. The universe of sin caused all to die. Notice what it says in the passage, the very last phrase, and this is a phrase that is a phrase that is Very much debated and there's all kinds of different views on this phrase. We're not going to spend a huge amount of time on it. But notice what it says. It says, because all sin. Now that that is curious, isn't it? Because all sinned. Now, you could understand if it said so that all sinned, or resulting in all sinning. But it doesn't actually say that. It says because all sin. In fact, it's translated that way. New King James does, New American Standard does, the ESV does, the Holman Bible does. There are many translations that translate it because all have sinned. It's a cause. When I first read it, you know, when you read and you study it, I kind of like to see that say something else because it's a little confusing. How can there, on one hand, be one man that sins And then death is brought to all because of sin is brought to all through this one man, and then death is spread to all. That all makes sense. And then suddenly it's like, because all have sinned I mean, is it all of sin that brings death, or is it one man that brings death? Is it all the sin that brings sin to everyone, or is it one man that brings sin? It's a little bit confusing. There's two things we know about this phrase. One, it's talking about all men, all people, just like in Romans 3. 23, for all have sinned, same phrase. And we know so it's a universal sin to everybody, and it's causal. The universal sin caused this to happen. So there are three general views for this And I have them alliterated. I don't usually alliterate, but I found these three that are alliterated, so maybe they'll help us remember them. One, one general view is called imitation. Imitation. It's the idea that, okay, Adam Adam was just an example. Okay, he was an example of a re he was a really bad example. And he sinned, and so everybody sins because he sinned because he was a really bad example. That actually doesn't make any sense. Um on its face it doesn't make any sense even the way it's worded there, it doesn't make any sense. This was a view that goes all the way back to 354 A. D. by a man by the name of Pelagius. It it doesn't, it's not what is talking about here. For example, in Romans chapter Ephesians chapter 2, verse 1, it says that you who are dead in trespasses and sins Ephesians 2. 5, dead in trespasses. So we're really not talking here about imitation. There's something more. Some think that what this is talking about is infection. Not imitation, but infection. This is a fairly common view. It's the idea that the sin nature in Adam is passed down to every person. And that is true. It is true that the sin, we have other passages that will teach us that. But this passage really isn't teaching that the sin nature is being passed down. It's saying that all has sinned and it's caused this sin and death to occur in everyone. It's not really saying that in the passage. So people like John Calvin have held to this view and others as well, good men, but and it is true that we all do have a sin nature But I don't think that's what this passage is saying either. The next is inclusion. Inclusion. That all people in some way are included in Adam's sin. And that is exactly how it looks in the grammar. That's exactly what it That everybody somehow is included in Adam's sin. And I think that's exactly what it's saying. But what how is it how are we included? I mean, like, how does this work Well, if you look down at Scripture here, if you look down at Romans chapter 5, verse 8, I think we have this is going to help us, verses, verse 18, rather, verses 18 through 19, I think this helps us. Look at five, eighteen through nineteen. Therefore, as through one man's offense, judgment came to all men, resulting in condemnation. Even so, through one man's righteous act, the free gift came to all men, resulting in justification of life. You have one man's transgression, one man's offense. And one man's righteous act, talking about Jesus and his death on the cross, that gives a free gift. Well, we know the free gift is actually eternal life. Romans 623. That's what the free gift is. And it results in the justification, the declaring righteous of life. Verse 19, for as by one man's disobedience many were made sinners, so also one man's obedience many were made righteous And I think the best way to understand this, at least, it is at least saying that Adam acted as our representative. He represented the entire human race when he sinned. And we understand what that means. what a representative is. You have an attorney who represents a client, an ambassador who represents a country, a head of state that uh leads an entire country into war. You can't lead half a country into war. You don't take a vote on those things. You have a represent you have somebody that's representing everyone in doing those kinds of things Maybe the best illustration is this concept of power of attorney. How many of you ever ever, well, I'm not ask that question. Actually. Um, come to think of it. Um, if you have a power of attorney, um I uh my dad did this with me before he passed away. Uh he gave me power of attorney. And basically, power of attorney says that you are able to act on behalf of the person. In other words, you can buy a house on behalf of somebody else, you can sell a house, sell land on behalf of somebody else, you can sign on behalf of them. It is as though they are actually doing it. You are representing them. I think that's maybe the closest closest illustration I can think of. Adam, when he sinned, he was representing, he was acting on behalf of all of humankind. An illustration, maybe a good illustration would be Joshua chapter seven, verses 24 through thir twenty-five, you've got Achan there. Remember when Achan sinned and all you know God said there's sin in the camp and he was representative uh of all of the of the idolatry and they had to deal with him on that level. First Corinthians chapter 15 says it this way Verses 21 through 22, for since by man came death, by man also came the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ all shall be made alive. In 1 Corinthians 15, verse 45, the first man Adam became a living being. The Adam became, the last Adam, that's Jesus, became a life-giving spirit. Now it's also possible, it's also possible that this inclusion could include something that we'll call realism. That is that in some way all humanity was physically present in Adam. Kind of like a seed, like if you take a uh an acorn. All of the elements of the tree are in the acorn even though it's in a seed form. So some people think this is a possibility that Adam in a In a C form, we were all present in Adam's sin. Either way, the point I think is this. that everyone is guilty of sin and deserves death. Everyone does. That's actually the point here. He wants us to be clear about that. And he wants us to understand that it is by one man's sin that all have come to sin and death Because then it makes sense for one man to be able to die, for many to be able to come to Christ. Now, he's also, Paul is also doing this. He's getting down to the very foundation of things. He did this before. You remember in Romans chapter 1, where he gets down to creation, and he says, creation reveals that there is a creator. And if you don't believe that creation reveals a creator, then you are blinded That's the very the Christian worldview is creation shows that there is a creator. And what he is essentially saying here is that death, which everybody understands, death then uh that that happens. There's no doubt about it, it spreads to everybody. Eventually everybody dies. Everybody physically died between Adam and Moses, which he's going to get into a minute, except for Enoch and Elijah, but they still spiritually died. So die, death passes to everyone. But the question is what you believe death is a result of. In other words, you talk to some people and they believe that death is death is just a natural part of life. It's like a life cycle. People die and they go into the ground and some people even believe in reincarnation and all kinds of different things like that. You you ever heard death is a natural part of life? There's a sense in which, no, that's not true. Biblically, death is not a natural part of life. Biblically, uh death is a universal part of life, like it does happen to everyone. But but it occurs because of sin. Sin results in death. If you don't know Christ is your Savior, uh the first step is understanding what is death about. Like, what do you believe this is about? And some people say, well, it's just something that is peaceful and calm and um, you know, you just uh live out your life and it should be something some people think it should be welcomed and and embraced. There's different philosophies on this, different religions on this. And that is not the view of the Bible. Those who say this kind of thing, and I I kind of feel like they haven't gone through you know, witness d somebody die very often. I remember when my mom passed away, uh, many, many years ago. Uh I was with her. I was with her her along with um along with my um w just the uh the hospice nurse, the only We were only people two people there. And I watched the pain of death. I thought, you know, and I I I I turned to the hospice and I said, Is this normal? I was watching it. I was reading scripture to her, but watching it I took I turned to the hospice nurse, I said, Is this normal? And she says to me, Yeah, this is normal. What you see in the movies is not. You know, you see somebody so just go to sleep. And I that could occur. I'm see people I've heard that that does occur sometimes. But that's not normal. There is almost always pain associated with death. Well, the Bible has the answer for that. It's because it resulted from sin. So if you don't know Christ as your Savior and your you're wondering about death and why death occurs. The Bible has a much better answer than the world and different philosophies have on that. And you have to this becomes the baseline when you think about sin and you think about death. Do you b some people think well sin is just a a a construct of society. It's not really or What they will say is, well, nobody's perfect. I mean, everybody believes nobody's perfect. You heard uh all kinds of non-Christians will say that. And it is true. Not you know, nobody's perfect, and that's observable that that's the case. Well, we say nobody's perfect. The Christian worldview is nobody's perfect because of sin. But the non-Christian says nobody is perfect because of we're in the midst of an evolutionary process. And as we go through this evolutionary process, you know, we're re going to reach perfection, you know, some billion billionth year, but for now we we don't we don't go through that pro we're not in that process That's not what we see in Scripture at all. And the only question I would have for somebody that believes that is, do you genuinely think things are getting better morally? I mean, do you really think things are getting actu are actually improving? They're evolving in areas of morality. Are we really killing each other less? I mean, I'd love to talk to somebody who believes this in their 60s and 70s. Talking to a college student about this, okay, you're optimistic and delusional. You think everything's going to work out great. Sorry, college students. Okay. They all left for college, so they didn't hear me say that. Um But but you know, you get go through life a little bit and you look back, I don't think you kind of come to the conclusion that things are getting better. Uh things have improved. You look at history of civilization, you don't see improvement. You see sort of ebb and flow and you see little roller coaster rides going on, but I don't think you see an evolutionary process when it comes to morality, even of those things that most would agree with are immoral, like killing each other, for example. So God has the answer here for us, and we need to believe what the Bible says about this. Now then we we pick up and we s we see what is the evidence that Adam sinned as a representative and that sin spread to everyone. And we've kind of we really already discussed this, but the answer is death. Look at verses 13 through 14, if you would, with me Verse 13 says, For unto the law sin was in the world, but sin is not imputed when there is no law. Nevertheless, death reigned from Adam to Moses over those who had not sinned according to the likeness of the transgression of Adam, who is a type of him who was to come. So what is he talking about here? He says, for under the law sin was not uh was in the world, but sin is not imputed when there is no law. What's he saying there? And he's saying that Adam's sin is different than the sins that occurred between Adam and Moses. Now the Jewish people really associate sin with the violation of the Mosaic Law so closely that they probably didn't have an idea of What how sin really worked prior to the Mosaic Law, prior to the giving of the Ten Commandments, for example. And so if you go back between Adam and Moses, how did all of this work? What Paul is ultimately trying to get at is that men are subject to death not on account of their own individual sins. but on account of Adam's representative sin. Since the law, since sin could not be imputed in the sense of, it's not that people were perfect. people didn't sin. We know that, for example, from Genesis chapter 6, where the Bible says that everybody was e evil continually. It's not that. It's not that sin um But to account for it, an actual accounting for it, a violation here, you know, you've got a law here, a legal accounting for sin that was not possible without the law. Adam's sin was different. There was a clear law And a clear violation of the law. And then as a representative of all people, we all have sinned. And actually, death comes to all everyone. And so we know that sin is corrupted everyone because death has corrupted everyone, which is Paul's point. First Timothy chapter two, verse thirteen and fourteen say point out that Adam was not deceived when he He was. But Adam wasn't deceived. Adam willfully took of the fruit. He willfully violated the very described law of God in taking the fruit. and representing people. And so because of that, you have death that passes on everyone, which verifies that that's exactly what Adam's sin produced. Death to everyone. But it also then, if you think about it, gives the opportunity for the death of Jesus Christ to apply to anyone who believed as the remedy for that. And that's exactly what 1 Corinthians 15, verse 22 says. For as in Adam all die. Even so in Christ all shall be made alive. That's why it says here that Adam is a type It's a pattern or an example of what would be to come. Jesus being the antitype. He was the one who fulfills that type. In other words, you've got Adam as the representative of mankind, and sin and death pass to everyone But Jesus comes and he stands as representative of those who will accept him by faith. which essentially replaces the representation of Adam. This is what Paul is saying here. And what he's going to do in verses 15 through 17, is he's going to move we're going to see then that Christ overshadows Adam. The solution is that Christ wins over original sin. His death, you're going to see grace here, wins over this original sin of Adam. And it's and he's going to show three contrasts. In other words, he's going to say Adam was this way, Adam's sin was this way, Christ was this way, Christ's righteousness and his work and his death is this way, and he wants to contrast this in three ways to show that Christ beats original sin. It wins over original sin. So we see here, verse 15, first of all, we see Adam's transgression versus Christ's grace. Adam's transgression versus Christ's grace. Look at verse 15. We see here in the passage. But the free gift is not like the offense. For if by one man's offense many died, much more the grace of God and the gift by grace of one man Jesus Christ abounded to many. So what's he saying here? He's saying that Adam's transgression resulted in death And Christ's grace results in a free gift. And he emphasizes this free several times. In fact, just free gift by itself sounds like the word free isn't needed, right? I mean, a gift is by definition free. If you pay for it, it's not a gift anymore. But he says free gift to emphasize that there is no merit. He's really trying to emphasize the reality of the freeness of this gift given by the grace of Christ paid for by the death of Christ. So Adam's transgression versus Christ's grace, Christ's grace wins. And this gift we know from Romans 6. 23 I already mentioned. is life. It's eternal life. But the gift of God is eternal life. So life, by the grace of God, wins over death from sin. He makes that contrast here first. Then we move on to the second contrast. The second contrast, the effect of Adam's sin. versus the effect of Christ's obedience. This really tells us how how this is made possible. Look at the passage, verse 16. Verse 16 says, and the gift is not like that which came through the one who sinned. For the judgment which came from the one offense resulted in condemnation. That's talking about Adam's sin. And condemnation, sin, death, all that comes from as a result. People are condemned of sin because all have sinned. But the free gift which came from many offenses results in justification. So the free gift of eternal life results in uh it comes through the grace of God because of the obedience of Jesus and the death of Christ, it become it it results in justification. In other words Jesus' death declares us righteous because of his sacrifice on the cross, his obedience. 2 Corinthians 5, 619 says it this way: that God was in Christ, reconciling the world to himself, not imputing their trespasses to them, and has committed to us the word of reconciliation. 1 Corinthians 15, 57, but thanks be to God that gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. And that brings me to verse 17. And he contrasts the reign of death and the reign of life. Because of what Jesus did in the cross, death reigned previously, but now life reigns. Verse 17. Says in verse seventeen Um For if by one man's offense death reigned through the one Much more those who received abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness will reign in life through the one, Jesus Christ. So Jesus life, his obedience, his justification, that wins over the reign of death. John ten says it this way, I am come that you might have life, and that you may have it more abundantly. What's the result? Verses 20 through 21. Look at verse 20 through 21. We find the result. Grace rules over sin and death. Verse 20 says this. Moreover, the law entered that the offense might abound. But where sin abounded, grace much more. So that as sin reigned in death, even so Christ might reign through righteousness in eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. We see the grace's relationship to the law. is that that sin abounds and actually the law caused sin abound more. There's more you can impute. There's more that you can uh you can declare as sin. There's more that you can account as sin. After the law, you have the proliferation of sin everywhere and the accounting of it. There's 611 commandments or six hundred and 13 commandments are everywhere. There's sin everywhere as a result of that. But where sin abounds, he says, grace much more abounds. And notice how. As sin reigned in death, even so grace reigns through righteousness. That word righteousness is connected to the idea of justification earlier. So we are declared righteous by God so that grace reigns in us rather than death reigning in us. This means then, folks, that because of this, we are no longer separated from God. We are connected to the life of God And now we have eternal life with God. So how do we apply this? Three things, three questions. One How will you view sin and death? Your view of sin and death will determine your view of Christ and his death. on the cross. If you view sin as some sort of social construct, as part of the evolutionary process, if you view sin that way Then no wonder you're going to have a hard time believing in the death of Christ paying for your sin. If you view death as a natural part of life, if you view death as just something that happens Just like a, you know, if you view death that way, instead of resulting from sin, then no wonder you're going to have trouble Understand that it is the death of Christ that is the substitute for our spiritual death. So how you view and how the world views sin and death will determine how they view the death of our of Christ or opens them up. And practically speaking, this is often where we need to start when we're witnessing to people, when we're sharing the truth with people. People. We need to start with what they believe about sin, what they believe about death. I mean asking questions, for example, like Why do you think death is so rampant? Why does everybody die? Why do you will you die someday? I mean these are questions that nobody nobody says, well I don't think I'll die someday. Or nobody Some people won't die. Nobody says that. Everybody understands that. So these universal observations of death, just like universally obser uh everybody can observe that there is a creation. It's just what you believe comes from it. Well, the same thing with death. If death truly is, and it is, what do you do with that? So, how will you view sin? How will you view death? Number two, Will you embrace Christ as your representative? See, Adam represents every all the whole human race. But the Bible says that we can trust in Jesus as our advocate, as our representative, so that he represents us, so that when God see the judge sees us He sees Christ and our righteousness that Christ gives to us. Will you embrace Christ as your representative? Or are you going to remain in a place where Adam is your representative so that you are content? Continuing in your sin. And then there is a natural application that we're going to see clearly in Romans chapter 6. And I'm going to steal from that for a moment, not really steal, but I'm going to borrow from that for a moment and we'll flesh this out more. But will you live in the grace of God and not under sin? Realize that if you've trusted Christ as Savior, where sin abounds, grace much more abounds What are you going to live in? Sin or grace? Look at Romans, Romans, it'll be up there. Romans 6, 12 through 14. Therefore, do not let sin reign in your immortal bodies, that you should obey it in its lusts. And do not present your members as instruments of unrighteousness, righteousness to sin, but present yourselves to God as being alive from the dead. And your members as instruments of righteousness to God. For sin shall not have dominion over you, for you are not under the law, but under grace. the natural result of all that we have learned, that grace abounds over sin, that the life of Christ abounds over death. is that we should live in the grace of God, not in sin. That we should allow grace to reign in our lives, not be under the rule of sin. And Paul's going to make this argument, and he's going to say, What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin that grace will abound? God forbid, how shall we who are dead to sin live any longer therein? Christians, you realize you are dead to sin if you are truly a Christian. And it is your choice whether or not you you submit yourself under the reign of grace or under the reign of sin. But you do not ever have to serve sin any longer because grace reigns because of what Christ has done in our lives. Will you live in the grace of God? or and not under your sin. This is a message that's I mentioned in the beginning is one of those messages that you It gets into the mechanics of things. It gets into how Christ. What's the question? The question is, how can one man Uh save so many. Because why? Because one man sinned And sin and death pass to everyone. That's why we needed the one man, Jesus, to die, to pay the punishment for our sin, so that we could have our sins forgiven. So we can have a home in heaven. What will you do with that today? If you don't know Christ is your Savior, maybe you've used sin in the wrong way or death in the wrong way Let me just encourage you to come and talk with me or talk to somebody that you're comfortable with. Let us help you with this. Help you to understand what the what God says about sin and what God says about death and what God says about the eternal life that is offered to anyone who will accept it by faith. Let's go Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you and we thank you for your word and your truth. And even in passages that are difficult, as Harry mentioned, are are um detailed and Lots of different things that are are kind of confusing. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to be grateful for For this truth, that we can stand firm in the grace of God because of what Christ has done for us. And we pray, Lord, that you would help us when we doubt whether the death of Christ really does pay the punishment for our sin, really does save so many. When we doubt What is the real importance and the meaning of the death of Christ? That we would go back to these truths, that Christ came to earth lived a perfect life and died for us as our representative to reverse the effects of sin and to reverse the effects of original sin in Adam. As our previous representative. Help us to understand these things, to remember these things in times of doubt and struggle, and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, Or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon