Well good morning. Ooh, that was good. Everybody's happy to be here this morning, right? Amen. Okay, if you bow your heads together with me and we'll go to the Lord. Heavenly Father We come with grateful and thankful hearts this morning just to worship you and praise you for who you are. You are the one true living God. the creator and sustainer of all life. You are almighty and all-powerful, all-wise and all-knowing. And Father, we come out of gratefulness because of the love you have shown us in sending your Son to come and die in our place on the cross, taking our sin upon himself And dying there in suffering and pain and shame. And though he is buried in the grave on the third day, he arose up out of there and is now seated at your right hand, interceding on our behalf. Yeah this morning. And we just want to give you all the praise for all that you do. Father, we are grateful and thankful for your goodness and your kindness to us and the blessings that you bestow upon us as we come through the week. You've kept us protected and provided for us in every way. And we're thankful for this building that you provided for us that we can come together and worship you corporately, Lord, and pray that it would be done in spirit and in And as we come to this time, Lord, uh there are some who are unable to be here, uh either by health or traveling, and we ask that you would bless them and uh encourage them and strengthen them through your word this morning and we do pray for healing for those who are not feeling well that you would bring them back to good health And Father, as we come to your word this morning, I'm reminded of your truth that your word will not go void, but what you send it out for, it will accomplish And we pray that you will accomplish in our hearts this morning what it is that you want your word to do. And we thank you so much for your word and the power that is within us. Help us to examine our hearts as we go through this time of being under your word. And I just pray that in all things you will be glorified and lifted up, we ask in Jesus' name. Jesus' name. Amen. We're going to be in Matthew chapter 13 this morning, verses 1 through 23. Matthew 13, verses 1 through 23. On the same day Jesus went out the house and sat by the sea, and great multitudes were gathered. together to him, so that he got into the boat and sat, and the whole multitude stood on the shore. Then he spoke many things to them, in parables, saying, Behold, a sower went out to sow. And he sowed some seed, fell by the wayside, and the birds came and devoured them. Some fell on stony places. Where they did not have much earth. And they immediately sprang up. But because they had no depth of earth, but when the sun was up They were scorched, and because they had no root, they withered away. And some fell among the thorns. And the thorns sprang up and choked them But others fell on ground, on good ground, and yielded a crop, some a hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty. He who has ears to hear, let him hear. And the disciples came and said to him, Why do you speak to them in parables? And he answered and said to them, Because it has been given to you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it has not been given For whoever has, to him more will be given, and he will have abundance. But whoever does not have, even what he has, will be taken away from him. Therefore I speak to them in parables, because seeing they do not see, and hearing they do not hear, nor do they understand. And in them, the prophecy of Isaiah is fulfilled, which says, Hearing, you will hear and shall not understand. And seeing, you will see and not perceive. For the hearts of this people have grown dull, their ears are hard of hearing, and their eyes they have closed Lest they should see with their eyes and hear with their ears, lest they should understand with their hearts and turn, so that I should heal them. But blessed are your eyes, for they see, and your ears, for they hear. For surely I say to you, that many prophets and righteous men desire to see what you see and did not see it. And to hear what you hear and did not hear it. Therefore, hear the parable of the sower. When anyone hears the word of the kingdom and does not understand it, the wicked one comes and snatches away what was sown in his heart. And this is he who received seed by the wayside. But he who received the seed on stony places, this is he who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy. Yet he has no root in himself, but endures only for a while. For when tribulation and persecution arises because of the word, immediately he stumbles. Now he who received seed among the thorns is he who hears The word. And the cares of this world and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word. And he becomes unfruitful. But he who received the seed on the good ground is he who hears the word, who understands it, who indeed bears fruit and produces. Some a hundredfold, some sixty, and some thirty. So this passage is the first of many parables that he is going to to uh that Jesus is going to give give to the multitude here. It's interesting that I think there's there's probably about uh I think I counted five parables in this one chapter. Um and uh but this one is the most It's there's most there's a most amount of content uh dedicated to this particular parable. And um and it's first, so it's an extremely important parable that uh we're going to be looking at this morning. Let me ask you this question. Have you ever known somebody who s who professed to be a Christian? Their testimonies seem to be pretty good. Like they heard the gospel and they were They were moved by the gospel, and they seemed to have accepted Christ as their Savior, but it wasn't long after that that they just sort of fell away. In fact, if y most of us can think of several, many, if if not a lot, of people that have done that. Or someone who maybe they've been they've been a professing Christian for years And they have been faithful and seem to have been um doing the kinds of things that they should be doing in the church attendance. And uh all that kind of thing, and yet suddenly they just drop off. They suddenly have no interest in the things of the Lord. They have no interest in the things of the Lord. and spiritual things. Or someone who has been exposed to the gospel over and over and over and over and over again. And yet it seem and and clear gospel messages and clear gospel presentations and different kinds, whether it's the preaching of the word or individual uh the individual you know uh discussions. And yet they seem to totally not get it. Like they don't understand at all. This passage deals with all of those kinds of people. Then there's some, of course, that receive the truth, they understand the truth, they internalize it, and then they're able to move forward from it, either in in in connecting in the relationship with the Lord or in growing in the relationship with the Lord. We're going to be looking at a passage that is going to be to be extremely helpful for us in two ways. One, it's going to be helpful for us in in realizing what's really going on. In people's minds and hearts when they're confronted with the Word of God, with the gospel, and what's happening internally that causes one of these scenarios that I mentioned. And it also is going to be helpful for us in us receiving the word. Because, yes, this is certainly talking about somebody who has not yet received the word, they've received the gospel. And now they're now going to do something with it, or they're not going to do something with it. But certainly this parable has great truth for us that know the Lord is our Savior. Because we must continually receive the word. And this is going to help us in both of those ways. Now, Jesus sets this at the very beginning of the parables that he's going to explain to this great multitude that is now before him as he is sitting in a boat. uh uh uh off of the the shore of the Sea of Galilee. And and this is first and most clearly explained of all of the other parables because it is so important. And really throughout Scripture The Word of God, the receiving of the Word of God, our relationship to the Word of God is of primary importance and of extreme value. In Job 33, verse 12, it says, this, I have not departed from the commandment of his lips. I have treasured the words of his mouth more than my necessary food. In Ezekiel 2. 8 it says, But you, son of man, hear what I say to you, do not be rebellious like that rebellious house upon your mouth, and eat what I give you. Now when I looked, there was a hand stretched out to me, and behold, a scroll of a book was in it. Then I spread it before me, and there was writing in the inside and on the outside, and written. On it were lamentations and mourning and woe. Moreover, he said to me, Son of man, eat what you find. Eat this scroll And go speak the house of Israel. So I opened my mouth and caused me to eat the s that scroll. And he said to me, Son of man, feed your belly and fill your stomach with So I ate it with a and it was in my mouth like honey and sweetness The passage that we read at the very beginning of our worship service at Psalm 1, he delighted in the Word of God. He delights in the law of the Lord. Now let me ask you this question. Do you see the Word of God that way? Do you come to the Word of God and are you fed by the Word of God, whether it's on Sunday mornings or in your own personal devotional time, and you step away from it, it's like you've eaten a good meal. You have enjoyed it, you have been refreshed by it spiritually, and you just you have you have partaken of it, and now you know how to go out and you know how to practice it and apply it. And if you do not have that kind of attitude toward the Word of God, I can guarantee this passage is for you. And frankly, all of us can grow in this area as well. In the passage, the previous verse Says this, 1250, it says, For whoever does the will of my Father in heaven is my brother and sister and mother. Christ has set up a contrast between his disciples And primarily the religious leaders. You remember that? You remember how Christ has gone over all kinds of uh of uh truths and he has basically indicted the Pharisees and the religious leaders for their self-righteousness, and he has condemned them and judged them at this point. And then he has moved and he's ex-explained that those who do the will of my father are closest to me. In this passage, we're going to shift gears here. He has now, he was in a house with Peter and Andrew, and now he is going to move out of the house. He's going to move into He's going to move into the Sea of Galilee, or just on the edge of the Sea of Galilee, and he's going to preach to the multitudes. And now what he's going to do in this passage is there's going to be a bit of a contrast between the multitudes and the disciples now. He contrasted the disciples and the religious leaders earlier. Now the contrast is between the multitudes and the followers of Christ. And as he gives out the truth of the Word of God, and as he anticipates giving out these these parables, he knows that it's going to fall on the ears of the multitude in different ways. Now, you know this parable, most of you. Most of you have heard it before, and and uh and I think it's very, very important for us to understand this from a first-time mentality, to really see the significance of it. This parable is going to teach us three things. First of all, basically it's going to talk about it it's it's going to talk about how we can receive the word, particularly the condition necessary humanly speaking. Next week we're going to look at the the the the from a divine perspective, but this week we're going to look at the human speaker human perspective, the condition necessary to receive the Word. We're going to see three things. We're going to see that we need the ability to hear, and that's in verses one through nine, the heart to understand. verses 10 through 17 and the environment to receive. The ability eighteen through twenty-three. The ability to hear, the heart to understand, and the environment to receive. So we're first going to be looking then at verses 1 through 9, the ability to hear. Now, to get the full impact of the story, I want you to think of yourself as a Jewish, uh a member of a Jewish family. And you have heard that this man Jesus is going to be teaching. You have heard of the miracles that he has done. You've heard of the teaching that he is taught. You've heard of perhaps the the lame were made to walk and the blind to see and those and multitudes were fed by him. And demons were cast out by him, and you and your family have gone to listen among the many multitudes of people have gone to listen to him. So as you go, you've You've heard that he is on the shore of the Sea of Galilee, and you've gone into this place, you and your family, uh, to hear him speak. Uh and you find yourself, uh he's out in the boat and he's sitting in the boat, and you're on the shore and you're sitting and maybe you're sitting or maybe you're standing, but you're sitting sitting on the shore. And this is like this particular place, which is uh we we understand from other writings besides Scripture that this was a place of uh where the slopes were were sloped You know where the the the shore sloped down toward the place where Jesus was, so it was like a natural amphitheater. The Jesus could speak and he could be be heard by many, many people all at one time uh as he was sitting in this boat. And he begins to speak and he starts talking about sea And soil. Well, this you're all ears. Because it's really hard to grow things in Israel. It's a very dry climate, it's a very stony ground. There's much stony ground. In fact, the only really good places where things are going to grow are actually near the river. And if you have been to Israel, I haven't been to Israel, but I've seen enough pictures and things. I'm looking forward to Israel one day, I really am. But I've seen enough pictures to to note that w where you see growth, there's usually a river close by because if There's not. There's not a water source. The ground is very stony. It has to be cultivated. It's got to be broken up. It's got to be plowed. And you're listening and you're realizing that, and you you know you're you've you're a gardener and you you've got all kinds of plants to feed your family, and just like most of the people that are there do, and you're listening and you're hearing about these seeds And seeds that are coming down into different soils, and you are listening intently. Maybe Jesus is going to teach you. He's fed many mul many multitudes. He's fed them with his own miracles. But now maybe he's going to teach us how to get our own food. And you're listening very carefully to what he has to say Now, with that in mind, I want us to go into the passage, and I I want us to try at first in verses one through nine. Verses one through nine, except for verse nine, has nothing we do not see. What we're going to see later in the passage. So I do not I am not going to make connections for you as to what the what the seed is and what the soil is. We're going to do that in a minute. But first, I just want us to think of think of listening to this and listening to what Jesus is saying and understanding what he is saying as it's being communicated as someone who And as we do that, we pick up, and it says in verse 1, on the same day Jesus went out of the house and sat by the sea. And the great multitudes were gathered together to him, so that he got into the boat and sat, and the whole multitude stood on the shore Then he spoke many things to them in parables, saying, Behold, a sower went out to sow. That is, a gardener, a farmer went out and to sow seed. And he and as he sowed, some seed fell by the wayside, and the birds came and devoured them. We're going to see four different kinds of soil. That's the first one. Some seed came by the wayside. Well, what's it talking about there? Well, as I mentioned before, a farmer was going to have to plow the fields. or plow before he could ever plant anything, because the ground usually was so hard. We would have to plow to cultivate the soil well. And that meant that around the perimeter of the garden area was going to be continue to be hard soil. It was going to be stony because it had not been prepared. It had not been cultivated. And Jesus says that as the sower goes, he broadcasts the sea. That's what the word means there. He is broadly throwing out the seed. And as the thrower throws out the seed, some of it gets on the wayside or on the path that is around the perimeter of the garden. And of course, because the the ground is so stony and completely uncultivated on the perimeter of that garden, nothing really happens to it. It does not it literally the only thing it's good for are for birds. And the birds come because it doesn't even take root at all, it doesn't get in the ground at all, and the birds come And they eat that seed. And they devour the seed. And then he moves on to the next soil. The next soil, the next kind of soil, he says, are the stony places. Now we've established that this area of Palestine is very stony. And even when you try to cultivate the soil within that particular garden, it is very difficult and it depends on the kind of soil, how uh how much you are actually even able to to cultivate. I I could exp I have some um not exactly this, but where I live ha is is uh um up and we live on Elk Ridge and it's a ridge for or something like that. And uh we built during COVID we built a COVID garden because we didn't have anything else to do with our lives. And um and so when we were doing that we were call we we we're too cheap to actually go out and buy we did buy a little bit of topsoil but we're too too cheap So we're trying to turn over the soil and do do what we can and it is rocky and And uh lots of stone in the soil. There's also lots of other things growing in the soil. And we were somewhat successful in building and in in our garden with things grew somewhat well, o okay anyway, but we had lots of problems as well that we had to deal with because we because of the soil And so they had problems well as well. It's not like they could, you know, get a truckloaded topsoil delivered to them to be able to to do their gardens. That wasn't the way it was. They had to cultivate the soil that was there And as they did that, there would be places within the soil that could only be cultivated. They wanted to go usually about three inches down at least in cultivating the soil. even more, but sometimes they could only go an inch or two and they could only get soil and right beneath the surface of the soil was stone And as you may know, if you've done any kind of gardening at all, sometimes that is enough for a seed to at least germinate. In fact, if you plant in shallow soil, you might see something coming up from that soil faster than if it goes down deep. It's a quicker response time, a quicker result. And that's exactly what he says about this second kind of soil. He says in the passage in in um In verses five and six here, it says, But when the sun uh oh well verse five, some fell on stony places where they did not have much earth, much dirt. And they immediately sprang up because they had no depth of earth. But when the sun was up they were scorched, and because they had no root, they withered. You illustrating something different, a different kind of thing there. But in James chapter one, verse eleven it says, For no sooner has the sun risen with a burning heat than it withers the grass, its flower falls, and the beautiful appearance perishes, so the rich man also will fade away in his pursuits. And so this apparently happened a lot. Little things would grow up, but it didn't go down deep, and all and you might get excited first. Mm everything's gr it's growing and great we got we gotta we gotta we gotta yield, we gotta harvest, but it doesn't go deep enough to actually last. It doesn't go deep enough to actually actually bear any fruit. Then we have the next soil, that's the thorny still soil. Now I can really identify with this one. We had lots of weeds in the garden that we planted years a couple of years ago. And I love to plant things and I love to get fruit and vegetables from the plants and I hate to weed. Is anybody else with me? Like that is just the worst job. And yet I'm too cheap to actually go out and buy a bunch of soil and start from scratch. And so, you know, basically what ended up happening over time was we just let the weeds grow with the s with the with the with the plants. I'm like No. And that works okay. Some sort of, sometimes, depending on the plan and depending on the situation. Doesn't look very nice, but it it It's it's okay. Except that when you have have you ever noticed weeds grow way faster than anything else? And they take more nutrients than anything else And that was the case then here as well. The thorns and the thistles and the weeds would grow up and they they got all of the nutrients so that even though the seed was rooted in the soil, it didn't yield. It didn't produce fruit. That was the next kind of soil. And then finally you have the good soil. The good soil doesn't have a lot of weeds, it's not stony, the seed is able to go down and go real deep and take root, and its yield is great. It's it's it's multiplied and isn't that neat how that happens basically when you're gardening? You can put a couple of seeds down, or maybe even one seed, or one little plant, and And you've got lots of fruit that and lots of vegetables or whatever you're planting that come from that one little seed, that one little plant. And he says, if it's good soil, that will occur. Now, if you're listening to this at this point, you're sitting with your family listening to all this, you think you're getting a lesson on farming If you read the passage from a first-time mentality, as somebody is sitting there, you haven't seen anything about anything besides just farming. And you probably know most of this. You're probably going, yeah, that makes sense. Yeah, that goes together. And that's one of the reasons why Jesus is using this because they would be very, very keen on being able to understand exactly what's happening in exactly what exactly how this works and they would be agreeing, being able to identify with that very, very clearly. But then in verse 9, it says this. What does it say in verse 9? He who has ears to hear, let him hear. And immediately, very likely, if you've been listening to the preaching of Jesus before, You know there's something else going on. This is not just, you know, a lesson of agriculture. There's something else going on with this. He is saying you better listen up. If you need to have the ability to be able to really hear and understand What I am saying. It is a call for them to hear. And there's an it's implied in this text that you must have the ability to hear. And then pretty much that was the lesson. You haven't hear? Let them hear. Look at verse 10. And the disciples come to him so later, right? I mean, like he's not in front of the multitudes anymore. And the disciples come came and said to him, Why do you speak to them in parables? Like this was a lesson in agriculture. And at the end you say, let him hear. He that has ears, let him hear. Why do you speak to them in parables? Well, this moves us then, secondly, to what do we need in order to be able to receive the Word of God? We need a heart. We need not only the ability to hear, but we need a heart to understand. Now, I'm actually going to go in detail next week with this passage. I'm only going to point out a few things this week in verses 10 through 17 that I think that are going to be necessary and helpful for us to understand the rest of the passage. So stay tuned with some of this, but understand that the disciples are now coming to him and they're going, why do you speak in such parables? Jesus is going to give him an answer that essentially is this. You have to have the ability to understand. But I want us to notice a couple of things, and again, we'll come back to this next week. But would you look particularly First of all, in verse 10, you see a contrast between the disciples and the multitudes. He's saying, not everybody who hears the truth is going to understand. He's saying that. But then secondly, look at verse 14, and I want you to see a couple of things here in verse 14. It says this, and in them the prophecy of Isaiah fulfilled, which says, Hearing you will hear And shall not understand. And seeing you will see and not perceive. For the hearts of this people have grown dull. They they the ears are hard of hearing, and the eyes they have closed, lest they should see with their ears, and hear with their ears, lest they should understand. Notice what it says there with their what With their hearts and turn. Now, again, we're going to go, we're going to look at this later on, but let me just say this. The critical issue here in this passage, in verses 10 through 17, that we need to understand in order to understand the next passage is that the critical thing is understanding. That you must understand the word. The word of God cannot just be read You can't sit on a shelf and say, well, I hope this gives me good luck. You can't sit on your dashboard and think that, well, hopefully this will prevent from me having from having an accident. It is something that, and you can't just read it in a cursory way and say, well, I did my Bible reading and you move on from it. This is something that must be understood. if there's going to be any significant value to it. Secondly, I want you to see that the real issue is not in here. The real issue is, well, I just don't have the I never went to seminary. Or I never had a degree to be I never had the great schooling to be able to understand these things. Or I never I never I don't have the intelligence to be able to do this. It's not is not a matter of intelligence Now I'm not saying that there is not deep and difficult and grammatically difficult passages of Scripture. There are. But when it comes generally to understanding the Word of God, the issue is not a matter of the mind. The issue is a matter of the heart. The fact is, you and I do learn when we really want to. When there is an understanding of the value of something, when we really see how great it is, or we really want to, we do learn. It is so important to understand. The key is a matter of the attitude, the matter of the heart. And that's and that's going to be critical to understanding the rest of the passage. And what we want to do then m is move fairly quickly now. Well, let me just uh mention this about this as well, that the that this was the key issue with the uh with the Pharisees and with the religious leaders. Do you suppose that these religious leaders and Pharisees were academically dumb people? They were not. They were above the highest in academic ability. They were among the highest in intelligence. That was not the problem. The problem was the problem of the heart. And this is what Jesus is driving at. And now he is going the soil in the next that he's Going to now, he's now going to explain to the disciples by themselves. He is now going to explain what the soil is. And the soil is the heart. That's the soil. Soil is the heart. Now, in the scriptures, particularly in the New Testament, the heart is comprised of the whole person. including the mind. Okay? So it's not, when you when you see heart, you shouldn't just think emotions. You shouldn't just think feelings. It's more than feelings when he's talking about the heart. It is both the mind, the will, and the emotions. It's all three that comprises the heart in the in in the New Testament we said we're talking about the heart here. That's important to understand as we go into the next text uh get next point. Now as we go into that we're gonna move very quickly now to the final the final passage which we're gonna to spend the bulk of our time on, and that is in verses 18 through 23, we're going to see the environment that is necessary to receive the word. The environment. The issue is never the seed, the seed's always good. The word and the gospel are always good. What matters is the environment of the heart. What matters is the attitude of the heart. And we pick up here in verse 18, it says this, therefore, hear the parable of the sower. Jesus says to his disciples, now I'm going to explain this to you. And he says, when anyone hears the word of the kingdom. Now you know what the seed is. The seed is the word of God. And does not, do you see the next word? What does it say? does not understand it. You must understand the word. That's by the way why God gives teachers. Alright, says that in Ephesians chapter 4. You need the gift of the teacher in order to be able to understand the word. That's why God said that the preacher uh needs to needs to go out and the and and you can't Can't the hearing of the word in Romans ten is very clear. How can we you hear unless the pre so so it's so it's all part of it, but at the end of the day it's going to it's going to boil down to the heart understanding. The word of the king is i i he's talking here then about someone who does not understand it And it says then, the wicked one comes and snatches away what was sown in his heart. This is he who is received by the wayside. So the very first soil. That we've already gone over, we've seen what the soil is, is the Word of God. The problem is, is that the person The soil of the heart of the person whose the seed has fell on does not have the ability to hear. He doesn't have the ability to understand. The soil has not been cultivated. And I'm just going to simply say what's very clear in the text is it's not been cultivated by God. We'll see that more in verses 10 through 17. But in order for the seed to take root in the life of a person, God and only God can cultivate the soil. Now, we'll get into that in a moment, but just understand that that is the case. The evil one in the passage is Satan. We know that. Matthew likes to use this term evil one. And Matthew 6. 13 it says, and do not lead us into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. For yours is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. But then in Matthew thirteen, thirty-eight through thirty-nine, later on in the passage, verse thirty-nine says, The enemy who sowed them is the devil. It's talking about the devil. And in the parallel passage in Mark, there's two other passages that talk about this parable. That's why, by the way, this is such an important parable. Both Mark and Luke reiterate this parable. In the parallel passage in Mark chapter 4, verse 14, the sower sows the word, and it says there, Satan comes immediately and takes away the word. And in Luke 8, the other parallel passage, it uses the word devil. So clearly, clearly Christ is concerned. That the word that's being implanted, the word of God, the gospel that's being implanted in the hearts of men, he is concerned about two things. Number one, that the heart is hard. And it is naturally hard. There is none that seeks after God, Romans 3. But number two, the devil. The devil is alive and well. I think it's very important for us to understand that, that in Jesus' ministry, he is very much aware of Satan's work. He's very much aware of the kingdom of this world, of Satan's kingdom that is intending to thwart God's king. Now, and of course we know at the end of the day Satan will fail. But we do need to realize that Jesus, Jesus warns his disciples on many occasions about the opposition that comes from Satan. And Paul reiterates this in Ephesians chapter 6. Verse ten where it says, Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and the power of his might, but put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this age, against the spiritual hosts of wickedness in heavenly places. It's again, there's emphasis. We we rest don't wrestle against flesh and blood. Our problem is with the spiritual wickedness in heavenly places. Therefore, take up the whole armor of God. And what's interesting is that so many parts of the armor have some association with the Word of God. What Jesus is saying here is that Satan's best approach, his best opposition, is to make sure the Word of God never gets lost in the heart. Do you realize that? Do you realize that Satan's goal is that the Word of God never takes root in your heart? And never takes root in the heart of the people that you know. That's his goal. If he can keep you from doing that, you're defenseless. You've got nothing if you do not have the Word of God. In this text, in Ephesians chapter 6, it says this: therefore take up the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand in the evil day. And having done all the stand therefore, having your lords gird up the loins gird gird your waist with truth. Where does the truth come from? The Word of God. Having your blessed plate prate of righteousness? How do you know about that? It's the Word of God And having your s feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace, above all taking the shield of faith with which you will be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked, the faith comes from from hearing the hearing the word of the word of God and the helmet of salvation and the sword, the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. You're defenseless apart from the Word of God. Satan will do anything and everything he can possibly do to get you from keeping the Word of God in your heart. And the very thing that Jesus says, the very first thing, the very first soil that he points out to is understand, there is an opposition. For you and the people that you know and the world to receive and understand the truth of the Word of God. He wants them to know this. And he wants us to know it as well. That's not the only soil. He then moves now to the stony soil. This is not the soil that's in the wayside. This is the soil that there is some dirt. But remember, an inch or two underneath is stone. And he says this, verse 20. But he received the seed on stony places. This is he who hears the word Now catch what it says, and immediately receives it with joy. He receives it with joy. Yet he has no root in himself. That endures only for a while. But when tribulation, when tough times come, when tribulation comes and persecution arises because of the word, immediately He stumbles. And there are folks that will hear the word, hear the gospel of Christ. And they will have an emotional response, and they'll be joyous about it, and they'll be glad about it, but when they get hit with a trial or a tribulation or problem, which Jesus told his disciples will happen often. That that she gets plucked out. Do you think that happens a lot? In Luke, it's interesting that in Luke chapter 8, verse 13, the parallel passage Matthew says receives Luke goes so far as it says, who believe for a while. Luke 8. 13, but the ones of the rock are those who, when they hear, receive the word with joy, and these have no root, who believe for a while. That is, it is possible for someone to hear the Word of God and to sort of in a shallow way believe. And to have an emotional response from that belief, gladness and joy. But they do not have saving faith. In John 2, verse 23 through 25, we see this. Jesus is there at the Passover, and there's a feast, and it says, many believed in him. in his name when they saw the signs, they saw the miracles that he did, they believed in him. But Jesus says this verse 24, but Jesus did not commit himself to them because he knew all men And had no need that anyone should testify of man, for he knew what was in man. He saw their hearts, and he realized that what they had was not saving faith. There was this shallow belief, but not a saving faith. Now let me ask you this question. Do you look at it again? This man, this soil, this man who has this heart, who receives this, they receive the word And then there's joy from it. But I want you to notice what's missing. What is missing? Do you see what's missing? What have we talked about several times so far? Starts with a U. It's missing understanding. It's not there. You see it? They move from shallow belief to a response, an emotional response, but they do not really understand So it never actually takes root. And so that's why when the trials come When the persecutions come, and Jesus said you'd have them. Matthew 5, 11, verse 12 Blessed are those who will revile and persecute you, and say all kinds of evil against you falsely for my name's sake. Rejoice and be exceeding glad, for your grace is your reward in heaven For so persecuted the prophets that were before you. You will be persecuted. You will have trials. It's going to be hard. There's going to be difficulties. I rem I remember my uh my pastor growing up say you don't really know the character of a person until you kick him in the shins. And that's the case. This is why, folks, it's very this is why it's so important To emphasize in our giving the gospel and preaching the gospel and preaching the word to emphasize understanding. And to not necessarily accept just a cursory, shallow, emotional response. Frankly, very candidly, it's why we shy away, why I shy away from come forward invitations. Because I think it's wise to meditate on the truth of Scripture before you make a decision. Because it's very much more likely that you're going to make an emotional decision instead of a truly understanding decision. If it happens right away. I'm not saying that their God doesn't use them or hasn't used them or that they're wrong. I'm just simply saying that I tend to shy away from them for that reason. What's the problem here? The problem is this. The Word of God is received emotionally, but not with understanding. Do you remember I've said this so many times before, but it just bears repeating. How should truth be received? There's an important pattern That we see bearing out in the New Testament. It's belief, then thinking, then doing, then feeling, in that order. You believe right, you think right, you do right, and then you feel right. And when you get that out of order, when you look at the word of God and you don't really understand it, and you come to some sort of conclusion and you have some sort of emotional response and you lead with your feelings and then you have to sort of rationalize what you're feeling by what you're thinking and then you somehow do something in the I mean it when you get that out of order Then you have shallow response, shallow reception to the Word of God. Understanding is absolutely essential Now, we move on then that brings us to the next soil, the thorny soil. Now the thorny soil, understanding isn't isn't primarily the problem. Look at verse 22. Now he who received seed among the thorns is he who hears the word, and notice what happens. And the cares of this world and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word and becomes unfruitful. And he who received seed on the good ground is he who hears the word and what understands it. Who indeed bears fruit and produces. Some a hundredfold, some sixty. I'll just say this at the outset of this, that it's saying that you don't really understand until you apply. Until you actually practice it, until you actually go and do it. Remember? Believe right, think right, do. And the problem with this person, this person is probably believing and thinking, and it's taking some level of root But the problem is there are too many weeds around that are that are drawing the person's heart. They're drawing the nutrients from the heart of the person. into other directions so that that seed does not actually spring up with fruit. Of course, you know if you've done any kind of gardening at all that the necess it's necessary to receive proper nutrients in order to get good fruit, you can have some sort of taking root and some sort of stalk coming up and some sort of green gr you know green something coming up without actual fruit if it doesn't have the proper nutrients. You know what it's going to look like? A weed. How does this happen? Well, it gives two things that cause this to happen. And folks, this is this is where many of us lie. There's a real danger here. There are two two two kinds of thorns or weeds that will sap us. So that we may understand the Word of God. But as James says, we understand it, we hear it, we understand it, we look in the mirror, we see what kind of man we are, we go the other way and forget totally entirely. Two things. What is it? Number one, the cares, worry, the cares of this world. Matthew, Jesus warned against this. Matthew chapter 6, verse 28 through 32. So why do you worry about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow, they neither toil nor spin. And yet I say to you that even Solomon in all of his glory was not arrayed like one of these. Now, if God so clothed the grass of the field, which to day is, and to morrow is thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe you, O you of little faith? Therefore, do not worry, saying, what shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or what shall we wear? For after these things the Gentiles seek. For your Heavenly Father knows what you need of, need all these things. Worry. Worry will keep you from truly receiving the Word. Word and from applying the word. Are you worried today? Are you preoccupied maybe even now you've got something in your mind that you are so worried about that you may not even be hearing this And then you suddenly woke up, you're like, oh yeah, that's me. I don't know. I'm making this up. Um Worry will choke out the word. But there is something else that will choke out the word. And that's the deceitfulness Or you could say the pleasures of riches. The reason I say that is because this is translated two different ways. It's the deceitfulness of riches here. And it says the same kind of thing in 1 Timothy 6, verse 9. It says, for those who desire to be rich fall into temptation and a snare. and into many uh foolish and harmful lusts which drown men in destruction and pert perdition. So so there is a deceitfulness in wealth. A deceitfulness enriches. What is the cause of the deceitfulness? The cause of the deceitfulness is found in 2 Peter 2, verse 13. It's the other side of the coin of this word that's being used. It says there, and will receive the wages of unrighteousness as those who count it pleasure. Pleasure. To carouse in the daytime. They are spots and blemishes carousing in their own deceptions, pleasure deceptions, while they feast with you. And what is it talking about here? Pleasure over money. Does money bring pleasure? I mean if I held up a hundred dollar bill for you, would you go, oh that's just so I'm getting so much pleasure from that. It's so beautiful. It's not beautiful, it's ugly actually. So what is it about money? It's the deceitfulness of money. money. And you know what it is with money? Money will bring us instant gratification. It's really, it's really what's going on here. It'll bring us instant gratification. You can go out and spend a bunch of money and have a good time, and at the end of it, you feel guilty. Right? Because you just blew a bunch of money. Money does that. Doesn't have to do that if we approach it the right way, but it does that. It's just like the weed who gets all of the nutrients first, quickly, and grows up fast before the real good plant can get anything and produce fruit. And do you know what's deceitful? What's deceitful is us chasing the pleasure of riches and thinking Over and over and over again that this instant gratification that leaves me empty and causes me just to get more instant gratification is somehow going to get leave me content and joyous and grateful. It won't. But it's deceitful because just like a drug, the more you have, when you get that instant high, when you come, you come down off of it, you think, I gotta go get some more of it. To keep on that road of a lie that you're going to somehow be happy or joyful from it. Money will do the same thing The combination of worry and instant gratification of pleasure over and over again into a mindset of deceitfulness will sap. All of your strength and your attention and what you value so that when you come to this word, you read it and you go, yeah, I get it, but you do nothing with it. Because all of the motivation, all of the desire has been sapped by worry and deceitful pleasure And he says the problem with this, the problem is unfruitfulness. Now the the idea of unfruitfulness is that the fruit is the application We think of fruit sometimes we in this in the New Testament, we think of just somebody coming to Christ. And that is fruit. But that's not the only kind of fruit. Fruit is doing what God says or living or at as an attitude. Think of the fruits of the Spirit, love, joy, peace. Longsuffering, gentlenous goodness, patience, all those are fruits that come out of the Christian life. And we're not going to receive any of those if we're preoccupied with worry or the pleasure of deceitfulness. the deceitful pleasures of this world. Hear the word, he w he hears it. And finally we'll just move then to the next soil, the good soil. Verse 23. And that is the good soil, which it says he hears the word and he what? He understands it. The soul of the heart, the attitude toward the Word of God is that I want it, I want more of it, I want the truth of it. And he hears it and he understands it. The parallel passage in Mark 4. 20, it says, but these ones sown on good ground, those who hear the word and accept it. They embrace it. In Luke 8. 15, the other parallel passage, it says, and having heard the word with a noble and good heart, keep it. And bear fruit with patience. Now this concept of fruit is another passage, another concept that is all over the New Testament, particularly in Jesus' teaching. Do you remember just a few chapters before in Matthew chapter seven it says this about fruit, verse 15, beware of false prophets who come to you and cheat clothing, but inwardly they are ravenous wolves. You will know them by their what? Their fruits. Do men gather grapes from thorn bushes or figs from thistles? Even so, every good tree bears good fruit. But a bad tree bears bad fruit. A good tree cannot bear bad fruit, and a But uh nor can a bad tree bear good fruit. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. Therefore, by their fruits you will know them. Galatians chapter 5, verse 22 through 23. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, general self-control. Against such there is no law. Colossians 1 10 That you may walk worthy, fully pleasing, being fruitful in every good work and increasing in the knowledge of God. First Romans chapter 1, verse 13. Now I do not want you to be unaware, brethren, that often plan to come I often plan to come to you that you that I might have some fruit among you, just as among as you Gentiles. So the question really becomes very simple. What soil what kind of soil are you? What kind of soil are you? I mean, if you go through all four of those and you evaluate your own life, whether you're a non, whether you're not a Christian, or whether you are a Christian, either one, which kind of soil are you? There are three things that we really need to understand as we conclude all of this. Number one, the ability to hear and understand is a God-given ability And I'll just make this application this way. If you if you are if if you are if you love someone That doesn't seem to be hearing and receiving the Word of God, the number one most important thing you can do is pray for them. Because it is God who must give that ability to be able to understand Scripture. Number two The key to understanding is the heart attitude and condition. It's the heart attitude. That's the issue. People say, well, I'm just not very academic. It doesn't matter. It's not the issue. The issue is the heart attitude. And then I'll leave you with this. What kind of soil are you? That's the final question to ask. What kind of soil are you? Are you a hard-hearted soil? Nothing's really getting in. Satan's just plucking everything Or are you a stony shallow soil? You've had an emotional response to God's word? You believed it, but you really didn't understand it. That will not stand the test of tribu tribulation and trial. When they come. Or are you is the Word of God being choked out by your worry and and the fact that you're deceited uh deceived by instant gratification. Or are you good soil? How do we know we're good soil? We know not by we know by the fruit. That's how we know. We know by the love we show to others. We know by the the joy we have in Christ. You can have all kinds of understanding of the Word of God and read it and understand it and have all kinds of insights But it can be a clanging symbol. I really understand it when there's fruit that comes from From it. Genuine, true, spiritual, biblical fruit. May we desire to be that kind of spirit soil. Now if you are here this morning and you say, well, I you know, I I am listening and I'm not sure if I understand. What God's Word is saying, and I'm not sure I really have a relationship with Him. Please come and talk with me or somebody else that you're comfortable with. I am more than happy. I am thrilled to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you will spend eternity with the Lord. Lord, that you can have a relationship with him. I will the Bible the Bible gives Christians The privilege and the command to share what we know that came from the Bible. And that's the way God intends for us to be able to pass on the truth. And if you are here this morning and you're on you're shaky about the truth of Scripture, you're not really understanding it, let I man, I would be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure what the Bible is saying, understand it, and and I'll take up take the word and show you how you can have a relationship with God. And you know what? I'll take my time. Honestly. We might meet several times or whatever, so that you can really understand the truth of Scripture, so that you can have a right relationship with with the Lord, which God desires. He's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you and thank you for your word We thank you that it is the very source of life for us. And we thank you for this parable that is certainly convicting. And also extremely helpful for us to know whether it's the word among others that we know or the word in our own lives that we need to receive, I pray that we would do the appropriate evaluations in our own lives to ask ourselves the question, are we really receiving the word as you intended? Are we really understanding and bearing fruit? And I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. To have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon