Let's pray together. Father, we come to you this morning, and we are eternally grateful for the power of the cross. Living in this world and the power of sin, and a power of the world, and the power of Satan, and its destruction, and its And its corruption, and how man is depraved, every part of man is affected by the fall. The world lies in wickedness. The world um the world is tainted by the fall The world groans for the redemption of Christ, but then we know of the power of the cross. And we thank you, dear Father, that greater is He that is in you than He that is in the world. Despite all of the power of sin in the world, the power of the cross is greater. And we thank you for that. We thank you that it is because of the wisdom of God before the foundation of the world. That we have the redemption of the fallen human race and the finished work of Jesus Christ. And Lord, as we anticipate a message from Proverbs chapter four, which gives us It shows us the value of practical wisdom, how we need to value wisdom from above, to live a life that is pleasing in your sight. I pray, Lord. That you would help us, and in a few minutes, as Brother Micah comes, I pray that you would help us to really understand the importance Of wisdom and practically applying truth. Give us, Lord, the skill to apply truth from your word to our lives And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. I'd like to invite you to take your Bibles and turn to Proverbs chapter four. Brother Mike will be coming in a few moments. He is a longtime friend of mine. And uh we met each other probably Uh a long time ago, thirteen four age, thirteen, fourteen. He will tell you that I shaved and he didn't at that time. Uh but we met each other at uh at uh uh uh down at Campobana and have been friends ever since. And I'm really happy to have been able to spend some time with him and his family this week a little bit and and then to hear him uh be able to preach and uh I'm really grateful for him. over the years. Proverbs chapter four. We're going to read the proverb in its entirety, and uh then Michael will come and preach for us. Proverbs chapter 4, picking up verse 1, says, Hear my children the instruction of a father, and give attention to the to no understanding. For I give you good doctrine, do not forsake my law. When I was my father's son, tender and the only one in the sight of my mother. He also taught me and said to me, Let your heart retain my words, keep my commands and live. Get wisdom, get understanding, do not forsake nor turn away from the words of my mouth. Do not forsake her. And she will preserve you. Love her, and she will keep you. Wisdom is the principal thing. Therefore, get wisdom, and in all you're getting, get understanding. Exalt her and she will promote you. She will bring you honor when you embrace her. She will place on your head an ornament of grace. A crown of glory she will deliver to you. Hear, my son, and receive my sayings, and the years of your life will be many. I have taught you in the way of wisdom. I have led you in right paths. When you walk your steps, you will not be hindered. And when you run, you will not stumble. Take firm hold of instruction and do not let go. Keep her, for she is your life. Do not enter the path of the wicked and do not walk in the way of evil. Avoid it, do not travel on it, turn away from it, and pass on. For they do not sleep unless they have done evil, and their sleep is taken away unless they have they make someone fall. For they eat the bread of wickedness and drink the wine of violence. But the path of the just is like the shining sun that shine shines even brighter unto the perfect day. The way of the wicked is like darkness. They do not know what makes them stumble. My son, give attention to my words. Incline your ears to my sayings. Do not let them depart from your eyes. Keep them in the midst of your heart, for they are life to those who find them, and health to all their flesh. Keep your heart with all diligence, for out of it spring the issues of life. Put away from you deceitful, a deceitful mouth, and put perverse lips far from you. Let your eyes look straight ahead, and your eyelids look straight before you. Ponder the path of your feet, and let all your ways be established. Do not turn to the right or to the left. Remove your foot. from evil. Before we look at the text together, would you join with me again in a word of prayer? Father, it is such a joy to be gathered together with your people. To sing your praises, to hear your word. Lord, I pray that you would open our hearts afresh to understand the beauty of your wisdom, the value of your way, that we might embrace it. And walk in it. Father, we thank you just for your kindnesses to us in Christ. You are the God who lavishes upon us grace upon grace, and we give you the praise for it And so, Lord, we pray that as the word goes forward, that it would go forth with your hand of blessing upon us, grant us hearts, I pray, of faith and worship and repentance. We pray that Christ would be exalted. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. The moments of truth had come. But when it came time to make that really tough choice I didn't have the heart to go through with it. This was our first Christmas in Ghana, West Africa. And I had gone in with a few other guys. To purchase a goat for our Christmas dinner. And I was honored that the man chose me to be the one who would slaughter The Christmas goats. Now I grew up in Edgewater, and needless to say, we did not slaughter a lot of goats growing up. So this was my opportunity to prove that I was not a soft suburbanite, but a tough, rugged, manly man, not unlike your pastor Jim Ganaham. And so the days leading up to Christmas, I envisioned myself as the guys would cheer me on, taking that machete. Going down and providing the Christmas meal. So the moment came, and the man handed me the machete. And that's when I started to get really nervous. And so I awkwardly grabbed the machete. This was not something I was accustomed to doing. And I said, so So you just go down, right? And you say, oh wait, whoa, whoa, Pastor, Pastor. What are you talking about? That's not how you kill the Christmas goat. You have to start by slitting its throat. Now, the goat had been with us for a couple days, and I was starting to kind of like the goat. And so the idea of slitting the throat, and I looked at the goat and he's crying like a baby, and I thought, oh, time out, time out, that's not what I signed up for. I'm not about to slit the throat of a goat. Now I like the idea of being tough, and I like the idea of being a man's man. But when it came time to actually making the tough choice, when the moment of truth came, I simply couldn't make the hard decision. I didn't have a heart for it. Now we come to the fourth chapter of Proverbs. And Proverbs, as you know, was written to teach God's people how to navigate the challenges of life in a synchronous world. With biblical wisdom. And the first nine chapters kind of function as an extended introduction to the book. And in these nine chapters, we find a wise, loving father. Pleading with his son to embrace wisdom and to forsake folly. Wisdom is more valuable than any earthly position. Wisdom gives life. And the good news is, wisdom is available to any who will have it. But sadly, most people, even most Christians. Really don't have a heart for wisdom. We all like the idea of being a man or woman of wisdom. Nobody wants to be a fool. And we all long for the benefits of wisdom, but when it comes time to making the hard choices to pursue wisdom, To slaughter the goat, if you will, of our pride and pet follies, many of us turn back. We simply don't have a heart for it. And so as we open up the passage this morning, there's a guiding question that I want you to be thinking about as we explore the text, and that is this. Do you have a heart for wisdom? Do you have a heart for wisdom? Are you willing? To mortify pride, forsake foolishness, die to self in order to walk in the way of wisdom. Now, before diving into the text, let me give a little bit of a context here for this passage. We know that Proverbs is wisdom literature. So we're not simply finding rules or regulations, but rather we're finding timeless truths and God-given principles to guide us in the way of godliness. So that's what Proverbs does. It shows us how life works in a sin-cursed world that brings glory to God. Now, wisdom is obviously the key idea here in the book of Proverbs, and wisdom is more than simple, simply knowledge. There's many people that have a lot of knowledge, even theological knowledge, but they don't have wisdom. Wisdom is the God-given ability to rightly apply knowledge and truth in the trenches of everyday life. When we think of wisdom, it really bridges the gap between what we know or what we even claim to believe to then how we actually live So it bridges the gap between theory and practice, what we say and how we live. Wisdom is something the Bible tells us that comes from God. We can learn knowledge through study, but wisdom comes as we walk in the fear of the Lord. So the fear of the Lord is a key theme that we must understand. As we dive into the text. Now, the fear of the Lord is really a multifaceted concept, but at its core, the fear of the Lord is this deep awareness. That I am living my life in the presence of God. It's this deep awareness of God's presence that leads us to humbly acknowledge our dependence upon Him. The fear of the Lord leads us to forsake folly, to forsake pride, to forsake the idea that we can make life work According to our own ways of thinking, the fear of the Lord acknowledges God is present. And I live my life in his presence, and therefore I acknowledge my dependence. upon him. So with that framework being laid, we're look at the book of, or we're look at the chapter four, and we find that the chapter divides up nicely into three main sections. Verse 1 Hear my children, the f instruction of a father. Verse 10, hear my son and receive my sayings. Verse 20, my son, give attention to my words. Three sections, but one main emphasis, and that is pursue wisdom. So we begin in verses 1 through 9, and we see the legacy of wisdom. The legacy of wisdom. Verses 1 and 2. Hear my children the instruction of a father, and give attention to no understanding or insight. For I give you good doctrine. Do not forsake my law. As we just noted, three times in this chapter, we find this exhortation, this plea to listen. to hear, to pay attention, to incline the heart and the ear to what the Father is about to say. The Father, in his love and wisdom, instructs the Son, and he wants the Son to pay attention, to have a hearing heart. Why? Because wisdom doesn't come natural to any of us. Wisdom is a grace gift That is bestowed upon the ones who acknowledge their insufficiency, who know they need divine guidance, direction. Discernment. Wisdom is given to those who have a heart posture of humility, not pride. And so he says, listen, son. I want to teach you the way of wisdom and the result of wisdom, the result of the Father's instruction. Is that the son would gain or know understanding or gain insights? This is a beautiful uh aspect of wisdom. So Proverbs presents wisdom in terms of The word wisdom, knowledge, understanding, insight uses these different words to describe this idea of walking according to God's way. Insight or understanding here is the opposite of living our lives based upon our own instinct or impression of things. We might say that understanding is heavenly discernment. It moves beyond the surface struggles to really get to the heart of things. And that's what the father wants the son to understand. To gain understanding so that they can move beyond impressionistic living. But to gain insight. Let me give you an example of how this works. So frequently we meet people, or personally, we struggle with restlessness. And so our instinct is to think, I need a change of scenery. I need a new job I need a new this, I need a new that. Something's got to change. Circumstances and I gotta change. And the result of that Impressionistic living is that we're constantly frustrated and there's constant upheaval. We go from thing to thing and place to place and relationship to relationship, looking for this elusive Satisfaction and joy that we just can't seem to find. We're restless. And so naturally our instincts lead us to pursue a change of circumstances, but heavenly discernment insight enables us to ask the question Maybe the change that is needed is not a change of circumstances, but a change of heart. And the result of that kind of insight is stability, a steady life. You see, the man of understanding realizes that the human heart is naturally restless. Proverbs 27. 20. Death and hell are never satisfied, and never satisfied are the eyes of men. Restlessness happens because we try to find satisfaction in things instead of knowing God. And so the wise man, the wise woman, understands this And therefore, before making foolish choices that could have massive life implications, they take stock and say, maybe, just maybe, my heart needs the change. We need understanding, and here's why. Because most of us live with a massive gap between our stated beliefs And the principles that actually guide our thinking, our feeling, our decisions. And so understanding enables us to begin to see life through the lenses of God's truth of God's word so that we can live biblically. So the Father gives good doctrine. He gives right teaching so that the Son can gain understanding. In verse 3, the father continues and he says, Listen, when I was my father's son, tender, and the only one in the sight of my mother, he also taught me. And he said to me, Let your heart retain my words, keep my commandments and live. Get wisdom, get understanding, do not forget, do not turn away from the words of my mouth. Do not forsake her. She will preserve you. Love her, and she will keep you. Wisdom is the principal thing. Therefore, get wisdom. And in all you're getting, get understanding. Exalt her, and she will promote you. She will bring you honor when you embrace her. She will place on your head an ornament of grace, a crown of glory. She will deliver to you. I love this as the father pleads with the son. He identifies with the son in his present struggles. But in doing so, he points back to the past. So that the some would understand there's a legacy of wisdom. There's an inheritance of wisdom that is available for the taking. You see, wisdom isn't some kind of novel unproven theory. It's not some kind of revolutionary breakthrough. A professor of ours used to say, there are no fad diets, there's no fad spiritual maturity. You see, wisdom is timeless truth given to us by the eternal Creator. And that's what the father wants the son to embrace. So beginning in verses 4 through verse 9, he quotes his father. He remembers his father's instruction and he relays that then to his son. And we see from this two key principles emerging. Number one, wisdom must be taught. It must be taught. As we noted earlier, it does not come natural to us. It's not something that we pull from the inside out. No, rather, we learn wisdom from God's word. But we also learn wisdom from God's people as we welcome their input and counsel into our lives. So wisdom must be taught. Even as I read verse 4 in the example here, I can't help but think of Deuteronomy chapter 6. Where God tells his people to take the truths that they had learned and to teach them diligently to their children and to their children's The legacy of wisdom must be handed down. We must learn it. It must be taught. We learn it from God's Word and from God's people But wisdom not only needs to be taught, it must be embraced. There's a responsibility here that the son has to go after wisdom. Now, if we look at verses 4 through 9, you can't help but notice how this text is absolutely filled with commands. Retain my words, keep my commandments, get wisdom, get understanding, don't forget, don't turn away. Love her, she will love you. Wisdom is the principal thing. Therefore, go get it. You've got to make a choice, and choices to pursue wisdom When I read the Father's instruction, I can't help but note the urgency and the passion that the Father has to his son. If the father perhaps were speaking today, he might say something like this, hey friend, son, stop whittling your life away on trite Hollow, foolish, soul-crush amusement. Stop mindlessly scrolling. Stop binging on Netflix, YouTube, video games There's something greater, there's something higher, there's something more significant to live for. God is too good. Life is too short. Too much is at stake. Not to cultivate a heart for wisdom. It is the principal thing. It's the main thing. So get it. And the good news is, if you belong to Christ, it is your inheritance. This is for you. This is for me. It's not reserved for brilliant people. Like your pastor. It's for you. It's for me. It's for the little people, if you will. It's for all of us. If we will embrace it. So it's yours for the taking, if you have a heart for it. And notice the reward in verses 8 through 9. I love this. Exalt her, and she will promote you. She will bring you honor when you embrace her. She will place on your head an ornament of grace, a crown of glory. She will deliver to you. We might say it like this, when you embrace the beauty of wisdom, your life becomes beautiful. Have you been around godly men, godly women, and you look at their life and you say there is something beautiful? about that man. There's something beautiful about that woman. There's something beautiful about that boy or girl. Why? Because they live life with biblical wisdom. And when you live life with wisdom, it radiates beauty to a world that is filled with chaos and darkness. So the legacy of wisdom is yours for the taking. There's a brotherhood, if you will, that you are invited into that we can become a part of. It's available. But Proverbs 2 tells us it's not cheap. Do you have a heart for it? Do you have a heart for it? So we start in verses 1 through 9, the legacy of wisdom, but then in verses 10 through 19, we see the way or the path of wisdom. Verse 10, note with me, hear my son, and receive my sayings And the years of your life will be many. I have taught you in the way of wisdom. I have led you in the right paths. When you walk, your steps will not be hindered. When you run, You will not stumble. Take firm hold of instruction. Do not let go. Keep her. For she is your life. So wisdom is set forth here as a path, a way we must choose. It's a path that provides purpose And directional clarity so that we don't wander aimlessly through life. And I think that analogy is extremely helpful, especially in our day. I see a lot of people who are just kind of wandering through life. They really don't know who they are in Christ. They really don't know what they're about. And they're not exactly sure how to faithfully, fruitfully steward the life that God has given to them. And so what happens? Just kind of restlessly wandering from thing to thing, just kind of numbing ourselves with a never-ending stream of trite amusement. But God's Word says there's a better way to live. There's a greater thing to pursue. And that is wisdom. And the Father says in verse 11, look, I've taught you. I've done what I can, I've taught you the truth, but you've got to decide. But in reminding the Son, of the wisdom that he's been taught to him, he reminds the son of the reward that is available. There's stability. When you run, you won't stumble. When you walk, your steps will not be hindered. There is strength. There is life, not just existence But life. That's on the path of wisdom. Now, granted, it's not something we merit. The Christian life from beginning to end is all of grace We don't merit these blessings, but rather as we walk by faith on the path of wisdom, we experience these blessings. And I hope that you know that, friend. And if you don't, you can know that. These blessings that are ours in Christ, because we have a God of grace. When we think of these blessings, I can't help but think of Christ's words in Matthew 7 when he said, Everyone who hears these words of mine, and he does them, he'll be like a wise man who built his house on the rock. Now look again at these verses, and I want you to note something. In verses 10 through 13, we see that wisdom is referred to as God's way, or as a way. But also it's referred to as the right path or the truth. And it's the truth that leads to verse 13 life. Wisdom is the way. It's truth. It is life. Now, friend, where have you heard that before? Christ. Christ is the way. Christ is the truth. Christ is the life. Listen, you can't divorce the pursuit of wisdom from the humble pursuit of Christ Himself. Christ is the one that leads to life. He is our wisdom. He's our life. He's our peace. He's our stability. He's the one who crowns our lives with beauty and honor and grace. Friend, no one knows how life works better than King Jesus. Why? Because he's the creator. He's the sustainer. He's the redeemer. He is the author and the designer of life. Sadly, we look to wisdom oftentimes from these disembodied internet influencers. We need to read the latest book or podcast from Dr. So-and-So on how to live a fulfilling life, but listen. If you know Jesus, you have Christ. You have the wisdom of God personified. And in him We have everything we need. For life, we have everything we need. For godliness, we have everything we need, as Colossians tells us, for fullness. To pursue wisdom is in fact to pursue Christ Himself Now notice the contrast between this way of wisdom that leads to life and the way of darkness. That leads to death. Verse 14. Do not enter the path of the wicked. Do not walk in the way of evil. Avoid it. Don't travel on it. Turn away from it and pass on. For they do not sleep unless they've done evil. Their sleep is taken away unless they make someone fall. For they eat the bread of wickedness and drink the wine of violence. The way of wisdom leads to life and stability. But the way of the wicked Leads to darkness and instability. Again, notice the urgency of the command. Verse 15, he's saying, look, don't even go there Don't go there. Don't take a single step in that direction Don't think you can somehow control the outcome and kind of live right there on the line between wisdom and folly. You see, sin is never satisfied with just one step. It always demands more. And it always leads, it promises life, but it always leads to death and destruction. Because that's what it is. And that's what it does. Verses 16 and 17. It always is enslaving. That's how it operates. And the truth is, no one is exempt from that Now I have four children living the dad life. And so, you know, reading different books for my kids. One of my favorites though is that book, If you give a pig a pancake. I think it's based on the book, if you give a mouse a cheese or something like that. this right? All the dead, you know what I'm talking about. What happens? You give the pig a pancake and then the pig's like, wait a minute, I want syrup on the pancake. And the next next thing you know, this this really crafty pig just takes over the entire house. It's like, wow, it all started with just a little pancake. And if you give a pig a pancake, that's what happens. Now the truth is we oftentimes treat folly in the same way. And we think it's not that big a deal. I can control the outcome of where this will lead. But we can't. It's been wisely said that sin will take you farther than you want to go, it will keep you longer than you want to stay, and it will cost you more than you want to pay. We know this to be true. We know this to be true. Now I love the wisdom of wisdom literature because he's saying not just don't sin. He's saying, look, don't be in the path of sin. Don't even be in the way that can lead there. Now, in our church, like many other churches, I praise the Lord that we have young men who want to pursue heart after Christ, but many of these young men struggle mightily with lust. And so I'll sit down with these guys and they'll say, Pastor, I fell into temptation. I fell into temptation. You fell into temptation? That's not what happened. You didn't just somehow wake up and fall. You chose. You made steps to get to that place. You didn't fall. You chose to put yourself in a situation. Where you would face temptation. You chose to scroll on your phone when you were tired. You made calculated decisions, thinking you could control the outcome of where that would lead you. Stop saying you fell. No, you chose. And in the moment when you chose, you chose to forsake wisdom. You chose to not believe. in the goodness and love and wisdom and sovereignty of God, you said no. Because This is better. We read at the beginning, taste and see that the Lord is good. But you said, no, this tastes better. Don't say you fell. You You chose. You went down that path. And that's what the Proverbs is telling us here. That's what the Father wants the Son to know. He said, Look Don't even go down that path. Don't go down that path. And you say, well, Micah, I don't necessarily struggle with lust per se. Well, think about worry. A lot of us worry about the future. But what leads us to worry in the first place? What's going on in our minds and heart that leads us to this place of becoming profoundly anxious? Is it not the illusion that if we had the if we had control over what will be, then everything will turn out just fine? So we entertain these dreams and ideas in our minds that, man, if if we can just control what takes place next and what takes place next, then things will be great. But then, when things aren't going as planned, what happens? We begin to question the goodness and wisdom of God's way. You see, sin doesn't just happen in a vacuum. Worry, lust, bitterness, you name it. There's a path that goes there. And we've got to be aware. And the writer says here, don't go down that path. Because there's a better path. Okay, we're not just standing in between two for this indefinite period of time. We're either walking in the way of wisdom or we're going to begin to walk in the path. That leads to destruction. Verse 18 tells us in this final contrast that the path of the just It's like a shining sun that shines ever brighter under the perfect day. The way of the wicked, it's not that way. It's darkness. They don't even know what makes them stumble. Light, darkness. We find this comparison all throughout the scripture. When we think of light, we think of clarity. We think of transparency, we think of freedom. We think of a clear conscience. We think of beauty. We think of life-giving power. Darkness, stumbling, confusion, pain, hurt. The path of the just is like the shining sun This past week had the chance to spend some time with the Schleylines, who I believe were here not too long ago, at camp. Jim says Wabana. I always thought it was Wobana I don't know, maybe it's a thing. But anyways, at Camp Wabana, we'll go with that. And we were able to watch the sun rise. And it's beautiful. It's beautiful watching the sunrise. It makes everything beautiful, doesn't it? There's a peace, there's a tranquility, there's a beauty about this. And I love that analogy, the path of the just. Who are the just? Not those who are just in and of themselves, but rather those who are justified by grace through faith. Those who've embraced Christ as their wisdom, their way, their truth, their life. The path of the just, it's like a bright, shining morning sun that just shines ever brighter under the perfect Day. As we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we experience that joy. But the way of the wicked, it's not that way. It promises much, but it delivers darkness and ultimately stumbling. So we've seen the legacy of wisdom. It's our inheritance, if we'll embrace it. We've seen the way of wisdom, in contrast to the way of folly. But then in verses 20 through 27, we see the protection. of wisdom. The protection of wisdom. In verses 20 through 22, we find really a restating of the key themes of the first 19 verses. He says, my son, give attention to my words. Again, three times here to emphasize this posture of heart humility, a willingness and a readiness to embrace. Give attention to my words. Incline your ear to my sayings. Don't let them depart from your eyes. Keep them in the midst of your heart. Why? For they are life to those who find them, health to all their flesh. But then in verses 23 through the rest of the chapter, we find really the climax. or the crux of the Father's exhortations to the Son. He starts with the heart, and then he moves to the mouth, the eyes, the feet. To emphasize the totality of the person pursuing wisdom. Verse 23, keep your heart With all diligence, for out of it spring the issues of life, put away from you a deceitful mouth, and put perverse lips far from you Let your eyes look straight ahead, and your eyelids look right before you. Ponder the path of your feet. Let all your ways be established. Don't turn to the right or to the left. Remove your foot from evil. So he begins by addressing the heart. He says, guard your heart with all diligence or vigilance. The Bible has a lot to say about the importance of the heart. God's not simply interested. in our external performance or obedience. He wants our heart. Why? Because from the heart everything else flows. What is the heart? It's who we really are. It's the real you. It's the center of your thoughts, your desires, your affections. Now, the advice here contradicts the world's message. The world says, follow your heart. The Bible says the heart's deceitful, but in conversion, what happens? God gives us a new heart. A heart that needs to be guarded. Directed and brought under submission to Christ. So guard the heart. Now, how do we do that? The same way we pursue wisdom by paying attention By listening. We do it with vigilance. This is the opposite of carelessness or mindlessness. Because of sin, we just mindlessly drift into worry, discouragement, bitterness We drift into making idols out of God's good gifts. As the old hymn writer said, prone to wander, Lord, I feel it. Prone to leave the God that I love. To guard the heart means that we pay attention, that we renew our minds, our thinking, our affection. With God's truth. We pay attention and take stock on what we're thinking about, what we're dwelling on, and what we're pursuing. And so instead of listening to our heart, Which we're all tempted to do. We're called here to inform our hearts with the truths of the gospel. Guard the heart with all vigilance, for out of it flow the issues of life. Our problems are never external or simply behavioral. The problems are always a problem of the heart. So guard it, protect it, and cultivate a heart for God. He then moves from the heart To the speech in verse 24, put away from you a deceitful or crooked, devious, twisted way of speaking. And put perverse lips far from you. We think of Christ who uses this heart-mouth paradigm. And he says, for out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaks. When our hearts are not guarded, what happens? The things that we say will become twisted, and we won't embrace what is true and good and beautiful. Put away from you a deceitful mouth. Put perverse lips far from you. Verse 25, let your eyes look straight ahead, and your eyelids look right before you. The idea here is to focus. of your life. The wise are those who are guided, who are focused on Godward goals Again, thinking of the analogy of wisdom as the path that we're called to pursue. But the foolish are just distracted by trivial pursuits. They're just looking here and they're looking there, and they lack the focus that is necessary to embrace wisdom. He says, let your eyes look straight ahead. As the writer of Hebrews would say, look unto Jesus. He's the author, he's the finisher of your faith. Verse 26, ponder the path of your feet, and let all your ways be established. So again, he moves from the heart to the mouth to the eyes to the feet to emphasize the totality of the person. Where we go oftentimes will greatly shape who we become. The choices that we make today will shape the person. that we become tomorrow. And so he says here, take stock of your decisions. Take stock of the choices that you're making, the direction that you're heading. Sadly, we often ponder the path of our feet when it's too late, which leads to regret and remorse. But the writer of Proverbs wants us to ponder the path of our feet to ensure that we are walking in the way of wisdom. to take stock, to evaluate, to reflect, not to become so busy doing, doing, doing, doing, and then suddenly we look back and say, what have I done? To take time to renew the mind with God's truth. To take time, like the psalmist, search my heart, O God. Try me and see if there be anything wicked in me. To be like Jove who said, That which I see not, teach me. I've done iniquity. I will do no more He ends then in verse 27. Do not turn to the right or to the left. Remove your foot from evil. Wisdom is the principal thing. Get wisdom. And if you are in Christ, wisdom is yours for the taking. There's a legacy of wisdom that you are invited to embrace. There's a way that leads to life There's a protection that wisdom offers as we seek, by God's grace, to guard the heart. Wisdom is good, it is beautiful, and it is yours. But do you have a heart for it? Are you willing to set aside pride? To abandon folly, to die to self, so that you would walk in the way of wisdom. Do you have a heart for it? Let's pray. Father, we all love the idea of being wise. Lord, I do not believe there's anybody here who wants to be a fool. Lord, we need your grace. We need more of Christ. Father, I pray that He would be our focus. That in pursuing wisdom we would pursue Christ. Father, keep us from the way of folly that leads to death and destruction. Help us to see it for what it is as our minds and hearts are renewed in your truth. Lord, grant us a humble heart to readily welcome and embrace the instruction of your word and the counsel of your people. Father, grant us a Us a heart, I pray, for wisdom, so that you might be glorified as you change us to become more and more like your son. We ask this through your son Jesus Christ. Thank you, Pastor Micah. Uh the only thing I want to say is would add to that is that as Brother Micah mentioned, the wisdom personified is Christ, and the way to wisdom is through Christ And if you're if you're here this morning and you don't know what kind whether you have a clear relationship with the Lord, that you you don't know where you stand with God, wondering about these things The Bible says these things are written, you may know that you have eternal life. And so trying to live wisely apart from God is impossible. It is only through Christ that we're able to gain the wisdom. that God wants us to have to live a life that's pleasing to Him. The whole goal of godly wisdom is different than the goal of worldly wisdom. So if you're Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.