We are going to be in the book of Jonah this morning for our message, but before we do, let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we come this morning to ask That you would prepare our hearts and our minds. Help us, Lord, to cast away all of those cares and concerns, aches and pains and thoughts that we we came in here with. And enable us, Lord, to open our ears and our eyes to your word. We pray for your Holy Spirit to work mightily in In your word and through your word, and please be with Pastor Matt as he brings the message this morning. And Father, we do want to again lift up Those who are unable to be out here this morning a lot are traveling and uh a lot are unable to get out because of health reasons and other things, Lord. But we want to ask that you would bless them if they were listening in this morning and that Father your spirit would work in their hearts. And uh Lord, we ask that you would change us more and more into your image. As we sit under your word this morning and when we leave here, Father, we will be changed even more into your image than when we came in. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. We are in Jonah chapter four, and we are going to be looking at verses one through eleven, correct? I had that all wrong last time. Okay. Jonah chapter four, verses one through eleven. But it displeased Jonah exceedingly, and he became angry. So he prayed to the Lord and said, Ah, Lord, was not this what I said when I still in my country? Therefore I fled previously to Tarsus. For I know that you are a gracious and merciful God. You are slow to anger and abundant in loving kindness, one who relents from doing harm Therefore now, O Lord, please take my life from me, for it is better for me to die than to live. Then the Lord said Is it right for you to be angry? So Jonah went out of the city and sat on the east side of the city, and there he made himself a shelter, and sat under it in the ship. And the Lord God prepared a plant and made it come up over Jonah that it might be shade for his head to deliver him from his misery. So Jonah was very grateful for the plant. But as morning dawned the next day, God prepared a worm, and it so damaged the plant that it withered. And it happened, when the sun arose, that God prepared a venom permanent wind, east wind, and the sun to beat on Jonah's head, so that he grew faint. Then he wished death for himself and said, It is better for me to die than to live Then God said to Jonah, Is it right for you to be angry about the plant? And he said, It is right for me to be angry even unto death. But the Lord said, You have had pity on the plant, for which you have not labored, nor made it grow, which came up in the night and perished in a night And should I not pity Nineveh, the great city in which are more than one hundred and twenty thousand persons? Who cannot discern between their right hand and their left hand and much livestock. That's what Jonah thought. An absolute disaster. But could it have gone any other way? He knew it was going to happen because he knew what kind of God that he served. Jonah chapter 4, verse 2 really is the key word Verse in the book of Jonah. And this is what Jonah thought about that situation. He said, he prayed to the Lord, and he said, Ah Lord, was this not what I said when I was still in my country? Therefore I fled previously to Tarshish, for I know that you are a gracious and merciful God, slow to anger and abundant in loving kindness, one who relents from doing harm. That's why he ran He didn't want to be there. He didn't want to go to Nineveh. God's word came to him. We studied this last last year and then early this year. This is kind of the last in the series of a couple messages on the book of Jonah And uh we saw what had happened. Jonah, he knew what kind of God he served. The word of the Lord came to Jonah, said, Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry out against it. Oh, he wanted to cry out against it. He wanted the judgment to come But he knew what kind of God he served, a merciful God. Jonah didn't want the people of Assyria to get a second chance. The Assyrians had hurt him and his people. I've talked with a couple people about the book of Jonah since I appreciate those. first couple messages and it seems like the thing that stuck with people the most was a picture like that from uh uh history of uh Assyria and what they did to their enemies. You got a picture of there that guy's The king there has got kinda caught these people like fish, had hooks in their nose and was dragging them around, and that's not the worst that went on there. We won't get back into that again. It's memorable and and and Some of those accounts sound like modern day uh maybe some of the things that Hamas has done recently. They were on that kind of level. And Jonah said, I don't want to go there and warn them. They don't deserve a second chance. They don't deserve God's mercy. But God had used a fish To force Jonah to go there. He ran to Tarshish, Spain. Maybe he wanted to go to the beach, not the desert, but really it was not about the geographic location. It was about the people that he did not think deserved God's mercy. But he didn't have a choice. Yes, Nineveh was a great city, a huge city. Twice God mentions this. It was one of the biggest cities of that time period So Jonah, because the fish spit him out, and God gave him a second chance, and God showed mercy to him, so he went to Nineveh. He preached. And his worst fears were confirmed. The Ninevites repented, and God did not judge them immediately Jonah wanted to give up. He was dispressed, and he wanted to die. A couple times here in our passage we saw that. Therefore, verse three Therefore now, O Lord, please take my life from me, for it's better for me to die than to live Look at verse 9. Then verse 9, the second part, he says, actually the end of verse 8, he says, It's better for me to die than to live. It's a recurring refrain. But then Jonah thought, well, wait a minute. Maybe the judgment will come anyway. Maybe I just need to wait a little bit. Maybe if I go up on the hillside next to the city and I look down The fireworks shall begin. The lightning will come from heaven. The city will be destroyed. Maybe they're just getting a short bit of time, and then I'll see the the destruction. So he went up there on the top of the mountain, or outside the city anyway. This picture's got a mountain. I don't know if they actually had a mountain. It was a dry desert kind of place. And he just waited. Let's see what's gonna happen. Verse 5. Jonah went out of the city, sat on the east side of the city, and there he made himself a shelter and sat under it in the shade, till he might see what would become of the city. You never know what might happen. And so he waited. And he waited. And he was hot up there. He did build himself a shelter. He must not have been very good at it because he needed some more shade. And God looked down and God had pity on Jonah. His poor servant with the stinking attitude. And God said, Wow, that looks really hot. And that night a plant grew up. Verse 6: The Lord prepared a plant. Here's God controlling nature again. You know, Jonah should learn something here. God sent a storm to get his wayward servant. God sent a fish to give him a second chance. You know, the fish wasn't judgment. The fish was God's mercy. And now he's on the side of the hill just waiting for God to judge Nineveh, even though they already repented. And God looks at him, he said, he prepared a plant and made it come over Jonah, that it might be shade for his head, to deliver him from his misery. Wow. God's still showing mercy. Here's God. God didn't judge Nineveh right away. God didn't judge Jonah for his stinking attitude. I mean, Jonah knew he had been wrong to run from God. But he felt like he had a really good reason. There's never a good reason to disobey God. But Jonah, he was justifying it. He's sitting there. These people are bad. They're much worse than me. The judgment of God should come. And yet God still shows mercy on him in his terrible attitude. This plant grows up in the night and had big leaves. It could have been a castor oil plant. We're really not quite sure. Here's here's a a common plant that's in that area The Bible Knowledge commentary describes it this way. The plant may have been a castor bean plant, which grows rapidly in hot climates to the height of 12 feet and has large leaves. It easily withers if the stalk is injured, and that's exactly what happened. So he's enjoying this plant, he's having a great time there, and then in the night, the next Night. The worm eats the plant. God not only prepared the plant, but he also prepares a worm. Verse 7. But as the morning dawned the next day, God prepared a worm. God's in control. We see his sovereignty here over nature. And it damaged the plant that it withered. And it happened when the sun rose that God prepared a vehement east wind, and the sun beat on Jonah's head. I'm not sure what happened to that shelter he made Obviously it was inadequate because God looked at him and had mercy on him and said, Hey, let's put the plant up there. The shelter was not doing the job. Now the east wind came. Maybe that blew the shelter over. I'm not sure. Maybe he wasn't very good at building stuff. I can identify with that The sun beat on Jonah's head so that he grew faint. That was some pretty strong sun. I've been close to the equator. Down there the sun tries to kill you. Then he wished death for himself and he said, It's better for me to die than to live. And that's how the story ends, basically. Why is this story in the Bible? Why doesn't Jonah, the book of Jonah, end at chapter 3, verse 10? Then God saw the works that they turned from their evil way and God relented from the disaster that He had said He would bring upon them and He did not do it. Nineveh is saved. Shone is successful. End of story. Why doesn't it end there? In fact, if this book was written by Jonah, why did he have chapter four there at all? That does not make him look good. Why did God have that chapter there? The word of God is inspired. That also doesn't make his servant look very good. The story ends really a lot better, chapter 3, verse 10. And yet God is not finished showing mercy. In fact, if it ended chapter 3, verse 10, we wouldn't have chapter 4, verse 2. Which is the key verse here. Ah Lord, was this not what I said when I was in your country, in my country? We wouldn't have this great testimony to God's I know you're a gracious and merciful God, slow to anger, abundant in love and kindness, one who relents from doing harm Two times God's asked a question in this passage. Jonah is up on that mountainside. He is Just fuming. He's waiting for lightning to come down. And God asks the same question twice. Jonah, is it right for you to be angry? Verse 4. Verse 9 again. Then the God said to Jonah, is it right for you to be angry about the plant? Is it right? Sometimes we feel right to be angry. Sometimes we feel right that, hey, our rights have been violated. Something has gone the way we didn't want it to go. This word for anger literally means to burn, to be aroused with anger, to have a temper. This temper really stuck with him. He's sitting there a long time on that mountainside. He was really committed to being angry. I'm uncomfortable, but I'm staying here. I'm angry. He's a strong feeling of displeasure with a focus on action to follow. Hey, I'm going to do something because of this anger. This emotion is motivating me. But normally anger is not going to be motivating us to do something godly or righteous or really generally even helpful. Is it right for you to be angry, Jonah? He says, yes, it is right for me to be angry even unto death. Do you ever feel like that? That just frustrated. Why did things happen the way they happened? We forget that God is in control, that God prepared a storm, God prepared a fish, God prepared a worm, God prepared a plant We forget that God is in control. And we're just angry. Is it right for you to be angry? Is it ever right to be angry? Well, actually, there are some times where it's right to be angry. God himself, he's angry. The Bible says in Psalm chapter 7-11 that God is a just judge and he's angry with the wicked every day. God is angry. His anger is righteous. It's just. He sees what is done. The strong oppressing the poor. He sees what is done. Every sin as an offense against the God who created us. And he's angry, justly angry. The Bible talks about the wrath of God. You look in the book of Revelation, and we see the final end of his wrath. He judges the world, judges the unrepentant, wicked. Yes, God is a merciful God, but he's also a judge. And his anger is righteous. God commands his people. Christians, be angry and do not sin. Do not let the sun go down on your wrath. It is possible to be angry and to not sin. This can happen when we see injustice. We hear about those attacks that Hamas did in Israel, and we we see the atrocities committed, and that makes us anger inside us. And that response is not necessarily sin. We want that to stop, we want that to end. But most of the time our anger is not right. And if God were to ask you, like he asked Jonah, is it right for you to be angry? Even if we said it's right for me to be angry, even to death, we like Jonah would be wrong. Most of the time the Bible tells us, don't be angry. End it. Stop it. Cease from anger. Ephesians chapter 4, verse 31 to 32 says this, let all bitterness, wrath, anger, clamor, and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice. There's a lot of words for it. anger there. And what should we do instead of being angry? Be kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God in Christ forgiving gave you. Psalm 37, verse 8, just get straight to the point. Cease from anger. Stop. Don't even do it. Forsake wrath. It only causes harm In the book of James, James put it this way. So then, my beloved brethren, let every man Be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath. For the wrath of man does not produce the righteousness of God. Is it right for you to be angry? Probably not. The wrath of man does not produce the righteousness of God. We are to be slow to wrath, and in that we are imitating our Heavenly Father. Look back again, verse 2. What kind of God do we serve? Jonah says, I know that you are a gracious and merciful God, slow to anger. When we are slow to anger, we are imitating our God. But too often we're Quick to anger. Then our anger is not righteous. And the action that follows after that emotion wells up within us is not good. Let's look at for a moment this morning at Jonah's anger. What kind of anger does not please God? How can we tell if we're angry and we really Should not be. Now, most of the time, I think it's pretty obvious. But let's look at what's motivating Jonah's anger here. First of all, number one, beware of anger springing from pride. Here's Jonah in verse one to four. He is angry. His anger is coming out of pride. Chapter four, verse one says this. I'm not sure what's happening with my slides here. They're having blank slides with no words. Alright, he's doing something there with that. Look at chapter 4, verse 1. It displeased Jonah exceedingly, and he became Why is that? Because he didn't get his way. That's a pretty much this is this he's he's I thought it should be this way I thought God sends me to Nineveh. I warned them. They don't listen. Fire comes from heaven. End of story. But that didn't happen. Those were his expectations. And when they weren't met, he's just angry Chapter 2, verse 2. He prays to live. From the belly of the fish, he prays. I cried out to the Lord because of my affliction, and he answered me. Out of the belly of Sheol I cried, and you heard my voice. He wanted to live. He did not want to die in the bottom of the Mediterranean Sea in the fish. But then, now in chapter 4, no fire comes from heaven. Now he wants to die I didn't get my way. I quit. I give up. Is it worth serving God? Is it worth obeying God? I didn't get my way. He's also saying this. I know better than God. That's foolishness. But he's saying, I know better than God. God wants to save these people, but I think they should be judged immediately. No matter what. God is slow to anchor, but I'm not. The Bible talks about God's long suffering. 2 Peter chapter 3 says this. The Lord is not willing to that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. That same chapter says the long suffering of God is salvation Why does God wait? Why does the fire not come down from heaven? Why was Jonah disappointed waiting for judgment to come on Nineveh? Because God is long-suffering. He slowed anger. He's a God who gave Jonah a second chance. And he even gave Nineveh a second. One day those chances will run out. There will be judgment on those who do not repent. But for now, God is long-suffering. Slow to anger. But Jonah said, no, no, no, no. That's not what I wanted to happen. So I'm going to be angry. No, no, no, no. I know better than God. So I'm angry. No, no, no, no. I am better than they are. That's what Jonah is saying here. God showed mercy to me, but you know what? I'm the prophet of God. Obviously, if anybody's gonna get a second chance, it's me, you know. And you know, in the end, I did do what God wanted me to do. I went there, I said what he wanted me to say, I did my thing, I did my duty. He may have even been willing to say, I know I got a bad attitude, but I'm doing the right thing. It's a problem with that statement too. But basically he's saying, I'm better than they are. He's even thankful. You know, this is Thanksgiving weekend, so you got to bring Thanksgiving into this sermon, right? Check it out. Jonah's a thankful guy. Chapter 2. Verse 9. He says, I will sacrifice to you with the voice of thanksgiving. Hey, there's our word. I will pay what I have vowed. Salvation is of the Lord. He's thankful that God rescues him out of the belly of that fish. Now look at chapter 4. Verse 6, we see his thankfulness again. The Lord prepared the plant, made it come up over Jonah that it might be shaved for his head to deliver him from his misery. So Jonah was very grateful for the plant. He's not an ungrateful guy. He's thankful. But he got what he wanted. That's why he was thankful. He got out of the fish. He got some shade Are we only thankful when we get what we want? If we don't get what we want, now I'm not thankful anymore. What does First Thessalonians say? In everything give thanks. In the good things and the bad things, when we get what we want and we don't get what we want, when our expectations are met, or when they're dashed. And we wonder, what in the world is God doing? Or to be thankful. Beware of anger, though. Beware of anger springing from pride. I didn't get my way. I know better than God. I'm better than they are. Do you have a right to be angry? Yes, I do. It's not fair. I did not get what I expected. Have you ever been there? We look at this story and we're like, Jonah, you got problems, man. You're out there yelling at a plant. Dumb prophet. And yet how often do we do similar things? Now we we're not quite as objective because you know it's us, not him. Jonah, he's dumb. Me? No, I got a right to be angry. No me? Oh, this makes a lot of sense. Yeah, I'm doing what God wants. Yeah, I got a stinking attitude, but you know, I'm not like Jonah. Actually, no, you're exactly like Jonah. It's so easy to get there. It's so easy to be angry and frustrated against God, forgetting what kind of God that He is. I remember the Christmas Christmas of 2008. It was before I moved to Asia. And uh I found myself, instead of going to church and celebrating Christmas, With my family and friends, I was laying in a hospital bed. I wasn't really happy. You see, I had gone in for a surgery that I thought was going to be a small one. I had a problem with my intestines and they said, Oh we can fix that. We put little small holes. I woke up from surgery and I discovered not only did I have little small holes, but I had one big one that was not advertised before I went in there. You know what? I wasn't happy. Like, what is God doing? Why did this happen? I'm trying to follow him. I was getting I was in the middle of deputation on my way uh to to Hong Kong and uh I was like wait wait a minute why why is this happening? This is not going to help anything I'm God's servant. I'm following him. Why do I have this health problem? Why am I sitting here, laying here, not sitting, because that hurt too much. Why am I laying here in this hospital bed And the only Christmas lights I'm seeing is not really Christmas lights. It's the Medevac helicopter landing on the roof next to my my hospital bed And it was really easy to be angry and to think, yes, I'm right to be angry. I tried to do what's right, and this is where I ended up. Does God know what he's doing? And I start thinking, no, maybe he doesn't. Like I, you know, this plan doesn't seem like the right plan. Do I know better than God? I didn't get my way, and it was very easy to sink into thoughts of anger. But those thoughts are prideful. Did I know better than God? Do I have all the answers? I do not. And yet in those kind of situations, when our expectations are met, or they're you know vastly different than we thought the way life was going to work out, we get angry and we say, I got a right to be angry. God says, Do you have a right to be angry? He says, Yes, I do, even unto death. I don't deserve to be here. I don't deserve for this to happen to me. And we're totally wrong. Beware of anger. Springing from pride. Secondly, beware of anger springing from lack of trust in God. Chapter 5 through 9, we see the saga of the plant Plant, worm, wind. Jonah's still angry. God asked him, Do you have a right to be angry? Yep. He went out there, sat out there in a huff. He said, I don't deserve this. God should not be letting this happen to his prophet. I'm sitting out here, I'm sweating. My shelter's not working. It's getting blown over. The plant that came for one day is gone the next day. Got this nasty worm eating it. God is not taking care of me. God is not in control. Does God really know what's best? As Jonah writes this I think it's interesting that he makes the wording used here. Of course God is guiding him, but the Lord God prepared the plant. The Lord God prepared the worm. That word prepared. God's preparing fish, storm, plant, worm, wind. God is in control And Jonah He's not happy though God had a purpose with each of these things, the plant, the worm, the wind, that Jonah didn't care to understand. He just took it personally Hey, I'm not comfortable. Hey, I'm not happy. He didn't see God's hand orchestrating here, trying to get his attention. All he saw was, this isn't what I wanted. He so quickly forgot that God was in control of the storm and the fish also. Do you ever ask, does God know what he's doing? Does God even care? Do you trust that God has a plan? Or are you just sitting there just focused on yourself? I don't deserve this. God's not taking care of me, and then missed all the ways that God actually is taking care of you. Jonah's there on the side of the mountain thinking, God's not doing what I want, I'm not getting what I want, and yet he misses that God prepared the plan, God prepared the word, and he's trying to teach them, and Jonah just will not listen because his attitude is so bad. He's not learning the lesson in this trial. He's not trusting that God knows what is best. Proverbs chapter 3, 5 and 6 says, Trust in the Lord with all your heart. Lean not unto your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge Him, and He shall direct your path. Trust him. Psalm 37 is an amazing chapter. The Lord's really been using that in my life during this ministry translation that we've been in. Listen to what he says there. Trust in the Lord. And do Do good. Dwell in the land. Feed on his faithfulness. Delight yourself also in the Lord, and he shall give you the desires of your heart. Commit your way to the Lord. Trust also in him, and he shall bring it to pass. God does know what's best. God is in control. Even when we are not in control, even though we don't understand what's going on, even when we think this is not the way life should have worked out Look to him. Remember his character. I think it's so sad. Jonah actually remembered God's character. I know you're a gracious and merciful God, slow to anger, abundant and loving kindness, one who relents from doing harm, and yet he knew those truths and did not trust his God. Today, we're here at church. Nearly all of you come every week, which is excellent, of course. You know a lot about God. You study a lot of his word But are you trusting him? Are you remembering his promises when times get difficult and you just don't understand what's going on? Trust in the Lord and do good. Psalms thirty seven is It is written during a time when the wicked were prospering, things were not going well. The writer of the Psalm David, he did not know why things were happening. And yet He turned to God and said, I'm going to trust you. I know your character. I know your track record. I'm going to commit my way to you. I'm going to delight my heart in you. That's what Jonas should have been doing here. But instead, he's grumbling on the side of the hill about a plant. Seems kind of pointless, doesn't it? Seems kind of dumb. And yet we often do similar things. When we Forget to trust God. We know all sorts of things about Him. We know facts. We know we could quote verses, and yet when the hard times come, we don't trust God does know what's best. He is in control. Trust him. So often, though We just get angry and frustrated. Beware of anger that springs from pride. Beware of anger that springs from lack of trust in God. Beware of anger that prevents you From reflecting God's character. At the end of this book, God asked Jonah a question. I said that the book should have ended chapter 3, verse 10, but no, God knew exactly what he was doing here. He ends with a thought-provoking question. To challenge us as we read this book to consider where our hearts are, to consider what we value. Is it right to be angry? So often we say, yeah. It's right to be angry. I don't deserve this. This isn't what I signed up for. That's how Jonah felt. But look at verse 10 and God's very long question. But the Lord said, You have had pity on the plant, for which you have not labored, nor made it grow, which came up in the night and perished in the night. And should I not pity Nineveh? That great city in which are more than 120,000 persons who cannot discern between their right hand and their left and much livestock. God's trying to change Jonah's perspective here. He's trying to get him to value what he values. God is a merciful God. Here in the in these verse 10 and 11, he uses the word pity, which is very similar to this idea of mercy. It's to look on others and to realize they're in trouble and they have have needs and to have compassion with them You want to spare them that difficulty, spare them that hurt. God looks down at Nineveh, and though they are sinful, He has pity on them. Them. He wants to help them. Jonah looked on that same city. He does not have pity. He wants God to judge them. And what does Jonah care for more? He pities the plant more than he pities the people. He pities himself and his own comfort more than the innocent people. there that were headed for destruction. God reminds Jonah to value what he values. The plant is not the most important thing here. Jonah is getting all angry about the plant. Is it right for you to be angry about the plant? Verse 9 says. That's not the most important thing here. He's missing the big picture. Now he's up there sweating and complaining about A plant that was one had one day of life cycle. Says, look down there at those people. Value what God values. Be moved by what moves God. Jonah saw this city and just got angry. That was his emotional response. God saw the city and he saw felt pity for them. You. You know, your emotions can be a red flag and to tell you your heart's not right. Your emotions can be a red flag to tell you that your thinking's not right. Of course we don't run our life by our emotions. Emotions are the red flag. We should be thinking long before uh our thinking should control our emotions. If our emotions are just pushing us all the time, we're gonna be unstable. And we're going to make poor decisions. But God looks down. And because he sees the big picture, he's God. He knows everything. He knows what is best He looks down and sees these wicked people in Nineveh. He has pity on them. He wants to show mercy to them. And yet Jonah just was angry. And he was sure he was right about it Are you more easily angry or merciful? When your children disobey, what emotion comes up? I need to show them that there are consequences. Fire is coming down from heaven. You know, there needs to be consequences. That that's that's true, that's part of your job as a parent. But if that's your first response all the time, that could be a red flag telling you, well, wait a minute, what worship the mercy involved here. We're to be like God. We're to follow Him. He is our example. And his Punishment is also balanced with mercy. Yes, there is punishment. And if repentance does not come, that judgment will happen. But are you more easily angry? or merciful. When your coworker does something dumb on the job that maybe even endangers you, what is your first response? Is it concern for him? Or is it just anger because he is now inconvenience you, endangering you? God points out here also the bigger picture. Jonah wasn't seeing it. He talks about more than 120,000 persons who cannot discern between their right hand and their left. It's a little unclear what he's talking about here. Either they've got an awful lot of really not intelligent people. Or some have theorized maybe he's talking about children. Maybe there was a huge population there. Kids, you know, when they're quite little they can't tell their right hand or left. Maybe you're talking about children here. He's also mentioning livestock. But clearly what he's saying is there is there are people, many, many people in this city. They're not the government who are making this terrible decision. They're not the soldiers out there doing these atrocities. There are people there among those very guilty people. That means my help. Often we look at maybe national enemies and we think, all people come from a certain country. They're bad. They deserve the judgment. We want to see them destroyed. I've lived in some of these countries, traveled in some of these countries. All the people aren't like that. There are many that don't have anything to do with what their government's doing. God cares about the innocent mixed among the guilty. God shows pity. He sees the big picture. And he wants to reach out to them. He wants to give them another chance to turn from their sin and come to Him. He wants it to be like chapter 3, verse 10, where God saw the works that they turned from their evil way, and God relented from the disaster that He had said He would bring upon them. And he did not do it. The Lord's not willing that any should perish, that all should come to repentance. That's his heart. Now he won't continually ignore sin. But he's a merciful God. And we should also imitate God and His mercy towards others. We think of the Old Testament, and some people even say the Old Testament God is different from the New Testament God, which is not at all true. God has a heart for all the nations. We see it in the Psalm where it says, declare his glory among the nations. We see it in the care that God gives in the Pentateuch for the strangers that come and visit Israel. Israel is supposed to reach out to them. In fact, God's plan was. In the Old Testament, during the time of Israel, for Israel, for people in the nations, come and see what God was doing in Israel. Come and see. The temple was there, the worship of God was there. But the people of God Israel failed God. Instead of being an example, a shining light to the nations, they brought in the false gods in the darkness of the nations. Jonah is kind of a picture of failed Israel. They sh he should have extended God's mercy and reached out. But he failed. He didn't see things the way God saw it. He didn't love people the way God loved people. Now, today in the New Testament, God's plan is kind of semi-reversed. Instead of come and see what God is doing in Israel, now it's go and tell. We have the great commission to go into all the world, preach the gospel to every creature. That's God's commission. A little bit, Jonah, maybe it was a little bit of preview to that. God sent him out of Israel Now he's sending us to go and tell. And yet too often we like Israel are distracted by idols, not Baal and idols like statue kind of things. But money and houses and prestige. And we're so busy that we miss what God is doing in this world. We don't pity those who are headed for destruction. We just don't even think about it. It doesn't even enter our minds. We're we're busy building a shelter and being happy about a a plant that grows up. And missing the people around us and around the world. But you know what What? We've experienced God's mercy. We've had a chance to hear the gospel. We've realized that we are sinners. Can't save ourselves. We deserve God's punishment. And so we've come to Him for mercy, trusting Him alone for salvation. If we've received God's mercy, shouldn't we be extending that mercy to others? Here we've got Jonah. He himself received God's mercy. He rebelled. He ran to Tarshish instead of going to Nineveh. God gave him a second chance in his mercy. He should extend that mercy to them. They too get a second chance. But no, no, no, no. That's not what he Having received God's mercy, we should extend God's mercy to others. How do we extend God's mercy to others? Well warn them of judgment. Judgment is coming. God is a merciful God, but there is the time for his mercy will come to an end. The Bible is very clear about that. Warn those around us of judgment who have not come to Christ. Have a genuine desire for sinners' repentance Acts 17 says that God commands all men everywhere to repent. We all need a Savior. We all need to turn from sin into God in belief in Jesus Christ. There's no other way to heaven. The Bible says there's none other way. Under heaven, give among men, whereby we must be saved. Only can we be saved through Jesus. He pities us. He looks down and sees our condition. We too should pity those heading for God's judgment. Not in the way that, well, I'm better than you, so I pity you. No, no, no, no. It's pity as in you're in danger, and I want to help. That's how God looks at us. You're in danger. I want to help. He pities us like he pities the people of Nineveh. Maybe tonight, to this morning you think, well, wait a minute, I'm not as bad as the Ninevehes. I saw the picture there You know, they got the the hooks there and the people I I'm not I they they needed God's mercy, but I don't do those kind of atrocities. I'm a nice kind of g person But God says, no, all we like sheep have gone astray. We've turned everyone to his own way. The Bible says there's not a just man upon the earth that does good and sins not. We all sin, we all fail, we've all broken God's law. But God looks at us, He pities us. In His mercy, He sent a Savior. If you've trusted Christ as your Savior, we've received that mercy. So extend that mercy to others. Pity those who are headed for God's judgment. Not feeling superior, because no, they're just like we were. Extend to them the help that we have received, that gift of salvation. And then pity those. who are affected. Pity those who are who are helpless. And don't have anyone To take that message to them. God is a merciful God. Extend his mercy to others. In this world, there are two kinds of people There are those who know God and those who do not know God. Those who are saved, those who are unsaved. All the other differences are not nearly as important as this difference: those who have received God's mercy and those who have not yet received God's mercy. And are headed for judgment. This morning, which kind of person are you? Have you received God's mercy? There's only one way to do it. It's through Jesus Christ Christ. It's through admitting that you are a sinner and you are going down the wrong road. And you repent. Turn from sin Turn to God. Belief. Believe that Jesus, He died for you. He took the punishment for your sins. He took your place. Instead of you dying and being separated forever from Him He died for you. The Bible says that He died for us, the just for the unjust, that He might bring us to God. Accept His mercy today. There are two kinds of people in the world, those who have received God's mercy and those who have not. Which kind of person are you? If you receive God's mercy, extend his mercy to others. Share the gospel. Be concerned for their souls. If you've not yet received His mercy, why wait? Judgment is coming. No one knows the time of their death. The book of Hebrews warns us it's appointed unto man who wants to die. After this, the judgment God is a merciful God. We see that very strongly in the book of Jonah. But He's also a just judge who's angry with the wicked every day No need to risk his anger. He offers you his mercy. In John chapter 5, verse 24, we see this offer. John 5. 24 says this, he that hears my word and believes on him that sent me has everlasting life. The verse should be on the screen, but it's not. But we have that choice. Have you heard God's word? This morning you heard it. Have you believed this message? Believe today. Stop trusting yourself. Don't trust your good works. Don't trust your church attendance. Don't trust your giving to charitable causes. Trust Jesus alone in his death for you. That's how you receive his mercy. And we have this promise. Most assuredly I say to you. That he who hears my word and believes in him who sent me has everlasting life and shall not come into judgment, but has passed from death to life. Let's pray. Dear Lord, thank you so much for your mercy. Thank you for the promise of eternal life, of being passed from death to life, not because of our goodness or our good works. But because of what you did for us on the cross. I pray this morning, Lord, that if anyone here has never trusted you as their Savior, that they would make that choice today. Not wait. They talk with me or talk with Harry or talk with uh one of the one of the elders or deacons here and know for sure That they've received your mercy and been saved. Lord, I pray for the believers among us today that, Lord, we would not be hard-hearted, that we would not be self-focused, that we would not be angry. But that we see the world as you see it. And since we've received your mercy, that we seize opportunities and seek ways that we can show your mercy to others. In Jesus' name, Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.