Let's go to our great God in prayer together. Father, we thank you for this new morning, this new day, and this beginning Thank you, Father, that you have proven yourself faithful even in these last few days. The things that you've accomplished Accomplished in our lives. And Lord, we give you all the credit, all the praise, all the glory for it. Truly, Lord, there is not a thing that we can accomplish Outside of your grace and the strength that you provide. Lord, we thank you that in all the things that you have set before us Whether they are great and large and grand things that we must do, or even the small and everyday mundane things That you supply us with the right amount of help, the right amount of grace, the right amount of strength That your Holy Spirit aids us in all of those things, not just to do them for ourselves and our own ambition, but to do them for you. For your kingdom, for the spread of your gospel. Lord, your grace is so far-reaching. We thank you, Father, now for a time that we can spend around your word. We have sung to you, we've sung truth. We have been reminded of your character, your promises. And now, Lord, we ask that you would teach us greatly from this passage In Matthew, may it mold us more into the image of your Son. May it mature us. May it enlarge our view of you. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. All right. Scripture reading from today is Matthew thirteen, twenty-four through thirty-seven. Read along with me. Another parable he put forth to them, saying, The kingdom of heaven is like a man who sowed good seed in his field. But while man sleeped, his enemy came and sowed tares among the wheat, and went his way. But when the grain had sprouted and produced a crop, then the tares also appeared. So the servants of the owner came and said to him, Sir, did you not sow good seed in your field? How then does it have tares? He said to them, An enemy has done this. The servant said to him, Do you want us then to go and uh gather them up? But he said, No, lest while you gather up the tares, you also uproot the wheat with them. Let both grow together until the harvest, and at the time of harvest I will say to the reaper, First gather together the tares and bind them in bundles to burn them, but gather the wheat into my barn. Another parable he put forth to them said, Saying The kingdom of heaven is like a mustard seed, which a man took and sowed in his field, which indeed is the least of all the seeds, but when it is grown, it is greater than the herbs and becomes Another parable he spoke to them. Kingdom of heaven is like leaven, which a woman took and hid in three measures. All these things Jesus spoke to the multitude in parables, and without a parable he did not speak to them. That it might be fulfilled by uh which was spoken by the prophet, saying, I will open my mouth in parables, I will utter things kept secret from the foundation of the world. Then Jesus sent to the multitude away and went into the house, and his disciples came to him, saying, Explain to us the parable of the tares and the field. He answered and said to them, He who sows the good seed is the Son of Man. The field is the world, the good seeds are the sons of the kingdom, but the tares are the sons of the wicked one. The enemy who sowed them is the devil. The harvest is the end of the age, and the reapers are the angels. Therefore, as the tares are gathered and burned in the fire, so it will be at the end of this age. The Son of Man will send out his angels, and they will gather out of his kingdom all things that offend, and those who practice lawlessness, and will cast them into the furnace of the Then the righteous will shine forth as the sun, and the kingdom of their father, he who has ears to hear, let him hear Have you ever been surprised by something God allowed? I think every one of us at some time or another can say, yes, I there have been things in my life that I have been surprised that God allowed. The truth is, re one of the reasons we're surprised by certain things, not always, is but sometimes is we we really don't understand God's priorities. Sometimes it's because we don't there's some aspect of God's character that He really we really didn't hear or understand uh correctly and and God is teaching us something about them that. The truth is how we go about doing things is based on uh is based on our priorities. Our priorities determine how we go about doing things And it's really the same way with the Lord. How the Lord goes about doing things is based upon what his priorities are. It's very easy for us to move from the priority of God being the center To the priority of self being the center. As soon as we move from the priority of God being the center to now we are the center, It becomes very difficult to understand why God is allowing what He is allowing, why God is doing what He is doing. Because our priorities determine our method, our God's priorities do as well. Just to illustrate this It's like buying a car. Um when you're young and you get your first car, your priorities are different than when you have, you know, a thousand kids. Or later on when you have no kids. Your priorities change. I remember the first car that I ever had was act the what the what's the number one priority for most college students uh that don't have a lot of money? expense is the most important thing and usually like looking good is the other thing, right? And depending on whether you're a mature uh college student or not, those things can be For me, my first car was uh Ford Crown Victoria, it was free. I didn't have to change the oil on it ever. Because it leaked a a quart of oil every week and I just had to keep putting oil in, which is I'm sure great for the environment. Anyway, uh bac back then I didn't even know what the EPS was. was. Anyway, um and uh so so that was my first car. My second car was something similar. It was I called it Big Bertha because it was the ugliest thing you could ever imagine. It was just It was just, you know, this huge long kind of thing. Uh it was a Buick. Uh it was also given to me, so I couldn't complain and then I got a uh uh I the first car I paid for was this little Honda Civic uh hatchback that I bought from Eric Riversky way back in the day. Is he here Anyway. where you have all kinds of kids. You're not so concerned about the what it looks like anymore. And so you settle down and you finally buy a minivan. Because you're worried about capacity and you might have a little bit more money than a little hatchback or something like that, so you put out the money for a minivan. At least that's what we did. Um and then when you get older you don't have kids anymore, and then you and then I haven't experienced this yet, but when you get and then you have a little bit more money You care about you don't care about capacity or safety. Now your priority changes and you you want comfort and you want to look good and you know and you want to spend a lot of money and you buy a truck like my dad bought when he was in his in his early sixties that now I inherited. So but I am not in that stage of life, just so you know, even though I'm driving a truck that makes it look like I'm in that stage of life. But anyway. So there's all of these different kinds of your priorities change, which changes your method and changes what decisions you make. Israel Israel's priority when Jesus came to earth was a national priority. Its priority was to be Become a prominent nation again, a nation that was empowered, a nation that was free from the Roman oppression. That was Jewish Israel's priority. But when Jesus came to earth to establish his kingdom, that was not his priority. His priority was different. Now, ultimately, Jesus will establish his kingdom on earth in a national way in the future. Jesus' first priority was not that. And so you have this difference, different expectations going on. And when we come to this passage, Jesus is now going to use parables to explain his priorities. And these priorities are going to be very different from the priorities In fact, as you've learned already from chapter 12, God has really shifted or Christ has really shifted his attention now And he's still giving parables to the multitudes, but these parables are things that are not understood by the people, by the multitudes. And there are things the disciples are now going to understand and inquire about later on in private as a as a rule As we go into this, then we'll notice, remember from last week, that we were dealing with the parable of the soils. There were different kinds of soils, as you recall, and all of those different kinds of soils Received the word, which was the seed, differently. There was only one that received it the right way, and all the other ones received it essentially the wrong way, which told uh the disciples and Israel everybody was there, that the kingdom of God was going to be mixed. It was going to be mixed with people who received Christ, and also those who rejected and opposed Christ. The kingdom of God, at least during this particular time, prior to the coming of Christ, he calls it the end of the age. That particular time, there would be a mixture of those who were accepting and those who were opposing. Now with that in mind, we come to this text and we're going to see that Christ develops the uh Christ is going to show how the kingdom of God God is going to develop according to God's to God's divine plan and God's divine priorities. Well, how is this going to develop? We're going to see this three that three things. First, we're going to see that he will grow Those who accept him amid those who oppose him. He'll grow those who accept him in the midst of those who oppose him. He will expand the kingdom differently than expected. And he will establish the kingdom himself according to his timing. First of all, let's look then at Christ, the fact that Christ will grow those who accept him. Amid in the midst of those who oppose him. Verses twenty-four through thirty. We pick up here it says in another parable, he put forth to them, saying, The kingdom of heaven is like a man who sowed good seed in his fa field. While men slept, his enemy came and sowed tares among the wheat, and went his way. But when the grain had sprouted and produced the crop, then the tares also appeared So the servant of the owner came and said to him, Sir, did you not sow good seed in your field? How then does it have tares? And he said to them, An enemy has done this. The servant said to him, Do you want us then to go and gather them up? And he said, No, lest while you gather up the tares you also uproot the wheat with them Let both grow together until the harvest, and at the time of harvest I will say to the reapers, first gather together the tares and bind them in a So Jesus gives this parab this parable. Another parable that they would be very familiar with, the audience will be very familiar with is a a agricultural parable about wheat and tares. He says, he starts off and he says, the kingdom of heaven is like So we know that he is not just giving an agricultural lesson. There's something else going on here, even for the multitude, though they didn't understand the parable. In fact, we know the disciples didn't either, which is why they inquire later. Clearly, this was a parable with an addition with a figurative meaning. Now, for us to really understand, they would have immediately grasped some of this, of what was going on here, this idea of tares and wheat, we need to understand a little bit about what these tares are. The tares, we would call them darnal today. It was a weedy rye grass, and actually the seeds of the grass were poisonous. You see it up there Th this was actually when the seeds were have produced and and well I'll explain a few things in a minute about that. Um In the beginning stages, in the young stages, it before it produced those seeds that you could see up there, it looked exactly like wheat. You couldn't, you pretty much indistinguishable. But as soon as the wheat produced and the and the darnal produced, you could very clearly see the difference. One of the things to note about this is that what would happen is they would the when when tares or when this darnal was planted in with the wheat underneath in the root system they would get entangled with each other so that if you tried to pull out the darnal you also would pull out the wheat as well. In fact one commentator that I read suggested uh that um that uh uh enemies of of uh in battle they would actually go in to in and plant this kind of stuff uh into wheat crops in order to reduce the food supply and essentially starve out the people. So this is apparently something that they would do that with. Uh Jesus then uses a parable that is very f the uh uh a picture here that was very, very familiar with the people, and of course As we just read the story, uh the the master has planted, the gardener has planted the seed, the seed has sprung up, at first it looks identical, and then after it produces Well it says it's his fruit, its grains both produce it produce its seeds. You can see the difference. And so the servants come to the master and say, should we Should we pull out the Darnal? He says no, leave them in. Because I don't want you to uproot the wheat at the same time Instead, when the harvest comes, then I will deal with it at that time. Now, that's essentially all he says in that parable. Um he he doesn't uh he says the aren't uh he does say in the parable that the enemy uh has come, uh there's an enemy, and they he's planted the darn. But outside of that, there's not much that's said about the parable. But let us ask the question First of all, without knowing any more information, what should the multitudes, ideally, what should the multitudes have gained from this? What should they have picked up? Well, one thing they probably should have picked up, since it said he said the kingdom of heaven is like these two things. Probably should have asked the question, which one am I? Am I the wheat or am I the tares? I think that's probably, I think that that's that would have been a reasonable thing for them to come up with Certainly they wouldn't have understood the connections. And the disciples didn't either. And they're going to ask questions about it later. But I think it's important for us just to at the very outset understand That at least from what we see from the passage, Israel, the multitudes that hear this before they go into the house again and And the disciples receive the interpretation, there's not a lot of questions. In fact, we see there's no questions, at least what's from what's recorded in the text. There are some things, though, that we can clearly see from this passage, and we're going to see Jesus explain more about this later on. We can hold on for that, but until then, let's notice a couple of things about this passage that I think are going to be very helpful for us. One is this, that the wheat, um that the wheat and the tares are difficult to pull to distinguish when they are before they are mature. And the truth is that is the case between new Christians, young Christians, and non-Christians. It is very difficult to tell the difference between the two This is really verified by 1 Corinthians chapter 3 in verses 1 through 8. It says in that passage, and I'll read it for you, it says, And I, brethren, could not speak to you as spiritual, that spirits you mature, but as to carnal, as to babes in Christ. I fed you with milk and not with solid food. For until now you are not able to receive it, and even now you are still not able, for you are still carnal. For where there are envy, strife, and divisions among you, are you not carnal behaving like mere men? Let me ask you a question. How many of you have all have worked in a secular environment before? Most of you, that would be most of you, hopefully. And you have noticed workplace drama in that environment. I'm just curious how many of you uh have have have realized that. Every every secular environment that I've worked in, I have noticed workplace drama. Uh when I was working doing tree work, uh doing tree removal and pruning, the drama of these guys, I uh it's just amazing to me that The kind of stuff they would complain about and they'd uh he I'm a better climber and you're a better climber and that I that guy I think he does it right and you do it right and all that. And I there are times I just wanted to say, it we're just r Let's just prune the tree, for goodness sake. I mean, we're just pruning and cutting down trees. That's all we're doing here. Why all the drama? Same thing, same thing when I worked at uh Chick-fil-A, frankly, many years later. Uh and y you might there there's there's some good biblical principles that are that underlie some of the things that Chick-fil-A does, but at the end of the day, you have lots of people in there that don't know the Lord. And let me tell you, the drama, we're just cooking chicken For goodness sake. But the dra the drama that would happen behind the scenes of this person's in charge, no, this person's in charge, no, this person's in charge. I'm a shift manager, you're all these kind of stuff, and I'm like Can we just cook the chicken and serve the chicken and go home? But there's lots of drama in these places. Well, why? Because you have all these competing jealousies and I'm better or I should be paid more or I doing this or all all these kinds of things. And that's what people do. But you know what? What it says in the text, that's what immature people do. Christians do as well. They look the same. Look at what it says. For where there are envy, strife, and divisions among you, are you not carnal, behaving like mere men? It's like kids. Even teens that in the they're fighting over things and who's going to be in the front seat and who's going to have the last piece of cake and who all these kind of things going on and that's exactly how a young Christian acts In Paul's day in the church of Corinth, you've got somebody saying, well, I'm of Paul, another person saying, I'm of Apollos. Paul's such a great writer, and he's very intellectual. He came from From the school of Gameliel. He is just brilliant. I'm of Paul. Oh, but Apollos is so articulate. He's such an orator. He's so much better than Paul. I'm of Apollos. You have this kind of thing going on. It's immaturity. But the but the reality is immature people, uh immature Christians rather look very much until they have learned to grow spiritually, until they begin to really produce fruit. They look very much like non-believers. And so we have to help each other grow spiritually so that we can look different. Another wonderful, uh very encouraging, honestly for me, application here, I think, in uh an inference from this text is that is that In our world today, do you ever feel discouraged? Do you ever feel discouraged like the gospel is losing ground? You ever have that sort of feeling like it feels like we're losing ground, not gaining ground? It feels like things are getting worse, not getting better. It feels like things Things are are are are are not improving morally. They're not even improving when it comes to all c just a better way of life for our family, for our kids. Do you ever feel like that I think all of us feel like that. If you watch the news at all, even if you limit your news and watch a little bit, you're probably going to feel that way. And sometimes we kind of wonder, well, does the gospel have any significant power? Understand this, that God's God's intention for this time in the kingdom of heaven, for this time, is that God is not purifying this world. God is interested in the souls of people. That's the focus. The focus is the souls of people, and God actually uses The fact that we are entwined with the tares, he uses that for his purposes in our lives. That's why it's so important, folks, that we focus on what God's priority is. There are churches, there are groups out there, Christian organizations that are focused on social kinds of efforts. And I'm all for some of them. That's good that you know if somebody wants to feed the poor, that's wonderful. If they want to do these different kinds of social things, and it's not wrong for the church to be involved on some of those things on some level But folks, we've got to keep the main thing the main thing. We're not going to be changing society this this side of the second coming of Christ. Christ is going to come and he's going to do it. But at the end of the day, we're always going to have problems. We're always going to have wars and rumors of wars until he comes. We're always going to have societal difficulties. There's always going to be societal sins. I think there are lots of problems. And we as Salt and Light want to be influences in the world for good. There's no question about that. But in God's program right now, in our time before the coming of Christ, God's goal, God's purpose, his priorities are souls. And that ought to be our priorities as well. And frankly, there should be encouragement to me of that because if uh around that. Because the reality is when we look at this world, we may look at the structures and even churches, and we may look at institutions and our country, and all of those things are not seem seeming to go well, but at the end of the day, God's going to save who he wills. And we get to be involved in the discipleship of God's people and the bringing to Christ of God's people. And that is a wonderful we can always be encouraged because we shouldn't be surprised by any of this, frankly. Uh it is it is all in God's plan and God's intention. Well, let's move on then to this next parable here. We're going to see then that Christ will expand his kingdom differently than expected. 31 through 34. The next parable that he gives is the parable of the mustard seed. Verse 31 says, another parable he put forth to them saying, The kingdom of heaven is like a mustard seed. Which a man took and sowed in his field, which indeed is at least is the least of all the seeds, but when it is grown, it is greater than the herbs and becomes a tree so that the birds of the air come and nest in its branches. Now what is Jesus talking about here when he talks about the mustard seed? This isn't the first time he's talked about it. We've seen it before. Uh the grain of the mustard seed seed being uh equal to the faith of someone who can move mountains. We've seen this before. Now he's talking here about the mustard seed becoming starting as the smallest garden seed. There is one other kind of seed that's not typically in a garden and in the in the Middle East that's that's uh that's smaller than this, it's the orchid seed. But other than that, it's the smallest seed I think uh outside of the orchid seed of any seed and certainly in that culture, uh in that in that gar in of garden seeds, it was the smallest kind of seed. And it grew to the tallest of all of the plants, even to a place where Christ describes it as a tree. The nation of Israel saw Israel, the prophecies of Israel, that God would make it a strong and tall and majestic tree. Ezekiel chapter 17, verse 22, it says, Thus says the Lord God, I will take also one of the highest branches of the high cedar and set it out. I will crop off the topmost of its young twigs, a tender one, and will plant it on a high and prominent mountain On the mountain height of Israel I will plant it, and it will bring forth bows and bear fruit and be a majestic cedar. Under it will dwell birds of every sort in the shadow of its branches, and they will dwell, and all the trees of the field shall know that I, the Lord, have brought down the high tree and exalted the low tree. Dried up the green tree, and made the dry tree flourish. I, the Lord, have spoken and have done it. Ezekiel 31, 5 through 6, a little bit later, says, There is a height There it's therefore its height was exalted above all the trees of the field, its boughs were were uh multiplied, and its branches became long because of the abundant water as it sent them out. All the birds of the heaven made their nests. in its bow boughs, until under its branches all the beasts of the field brought forth their young, and in the shadow all great nations made their home So in this very short parable, what is Jesus pointing out? That God's kingdom, the way it's going to grow, it's going to start from very small. And it's going to grow to something very tall. The mustard seed was very small. Now let's just pause and we'll we'll think about that for a minute. How many were in the kingdom of God at this point? In other words, how many were following Christ at this point? You had the disciples and you had others, but as a whole, it was a very, very small group. That is not how Israel pictured the kingdom coming. It pictured the kingdom coming as the entire nation of Israel would rise up in arms and conquer their foes. That was the picture. But Jesus had a very, very different, God has a very, very different plan. Because his priority is different. His priority, as I have said before, is on the souls of people. He is interested in the in making kingdom citizens before he mediates his kingdom on this earth. And God is still in the process of doing that today. It is very small. We see the character of God there by the way as well. We see this all over scripture, how God makes large things small And small things large. He says he uses the foolishness of preaching to confound the wise and to make uh uh we see this all over the place in Scripture. We see it here in this text as well. We move on to the next parable in verse 33. It says, Another parable he spoke to them, and this parable has very similar message to what we've already seen. The kingdom of heaven is like leaven, which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal till it was leavened. Okay, now we have a picture of a woman baking bread and she uses leaven, she uses yeast in order to bake the bread. How many of you are bakers out there? I'm curious how many of you are Okay. Several of you are bakers out there. I am not. I buy bread, I don't bake bread. Um but uh but I certainly understand the process of needing yeast in order uh to bake bread that is a very important function. It's actually a form of of fungi that is um that multiplies rapidly because of fermentation and because of the process there are actually some commentators that that suggest something um that the f that that it's actually representing here something evil uh rather than something good. We have no indication of the t in the in the actual text that this is the case. Of course we know in the Old Testament and other places that usually uh usually yeast and um and that kind of leaven, that kind of thing is considered bad, is considered an evil or bad thing. But it is not always, actually. For example, in Leviticus chapter, we won't take the time to look at that, but in Leviticus chapter 7, 13 In Leviticus 23, 15 through 18, actually some of the leavened cakes were used for certain Thanksgiving offerings. So it's not always used that way, and I really don't think that he is that this is something that is negative here or something that is sinful. He's saying that that leaven works its way from the inside out. That's what I think he's saying. He's saying, and it I could be wrong but uh works its way from the inside out it works again from a small bit of yeast that that is kneaded in Just like the wheat and the tares are in together, and the yeast is kneaded in together And it works slowly over time, quietly. It's not something that is big and loud and boisterous. Now, then he very just mentions that quick parable and then moves to Matthew reminds us of why he's using parables. We've already seen this before, that God intends to reveal truth about the kingdom to his followers. Essentially, the same parable will conceal truth from those who are not following and accepting Christ. But Matthew then cites Psalm 78 here in this passage to make a connection to the Old Testament. And do a fulfilling of the Old Testament prophecy about this matter of using parables. In verse 1 of Psalm 78, it says this: we read this actually in our call to worship. Give ear, O my people, to my law. Incline your ears to the words of my mouth. I will open my mouth in a parable. I will utter dark sayings of old, which we have heard and known, and our fathers have told us. And we will not hide from their children Telling to the generation to come the praises of the Lord and his strength and his wonderful works that he has done For he established a testimony to Jacob and appointed law in Israel, which he commanded our fathers that they should make them known to their children. They were to make these things known Now, this is very interesting what we it says in verse 6. That the generation to come might know them, the children who would be born, that they might arise and declare them to their children, that they may set their hope in God and not forget the works of God, but keep his commandments, and may not be like their fathers. A stubborn, rebellious generation, a generation that did not set its heart aright, and whose spirit was not faithful to God. Folks, what did Jesus just call The religious leaders and the Pharisees, and really the entire multitude. A stubborn and rebellious generation. And what was Jesus doing with these parables? What he was doing was he was raising up a new quote generation, unquote. A generation of his own followers. He was using these parables to do it. He was doing. He was fulfilling prophecy and doing so. And Matthew, why is Matthew putting this in, as we learned in Sunday school today, when we looked at Matthew? Why is Matthew including this? Because he wants to make these connections For the nation of Israel, and of course for us for now as well, that Jesus fulfills the role of the Messiah of Israel. He fulfills this. He makes this connection for us. It is interesting that, as we have said before last week, and we'll reiterate this again this week. God, that Christ essentially uses these parables as a test, a test as to whether the people are accepting of Him or not. What do you suppose is the answer to the test? What is the answer? Or how do they how how does one pass this test? Well, it's not just having some sort of supernatural understanding of this parable. The disciples didn't. But what did the disciples do that, as far as we know, the multitude didn't? They asked questions. Look at the text in verse 236 for just a moment. Then Jesus sent to the multitudes away and went into the house, and his disciples came to him, saying, Explain to us the parable of the tears of the field. But I I think there's a really important application here. What does what is the when you hear the Word of God preached? Or when you're in your devotions and studying the Word of God, and there is something that you come across that you do not understand, Do you continue to question the text? Do you continue to ask questions? Do you continue to dig, you'd continue to want to know more. Are you motivated by the Spirit of God to know what the truth of God says even though it takes work, even though it's hard, even though it is going to require effort from us. Frankly, if you have that in your soul to search the scriptures, to study them, to question the text, to work hard at it, it's God-given. Remember, I don't want I don't like to use personal illustrations in this way. I don't mind talking about cars, but I don't usually illustrate illustrations. and the way I'm about to, but I I I I really do believe it's entirely God given. I'll never you know when I come up with times where things are either difficult in the ministry or just difficult in general or when I think about Uh b had the difficulties of being a Christian or those kinds of things. I go back all the way back to when I was a kid, eleven, twelve, thirteen years old, and I had an insatiable desire to question scripture. I don't mean question in a in a uh in an antagonistic way, to just search out the scriptures to see what they said, to understand what they meant, to understand what God was saying and who he was and under To really know the Word of God. And I was definitely a novice at it. I definitely didn't have all the tools I needed at the time. But I was learning and growing and just loved to study the Word of God Let me tell you, that was God given. There's no way a twelve-year-old does that on his own. The truth is, there's no way a you know a 42-year-old person does that on his own He there ha the the Spirit of God works within someone to love the word and to know it and to want to understand it and to want to and to question it. and to dig deep into the truths of the scriptures to find out what is the character of God, who he is, and what, how can I be rightly related to him. It is God-given And the disciples, though they the disciples, uh though they were certainly not perfect, and they had all kinds of other questions that were not always the right, like who's the greatest of the kingdom of heaven, they did question Christ and they did come to him and they said, What does this mean? I really think uh I know of some churches that do this. Maybe we'll do this in the future Uh I really I I I know that some churches that after the morning service they have a question-answer time. They go into a different room and anybody has a question, the pastor just goes and And he's there and you can come and ask questions. There could be a group of people that has questions or whatever, that kind of a thing, just a few few minutes after the service for question-answer time. Just so you those who don't aren't quite understanding, those who want to dig a little deeper, those who want to learn a little bit more, have a chance to ask questions. Some churches, everybody else leaves, the pastor stays in and has a question-answer time there. I think all of it's great, honestly. Because it is so it is so easy to to hear the Word of God preached week in and week out, and just like James says, look at a mirror, see who you are, see what manner of person you are, and then leave, go the other way and forget That's what these multitudes were guilty of. We want to be like these disciples in this case. We want to question the Word of God, dig in the Word of God, study the Word of God well, to know God. and know how to be rightly related to Him. There is actually a lot of things in this text that we can see in these parables. that we can see uh coming from from the text. Most of them we've already looked at, but I I want us to just note, again, Christ's priority here His priority, his priority is small, start with small and go larger quietly. His priority is the individual seeds. His priority is the natural development of working from the inside out. His priority is not let me let me come in and conquer. He's going to do that someday. But for now, that is not Christ's priority. And it shouldn't be ours either. Now, as we move then, we get to see here how Christ says he and only he can establish his kingdom. kingdom. Notice in the text, we're going to read it here in just a minute, but notice that Christ is both the planter and he is the finisher. We would say it this way. Actually, Hebrews says it this way. He is the author and the finisher of our faith. Notice what it says in the text. Jesus is now going to explain this text. Let's pick up here in verse 27. He answered and said to them, He who sows the good seed is the man of God. The field is the world. The good seeds are the sons of the kingdom. But the tares are the sons of the wicked one. The enemy who sows them is the devil, and the harvest is the end of the age, and the reapers are the angels I do want to take a few moments and just go through these different components of this parable. First of all, you have the field. What is the field? The field, according to Jesus, is the world. It's the world. By the way, it's not the church. There are some rather notable interpreters of Scripture and commentators that try to see the church here. They attempt to see the church here. Well, Christ says what it is here. He says it's the world. Matthew is going to mention the church twice in 16 and 18 in the book of Matthew. It is going to be discussed. Christ is going to say, I will build my church. God is going to use his church. It is the primary work in the world today. to for the for the discipleship of his kingdom citizens. It is going to happen, but at this point that is not Christ's focus. The Christ Christ's focus at this point is on the work of the gospel in the life of the individual. In this case, the seed is not the word. That was the previous parable. The seed, there are two two different kinds of seed in this parable. The seed that received Christ is the good seed and the bad seed, the righteous seed and the evil seed. But it's the world here in the passage. So we should be careful not to equate the two. Frankly, there are lots of misapplications. If you take this the wrong way, if you take this as being uh the church, the ground is the church or the gardener is the church, and then the tares are those who are unsaved, and the weed are those who are saved, then actually Matthew 18 isn't going to make any sense anymore Because you can't distinguish the tares and the wheat when it's young. And we're supposed to wait until the harvest. in order to pull the tares out, that indicates that if it were the church, that you just leave everybody as they are, and Matthew 18 does not describe things that way when it comes to his church. We see also the good seed is the people of the kingdom. If that's been clear, the good seed is the kingdom of the people, uh the people of the kingdom, rather. And the the weeds, these tares, are the people that belong to the evil one. Now again in this parable, just as in the parable the soils, the evil one is alive and well. He is the opposition. It's interesting how often Jesus is pointing out that there is essentially two kingdoms The kingdom of the Lord and the kingdom of this world. And Satan is the king of this world. And he is planting in the tares. He's planting in the weeds. He uses those who reject Christ and those who oppose Christ for his purposes And it's something we always need to be aware of. His work is intentional and frankly it's sneaky. The parable says he goes in while others sleep. His work is insidious. How often, how oftentimes, folks, you know, there's two-there's a balance to this. Sometimes we can blame the devil for everything, which is just our flesh. Okay, we don't actually need the devil to sin, probably, at all. We do a good job in our own flesh of doing that. But also sometimes when we come into situations and difficulties and problems. It's like we forget there is a, there is, Satan is out there and he wants to thwart kingdom work. He wants to go against what God is trying wanting and will do in the world. There is spiritual opposition. We do not Wrestle against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers and rulers of the darkness of this world and spiritual wickedness in high places Then we see the harvest. What is the harvest? He says the harvest is the end of the age. This is critical for us to understand. The harvest is the end of the age. Now, the word the concept of harvest does go back to the Old Testament. It's mentioned, for example, in Jeremiah 51, 33. Hosea is a very clear verse where it says, Also, O Judah, a harvest is appointed for you when I return, the captives of my people. Hosea 6. 11 It's in Joel 3. 13. But also Christ has mentioned it as well in Matthew chapter 9, verse 37, where it says, Then said to his disciples, the harvest truly is plentiful, but the labors are few. Remember that? Well, what is this harvest or the end of the age referring to? We mentioned this last week, but I want to mention it again because we covered so much last week that I think it's helpful just to go back to this. Either write down or turn to Psalm 24 and verse 3 and verses 29 and 31. I'll read them for you. Psalm 24, verse 3 says this. Now, as he sat sat on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to him privately saying, Tell us, when will these things be, and what will be the sign of your coming? And and the what? The end of the age. There we have it again. Jesus is mentioning this end of the age throughout his parables. And finally, the disciples come and say, okay, could you tell us when this is going to be? What is the sign of your coming? Clearly you are coming again from all these parables that you've explained to us. And when are you coming again? And what will the end of the age be? What will be the sign of your coming? And he goes through an extended discussion of all the things preceding that. And then we get to verse 29, and it says this: immediately after the tribulation of those days. The sun will be darkened, the moon will not give its light, the stars will fall from heaven, the power of the heavens will be shaken, then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in heaven. Then all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming. from the clouds of heaven with power and great glory. And he will send his angels with a great sound of a trumpet, and they will gather together all his elect from all the four winds and one of the heaven and the heaven and the other. There's a lot there. You have the heav the angels that are working along with Christ to distinguish between those who are are chosen of God and those who have opposed God and And rejected him. We see all of that there in this text in Matthew 24, verses 29 through 31. That is the harvest time. It is still yet to come. Even now, it's still yet to come in the future. future. And so that means that there are some implications for us that we'll get to in a few moments, but then notice in verses 40 through 42. We have a further explanation of what will happen during the harvest time, during the coming of Christ. Verse 40, therefore As the tares are gathered and burn in the fire, so it will be at the end of the age. The Son of Man will send out his angels, and they will gather out of his king kingdom all things that offend. The stumbling blocks, those that offend, and those who practice lawlessness, and will cast them into the furnace of fire, and there will be na weeping and gnash wailing and gnashing of teeth. Look, there is a literal hell. There is no way of getting around it. We don't like to talk about it, and preachers don't like to preach it. But the reality is there is a literal hell that is here. And Christ spoke a great deal about that place. And this is a fulfillment of prophecy. He removes the stumbling blocks in the sense that what's going to happen next, according to the book of Revelation, is after the i is is he's going to finally remove all of this. This is at the actually the end of the millennial kingdom according to the book of Revelation. Um it says in Jeh Zephaniah chapter one, verse three, I will consume men and beast, I will consume the birds of the heavens, the fish of the heavens Of the sea and the stumbling blocks along with the wicked, I will cut off man from the face of the land, says the Lord. There will be a day of reckoning, a day of judgment, but that is something that only Jesus can do. And we find that they are cast in the furnace of fire, and there is wailing and gnashing of teeth. All of that is important to recognize. If you are a tear, If you are a weed, if you are a darnal, if you are not truly a follower of Christ, that is your destiny. Christ will also, it says in verse 43, reward the righteous. Then the righteous will shine forth as the sun in the kingdom of their father. He who has ears to hear, let him hear. Matthew will use this term righteous throughout throughout the book of Matthew. But remember over in Matthew chapter 5, what kind of righteousness are we talking about, external or internal? We're not talking about the Pharisaical righteousness. We're talking about that external righteousness. We're talking about the righteousness that exceeds the righteousness of the Pharisees. That is internal righteousness that is imputed by Jesus alone. Jesus imputes righteousness to those who accept him by faith. We see that in Scripture clearly, and that's what it's talking about here. And this and of itself, what it says, will shine forth as the sun, is the fulfillment of Daniel chapter 12, verse 3, where it says, Those who are wise shall shine like the brightness of the firmament And those who turn many to righteousness like the stars for ever and ever. Verse 10, Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as is in heaven, this final harvest time. And Christ will do it. 1 Corinthians 15, verse 24 says, Then comes the end when he delivers the kingdom of God, the Father. When he puts an end to all rule and all authority and power, for he must reign till he puts all enemies under his feet. The last enemy that is destroyed is death. What is the application here for us? There's several things that we can learn from this. Number one Satan is opposing us. We see it again in this passage. I've already mentioned it. Also Christ is clearly the author and the finisher of our faith. Nobody else could discern the wheat from the tares. Christ had to do that. He had to do that in the harvest time. And Christ again is occupied with souls. We see that in this text as well. Now including all these things There are three things that I want us to consider. Number one, God's plan is to grow those who accept Him along those who reject Him. Alongside those who reject him, to grow those who accept him alongside those who reject him. Which are you? Now, according to the passage, I want to use, according to this, the test has to do with motivation. It has to do with intention. The contrast we're seeing between the multitudes and the disciples, if the disciples want to know more And the multitudes are content to just let it lay. Do you have that desire in your heart to want to know more? If you never have, if you have never had a desire to know God, then you are a weed. Not a wheat, not wheat. However, God offers and calls you to repentance. You can turn from your sin and turn to Christ. When God does that, when you accept Him as your Savior, And as your Lord and Savior, He gives you a heart, a desire, a new heart, the desires to know Him and to love Him. If you don't know, please come and talk with me. I'd be glad. I'd love to take a Bible and help you know more, help you know God from the Bible. Secondly, We've mentioned this on several occasions, but our kingdom priority should remain focused on souls of people until Christ returns. That is our kingdom work. Yes, we are to be solved and light in the world, but it is ultimately so that those people would come to Christ. Our focus should be souls. Bringing people to Christ and discipling people for the cause of Christ. Only Jesus finally initiates the work of redemption, and Jesus completes the work of redemption. Redemption. We must the Bible says, look unto Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith, who for who was set before him, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, is set down at the right hand. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and praise you for this passage that gives us Clarity about your priorities in your kingdom. And while we look to that harvest day, the coming of Christ. That is our hope. Our role in the kingdom now. is to be involved in your priority. And your priority are the souls of people. Lord, may we not see people as scenery. May we not view people as a means to our own self-centered agenda. Instead, may we love you and love people and may we desire to see them come to a saving knowledge of Christ. May we depend upon you to do the work, as only you can do. You are the one that must initiate a call of repentance. And you are the one who will complete redemption. May we be involved in the way that you would desire us to. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganan, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.