Psalm one seventeen, Psalm one seventeen And it says, Praise the Lord, all you Gentiles. Laud him, all you peoples, for his merciful kindness is great toward us. And the truth of the Lord endures forever. Praise the Lord. Let's pray together. Father, we praise you that your truth does endure forever. We're thankful that you are merciful and kind. We thank you, Lord, that your truth and your mercy and your kindness, that that covenant kindness that we find in the Old Testament, that is more fully developed as grace in the New Testament. We praise you and thank you that that grace is given to us through the person and work of Jesus Christ. As we look ahead this morning to looking at the baptism of Christ and how how that really pictures his kingdom purposes and what he did, what he came to do on earth. I pray that it would shape our thinking when it comes to the gospel, when it comes to salvation, when it comes to your kingdom. And we confess before you, oftentimes, it is easy for us to get off track when it comes to our real understanding of the gospel. It is amazing how our hearts want us to uh our hearts will cause us to believe or to uh or to really misprioritize or misunderstand various things about the the central most important truth in all of the world and that is the gospel of Jesus Christ. And we pray today, Lord, that you would help us and remind us and align our hearts to the the truth of the gospel of the kingdom, as Matthew presents it in his book. And I pray, Lord, that as we do that, that we'll be able to worship you in spirit and in truth. And Lord, that we would praise you this morning together in unity, and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Let us pray together. Lord, truly we can say this morning that Your son is all the world to us. The reality is, Father, that with without him We would be able anyone else most miserable. We Have been given eternal life through your Son. We have been given abundant life by Him. We thank you, Lord, that you did not spare your own son, but gave him up, and that Christ willingly offered himself. As a sacrifice for us all. We thank you, Lord, that That there is power in the gospel to transform lives. Truly, Lord, all who are in here this morning, Who have placed their trust in Jesus have experienced that transforming power But it doesn't stop just there. It does continue on for the rest of our time here on this world. to become more and more like our Savior. And Lord, as we just sang about, there are good times and there are difficult times. But our loving Savior is there for us always, even until the end of the age. We thank you, Lord, for such promises. We thank you for for saving us, giving us what we in no way deserve, and withholding from us what we most definitely do deserve We praise you, Lord, for these things. And Lord, we come before you as well and think of many who are struggling with life circumstances, many of which uh can't be with us today We we pray that you would be with those who are looking for Their friend in Jesus. And I pray, Lord, that you would supply great grace and a reminder of your presence with them. That they are not forsaken, but that they have you, and they have your truth. I pray, Lord, for those who are experiencing loss such as the Sallenbergers and and their family, Lord. We ask for a special amount of comfort for them as they grieve. We pray that I pray that the the testimony and the um the power of A life transformed would make great impacts to those who do not know you or perhaps are far from you now We pray, Lord, as we now are about to hear your word preached to us, your truth proclaimed, that we would have ears that are ready to hear Hearts that are receptive, and that we would give all diligence and attention to your truth. For truly, Lord, they are the words of life. We pray that we would see them as such. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Reading from today's text in Matthew chapter three, beginning in verse thirteen Then Jesus came from Galilee to John at the Jordan to be baptized by him And John tried to prevent him saying, I need to be baptized by you, and you are coming to me. But Jesus answered and said to him, Permit it to be so now, for thus it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness. Then he allowed him. When he had been baptized, Jesus came up immediately from the water, and behold, the heavens were opened to him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and alighting upon him And suddenly a voice came from heaven saying, This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. So we are continuing in the book of Matthew, and Matthew, throughout this book, his one of his major purposes is to shape the To shape our thinking, to shape Israel's thinking as it regard in regarding to the kingdom. And that is still the case when we actually look here at Jesus' baptism. And um and so we're going to see how that works together. So let me begin just by asking this question. When someone if someone were to say to you, or if someone were to announce I am the king. Just some you know you were, I don't know, uh somewhere and somebody's announced that. What would you think? Or if you hear the words, I am the king, what what comes to mind? Well, perhaps if you're You're middle aged like I am. Um you might remember back when uh you might remember back uh with the Titanic, the the the movie Titanic and You've got the protagonist, he's on on the very end of the boat, and he's got his arms out and he says, I'm the king of the world. Do you remember that Maybe maybe that comes to mind. Or maybe if you're if you're approaching middle age from the other side, that's what my grandfather calls it. He says, I'm not old, I'm just approaching middle aged from the other side. Uh in that case, uh perhaps you'll think of uh the the conspiracy theories about you know the king of rock and roll, the Elvis he he was coming back, you know, the appearances and sightings of Elvis, that kind of thing. Or maybe a little more harmless, the Wizard of Oz, the the the uh uh the lion saying, what if I were the king of the forest? What do you think of when you think of somebody when somebody talks about being a king or coming to be a king or saying, I am the king, what do you think of? Well, Israel was expecting Someone to come and announce that he was the king. This was a prophecy in the Old Testament, and for 400 years of silence they had awaited someone coming to announce their kingship. before that. And very likely they expected this one to announce with great authority That they were going to overthrow the Roman government and they were going to establish the nation of Israel once again. But there is a sense in which when Jesus comes In announcing his kingdom, one of the first things he does publicly is he's baptized by John This is not what they would have expected. This is not how the king would come to announce himself. But that's what we find in this passage. So this just this, and by the way, this baptism is extremely important. It's anytime you find an event in all four Gospels, you know that it's an extremely important event. And this event is in all four of the Gospels. And Matthew is going to describe this event and we're going to see exactly what happens with this event. And what we're actually going to see in this event, this baptism is that the work of Jesus and his purposes are going to be pictured in this event. So then the question is, what are his purposes? And his purposes are basically threefold. His purposes are, first of all, Identification with repentant sinners. We're going to see that. And then we're going to see a fulfillment of God's redemptive plan and finally an announcement of divine selection. So first We're going to see identification with repentant sinners. We pick up in verse 13, and it says, Then Jesus came from Galilee to John at the Jordan to be baptized by him. And John tried to prevent him, saying, I need to be baptized by you. And are you coming to me? Now that is a perfectly natural thing for John to say. John understood who he was. And I think, and actually it's interesting that in the book of John, the Gospel of John, John didn't fully understand who Jesus was until after his baptism. But at this point he at least knew that he was greater, Jesus was greater than than himself, John. And so he says, No, it's This is wrong. You need to be baptized. Uh I need to be b uh uh I need to be baptized by you, not the other way around. John John shows just the the kind of humility that he should Because he realized, as he said previously in the previous passage, that there is someone coming whose sandals I'm not even worthy to unlatch. John understood who Jesus was, and he was learning more who Jesus was, and he understood that he was nowhere near who Jesus was. In fact, in John chapter John chapter 3, verse um uh verse 27, it says this. John uh actually pick up verse 25, it says, and there arose a dispute between some of the Some of John's disciples and the Jews about purification, they came to John and said to him, Rabbi, he who is with you beyond the Jordan to whom you have testified, behold, he is baptizing and all are coming to him Verse 27 says, John answered him and said, A man can receive nothing unless it has been given to him from heaven. You yourselves bear witness bear me witness. And I said, I am not the Christ, but I have been sent before him. He who has the bride in the bridegroom But the but the friend of the bridegroom who stands and hears him rejoices greatly because the bridegroom's voice. Therefore this joy is of mine is fulfilled He must increase, but I must decrease. He who comes from above is above all, and he who is of the earth is earthly and speaks of the earth. He who comes from heaven is above all. John understood his place. He was the forerunner. Jesus was the one who's who was from heaven. And he had John had proper humility here. Now, this is not about, this passage is not about John. In fact, even the previous passage is not about John We see a lot of things about John the Baptist, and the point is not to emulate John the Baptist in this passage necessarily, and we tend to do that in our study of Scripture. We look at the Old Testament, we find these characters, we want to emulate them. But that's actually not usually what the point is, even though I wore my camel hair sport coat today, by the way. This is camel hair. I almost did it last week and somebody mentioned something about that and so anyway I wore it this week. But I but really that's not the point of this passage is to necessarily emulate John. But you cannot help As you read through the different passages of the different gospels and how John responds to Jesus, the humility that you see. But here's the other thing that you can't help but see: the humility of Jesus Christ Himself. Jesus comes to John and says, Would you baptize me? The God of the universe, who is clothed in human flesh, comes to comes to God comes to John and says, would you baptize me? John, of course, wants to prevent this. Says this is not right, but Jesus, we're going to learn why. He says it's to fulfill all righteousness. But the first thing that we see out of the gate is that just as a matter of course, Jesus comes and wants to be baptized. Now the question surfaces almost immediately from our our study from last week that this baptism that John had been baptizing with, this baptism of repentance or associated with repentance, Is that what Jesus is going to be baptized with? And the answer is no. We know that, right? Why? Because Jesus needed no repentance. Jesus is sinless. So the kind of baptism that we find here in this text is not the same baptism that we found when John was baptizing that was associated with the repentance. It's a different kind of baptism here. Now, that's important to understand. Why is that important to understand? Because actually the baptism that we're looking at here is a baptism that that is going to be a precursor for believers' baptism. We are to follow Christ and his example in baptism. And we'll learn a little bit more about that in a few moments. But there is a connection here that Jesus wants to make. Because although it's a different kind of baptism, what is the same is this idea of identification. Baptism is always about identification. What John was doing when he was baptizing was identifying those who were truly repentant. What Jesus is doing here is although he does not need repentance, he is going to identify himself with those who are truly repentant. Now, think of it this way. Understand the context. What did John, who was John just previously addressing last week? Do you remember? He was addressing the self-righteous religious leaders. Do you remember that? And he was he indicted them He said, you're a brood of vipers and identifying them as one who is conf confident in their own pedigree, their own self-righteousness. And what Jesus is doing is he's coming here and there's this clear picture of who he's identifying. He's not identifying with the self-righteous religious the religious, the formal religious people of the day, he's identifying with the people that are repentant of their sin. There's this clear identification here in this passage. And the Bible says actually in Isaiah 53. 11, actually verse 12 more particularly, verse 12 it says this: therefore I will divide him a portion with the great. And he shall divide the spoil with the strong. Because he poured out his soul unto death. And he was numbered with the transgressors. He was numbered with the transgressors. As he as this foreshadows, what is he going to do? And he bore the sin of many and made intercession for the transgressors. What was Jesus doing here in his baptism? He was he was not a transgressor himself, but he was numbered with the transgressors He was identifying with those who were sinners, but who repented of their sin and realized their need of a Savior. Would you take your Bibles for just a moment? I want you to see this clear contrast and turn to, keep your finger where you're at, but turn to Matthew 21. I want you to see here in Matthew 21 Jesus is actually going to refer, um, and actually the religious leaders are going to refer to John's ministry. Jesus is going to refer to them asking uh uh the the religious leaders a question about John's ministry and it's really interesting how this bears out. In Matthew 21, picking up in verse 23 it says, Now when he had came or when he came into the temple The chief priests and elders of the people confronted him as he was preaching, he being Jesus. They were confronted Jesus and said, By what authority do you do these things, and who gave you this authority? But Jesus answered and said to them, I also will ask you one thing, which if you tell me, I likewise will tell you by what authority I do these things. Now there's a reason Jesus is doing this. This is not just, well, I'll tell you if you tell me It's not what Jesus is doing here. What Jesus is doing is basically he's saying, if you if you will respond, if you responded right to what you've already been given, then you're ready for to know what authority I what authority I'm coming to. You're going to see that in a minute here. But here's what he here's what he here's the the question. Picking up at verse 25. The baptism of John, where was it from? That's the question Jesus asks. From heaven or from men? And they reasoned among themselves, saying, If we say from heaven, he will say to us, Why then do you not believe him? But if we say from men, we fear the multitude, for all count John as a prophet So they answered Jesus and said, We do now know, we do not know, and he said to them, Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things. But what do you think? A man had two sons, and he came to the first and said, Son, go work today in my vineyard. He answered and said to them, I will not. But afterward he regretted it and went. Then he came to the second and said likewise, and he answered them, I go, sir, but he did not go. Which of the two did the will of his father? They said to him, the first Jesus said to them, Assuredly, I say to you, the tax collectors, by the way, who's Matthew? What what did Matthew do? He's a tax collector The tax collectors and harlots enter the kingdom of God before you For John came to you in the way of righteousness. That's going to be important in a minute, that we're going to look at that word righteousness. And you did not believe him But tax collectors and harlots believed him. And when you saw it, you did not afterward relent and believe him. He says to them, you do not deserve to know with authority I do this. Why? Because you didn't believe John And you saw the repentance, you saw the change, you saw those things, and you still did not choose to believe And so you have from John chapter, from Matthew 3 rather, all the way to Matthew 21, you've got a lot in here, and there is this paradigm that's set up Where you've got the self-righteous on one side and the repentant sinners on the other, and Jesus in the very beginning of his ministry, he's going to say, I'm going to side with the repentant sinner every time This becomes a very important point as we go through the book of Matthew. There is a humility here when it comes to what Jesus did. First Peter 3. 18 says, For Jesus also suffered once for sins, the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but be being alive in the Spirit. Leon M Morris paints this picture. He says Jesus might have been up there in front standing with John and calling on sinners to repent. Instead, he was down there with the sinners. Affirming his solidarity with them, making himself one with them in the process of salvation that he would in due course accomplish. So Jesus showed his humility. He identified with repentant sinners, and he's going to continue to do that throughout the book of Matthew in his life. But then we move and we see that the very distinct purpose that Jesus gives to John as to why he must be baptized, he says to fulfill all righteousness. What he's talking about here is to fulfill the redemptive plan of God in this passage. So we need then to look at, first of all, he says the command, he commands John, interestingly enough, Jesus says, permit it. You need to do this. So he pretty much commands John to do this. And then he gives the reason, he says, to fulfill all righteousness. This is a loaded phrase, to fulfill all righteousness, and and we need to really understand what this means Again, we're really, even now, even in the next even chapter four, chapters one through four of Matthew, we're really forming our understanding of what Matthew is trying to do here. And this word righteousness is going to be used frequently in quoting Jesus in the book of Matthew. So we need to understand what this word righteousness is. And by the way, remember that Matthew is going to contrast this with self-righteousness, which is something actually entirely different. When we think of righteousness, sometimes I think we almost think of it as something bad. Oh, that person is righteous. No, if you're saying that person is righteous, you're probably talking about self-righteousness. Righteousness is actually a relational term. Did you know that? It's not a term that identifies the inherent character of a person. Righteousness has to do with a relate with a person's relationship. It's a relationship particularly with God. Now there are several times, several key times, that Matthew is going to quote Jesus in his book to describe what righteousness is. For example, in Matthew chapter 5, verse 6 it says, Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for what? For righteousness, for they shall be filled. Does that mean, folks, that that somebody who hungers and thirst to make sure they're always right? Is that what it's talking about? It's not. To self-justify all the time. Somebody who loves doing that. Is that what it's talking about? We in our nature, in our in our nature, I think this starts at adolescence and and continues throughout our whole lives, we constantly try to self-justify ourselves and to make ourselves feel valuable and make ourselves feel important and make ourselves uh be able to sleep at night when we've done something wrong, where there's this self-justification going on in our hearts all the time. That is not this idea of righteousness. The idea of righteousness is that I'm right with God And I hunger and thirst for a openness, a righteousness, a path to God. This path is open to me. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst as its necessary food. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst after righteousness. Matthew 5, 10 is going to say, Blessed are those who are persecuted for what? For righteousness' sake. Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of God. Matthew 6, 33 will say it says this, but seek first the kingdom of God. How do you do that? And is what? Righteousness. How do you seek the kingdom of God in your life? You are seeking the righteousness of God And all these things will be added unto you. Seek first the kingdom of God. Matthew 21, 32, and John Cain to you in this way of righteousness. Jesus calls it the way of righteousness. So it's very important, folks, that we understand that righteousness is the way to God. And when Jesus says to fulfill all righteousness, he is saying that this baptism is going to fulfill and to establish the way to God. Now, I want to be clear here. It pictures the way to God. It's not as though baptism is needed in order to come to God. I want to be clear about that. And we'll get that to that in a few moments. But understand this righteousness. Let me put it this way. I've said this before last week, we really often misunderstand the gospel in one way or another. What is the very purpose of the gospel? If you think of the uh of the gospel as a bullseye, And you're trying to hit the bullseye of the gospel. What is the bullseye of the gospel? Do you know what passage you go to, by the way? Is there a particular passage you'd go to to hit the very bullseye of the gospel? I'll tell you what it is. It's in the book of Romans. In fact, I'd like you to turn there for a moment. Look at Romans chapter 3 and pick up in verse 21. The bullseye of the gospel is in Romans 3, picking up in verse 21. And this is going to help us to see just how important this concept of righteousness is. Now, I want us to understand that previously in Romans, Paul had been talking about sinners, think of uh and and and sinfulness and And different kinds of sin. Romans 1, the depravity of man is clear in that passage. Romans 2 is actually talking about self-righteousness. Romans 1 is the reprobate mind and sin of all kinds. Romans 2 is self-righteousness, and we get to Romans 3. And Romans 3 verse 21 has this phrase, but now That is a clear contrast. You've got sin and self-righteousness on one side, but now it is a clear demarcation. We're going a different direction. It is now we are now talking about something else entirely. But now the what? The righteousness But now the righteousness of God apart from the law is revealed being witnessed by the law and the prophets. Even the righteousness of God. Do we get the importance that the gospel reveals the righteousness of God through what, folks? Through faith. Through faith in Jesus Christ to all and on all who what? Who believe. So faith accesses the righteousness of God. Faith gives us access to the way of righteousness. And we're going to see how that works out in a minute. Verse 24, being justified. Justified. Justification is to be declared righteous. That's what justification is. When you're getting saved, I you hear this all the time. I got saved, I got saved, he got saved, they got saved, we got saved. What does that mean It means that if you have truly been born again, if you're truly saved, what does it mean? It means that you have been declared righteous by God. Being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God set forth as a propitiation, a satisfaction of his wrath, by his blood, through faith. to demonstrate his righteousness. You see how many times righteousness is in this passage? Righteousness because in his forbearance God has had passed over the sins. that were previously committed. The point here, folks, is this. What is the gospel? The gospel is the righteousness of God revealed and the righteousness of God applied. So when Jesus comes to John and says, look, you've got to do this so that I can fulfill all righteousness, he's saying, this is a necessary step for me to create a way of righteousness, a path to righteousness for people. They've repented. There's this whole group that have repented and been b and and been baptized to uh show their repentance and and that's different than believers baptism but it's just a special for that day we talked about it last week but now Jesus is coming saying okay I've got to show a path to righteousness Now, then it you have this word fulfillment. Fulfillment. What does that word fulfillment mean? Well in Matthew 5. 17 it says this, do not think that I have come to destroy the law or the prophets, but to I have come to fulfill. In Matthew 13, 48, it's actually you translated fill up, like fill up a pot. And in Matthew 23, 32, you have the same thing, fill up. So Jesus is going to completely, there's it's like there's this emptiness that needs to be filled. Of course it's sin. And it needs to be filled. And Jesus is going to fill all righteousness. In Isaiah 53, verse 2, it says, or verse 11, rather, it says this. He shall see the labor of his soul and be satisfied by his knowledge. My righteous servant shall justify many For he shall bear their iniquities. Very important verse, Isaiah 53. 11. You may want to write that down. He will, he, by my knowledge, my righteous servant, Jesus is righteous And therefore he will declare many righteous. Why? By bearing their iniquity on himself. And the only way he could bear iniquity on himself is by being righteous in the first place. So how is it, ultimately, how is it that Jesus will create this path to righteousness? How does that happen? It happens when he bears our sin on himself by dying on the cross for us. 2 Corinthians chapter 5, verse 21 says this, for he made him who knew no sin to be sin for us, that we might become the righteousness of God in him. So what does baptism picture? It pictures the death and the resurrection of Christ. In fact, it's interesting that in Luke 12, verse 50 That verse tells us that Jesus, looking ahead to the death of Christ, Jesus actually referred to it as a baptism to come. He says Luke 12, 50, but I have a baptism to be baptized with, and how distressed I am till it is accomplished. It's a baptism to come. So the baptism pictures the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ, and it prefigures the believer's baptism. Because in Matthew, same book again, in Matthew 28, you'll know this passage, verse 18, it says this: And Jesus came and spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all things that I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. God says, Jesus says, look, now you disciples, you're a followers of me. Now go and go and make disciples and baptize them. And so we have this command that's carried out throughout the book of Acts and throughout church history that people who come to Christ truly and believe on him Identify with Jesus through baptism. Baptism doesn't save you, but baptism identifies you with Jesus Christ. And maybe you're listening today, the truth of the matter is any baptism that is prior to faith in Christ is an invalid baptism. Does that make sense? In other words, if somebody is baptized at a young age or something, and then they are saved later Well then that baptism at a young age, or a baby even, that baptism is not a valid baptism Baptism is to show that you have already believed in the same way that Jesus showed that he was righteous. And the only reason that we are able to be baptized is because Christ has already declared us righteous by grace through faith. So if you are here today and you don't know the Lord as your Savior, or you know maybe you know the Lord as your Savior, but you have not been scripturally baptized, then you need to identify with Christ in believers' baptism. That's an important aspect of this. This is a very important application for us that I don't want to miss though. Why are you is why is a if somebody come to you and say why why did you get saved? Why are you saved? Why did you come to Jesus? The answer, folks, needs to be, the biblical answer is, so that I could be declared righteous by God, so that I could have a relationship with Him And and there are a lot there are people that have come to see come to me candidly, have come to me and said, Look, I got saved, and I say, Why? And immediately they go, uh why? I don't know why, like you know, I I don't know, I just like felt a feeling or I didn't want to go to hell or the all those kinds of things. No why. Why you were saved. That's going to help you understand that what God is doing in your life is for is to fulfill all righteousness, so that one day we will stand before him in Christ's likeness. Then we find this thirdly What's Jesus' purposes? Well now we see the announcement of divine selection in verses 16 and 17. We pick up here verse we have the actual event that occurs and then right after the baptism, right after he comes out of the water, and we'll see what happens. Verse 16 in uh Matthew three. When he was baptized when he had been baptized, Jesus came up immediately from the water And behold, the heavens were open to him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and alighting upon him And suddenly a voice came from heaven saying, This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased So what happened here? There's several things that happened that we want to point out. First of all, it says that the that the heavens were opened. That is a phrase that is used actually quite a few times in the Old Testament as well as in the New Testament to show that God was revealing something very, very special. For example, in Isaiah 64. 1 it says, Oh that you would rend the heavens, that you would come down, that mountains might shake at your presence. In Acts chapter 7, it's interesting when Stephen, the first martyr, was was uh was was martyred, he was killed. It says and said, Look, I see the heavens opened and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God. And do you remember in uh in Acts 10 verse 11 it says that I saw heaven opened and on an object of a great sheep bound on four corners, descending in heaven and let down to the earth. That's Cornelius. uh Peter or actually it's Peter uh showing there there was a change in what God was doing as far as with the Gentiles and the heavens opened to reveal something new. What was happening here is this is something that the heavens opened. Well, what was God going to reveal? Well, we're going to see in just a minute what it was going to reveal, but let then notice also what it says. It says the heavens opened, and then it says this that that he came down that the Holy Spirit came down like a dove. Now we sometimes we get kind of caught up as to, you know what this was. Was this really a dove? Was this really a bird? Did he just descend down like a bird? What's going on here? And and and the and the candidly I you know um It doesn't really m matter that much, honestly. I read different commentaries that said, well this is a dove or it's not a dove, it's a different kind of bird than a dove. And you know I'm kind of going, uh that's uh that's really not the point. What's the point? Well well notice a couple of things. First of all John had already revealed that Jesus was going to come and he was going to baptize what? With the what? The Spirit. Remember? He was going to be baptized with the Spirit and fire. And now the Holy Spirit is coming to reveal something, to really to identify Jesus as the one who would do this, who would be the Savior. But there's something else going on here that I think is very important for us to understand. In Isaiah, it's a fulfillment of Isaiah 42. 1. And in Isaiah 42, 1 it says, Behold, my servant who I am uphold, my elect one to whom my soul delights. And we're gonna that there's actually an important point there that we'll pick up on a minute. I have put my spirit upon him, and he will bring forth justice to the Gentiles or to the nations. So it prophesied, and Isaiah, Isaiah prophesied that the Father would put his spirit on someone who would then bring justice Did you know by the way that justice is the same word as righteousness in the Old Testament and the New Testament? It's the same word. So Jesus, it was the Spirit of God. The Spirit of God was coming upon him. And there's a reason for this. The reason, folks, is because This new kingdom, this new era of the kingdom of God was going to, the work of the Spirit of God was going to be very, is going to be very active. And going to be active in a very new way. This was also prophesied in the book of Joel. In Joel 2, 28 through 29, it says this. And it shall come to pass after that I will pour out my spirit on all flesh. Your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your old men shall Dream dreams, your young men shall see visions, and also on my men's servants and my maidservants I will pour out my spirit in those days. The direct fulfillment of that passage in Joel is where? Does anybody know? It's the it's Pentecost So you have here Jesus is being baptized, the Spirit of God is coming upon him, and he is the first one to, in this, in a sense, as an example to us, receive the Spirit of God. Of course, he is God. But his his the Spirit of God is being poured out on him. And then later on it's going to show us that at Pentecost all believers at that point are going to be the Spirit of God is going to come upon them. And then we also know from Scripture that the Spirit of God indwells all of us. So that in this new kingdom, it looks really different. The king is humble. And he's identifying with repentant sinners. And the Spirit of God is coming and really working in and through God's people to do What Israel could not do, and that actually brings us very soon to the next point. We see also this voice comes from heaven. This voice is the Father. And by the way, this is one of the places we see all three persons of the Trinity working together. If you want to know whether or not they're you know where the Bible teaches the Trinity, this is one of the places it teaches that you have the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. They're all distinct persons. but they are all one God. And you see this all working together here. And the Father here has there's this voice that comes from heaven. And this voice says, this is my beloved son in whom I am well pleased. Now that passage that we mentioned already in Isaiah 42 It says, my elect one. And the word beloved, there's a connection between chosen and beloved there. Okay, there's a there's a connection between the Hebrew and the Greek there. I won't go into all that, but basically there's a connection there What is Jesus, what is the Father saying? The voice of the Father is saying, this is my chosen one. This is going to fulfill all of what the Bi what the Old Testament prophets said it was going to fulfill. This again is really pointing out, identifying Jesus for who he really is. Now, there's something else that he says here. He said, this is my chosen, but he says, son. Now, we are so used to this. calling Jesus the Son of God, that we probably really don't really understand what this means. Now, I want us to think of it this way. Matthew, this is the very first book in the New Testament. What do we have before Matthew? The Old Testament, right? What did the Old Testament know of the Son of God? In other words, when the word son of God would have been mentioned in the Old Testament, what would Israel have thought of? What would the Israelites have thought of? And do you know it would have been very it would have been totally different from what we would have thought of Do you know what Israel would have thought of very likely Israel would have thought of itself as the Sun. That's actually what God calls Israel in Exodus 4. 22. Do you remember that from our study in Exodus? In Exodus 4. 22 it says, And you shall say to Pharaoh, thus says the Lord, Israel is my son, my firstborn. It calls Israel the Son. So why does it call Israel the Son? Because God had called Israel to be his firstborn son. His firstborn among many, actually, because God had a perf had a plan for Israel to be a light to the Gentiles to to to to be able to bring bring light to the nations so that righteousness actually would be able to come through israel to all people So that they would be able to come to God. That was God's plan for Israel. And what happened? Israel failed over and over and over again through idolatry. That was the main problem was idolatry. What is God saying here? God saying is he's now saying, This is my beloved son. When Israel, when the repentant Israelites heard this, these people that John had baptized heard this, they understood now that Jesus, this one, was going to fulfill the purposes that Israel could never fulfill. and being a light to the world. And we're going to find that to be exactly the case in Matthew 5. Do you remember that? It's going to talk about the fact that Ye are the salt and light of the earth. Well, what's the point? The point is this. Israel was to be the light, it couldn't do it because of idolatry. And Jesus now is the light. And what Jesus and what Jesus desires to do through us is for his light to shine through us. There's a sense in which, folks, we're not the light, we're reflecting the light. Now you think of the different illustrations in Scripture. The tree, Jesus said, abide in me, I'm the vine, you're the branches. Or the vessel, you're a clay pot, Jesus says. And you're I'm filling you. It's your just the clay pot. There's a diff there's a different the kingdom now is going to be all about Jesus And we're to be the vessels, the conduits, the branches through which God, Christ does and shows himself to others. But I'm going to just make this application. Do you know the very thing that keeps us from doing that? Idolatry. It is often the very same thing That Israel fails at. Now, here's the thing. No longer is it dependent on us. Jesus will have his way. Jesus is the light. It will happen. He will set up his kingdom. But whether or not we are the vessels through which God can use, whether or not we are the lights who are really not putting our light under a bushel, whether we are really the kind of people that God wants us to be to shine forth the light of Christ. Really depends upon us and whether or not we are going to follow after the Spirit of God in our lives and seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, or whether or not we're going to follow after idols. So what are idols? Can you think of idols? Think of an idol. What are idols? I mean if you think if you think, for example, of Old Testament, you've got these these graven images that they're going and bowing down. That's probably not what we're talking about here, what we're not uh thinking about here. Our idols are very different. Our idols uh I'm gonna meddle here for a minute, and you might get mad at me, but it's okay. Our idols are sports. Our idols are um are our are money. And wealth and position and power. Those are our idols. You cannot be a vessel for God's use and a light that shines forth. If you are going to live for idols, and neither can I, God's it got quiet. God said very clearly that we that Jesus now is the Son. He is going to take He is going to take Israel's place and fulfill the purposes that God intended. In Psalm 2, 7 it says, I will declare the decree. The Lord has said to me, You are my son, today I have begotten you. That's back in Psalm 2 And it is this concept of the Son is equated with the Messiah. We find that in Matthew 26 and 27 as well. For example, in Matthew 27, 43 it says, He trusted in God. Let him deliver him now if he will have him. He has said, I am the Son of God. And the application for us folks here is that we can be conduits of the sun, we can be vessels, or we can end up like Israel. As individuals. But either way, here's the wonderful truth. Either way, Christ will have his way this time. The end, we already know the end for the beginning You look at the book of Revelation, which we've been going through in Sunday school, and you see that book, and you see that ultimately, what is the ultimate purpose of Revelation? It is to show that Christ wins. That he conquers, that he accomplishes what Israel couldn't accomplish, what many people hadn't, that he accomplishes it. Number one, so wrapping all this up, number one, we should be profoundly moved by the humility of both John and Christ. You you don't you see this all over the place here, don't you? John, there's this humility. He must increase, I must decrease. Jesus comes and he identifies with the repentance sinner. There is a humility here, and we should be profoundly moved by the humility of John and Christ. He chose number two, we should be profoundly grateful for the redemption redemptive plan to restore righteousness. We should be profoundly grateful for the redemptive plan to restore righteousness. I mean, we would, as Enrique prayed earlier, we would be of all people most miserable without this restoration. Because all our self-righteousnesses are as filthy rags. And number three, we should be profoundly obedient when we realize we are the recipients of Christ's righteousness. We should be obedient. And the way that we obey, there's a lot of different ways we obey, but one of the first steps of obedience is baptism. Baptism does not save you, it doesn't give you Christ's righteousness, it simply identifies you with Jesus. And again, if you have not, if you come to Christ and have not been baptized to identify with him, this is something that you I would certainly encourage you to do. Or if you say, you know, I don't know that I really understood the gospel this way. I don't really understand that the gospel creates a, that the main point of the gospel is that it creates a path to God through Jesus. called righteousness, that's the path. And if that's something that you haven't really understood and you really don't know where you stand with God, I let me encourage you. Let me uh come and talk to me afterwards. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you are that you have a right relationship with God. Let's go, Lord, in prayer. Father, we come to you and we thank you for who you are. We praise you because you are a great God. We thank you for your righteousness. We think of all that Christ did, his humility, his righteousness. Him to fulfill the righteousness, to show us a way. Lord, I pray that you'd help us to be the repentant sinner and not the self-righteous Pharisee. I pray, Lord, that you keep us from idolatry. I pray, Lord, if there's anybody here that doesn't know you as their Lord and Savior, I pray today would be a day they would understand. their sin and their need of a savior and they would be saved. I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. To have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon Bethel Baptist Church is a family made up of people from very different backgrounds and from every age group. But we all have one thing in common: we have found a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. Christ. We also understand that looking for a church to attend can be unsettling. Before you even drive into our parking lot, we'd like to give you an idea of what to expect on your first visit to Bethel Baptist Church. After arriving at Bethel, feel free to park at one of our guest parking spaces, close to the front doors. It is our privilege to have you visit us, and we want you to feel at home while you're here. We are ready to assist you in understanding your needs and locating facilities such as the nursery, coffee area, and the specific ministries and classes available for you and your family. discovers how to have a genuine relationship with God, they are given a sense of purpose and meaning in life. When that same person belongs to a loving community where God's word is taught, they will grow in their relationship with the Lord, and their life grows. in purpose and meaning. Since I uh started coming to Bethel, I noticed that my walk with the Lord became more serious. more faithful. The church has impacted my walk with the Lord in terms that my faith became real. I I'd had some some spiritual struggles in my own life that have sort of turned around night and day. day just just having come here. The the church family here is just so uh great in terms of their unity and their activeness and involvement in the church. When I first came to Bethel I was a babe in Christ, I was spiritually immature through hearing God's word, preach, studying God's word, and continuing, you know, reading in the Bible is helping me to grow spiritually Bethel is a place for someone that if they want to grow spiritually, if they're ready to take the the next steps in their spiritual walk with God in their Christian life, uh this this is a place for them. We sincerely desire To help people grow in the relationship with the Lord, with their families, and with one another. Our focus is on making and building disciples for God's glory. We accomplish this through corporate worship on Sunday mornings, through adult Bible studies where we learn God's word. and how to effectively apply it to our lives and through our discipleship home groups that meet in various locations throughout the region. Additionally, there are one-on-one and couple-to-couple counseling and discipleship opportunities. We genuinely desire to help you grow spiritually and any way you possibly can. Our children's ministries are extremely important to us. We have a lot of young families with children, and we believe in the importance of teaching truth to the next generation. Teachers and nursery workers will be available to introduce themselves and assist you in signing your children in and out of their classrooms. My family is involved in the church. My children are growing in the church. and the ministry and the love of the people of the church is um helping my children and my family to stay faithful to the Lord. As a young mom I have two small kids and so I am very much looking forward to seeing them grow up in this church where I know there are gonna be people who care about them and love them and want what is best for them. It's a body of believers that is striving together to Serve the Lord genuinely, we have a real unity in the faith because we believe in that objective truth in the scriptures and um it just draws us together as a family. So being new members here, I'm most looking forward to uh continuing to deepen my walk with Christ and and grow in my relationship with him. And even getting involved in the ministry, I'm looking forward to uh being able to help out and and and to help build up others in the face the way that they've helped build me up. Bethel Baptist Church is a growing loving family community. We hope that we've been able to show you a small glimpse of what Bethel is like. But we'd love to meet you personally. Join us For a worship service, a small group for Bible study, let us be a blessing to you and your family.