If you turn to your Bibles, we're going to read Matthew. Chapter 19, verses 10 through 15. Before we do, let us pray. Father, we thank you so much for who you are. God help us to be humbled enough to really recognize who you are. Lord, help our pride to not get in the way of us receiving your word today, for your word is true. May we take the truth of your word and may we hide it deep within our hearts that we might not sin against you. May we be willing to change. For the cause of Christ. God, as you bring conviction to our life, may we not just stand idle in these convictions, but may we actually search you out and desperately call upon your help To be able to do these things. We pray, Father, even as we read the text here today, that our hearts here, even now, are in tune to your word and may you be honored and glorified. And may we put you first in all things. We pray that you be with Pastor as he brings the message to us and give him strength. Pray for those who aren't with us today. And Lord, may you We'll be honoring you and everything we say and do. In Jesus' name. Amen. 1910. His disciples say unto him, If the case of the man be so with his wife, it is not good. good to marry. But he said unto them, All men cannot receive this thing save they to whom it is given. For there are some eunuchs which were so born from their mother's womb, and there are some eunuchs which are made eunuchs of men And there be eunuchs which have made themselves eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven's sake. He that is able to receive it, let him receive it. Then were they brought then were there brought unto him little children that he should put his hands on them and pray, and the disciples rebuked them But Jesus said, Suffer little children, and forbid them not to come unto me, for of such is the kingdom of heaven. I don't think we realize how much culture affects how much we value certain things. Culture has a way, the culture in which we live has a way of making us want certain things and not want other things, value certain things and devalue other things. And such was the case in the first century, and such is the case today. In the first century, what was valued was marriage. And yet it was devalued because divorce was actually fairly commonplace in the first century. But on the other hand, singleness was devalued. In fact, you were really considered to be a second class citizen throughout Judaism and throughout uh the Jewish uh the Old Testament and uh all of that time period through Isra uh Israel's existence and and uh there there was a almost a disdain toward those who were single. And also when it came to children. They valued children for what they could contribute in their in the future. They sort of saw themselves as, of course they are, the their own legacy, but they devalued giving a This was all because of the culture in which we live they lived. They value what the culture values. It is amazing when you really think about it. history at all, you'll really begin to see how the things, you know, a hundred years ago are are not things that we necessarily value today. If you go down, if you go back a thousand years or five hundred years It's amazing how much we think we're all individuals, and yet we so easily value what the culture tells us to value. And it is that way, certainly, with the subject of marriage and singlehood. And in addition to the culture that we live in, we have the Christian culture. Everybody know what the Christian culture is? It's the culture made up of Christians. And that Christian culture may actually may actually have a different value system From the secular culture and yet may not be completely biblical, depending on how biblically the Christians in the culture are thinking. And I can just would say to you this morning that throughout church history, there has been really a wrong value placed on some in some cases on single singleness, and other cases a wrong value placed on marriage. There is a lot of confusion about all this. And what Christ is going to do in this passage is he's really setting it all straight. We've learned over the last couple of Sundays about marriage and the meaning of marriage and the perk the uh the permanence of marriage. This morning we're actually going to turn our attention primarily to singleness and singlehood, and also this text deals with children. What Christ is going to do is he is going to, can I say it this way, he's going to appraise the value of these different things, these different life key life um life things uh in light of the kingdom. How are they valuable in light of the kingdom? Many of you have bought a house or been involved in buying a house, and during the purchase of a house, usually there's an appraisal that occurs. If you're going to get a loan, which most of us have to get a loan to get a house, there is an appraisal involved to make sure that the value of the house that you're wanting to purchase it at is actually at that value so that the loan You can get the loan that you want to get, and so you have an appraisal done. The fact is our appraisal of the value of marriage and our appraisal of the value of singleness is often not right And what Christ is going to do is he is going to appraise it correctly in light of the kingdom. Now, what is the common appraisal? Well if you think of the Roman Catholic Church, for example, singleness was is valued much higher than than marriage. They see it as a more pure state. And so uh priests for many, many years have been required to be single. It's interesting during the Protestant Reformation when Martin Luther um he he protested against uh the Roman Catholic Church and the main issue there was the gospel. It was not an issue of marriage, but when he began to look at scripture, solo scriptura, scripture for what it is, he realized that he certainly was going to be able to marry, and he did. And in fact, he wrote often and spoke often of the joys and the and the blessings of marriage. And he was fruitful and he multiplied a lot as well. He said he was gonna j he's gonna die deep into this thing called marriage, which he was prohibited from participating in prior to his his conversion. And so actually, interestingly enough, as you look at church history, you find that Roman Catholics devalue marriage And Protestants actually probably value marriage a little too much, which we will uh flesh out in a little bit as we go through. through this. And then you have the issue of various cultures. For example, And if you're in a traditional area, kind of a rural traditional area, marriage is val valued very, very highly. And then if you go into a more urban area, um like New York City or something like that, uh marriage is not valued as much. Singlehood is valued more, co uh career is valued high, and so you You should, they say you should get your career started, get it going, and if you could find somebody that won't change you or change your career, then that would be the focus that you would need to have, the value of it. The question is, how does Christ value all of this? What value does he place on it? How will he We're gonna look at these three areas. The appraisal of marriage, the appraisal of singleness, and the appraisal of children. We'll we'll gate ma we'll put most of our emphasis on the appraisal of singleness. They'll start off with Christ's kingdom appraisal of the value of marriage. And we'll We pick up in verse ten. Now, if you recall, uh there's been a discussion about the permanence of marriage, the meaning of marriage, and all of that, the previous um the previous passage And Jesus has essentially said marriage is permanent. What God has joined together, let no one put asunder. There's an exception clause that we discussed last week. But overall, as the disciples listen to what Jesus is saying, they realize that marriage is a binding covenantal relationship that is permanent until death do us part. In fact, they're so struck and maybe even surprised by Jesus' view of marriage and divorce and remarriage. that they respond by saying, maybe we shouldn't get married at all. Now very likely, when they said this, they they very likely were saying it in sort of a facetious and sarcastic manner. Because in the culture, the idea of not getting married was never valued. Okay, it was it was it was very valuable to be married, it was very devalued to be single. And so they probably were saying it pretty sarcastically, like well what are we supposed to do? Just not get married then because this we had this binding covenantal relationship with that we can't get out of? Is that the answer? And sort of saying in that in that way. Before we get into that, let me just reiterate a couple of things about marriage that we need to Just remember, and it's going to really dovetail well with understanding singleness as well. Remember we said two messages ago over in the book of Genesis, chapter 1, verse 26 through 28. But the three purposes of marriage, according to Scripture, is that marriage reflects God's likeness. Marriage results in family. And marriage created, God created marriage to be on mission, that there is a particular mission that marriage should have, that it it results at it results in family, and that it reflects God's likeness and his oneness, those three things. And this is a great value in marriage. Marriage is valuable for these reasons. And God established marriage as the first institution ordained by God because it does have great meaning and great value. But not only in creation does he mention marriage. He mentioned mentions marriage in our final redemption. And we noted, I think it was last week, no, maybe the week before, or the message previously, we noted that in Revelation chapter 19 You have the marriage supper of the Lamb. And I just want to say to you, those of you who are single, I just want to say very clearly that you don't ever, if you never get married, you do not have to worry about missing out on anything. Unless God wants you to be married, which we'll get into in a minute. You don't have to you you won't miss out on anything for this reason. There is going to be all of the blessings of marriage in the marriage supper of the Lamb Summer. The oneness, the sense of belonging, the sense of security, the sense of relationship, the sense of fellowship, all of that is going to be experienced in the Marriage Supper of the Lamb. someday. That is our ultimate hope. And if you're in a marriage where you say, well this marriage is not exactly, you know, like m really great, and you're sort of looking at it and going, I am I am suffering for Jesus in this marriage. I hope you're not, but maybe you're maybe you are, very frankly. Or maybe sometimes you are and sometimes you're not. You can know this. The answer is not to get out of it. The answer is to realize your hope is not in That marriage. Your hope is in Christ. Your hope is in the reality that one day you will experience all of the blessings and benefits of marriage in heaven with Christ, who is the perfect husband. The perfect groom. We are the bride of Christ. Revelation chapter 19, verse 6, just imagine that day where it says And I heard, as it were, a voice of a great multitude as the sound of many waters and as the sound of mighty thundering, saying, Alleluia, for the Lord God, omnipotent, reigns Let us be glad and rejoice and give him glory, for the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his wife has been made herself ready. And to her it was granted to be arrayed in fine linen, clean and bright, and for the fine linen the righteous is the righteous acts of the saints. And he said to me, Write, Blessed are those who are called to the marriage supper of the Lamb. This is the day that we all can look forward to, no matter what marital status you find yourself in. Now, we're going back now to the disciples' remarks and what they said. And understand this. I think it's interesting. So far, we've seen the passage. uh in these different passages that there has been a spokesperson. In this case, it doesn't say Peter spoke up for them. Remember Peter's always speaking up for them? This time he didn't Why did Peter not speak up to him when they said, if it's this case with a man with a wife, it's better not to marry? Because Peter's married. Okay. It's a pretty good idea of Mary of P Peter keep his mind. Mouth shut on this. I just sort of noted that uh uh uh on this point. Uh he didn't speak up, but the disciples did, probably perhaps the ones that were still single. But in on on either case, they collectively said together, maybe it's better if we stay single rather than getting married because it is so permanent and it's so binding. And this was, they were very likely shocked by what they would be considered revolutionary, that Jesus Jesus would say what he was going to say, uh that it was so binding and so permanent. This is not what they expected. The disciples rightly understood this. They rightly understood that marriage is very, very permanent. It's binding. It's a covenant not to be separated. They understood that in the right way. But marriage is not inferior to singleness, nor is singleness inferior to marriage. The Bible, I want to be very clear about this. The Roman Catholic teaching that marriage is that singleness is somehow more pure than marriage is not what Scripture says. In 1 Timothy 4, verse 1, it says, Now the Spirit expressly says that in latter times some will depart from the faith, giving heed to deceiving spirits and doctrines of demons. and speaking lies and hypocrisies, having their own conscience sear with a hot iron, forbidding to marry and commanding to abstain from the foods from God created to be received with thanksgiving by those who believe and know the truth. That passage actually says that in order to if there is this movement to forbid to marry entirely, that that is actually a bad thing. Now, of course, Hebrews 13, verse 5 says, marriage is honorable among all, and the bed undefiled. The fornicators and adulterers, God will judge. The marriage is honorable among all And the bed undefiled. Jesus, on the other hand, well, we mentioned already that Peter was married. We have other people in scripture that married. Uh they're they're married and then you have a handful of people that are single as well. Jesus himself was single. Paul was very likely a widower because you had to be married in order to be a member of the Sanhedrin prior to salvation. And so very likely he was a widower, but he was single when he wrote 1 Corinthians 7, and we'll get into that in a few moments as well. So you have godly people doing God's work for the sake of the kingdom. who are married and who are not. So the question is, how do you know which one you're supposed to do be? Well let me just say to you that if you're married, then you know what you you're supposed to be Okay. It's not a question anymore. Well, should I be single? No, you're married, so that's that's that's what God wants you to do. He wants you to be married. Doesn't matter whether he's The per your spouse is saved or unsaved, doesn't matter whether your spouse is a good spouse or not. God desires for you to be married if you are married. What if somebody is not married? We have in our midst some singles here I'd love to have more singles if you want to know the truth in our church. Singles are a blessing, which we're going to see. Well, if you're not married, when do you know whether you should be married or how you should be married or who you should marry and those kind of things Well, I'm just going to suggest to you that the cr that your criteria for marriage, for who you marry, should be the same as the criteria for the purposes of marriage. What is the purpose of marriage? It is to reflect God's character in oneness. It is for it is to be fruitful and multiply. And it is to Be on mission together to serve the Lord. Those are the three purposes of marriage in Scripture in Genesis. And if you are looking towards someone that you think will make you happy. But they won't fulfill those three purposes. I guarantee you, as a Christian, they will not make you happy. And that is, by the way, one of the reasons why we so devalue, why we got this wrong oftentimes when it comes to valuing marriage versus valuing singleness, is because we are looking to how can either marriage or singleness make me happy. And that should not be the first question. The first questions we should always be asking is, how can marriage or singleness help me to serve the Lord? And what Scripture teaches is that sometimes marriage is going to best help me serve God. And sometimes singleness is going to best help me serve God. I was When I was single, uh quite a few years ago now, um I was uh I was actually interning under under Pastor Treyer, my pastor. And um I I was I think I was a sophomore or a junior in I think it was a junior in college and I wanted to be a pastor, I knew that, and I thought to myself, well I want to be a pastor and most pastors that I know are married, and so what happens if I don't find somebody? Now just to be clear, I shouldn't have I should I it wasn't like nobody would would was interested Anyway, but I did have a hard time. But I did have a hard time picking someone that I mean there just was wasn't So anyway, I would go on one date with somebody and go, that's not it. Anyway. Um and so I was talking I was a little frustrated about this and didn't know how the Lord was going to work all this out in my life and I looked at what scripture said about really actually the which we're going to see the value of being single. Really there's great value to it and for the sake of God's kingdom. And I asked my pastor, who thought very biblically thankfully, and I said to him, Can I be a pastor and be single? And he said to me, the Bible says you can. Paul was single. Christ was single. So absolutely. He said, Now you're gonna have to be careful and there are things you need to be conser th there's gonna be certain kinds of things that you you need to consider. But absolutely you can be single. You can really serve the Lord. You've got to follow what the Bible says. And I said, Well, some people have told me in counseling and me that I really you really shouldn't go into the ministry unless you're married. The Bible doesn't say that. The Bible doesn't say you have to be married. The Bible doesn't have to doesn't say you have to be either one. And there is great value to being married and there is great value to being single. And I'll tell you there was like this weight that lifted off my shoulders. I said, you know what? I don't have to I can go and just serve the Lord and when the Lord brings the right person along, then then that's fine. If not, that's okay. God will give me a place as a pastor to to minister and to serve serve. And you know what? That next fall I met Elizabeth. So anyway, but I but but there that was very, very biblical, biblical advice, biblical counsel And I think we need to ask the question, what are the purposes of marriage? That's why you get married, not for happiness. Because the fact is, there is no one that can make you eternally happy except for Christ. Jesus is the only one that can fulfill you. Now, with that in mind, let's move then on to this whole subject of singleness, because how Jesus responds to the disciples is actually quite, I guarantee you, is quite surprising to the disciples. They're saying something that very likely was sort of sarcastic. And Jesus sort of capitalized on it and says, actually singleness is a good option. Notice the text, verse 11. But he said to them, All cannot accept this saying, but only those to whom it has been given. So he says, not everybody can be single, but if you can, that's a great option. Now this would have really caused them to not understand They would not have gotten this. They would have been very surprised by this. And so Jesus is going to explain what he means by this. The fact is that in ancient times, singleness, thankfully this is not what's Bible, this is what just what the culture was back then. In ancient times Nearly all ancient religions and cultures made it absolutely val uh made an absolute value of Mary, of the family. and of being married and of bearing children. And you are essentially, if you in your in their minds, essentially that if you don't have get married and bear children, then you have no future. You you you just have nothing. Because what's the problem with that? The problem with that is as a Christian, that's not true. As a Christian, you don't leave this world with nothing If you've served the Lord, you you've left the you've left this world with influence over people, with some souls that have won been won, with leading people to Christ, with making disciples, with those there there is a whole the gospel creates this opportunity and this awesome value in being single. And and and so we need to understand this. Now, um Jesus is going to explain basically that there are three kinds of singles. He's going to he's it Interesting passage uh here. He's going to call them eunuchs, which would be what they would be familiar with, the concept of a eunuch. He's going to say there are three kinds of singles, three kinds of eunuchs, so to speak, and he's going to identify which three of these are. Now, something to note in the very beginning of this is that eunuchs were absolutely not allowed into the assembly of God in the Old Testament. In Deuteronomy 23, verse 1, it says, He who is a masterly by crushing and mutilation shall not enter the assembly of the Lord. And in Leviticus chapter twenty-two, verse twenty-four, it says, You shall not uh you shall not offer the Lord what is bruised or crushed or torn or cut, nor shall you make make any offering of them in your land. There was there was a a The first kind of eunuch that he mentions here is a natural eunuch, one who is born essentially without the reproductive organs to be able to reproduce. And it's very, very few people that are born this way, but, or functioning reproductive organs, but there are a few, and he addresses that. And he says here in the passage, there are eunuchs who were born thus from their mother's womb. Now, let me just say the way that Jesus says this is so redeeming. Jesus doesn't say, unfortunately, he doesn't say this is horrible or anything like that. And although certainly someone who is born that way, it is as a result of the fall, the way that Jesus says this shows that this, a person like this, can have great purposes for the kingdom of heaven. That's going to be his point, by the way, which we'll see in the passage. So he says it's not out of God's sight that there are some people, though as a result of the fall, that are born this way. This is a natural thing. He addresses this rather than just sort of skirting the reality that this occurs occasionally. And he says it's He's sort of implying this is not surprised by God, and God can really use this. Then he moves to those who have been forced to be singles. forced to be you have natural singles, if you will, and you have four people that are forced to be eunuchs. And that you don't have maybe any today, hopefully, but you do have you did have back then in the first century a a a a great deal of that. And the reason that you have that is the kings would have a harem and the man who it who who managed the harem, that would be the person that would be made a eunuch. Okay? And um I won't go into any more details than that. Parents you can answer children's questions later on. Good luck with that. But but basically that's what's going on here. And that this happened. Now, I just want you to think about this for a minute. For the those that were in Jewish culture, they would have considered this to be basically you have ended your future and you have removed your value. Right? If the future was your legacy and you didn't have any legacy, then basically you no longer have value. in the cult Jewish culture. But there is a very, very prominent eunuch in Scripture. Do you remember him? Take your Bibles and turn to Acts chapter 8 for a moment. moment. Acts chapter 8, and we're going to look at verses 25 through 39 just for a few moments here. And I want you to see that the gospel is going to redeem people and place and and infuse value on people that otherwise the culture would see as Not very valuable or not valuable at all. And I there is no question in my mind That scripture very deliberately highlights this Ethiopian eunuch not only because he's Ethiopian, but also because he's a eunuch. And I want you to understand that as we get to this passage, Philip is preaching in verse 25 to the Samaritans, and people are getting saved. There is great ministry going on. There's multitudes that are gathering, it says in verse 25. So when they had testified and preached the word of the Lord, they returned to Jerusalem, preaching the gospel in many villages of the Samaritans. And Jesus, God decides that he is going to pull Philip out of this and to go to one person that he sees as extremely valuable. Notice what it says in the passage. Now an angel of the Lord spoke to Philip, saying, Arise and go toward the south along the r the road which goes down from the Jerusalem. So he rose and went, and behold a man of Ethiopia, uh a eunuch of great authority under K uh Candace, the queen of the Ethiopians, who had charge of her of all her treasury, had come to Jerusalem. Jerusalem to worship was returning. And sitting in the chariot, he was reading Isaiah the prophet. Then the spirit said to Philip, Go near and overtake this chariot. He's sitting in the prophet reading Isaiah or sitting in the uh in the chariot reading Isaiah, doesn't understand what he's reading. Philip says, uh uh, do you understand what you're reading? He says, No. Philip explains to him, he comes to Christ And then he is baptized, and then he goes back to Ethiopia. And it is actually implied by the fact that he is baptized. I think it implies that he goes back in and very likely plants plants the church uh a church in Ethiopia. God is going to use this man greatly, this Ethiopian eunuch. See, the gospel, Christianity, the gospel is going to is going to redeem those things that culture may see as not very valuable, including. singleness. And so then he we move to voluntary singles. Voluntary singles. It says there in the passage, and there are eunuchs who have made themselves eunuchs of the k for the kingdom of heaven's sake. Now this would have blown the mind of the disciples. How how why would you choose to why would you choose To be single like this? Why would you choose to be a unit? Why would you do that for the kingdom of heaven's sake? Because Jesus says it's valuable. That there are some people that God very much intends to be single throughout their lives because they can serve so in such a valuable way that way. Would you take your Bibles and turn to first Corinthians seven for a few moments. We're going to see how Paul is actually now encouraging the people there at Corinth to remain single. That you do not have to have a sense of purpose simply by being married. that you can do great things for the kingdom of God be completely fulfilled as you are single. In 1 Corinthians chapter 7, verse 25, it says this. Now concerning virgins, I have no commandment from the Lord, yet I give judgment as one whom the Lord in his mercy has uh has made trustworthy. I suppose therefore uh this is first Corinthians seven twenty-five twenty-seven Now. I suppose therefore that this is a good this is good because of the present distress, that it is good for a man to remain as he is. Are you bound to a wife? Do not seek to be loosed. Are you loosed from a wife? Do not seek a wife. But even if you do uh marry, you have not sinned, and if a virgin marries, she has not sinned. Nevertheless, such will have trouble in the flesh, but uh I would spare you. Look at verse twenty thirty two. But I want you to be care be without care. He who is unmarried cares for the things of the Lord, how he may please the Lord. But he who is married cares about the things of the world, how he may please his wife. There is a difference between a wife and a virgin. The unmarried woman cares about the things of the Lord. that she may b be holy both in body and spirit, but she who is married cares about the things of the world, how she may please her husband. And this I say for your own profit, not that I may put a a leash on you but for what is for what is proper, that you may serve the Lord without distraction. But if any man thinks he is behaving improperly toward this virgin, if she is uh past the flower of her youth, and thus it be Let him do as that he wishes, talking about the actually the father of the virgin and giving away his marriage. But he does he does not say uh he does not sin, let them marry. So so it's not sin to marry and it's not sin to stay s single. That's not the issue here But he says, for the sake of the kingdom, he says, I would encourage you to really consider singleness. Consider whether this would truly You could serve the Lord undistracted. In the New Testament, you have three kinds of care in Scripture. You have the care of provision, you have the care of ministry. and you have the care of family. Three kinds of care. But if you don't have the care of family, you can devote yourself more to ministry. And there is great, massive value in being single. You say, well, I don't know if I can be happy. You can't, this is not a matter of being happy. This is a matter of being obedient and serving the Lord the best that you can. So we need, this is what he says. Christ says this. If he is able to accept it back in Matthew, if he is able to accept it, let him accept it. Let him receive it. Embrace it. Embrace or receive singleness. Now, what is the key? The key is this. Are you able? Is there a giftedness? Some are gifted to be married, and some are gifted to be single. 1 Corinthians 7, verse 7 says, For I wish that all men were even as myself. But each one has his own gift from God, one in this manner and another in that. And remember, who is our greatest example of singleness? Jesus himself was single, and the Apostle Paul was single as well. Now there is great and very important application for us. You know, I I have seen uh in as uh in Christian culture extremes in both directions. I have seen um where there is gr there is far too much value placed on getting married. And folks, that is a tragedy where we just sort of view those who are married as more valuable than those who are single. Or a parent doesn't even give consideration to the fact that God may have that person choose to be single, that daughter or son choose to be single. For the sake of the kingdom, for the sake of fulfilling what God desires. And I think biblically, this is not, we are not balanced if we are convinced that all of our kids have to be married. Then we that is not biblical. It's not balanced. And if you are single this morning today, do not think that God is not good because God has not brought you a companion. Understand that God is good when he brings a companion and God is good when he chooses to withhold a companion. God is always good. A lady by the name Paige Brown said it this way. Um let's face it, singleness is not inherently inferior state of affairs, but I want to be married. I pray that to that end every day. I may meet someone and walk down the aisle And by the way, it is far better better to be single wanting to be married than to be married wanting to be single. Let that sink in for a minute. Tim Keller concludes in his book on marriage, the meaning of marriage, which I do highly recommend. I don't recommend Everything with Tim Keller, but I do recommend this book. He says we should be neither overly elated to be getting married or overly disappointed by not being so. Because Christ is the only spouse that can truly fulfill us, and God's family, the only family that will truly embrace and satisfy us. You must understand that. this to have a b to be biblically balanced. In his book, Keller points out that we in Christianity Christian circles often by the things that we say make singles feel quite like they are they haven't arrived or that there's something deficient or there is something missing in their lives. These are some of the things he that we that he quote these are quotes from the book that he mentions. For example, somebody may say, as soon as you're satisfied with God alone, he'll bring someone special into your life. You ever heard that before? As though God's blessings are ever earned by our contentment. Another one, you're too picky. As though God is frustrated by our fickle whims and need uh needs broad parameters in which to work. Or before you can marry someone wonderful, the Lord has to make you someone wonderful As though God grants marriage as a second blessing to the satisfactorily sanctified. Did you catch that? Before you can marry someone wonderful, you have to be someone wonderful. Well let me just tell you there's a lot of merry people that are not that wonderful. So that just breaks down right away. Okay. So so these are things in our lives, folks, and in our in our church culture and Christian culture. culture that we need to be more biblical about these things. Now somebody says, well, what if I'm not gifted to be single? You know, the Bible says it's better to marry than to burn. I'm just going to tell you this, and someday we'll go through first Corinthians seven. But that verse has been taken more out of context and more misinterpreted uh w in this issue than maybe any verse that I can think of when it comes to the issue of romance and marriage and singleness and all of that. The fact is, folks, that until God provides someone for you, He is sufficient for you. He is all sufficient. And to say that God, that you have to be married, is to say that God is not more than enough for you. And that is biblical. Understand God is always more than enough for you. You need to accept that. I was talking to my pastor again years and years ago before I was married. and trying to put all this together and think about all this. And I said, how do you know if you are gifted to be single? Because I saw the sort of this concept of the ability to be single or So I same conversation I had before with him, I had this. I said, how do you know if you're gifted to be single or not? And he said he said, until God provides somebody for you, you're gifted to be single. Which is excellent application. Realize that that is the case. Don't believe the lie that and and by the way, this is partly because of culture, because of secular culture. Uh you know in the 1960s and the 1970s you have this sort of Freudian idea that sexual fulfillment is going to equal happiness. And this is this is a false dichotomy. This is a false idea. That is not biblical, and it's not true. And I think this is something that has gotten into our thinking in Christianity where now we say, okay, well you've got to be married, but in order to fulfill yourself completely, you've got to be married. So that means I have to be married if I have any interest in those kind of things at all. Folks, we are misunderstanding scripture We're misunderstanding what God's word is saying. Now, number two, the gospel something else, the gospel redeems the role of singleness as a wonderful gift for Christ's kingdom. Do you understand Understand if you are single this morning that you are so valuable to God, and you can do things as a single person that a married person cannot do. You know, I get a little jealous, you know, people flying over to Turkey and things like that, you know, those those kind of things. I'm like, man, I wish I could fly everywhere and go up. family. And I'm thankful for my family. And I'm thank God has put me exactly where He wants me. But there's something there's something very valuable about just being able to free To just do what God wants you to do and go where God wants you to go and be able to not have that additional care unless God leads you into that additional care. So there is so I think it's important for us to to understand this. Keller says single adult Christians were bearing testimony, this is back in the first century, were bearing testimony that God, not family, was their hope. God would guarantee their future first by giving them their twoest family. family, the church, so that n they never lacked for brothers and sisters, fathers and mothers in Christ. And that does bring me to another important Point of application. Do you know one of the key components to this in Christ redeeming singleness is the fact that He has He started He inaugurated another institution, and that is the institution of the Church. And so there is a sense in which even if a single person does not have does not have a nuclear family They should and do should have a local church family that supplies that for them, that obvious need for a family. And I want to mention this in that regard for us as a church. How hospitable are we to single families? Folks, do we treat them um as part of the family? I have I have been I one time I was uh talking to well I guess I'll say it is probably a minute I was talking to my sister before she was uh married and she was in this area and she was visiting different churches and I asked her about different churches she went she was going to. And she w I I mentioned one church and she said I did not not feel comfortable there. She said I felt like the it was all just families and I was single and there was all just families and and I was pretty much ignored. Folks, may it not be that way in our church. I gotta be I'll be honest with you, I have I've prayed for more singles because because they there that there is such value there. And I think that we need You very frankly have a have a um just a just a different mindset. You know, ha I we I encourage you to have other families over for sure, but you know what it's easy to have singles over. They don't eat as much. So so just realize you can just you can just have a single have somebody to single over to say, hey you want to come over afterward? Just put a little more water in the soup. You're fine. I mean it it's not so it should be something something that we do all the time. It's something that we just hey come on over. Let's you know uh it it shouldn't it should not be where okay well we have a family so we need to invite other f families over. No. Uh we should be really ready to to to incorporate um single folks into our family. And that means into our nuclear families as well as into the church families. family. We we need to have that kind of church. And I think frankly, if I could just say this sort of pastorally and uh we could do better in this area. This is something that we can really improve on, I think, in the days ahead, and I pray that we we will. Now we then move finally to this last subject of children. So the disciples were alone with Christ and are having this rather difficult discussion and kind of surprising uh talking about eunuchs that are voluntary, which was totally a foreign idea to them, no doubt, and whether that marriage is better or singleness is better and all of that. And apparently, according to the text and according to the parallel passages, as they were having these conversations, some parents of children, quite a few from what I can see, were came up to Jesus and they wanted Jesus to bless their children. And the disciples' reaction to that was not a good reaction. It says in verse 13, then little children were brought to him One is they were having this discussion with Jesus, and they were having finally attention with Jesus alone, and they're about to be interrupted. And they're interrupted by children and the child and and because of their lack of value for children they they then this they rebuke what it probably is they're re rebuking the parents uh and the uh uh for bringing their children to Jesus kind of like don't really bother Jesus with that. And Jesus takes another opportunity Here to to give a different valuation, a different appraisal on these children in light of the kingdom of God. And so he says in verse 14 But Jesus said, Let the children come to me, and do not forbid them, for such is the kingdom of heaven. And he laid his hands on them and departed from there. Now in parallel passage in Mark chapter 10 verse 13 it says And they brought little children to him that he might touch them but the disciples rebuked those who brought them. So he W and then and then the other passage the uh says Luke eighteen fifteen, then they also brought infants to him, so we're talking about really young children, that he might touch them, but when the disciples saw it, they rebuked them. So what's going on in this passage? Well, remember again that children are not valuable in their thinking, in their culture They can't um uh they're basically vulnerable and weak and defenseless and dependent. In the mind of the of the Jewish person the first That means they're not valuable. If they're dependent and weak and defenseless, then they're not valuable. And Jesus is going to give them the attention that he sees And what's going on here is that in that time period, and really even throughout the Old Testament and Jewish culture, They had th they parents would take children to um you know to a patriarch or to a rabbi to a a a Jewish leader to have a for so for them to be blessed by them. It's kind of kind of similar to maybe a a child dedication today, something of that nature. And we don't see in Scripture where baby dedication is biblical or not. It's not something that's in the Bible, but just as an association, you could see that here. And for example, in Genesis chapter 48, verses fift fourteen through fifteen, it says that Israel stretched out his right hand and laid it on Ephraim's head, who was the younger, and his left hand And so you have these kind this kind of ceremonial blessing And this went on in the Jewish culture through through the first century, through the days of Christ. In fact, In the Torah, they had specific prayers that they would pray that they would be able to marry well was part of the prayer, as well as other things also. And so when when when Jesus reacts to the disciples' rebuking of these people, and it we find in the parallel passage in Mark chapter 10, verse 14, it says, and when And when Jesus saw it, he was greatly displeased. He didn't like the fact that these disciples were turning these parents and So he says, Let them come, do not forbid them, for such is the kingdom of heaven. understanding what it meant to be that children were uh were such as the kingdom of heaven. They are humble and dependent, and God is actually looking for humble, dependent people And so they are very valuable in the kingdom. But I want us to note as well that Jesus took the time to minister to these And I think it's just kind of a kind of appropriate and maybe even providential as we go into vacation bible school and look ahead to this coming week that we are going to give an attention give attention to children. And the reality is that children need to understand the gospel. And we're going to have the opportunity this week, and they can, they can. understand the gospel of Christ. And we're going to have the opportunity this week to have ministry with children. And sometimes in churches, I don't think our church really has struggles with this. too much but sometimes in churches there is this sort sort of idea that uh children's ministry is just sort of a babysitting thing. Let me just or just or just a bunch of fun and babysitting. Those two things. A lot of fun or a lot of babysitting. Um or both. Put 'em together fun babysitting so that a The parents can have a break and the parents can go upstairs and worship the Lord where the real church is. Now, folks, we ought not have that kind of kind of a approach at all. Instead, what we need to understand is that it is our responsibility, and Scripture says to fathers particularly, it is father's responsibility to bring them up in the training and admonition of the Lord. Lord. Every father in here, it is primarily your responsibility to to give the gospel to your children, to evangelize your children, to disciple your children. And frankly, what we're doing. this week for those in our for those children who don't know Christ who are in our church is we are we are helping fathers in in in evangelizing their children. Because it is ultimately primarily the the the father's responsibility, secondarily the ch the mother's responsibility, thirdly it's the children it's the church's responsibility So we understand where we are in the whole line of succession, if you will, biblically, and understand that we are out of delegated authority from parents that entrust their kids to us. We want to give the gospel to them. We want to bring them up, help bring them up in the nurture and admonition. Now with all this in mind, let's conclude with three things. Number one, God has instituted marriage to reflect him in oneness, in pure and to reproduce and to serve the Lord. In oneness to reproduce and to serve the Lord. This is something that this is how do you know whether you're to be married or not? It's those three things. Can you truly be spiritually one with that person. That's why if if they're not saved and they're not growing, they're off the table. Should be. Uh sh uh is there is there um um that desire uh in in you with them uh that will uh result in reproduction and then finally to serve the Lord. Can you serve the Lord better together than apart? And men, I'll just be saying this. I I just want to say this to you as a matter of application. You need to know the direction you're going so that a woman can know that is interested in you, a woman can know whether or not she fits well into that or not. It is amazing to me, and I was mentioning this in our man wood and woman they know they believe the Lord wants them to go. It's very hard for young women to know how they can best fit in that role. If young men are listless, if they're directionless, that they don't know where they're going. No, figure out how you're going to serve the Lord. Figure out the direction. How has God gifted you? What needs are there that you can meet in our world? What can you do for the sake of God's kingdom? Have a course so that when you embark on that course, a godly woman would say, Okay, I can fit into that well. Otherwise, it is very hard to do this Number two, Christ has redeemed singleness as a wonderful way to serve the Lord for those who are gifted to do so. Christ has redeemed singleness I want to back up to number one one more thing I want to mention as well there. If you are m many of you are married here. Maybe you're saying to yourself, you know, I'm not sure I've really ever given consideration to why I'm married. Do you know that there are I have asked that question to married couples in counseling, and it's amazing to me how often I've gotten a blank stare. I've asked either the husband or the wife or both, why are you married? Or why did you get married? And either they give me a a non-biblical answer, or they can't even tell me they don't even know. Or maybe they say, well, we're in love or happy or whatever, all that that stuff. Okay. That should be there maybe, but are is just not as important. Folks, there are marriages that what needs to happen is you need to stay together, but you need to really give due consideration to what it's almost like you need to remarry inside your marriage. You need to replant your marriage so that youth are thinking very clearly about how we can be one together to reflect Christ. Um certainly the reproduction thing that's Straightforward. And then and then s how can we serve the Lord together? How can we do this so that we're serving together? This is something that I think that marriages often you're not going to marriage that way and something that you really need to consider. And then Christ has redeemed singleness. And then number three, Christ values children as an important ministry for his kingdom. them. He values children. Let's not let's not d uh devalue them or think that they're just around or just think that they're all they're good for is we can just have fun with them or they can have fun. No. No we we have We need to bring them purposefully and intentionally up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. And kids are lots of fun. Let's have fun. But let's not forget that we need to try Train them and give them the gospel and help them to understand who the Lord is and how they can fit into His kingdom. Let's go to the Lord of Prayer. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you. you for your word. We thank you for the truth of it and how it sets things correct, that it assesses things in a way that is Um that it the criteria is based upon the king that your kingdom and the value of your kingdom rather than the value of our culture. And we confess before you, Lord, that often our mindset when it comes to marriage and singleness Is not right because it is so influenced by either our secular culture or our Christian culture. Instead, Father, would you cause our sense of value to come from the Bible? From the truth of what you say. And Lord, I pray for all those who are married here that we would consider our marriages and how we can best serve you. married. And I pray for those who are single here. I pray that they would understand how valuable they are and how they can best serve you singly And Lord, we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you. For streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.